Date: 21 February 2024
Title: UN Reports Staggering US$ 402.9 Million in Recovery Needs Following Last Year’s Earthquakes in Herat, Afghanistan
Content: 21 February 2024
UNDP, World Bank, EU, and ADB release findings in Post-Disaster Needs Assessment for Herat Province
Kabul, 21 February 2024: The United Nations – together with the World Bank, the European Union, and the Asian Development Bank - has released a comprehensive Post-Disaster Needs Assessment (PDNA) report for Afghanistan's Herat Province, hit by devastating earthquakes in October 2023. The report highlights the scale of the disaster: direct physical damage up to US$ 217 million and losses reaching US$ 78.9 million. The assessment underscores an urgent need for US$ 402.9 million to support the critical recovery and reconstruction efforts in the province.
Housing, the most severely affected sector, represents 41 percent (US$ 164.4 million) of the total recovery needs. The earthquakes damaged 49,578 houses, with 13,516 being completely destroyed. Education is second most impacted sector, with 180,000 students and 4,390 teachers currently facing disruptions. The agriculture sector, accounting for the majority of jobs and income in the affected areas, has suffered considerable setbacks.
The series of earthquakes on October 7, 11, and 15 killed over 1,500 people and injured more than 2,600 people. The assessment, with UNDP as the technical lead, provides a comprehensive analysis of the earthquakes' devastating effects in Herat. The assessment spans nine districts with roughly 2.2 million people. It reveals that over 275,000 individuals were affected. Among these are 17,358 pregnant women, 17,146 infants, 3,976 people with severe disabilities, 3,207 elderly families, 6,806 women-led households, 3,176 individuals with chronic illnesses, and 147,000 children under 18. Herat, Injil, and Zindajan districts were the hardest hit, with rural and vulnerable communities suffering the most.
Besides assessing damage, losses, and recovery and reconstruction needs, the assessment evaluates broader macro-economic and human impacts and proposes principles for a comprehensive recovery and reconstruction framework. It cautions about persistent widespread poverty, slow economic recovery, job scarcity, banking sector instability, adverse impact on mental health and wellbeing, and climate vulnerability, exacerbating Afghanistan's ongoing economic challenges.
The earthquakes in Herat have hit vulnerable communities with limited resilience to handle multiple concurrent shocks. The province has been one of those hosting the largest numbers of internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Afghanistan. The displacement due to conflict and drought has had severe impacts on access to services, land, and shelter, and has resulted in unhealthy coping mechanisms. The disaster has further exacerbated insufficient levels of service delivery that predate the earthquakes.
The earthquakes have exacerbated gender-based challenges, with women-owned businesses heavily impacted – approximately 60-70% affected and only 10% resuming operations. This has further eroded the situation for women and girls, who are already subjected to severe restrictions, including exclusion from most areas of daily and public life, including access to work and education.
The report highlights significant gaps in disaster preparedness and response in Herat, particularly in rural areas, with non-earthquake-resistant vernacular housing. The disproportionate impact on women (58% casualties) underscores the necessity for gender-responsive initiatives and tailored support for diverse population segments.

The PDNA emphasizes the critical need to transition from immediate humanitarian aid to long-term recovery. Recovery strategies should prioritize building community resilience, service restoration, earthquake-safe housing, livelihoods options, social protection, and access to basic services, especially for the most affected families. The PDNA supports principles of building back better, emphasising women's empowerment and reducing disaster risks and enhancing climate resilience.
"As the United Nations and partners, we stand in solidarity with the people of Afghanistan in these challenging times. The findings of the PDNA highlight the profound impacts of the earthquakes on the Herat region. We are committed to not only addressing the immediate needs but ensuring a sustainable and resilient recovery for those affected by the earthquakes. This tragedy presents an opportunity to rebuild stronger, more inclusive, and more resilient communities. The PDNA provides a blueprint for recovery and reconstruction aimed at forging a better future for those most affected in Afghanistan," stated Indrika Ratwatte, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-​General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator.
This first-of-its-kind, multi-partner joint assessment since August 2021 showcases an international resolve to address the needs of disaster-affected communities and support their recovery. The assessment – launched in October 2023 – relied on field data, publicly available information, and remote sensing analytics.
The PDNA partners hope that the assessment will help inform key partners on the needs associated with the disaster and encourage national and international response efforts to mobilize support for timely recovery. The Asian Development Bank, the European Union, the United Nations, and the World Bank remain steadfast in their commitment to aiding the Afghan people and ensuring a resilient recovery, especially for the most vulnerable, particularly women and girls.

For technical queries, please contact Luis Francisco Thais Santa Cruz at luis.francisco.thais@undp.org
For communications and media queries, please contact Munisa Rashid at munisa.rashid@undp.org

Link to report:
Post-Disaster Needs Assessment (PDNA)
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/261118-un-reports-staggering-us-4029-million-recovery-needs-following-last-year%E2%80%99s-earthquakes-herat




Date: 29 August 2023
Title: UNFAO receives funding from Japan to support community-based irrigation for enhanced agricultural production in Afghanistan
Content: 29 August 2023
Joint Press Release
August 2023- Kabul, Afghanistan: The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in partnership with the Government of Japan, facilitated by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), has launched a four–year project with a budget of USD 9.5 million. The project aims to increase the amount of irrigated land, boost local food production and strengthen the food security and livelihood resilience of more than 12 600 poor food insecure men, women and children in Kunar province in eastern Afghanistan. The project will also provide direct environmental benefits to local communities, helping to protect fragile rangelands and recharge vital groundwater resources, particularly important in the context of increasing climate change impacts.
Agriculture depends on water.  Increasing population and growing climate change impacts make access to water ever-more important across Afghanistan, a country where more than 70 percent of food production depends on irrigation.  The project will rehabilitate the existing Nurgal irrigation canal in Kunar province, improving both the quantity and reliability of irrigation water for agricultural production and increasing the total command area – the agricultural land irrigated by the canal – by 70 hectares to a total of 643 hectares, leading to both increases in overall agricultural production and increases in productivity of at least 12 percent.  Importantly, the project will enable poor food insecure rural households to plant two crops a year, rather than just a single wheat crop, boosting incomes, resilience and food security.  The project will also deliver benefits to communities, helping to protect more than 2 000 hectares of fragile rangelands through improved and adapted plant varieties, and recharging vital groundwater resources.  The project builds on and enhances the Green Ground Project initiated by Dr. Tetsu Nakamura and Peace (Japan) Medical Services (PMS) to build irrigation systems in the Kunar River Basin from 2003. By 2023, the PMS project has transformed 23 800 hectares of abandoned arid farmlands back to green fields. The beneficiaries have been over 650 000 people.
While addressing the attendees at the project signing ceremony today at the ICON compound, H.E. Takashi Okada, the Japanese Ambassador to Afghanistan, stated, "The drastic change by the Green Ground Project brought not only food, water and livelihood but also hopes to people. The success is a testimony to the hard work and resilience of the Afghan people. Japan will work together with FAO on this Dr. Nakamura’s legacy project to enable local communities to manage precious water resources and develop sustainable agriculture. Japan will continue to support Afghans to help themselves so that they can rebuild their livelihood and once again stand on their own feet."
“FAO appreciates the continuous and timely support of the Government of Japan in advancing agriculture, supporting irrigation, bolstering food security, and enhancing livelihoods of local communities across many parts of Afghanistan”, said Richard Trenchard, FAO Representative in Afghanistan. “Water is life.  Water is food.  Access to irrigation is ever-more important across Afghanistan, particularly for poor food insecure rural households.  Given the evolving impacts of climate change impacts on rural areas, Japan’s generous assistance will significantly boost the agricultural productivity of the most vulnerable, marginalized and food insecure farmers, strengthening both food security and livelihood resilience, and will help protect fragile rangeland and groundwater resources. Moreover, empowering local communities to address water management challenges not only improves social cohesion but also reinforces community ownership and the sustainability of project outcomes,” he added.
Optimizing irrigation infrastructure to enhance food security
The project will establish and optimize the national capacity in managing and utilizing irrigation systems, employing the PMS method. Through the PMS method, the project will promote informed community-based sustainable practices to improve traditional irrigation infrastructure, ensuring a reliable water supply to downstream communities that rely on irrigation for their livelihoods. The project will focus on sustaining functional irrigation facilities, encompassing intake weirs, control gates, cross-drainage structures, culverts, dividers, supper passages, sediment pond structures, regulating gates, and restoration of secondary/tertiary canals in line with the ‘PMS Method Irrigation Project Guidelines’.
As an integral component of the project, the watershed management and rainwater harvesting activities will focus on the flood management and the mitigation of rapid rainwater flows in catchment areas. These efforts will involve the planting adaptable plants, construction of water ponds, check-dams, and other measures for effective rainwater harvesting. The interventions will be determined through consultations with community representatives to optimize canal conveyance capacity, thereby ensuring a reliable water supply within the targeted irrigation systems.
PMS experts will train more than 100 local technical experts in the PMS method. Moreover, 110 water users from the community will receive trainings in operations and maintenance, enabling them to manage the irrigation systems effectively and sustainably, ensuring long-term results and impacts.
In Afghanistan, FAO is dedicated to enhancing resilience in all 34 provinces of the country, strengthening efforts to preserve and revive agricultural livelihoods and local ecosystems. These efforts includes various facets, such as improving the production of nutritious foods, increasing cash incomes, and safeguarding the critical agriculture sector developments achieved over recent decades through the revitalization of rural markets and the economy.
Media contacts:
Embassy of Japan in Afghanistan
Dr. Ibrahim Mohammad,
Email: ibrahim.mohammad@kb.mofa.go.jp
+93786078666

FAO - Afghanistan
Mr. Sayed Maqsod Hashimi,
Email: SayedMaqsod.Hashimi@fao.org
+93787808077
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/243763-unfao-receives-funding-japan-support-community-based-irrigation-enhanced-agricultural




Date: 03 July 2023
Title: UN launches new Strategic Framework for supporting Afghan people
Content: 03 July 2023
KABUL, 3 JULY 2023
Press contact: spokesperson-UNAMA@un.org
The United Nations in Afghanistan issued today its Strategic Framework for Afghanistan for the period 2023-2025, outlining the priorities of the organization in support of the Afghan people. The UN Strategic Framework articulates the UN’s approach to addressing basic human needs in Afghanistan, prioritizing the needs and rights of those most vulnerable, including women and girls, children and youth, internally displaced persons, returnees, refugees, ethnic and religious minorities.
“Our Strategic Framework is a robust offer of assistance to the people of Afghanistan to address their basic human needs and complement the ongoing delivery of lifesaving humanitarian assistance,” said the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Afghanistan, Roza Otunbayeva.
The UN Strategic Framework was developed in close consultations with Member States, partners, and stakeholders. The United Nations Country Team and partners have identified three complementary and mutually reinforcing joint priorities as it supports the basic human needs of the Afghan people:
“The United Nations and its partners recognize that humanitarian aid alone will not be enough to sustainably address the large-scale and increasing human suffering of the Afghan people in the medium and long term,” said the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator ad interim, Daniel Endres.
The UN Strategic Framework has a special focus on the delivery of principled assistance in response to the increasingly restrictive environment facing all Afghans, in particular women and girls.
The ban against Afghan women working for the UN adds to earlier restrictions placed on Afghan women and girls by the de facto authorities: against women working for NGOs, against women working for other diplomatic entities; preventing girls from attending secondary and tertiary education institutions; against girls and women visiting public parks, baths, and gyms.
These and other edicts limit the physical movement of women and girls and their participation in economic, social and public life. “Whether the UN can fully implement this framework will depend on actions by the de facto authorities and on donor support,” said Mr. Endres.
Link: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/238795-united-nations-strategic-framework-afghanistan
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/238813-un-launches-new-strategic-framework-supporting-afghan-people




Date: 08 March 2023
Title: THE UN IN AFGHANISTAN CALLS FOR AN IMMEDIATE END TO DRACONIAN RESTRICTIONS ON THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN & GIRLS BY THE DE FACTO AUTHORITIES
Content: 08 March 2023
KABUL, Afghanistan, 8 March 2023
On International Women’s Day, the United Nations in Afghanistan is renewing its call on the country’s de facto authorities to halt and reverse harsh restrictions on the fundamental rights of women and girls.
Since August 2021, the Taliban de facto authorities have demonstrated an almost singular focus on imposing rules that leave most women and girls effectively trapped in their homes. These restrictions are at odds with human rights obligations set forth in instruments concerning human rights and fundamental freedoms to which Afghanistan is a State party and by which it is bound, and damage Afghanistan’s prospects of recovering from decades of war.
“Afghanistan under the Taliban remains the most repressive country in the world regarding women’s rights, and it has been distressing to witness their methodical, deliberate, and systematic efforts to push Afghan women and girls out of the public sphere,” said Roza Otunbayeva, Special Representative of the Secretary-General (SRSG) and head of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA).
“Confining half of the country’s population to their homes in one of the world’s largest humanitarian and economic crises is a colossal act of national self-harm. It will condemn not only women and girls, but all Afghans, to poverty and aid-dependency for generations to come. It will further isolate Afghanistan from its own citizens and from the rest of the world,” Otunbayeva said.
UNAMA has recorded an almost constant stream of discriminatory edicts and measures against women by the de facto authorities since August 2021.
In September 2021, the de facto authorities suspended girls’ secondary education and, despite public pronouncements to the contrary, extended the suspension indefinitely when classes resumed in March 2022. Although the de facto authorities have said that they are in the process of aligning the school curriculum with Islamic values and cultural norms, no progress has been visible. In December 2022, the de facto Ministry of Higher Education suspended university education for women.
The denial of access to education has innumerable actual and potential physical and psychosocial repercussions, including suicides; child marriage; early childbearing; poverty-related losses such as in regard to health, nutrition, well-being and wealth due to lower earnings; diminished agency, decision-making and related social capital; and increased risk of domestic violence and sexual exploitation and abuse.
Women’s right to travel or work outside the confines of their home and to access public spaces is largely restricted. Women have also been excluded from all levels of public decision-making.
“Afghan women have shown incredible courage and resilience in the face of their ongoing and systematic erasure,” said Alison Davidian, Special Representative for UN Women in Afghanistan.
“The implications of the harm the Taliban are inflicting on their own citizens goes beyond women and girls. It impacts all Afghans and will resonate throughout generations. The rights of women and girls must be restored immediately in order to build an inclusive, peaceful and hopeful Afghanistan.”
Women human rights defenders peacefully protesting have been targeted, beaten, and arrested. Combined, these decrees, directives, and rules limit women’s ability to earn a living, access health care and education, escape violence, and exercise their rights.
In 2023, 13.8 million Afghan women and girls are in need of humanitarian assistance – yet the de facto authorities have undermined the unprecedented international aid effort by also banning women working in non-governmental organizations, even though they are crucial to the delivery of life-saving help.

For more information, please contact:
UNAMA: spokesperson-unama@un.org(link sends e-mail)
UN Women: media.team@unwomen.org(link sends e-mail)
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/222237-un-afghanistan-calls-immediate-end-draconian-restrictions-rights-women-girls-de-facto




Date: 22 January 2023
Title: High-level UN delegation led by the Deputy Secretary-General calls on Afghanistan’s de facto Taliban authorities to reverse course on recent decrees limiting women’s and girls’ rights, says Afghans must not be abandoned
Content: 22 January 2023
KABUL, Afghanistan, 20 January 2023
On behalf of the Secretary-General, the Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, the Executive Director of UN Women, Sima Bahous, and the Assistant Secretary-General of the Department of Political, Peacebuilding Affairs and Peace Operations, Khaled Khiari, completed a four-day visit to Afghanistan to appraise the situation, engage de facto authorities and underscore UN solidarity with the Afghan people.
In meetings with de facto authorities in both Kabul and Kandahar, the delegation directly conveyed the alarm over the recent decree banning women from working for national and international non-governmental organizations, a move that undermines the work of numerous organizations helping millions of vulnerable Afghans.
The de facto authorities have also recently moved to close universities to female students across the country until further notice, and have barred girls from attending secondary school, restricted women and girls’ freedom of movement, excluded women from most areas of the workforce and banned women from using parks, gyms and public bath houses.
“My message was very clear: while we recognize the important exemptions made, these restrictions present Afghan women and girls with a future that confines them in their own homes, violating their rights and depriving the communities of their services,” Ms Mohammed said.
“Our collective ambition is for a prosperous Afghanistan that is at peace with itself and its neighbours, and on a path to sustainable development. But right now, Afghanistan is isolating itself, in the midst of a terrible humanitarian crisis and one of the most vulnerable nations on earth to climate change,” she said. “We must do everything we can to bridge this gap.”
During their mission, Ms Mohammed and Ms Bahous met with affected communities, humanitarian workers, civil society and other key actors, in Kabul, Kandahar and Herat.
“We have witnessed extraordinary resilience. Afghan women left us no doubt of their courage and refusal to be erased from public life. They will continue to advocate and fight for their rights, and we are duty bound to support them in doing so,” Ms Bahous said.
“What is happening in Afghanistan is a grave women's right crisis and a wakeup call for the international community. It shows how quickly decades of progress on women´s rights can be reversed in a matter of days. UN Women stands with all Afghan women and girls and will continue to amplify their voices to regain all their rights."
The United Nations and its partners, including national and international non-governmental organizations, are helping more than 25 million Afghans who depend on humanitarian aid to survive, and remain committed to staying and delivering.
The most recent decrees issued by the de facto authorities banning women from working for NGOs has forced many partners to pause operations which can no longer be safely and meaningfully delivered. While the recent exemptions to the ban introduced by the de facto authorities are opening spaces for humanitarians to continue - and in some cases resume - operations, these remain limited to few sectors and activities.
“The effective delivery of humanitarian assistance is predicated on principles that require full, safe and unhindered access for all aid workers, including women”, Ms Mohammed said.
The visit to Afghanistan followed a series of high-level consultations on Afghanistan across the Gulf and Asia. The delegation met with the leadership of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), the Islamic Development Bank, groups of Afghan women in Ankara and Islamabad and a group of Ambassadors and Special Envoys to Afghanistan based in Doha.
The delegation convened with government leaders from the region and religious leaders to advocate for the crucial role and full participation of women and rally support for the Afghan people.
Throughout the visits, countries and partners recognized the critical role of the UN in building bridges to finding lasting solutions, as well as the urgency to deliver lifesaving support and maintain effective engagement, led by the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA).
They asked that efforts be intensified to reflect the urgency of the situation and stressed the importance of a unified response by the international community.
The need for a revitalized and realistic political pathway was consistently highlighted and all remained firm on the fundamental principles, including women's and girls’ rights to education, work and public life in Afghanistan.
There was broad consensus that the region and the Organization of the Islamic Cooperation’s leadership on these issues was critical.
The proposal of an international conference on women and girls in the Muslim World during the month of March 2023 was also considered and agreed in principle.

For more information, please contact:
Office of the Spokesperson for the UN Secretary-General
Farhan Haq, haqf@un.org
UNAMA
spokesperson-unama@un.org
UN Women
media.team@unwomen.org
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/216250-high-level-un-delegation-led-deputy-secretary-general-calls-afghanistan%E2%80%99s-de-facto-taliban




Date: 08 January 2023
Title: UN condemns reported ban on women working for NGOs and International Organizations
Content: 08 January 2023
KABUL, 24 December 2022
The United Nations is profoundly concerned by reports that the Taliban de facto authorities today issued an order barring all female employees of national and international organizations from going to work with immediate effect. Any such order would violate the most fundamental rights of women, as well as be a clear breach of humanitarian principles.
The UN will seek to meet with the Taliban leadership to obtain clarity on the reported order. Women must be enabled to play a critical role in all aspects of life, including the humanitarian response. Their participation must be both respected and safeguarded. This latest decision will only further hurt those most vulnerable, especially women and girls.
The UN in Afghanistan and its partners condemn the reported order and remind the de facto authorities that taking away the free will of women to choose their own fate, disempowering and excluding them systematically from all aspects of public and political life takes the country backward, jeopardizing efforts for any meaningful peace or stability in the country.
For further information, please contact: Tapiwa Gomo, Public Information Officer, OCHA Afghanistan, gomo@un.org, Mobile: +93 79 600 0152. www.unocha.org www.reliefweb.int
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/214470-un-condemns-reported-ban-women-working-ngos-and-international-organizations




Date: 21 December 2022
Title: UN IN AFGHANISTAN CONDEMNS TALIBAN DECISION TO SUSPEND WOMEN FROM UNIVERSITIES AND CALLS FOR ITS IMMEDIATE REVERSAL
Content: 21 December 2022
KABUL, 21 December 2022
The UN family and the entire humanitarian community in Afghanistan share the outrage of millions of Afghans and the international community over the decision by the Taliban de facto authorities to close universities to female students across the country until further notice and calls on the de facto authorities to immediately revoke the decision.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/212740-un-afghanistan-condemns-taliban-decision-suspend-women-universities-and-calls-its-immediate




Date: 14 December 2022
Title: The United Nations Women’s Peace & Humanitarian Fund is excited to announce its latest Call for Proposals in Afghanistan to enhance the protection of women and girls and promote the participation and leadership of women in humanitarian crisis and response
Content: 14 December 2022
WPHF seeks to fund qualifying local organizations and innovative, impact-driven projects in Afghanistan through the following funding streams:
To reinforce the institutional capacity of local civil society organizations working on the implementation of the Women, Peace, and Security Agenda to ensure they are able to sustain themselves and to improve their impact (aligned with WPHF impact area 1).
To finance programmatic activities of civil society organizations that (i) promote the participation and leadership of women in humanitarian crisis and response (aligned with WPHF impact area 3) OR (ii) that enhance the protection of women and girls (aligned with WPHF impact area 5).

COMPLETE APPLICATION PACKAGES SHOULD BE EMAILED TO WPHFAPPLICATIONS@UNWOMEN.OR WITH SUBJECT TITLE “WPHF AFGHANISTAN.”
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 6 FEBRUARY 2023
An information session will be organized with prospective applicants on 12 January 2023 at 10 am Kabul time. To register your interest, please send an email to submissions.GiHA@unwomen.org with subject line “Information Session Afghanistan” by 9 January 2023. To apply, please go HERE.
Share widely with your networks and apply today.

Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/211437-united-nations-women%E2%80%99s-peace-humanitarian-fund-excited-announce-its-latest-call-proposals




Date: 25 November 2022
Title: END ALL FORMS OF GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE IN AFGHANISTAN
Content: 25 November 2022
Kabul, Afghanistan
The United Nations in Afghanistan calls upon the country’s de facto authorities to take immediate steps to end violence against women and the broader deterioration of women’s rights as a vital part of efforts to establish a meaningful and sustainable peace. The call is made as the world marks the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and the start of the global 16 Days of Activism against gender-based violence.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/209313-end-all-forms-gender-based-violence-afghanistan




Date: 06 November 2022
Title: UN IN AFGHANISTAN CALLS FOR URGENT COLLECTIVE CLIMATE ACTION IN THE COUNTRY
Content: 06 November 2022

KABUL – The Afghan people stand on the precipice of devastating climate projections. As COP27 opens today, the UN in Afghanistan calls for urgent collective action to halt the destructive impact of the altering climate in the country that is one of the least prepared against climate shocks but is ranked the sixth most affected in the world to climate-related threats.
Afghanistan is already prone to frequent natural disasters that cause loss and damage to lives, livelihoods, homes and infrastructure. These existing threats coupled with Afghans’ high dependence on agricultural livelihoods, Afghanistan’s fragile ecosystem, acute environmental degradation, poor socio-economic development and the impact of more than four decades of war have laid the foundation for extreme climate vulnerability.
Droughts in many parts of the country are becoming the norm, and episodic heavy precipitation result in flash floods and landslides. The consequences we are witnessing are severe for not only Afghan lives, but for economic development, food insecurity and migration.
“It is ordinary Afghans who suffer the most when these shocks occur,” said Dr. Ramiz Alakbarov, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, and Humanitarian Coordinator. “It is devastating to see the most vulnerable Afghans bear the brunt of environmental disasters, and it is increasingly challenging to build long term resilience and adaptation when we are constantly managing short term crises and in the absence of sufficient adaptation funding.”
Afghanistan has already witnessed several years of drought ravage communities across rural areas and the intense flooding earlier this year provided a snapshot of what is likely to come.
The challenges to building environmental resilience and climate adaptation in Afghanistan are multiple and diverse, complicated by political and governance issues as well as the availability of financial resources.
“In a world of wars, crises and fragmentation – and in the wake of conflict in Afghanistan, all must come together to find concrete solutions to the climate emergency. I encourage Afghanistan’s current de facto administration to take the threat of climate change and environmental degradation seriously, and to harness the great diversity of Afghanistan to bring together all corners of Afghan society to cooperatively address these threats. It will take every Afghan –religious and community leaders, women and men, businesses and farmers, the youth and elders – to tackle the challenges that lie ahead.”
“And still, the Afghan people cannot face this challenge alone. I equally encourage the international community and donors to think boldly and creatively on long-term climate adaptation support for Afghanistan. Regardless of political hurdles, Afghanistan cannot not be left out of climate financing. We will continue to respond to short-term humanitarian shocks, but we must lay a path towards adaptation. Adaptation will save lives and livelihoods.”
UN Secretary-General António Guterres has called for COP27 to lay the foundation for faster, bolder climate action in the “crucial decade” ahead, “when the global climate fight will be won or lost.”
“Action for Afghanistan is needed now,” Dr. Alakbarov said. “We cannot wait. Afghans do not have time to wait. It will take all sides finding common ground and common cause to work towards a sustainable future for Afghanistan. We also have to be clear, this problem is not specific to Afghanistan, it is a larger regional issue and not acting in Afghanistan now will create considerable setback in climate action for the entire region.”
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/206313-un-afghanistan-calls-urgent-collective-climate-action-country




Date: 12 October 2022
Title: UNHCR, FAO, and UN Women launch a joint initiative to support women-led organizations in Faizabad, Badakhshan Province – Afghanistan.
Content: 12 October 2022
The United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) have launched a joint initiative to enhance women’s overall quality of life and resilience in Faizabad - Badakhshan Province, by strengthening women-led organizations to enhance women’s self-reliance.
Badakhshan Province is regularly categorized as facing acute food insecurity under the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification 4, with 96 per cent of the population residing in rural areas where residents lack sufficient income-generation opportunities. There has been limited investments in women-focused livelihoods and overall development since 2001.
Speaking during the inauguration of the event, the United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Afghanistan - Mr. Ramiz Alakbarov - said the country’s rural areas must be given priority attention with the focus on agricultural-food systems to prevent cycles of hunger.  “We must help drive a grass-roots economic recovery which is anchored in the creation of value chains and developing linkages between farmers and food producers and local markets. Empowering women to be at the center of this economic recovery strategy will help to promote equality and improve social and health outcomes.”
The multi-pronged programmatic approach being undertaken under the FAO/UNHCR/UN Women initiative focuses on strengthening local women-led non-government organizations and networks that support women in general and women-headed households in particular with livelihoods and quality of life enhancement related multi-sectoral assistance, mobilizing and organizing women in producer groups and linking them to local markets and microfinance options.
Specifically, the intervention aims to support women-led organizations through improved access to basic services such as health, protection, food security and nutrition while paving the way for self-reliance and resilience through creation of livelihood opportunities.
“The full return of women to work is key to transforming Afghanistan’s economy and lifting the country out of poverty and crisis,” said Ms. Alison Davidian, Representative of UN Women in Afghanistan. “Initiatives like the Women’s Access, Dignity and Advancement (WADA) platform that assist women-led businesses and provide employment opportunities for women across sectors support moving Afghanistan strongly in this direction.”
“UNHCR is pleased for this partnership which aims to strengthen women’s access to critical services while also giving them the opportunity towards having a sustainable livelihood,” said UNHCR Representative in Afghanistan, Mr. Leonard Zulu. “WADA works towards creating long-term durable solutions, a key aspect of UNHCR’s programming.”
UNHCR, FAO, UN Women and partners are engaged in area-based programming and a whole-of-community response in all the 34 Provinces across Afghanistan. Faizabad in Badakhshan is UNHCR’s Priority Areas of Return and Reintegration (PARRs) where former refugees and internally displaced persons are going home, and one of the provinces where FAO is currently implementing targeted emergency and resilience initiatives.
“FAO's emergency and resilience assistance covers the immediate and time-critical needs to protect and restore agricultural livelihoods. This increases the resilience of affected populations to withstand current and future shocks. WADA is one way of directly enhancing women's food and nutrition security,” said FAO Representative in Afghanistan, Mr. Richard Trenchard.
UNHCR and FAO are working together in Afghanistan as part of the One UN initiative and within the frameworks of the Support Platform for Solution Strategy for Afghan Refugees (SSAR) and the UN Transitional Engagement Framework, to address the needs of refugee returnees, displaced people, and host communities while also engaging in the humanitarian-development-peace nexus.
The Women’s Access Dignity and Advancement project is set to run for four years, with the initial phase to be implemented in the first 24 months. Both UNHCR and FAO have contributed USD $1 million each to kick-start the project, while looking to fundraise the USD $18 million balance needed for the scale-up.
WADA is also designed as a multi-sectoral, multi-agency and multi-phased initiative with programming opportunities for more UN agencies and other development partners to be part of the initiative as it progresses. Ends

FAO
Since 2002, FAO’s fully-fledged representation in Afghanistan has been operating in country to rehabilitate irrigation infrastructure, build new dairy and wheat seed industries, improve livestock health, help smallholders diversify their crops and add higher-value products, stem deforestation and help the country mitigate and adapt to climate change, among others.
UN Women
UN Women is on the ground in Afghanistan, supporting Afghan women and girls every day. Our in-country strategy pivots around investing in women—from scaling up lifesaving, support services to supporting women humanitarian workers in the delivery of aid and providing seed capital to women-led businesses. Central to our work remains the goal of rebuilding the Afghan women’s movement.
UNHCR
The UN Refugee Agency has been in Afghanistan for over four decades providing emergency assistance and support to the displaced and returning Afghans.

Media contacts:
Lydia Limbe, FAO
Lydia.Limbe@fao.org
Tel. +93 79 487 4975

Peter Kessler, UNHCR
kessler@unhcr.org
Tel. +93 70 2465 614

Olguta Anghel, UN Women
Olguta.anghel@unwomen.org
Tel. +93 79 859 8429
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/202911-unhcr-fao-and-un-women-launch-joint-initiative-support-women-led-organizations-faizabad




Date: 18 September 2022
Title: ONE YEAR OF GIRLS BEING EXCLUDED FROM HIGH SCHOOL – RENEWED CALL THAT THEY BE ENABLED TO RETURN TO CLASSROOM
Content: 18 September 2022
KABUL, 18 September 2022 - On the day marking the first anniversary of the exclusion of girls from high schools in Afghanistan, the United Nations re-iterates its call for the country’s de facto authorities to take urgent measures to reopen high schools for all.

“This is a tragic, shameful, and entirely avoidable anniversary,” said Markus Potzel, the acting-head of UNAMA, the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan.
“The ongoing exclusion of girls from high school has no credible justification and has no parallel anywhere in the world. It is profoundly damaging to a generation of girls and to the future of Afghanistan itself,” said the UN envoy, who is also the Secretary-General’s Deputy Special Representative for Afghanistan.
When high schools were re-opened to boys on 18 September 2021, the de facto authorities instructed girls to remain at home. It is estimated that more than one million girls have been barred from attending high school over the past year. The Taliban have failed to deliver on various promises that they will enable their return to the classroom. The ban prevents girls attending grades seven to twelve, primarily impacting girls aged between 12 and 18.
The denial of education violates the most fundamental rights of girls and women. It increases the risk of the marginalization, violence, exploitation and abuse against girls and is part of a broader range of discriminatory policies and practices targeting women and girls since the de facto authorities assumed power in the summer of 2021.
The UN yet again calls upon the Taliban to reverse the slew of measures they have introduced restricting Afghan women and girls’ enjoyment of their basic rights and freedoms. The window of opportunity may be narrowing, but we urge them to take concrete steps – such as actively enabling girls to return to high school – that can lift Afghanistan up and give hope to its people.
If the ban on girls attending high school remains, the UN is increasingly concerned that such measures, taken together with other restrictions being placed upon Afghans’ basic freedoms, will contribute to a deepening of the crises facing Afghanistan, including greater insecurity, poverty and isolation.
The onus is on the Taliban to create favourable conditions for peace, inclusion, security, human rights and economic recovery. The international community remains ready to support a government that is representative of all its people and respects their rights.

Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/199730-one-year-girls-being-excluded-high-school-%E2%80%93-renewed-call-they-be-enabled-return-classroom




Date: 12 September 2022
Title: UN IN AFGHANISTAN CALLS FOR END TO HARASSMENT OF ITS AFGHAN FEMALE WORKFORCE
Content: 12 September 2022
KABUL, 12 September 2022 - The UN in Afghanistan expresses its mounting concern about de facto authorities’ actions against Afghan female employees of the United Nations. The UN urges the de facto authorities to abide by their obligations to respect the privileges and immunities of the UN and all its staff, including their freedom of movement throughout the country.
There has been an emerging pattern of harassment of Afghan UN female staff by the de facto authorities, including an incident today in which three Afghan women working for the United Nations were singled out and temporarily detained for questioning by armed security agents of the de facto authorities.
The UN calls for an immediate end to all such acts of intimidation and harassment targeting its Afghan female staff, calling on the de facto authorities to reiterate and enforce explicit guarantees for the safety and security of all UN personnel operating in Afghanistan in a manner consistent with Afghanistan’s obligations under international law.
The UN urges the de facto authorities to ensure respect for international human rights obligations for all people in Afghanistan.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/198862-un-afghanistan-calls-end-harassment-its-afghan-female-workforce




Date: 31 August 2022
Title: UNITED NATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN RECEIVES AID FROM KAZAKHSTAN AS HUMANITARIAN NEEDS ACROSS THE COUNTRY REMAIN EXTREMELY SEVERE
Content: 31 August 2022
Kabul/Termez: Today, the United Nations in Afghanistan welcomed a contribution of in-kind emergency assistance from the Government of Kazakhstan at the Termez Regional Humanitarian Logistics Hub. The donation, which will be used to support humanitarian efforts across the country, included 200 tents and as many tarpaulins; 2,000 beds, mattresses, sheets and blankets; 2,000 jackets and trousers; and 2,000 sets of bowls, cups and cutlery. Kazakhstan also donated 60,000 litres of vegetable oil, and nearly 20 metric tons of rice and condensed milk.
“The donation is intended to support the United Nation’s humanitarian response to Afghan families struck by the devastating earthquake in June, the current flash floods that have engulfed a third of the country, and other acute and emerging needs,” said Mr. Bakhtiyar Sarsenbay, Chargé d’Affaires of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Afghanistan during the handover ceremony in Termez. “Kazakhstan is committed to assist humanitarian efforts in the region and always works to support people in countries facing difficult circumstances, like in Afghanistan.”
More than 24 million people are in need of some form of life-saving humanitarian assistance in Afghanistan due to the consequences of decades of conflict, recurrent environmental shocks, lack of recovery from past disasters, and the political upheaval of a year ago which has contributed to a severe economic crisis.
“The past year was incredibly difficult for the people of Afghanistan, particularly for women and girls who are disproportionally affected. Humanitarian needs have reached unprecedented levels with more than half the population requiring assistance to survive,” said Dr. Ramiz Alakbarov, the UN Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Humanitarian Coordinator for Afghanistan.
“The United Nations is committed to assisting the people of Afghanistan and is extremely grateful to regional countries like Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan for their generous support. These supplies received today from the people of Kazakhstan to the people of Afghanistan are invaluable for us to quickly respond to a variety of humanitarian needs,” he added. “We are grateful to the Government of Uzbekistan for providing consistent support through humanitarian hub in Termez and facilitating a steady flow of assistance across its border. This demonstration of solidarity across the region is a beacon of hope in these trying times for Afghanistan.”
The emergency shelter and household items will go to the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) for urgently needed efforts to prepare for winter, including in the three earthquake affected provinces where people still live in makeshift shelters. The food will go to the UN World Food Programme (WFP) for distribution in emergency hotspots, including the earthquake and flood-affected provinces.
The donation by Kazakhstan was handed over to the United Nations in Termez, Uzbekistan, at the International Multifunctional Transport-Logistics Hub, established end of last year with strong support from the Government of Uzbekistan. Since then, the hub has played a critical component in facilitating the movement of humanitarian supplies into Afghanistan for the humanitarian response.

………
Follow us on Twitter @unafghanistan @RamizAlakbarov
For more information please contact: Silke von Brockhausen, Head of RC Office (Brockhausen@un.org)
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/197126-united-nations-afghanistan-receives-aid-kazakhstan-humanitarian-needs-across-country-remain




Date: 20 July 2022
Title: UN RELEASES REPORT ON HUMAN RIGHTS IN AFGHANISTAN
Content: 20 July 2022
KABUL, 20 July - The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) today released a report (Human rights in Afghanistan: 15 August 2021 – 15 June 2022) outlining the human rights situation in Afghanistan over the 10 months since the Taliban takeover.
The report summarises UNAMA’s findings with regards to the protection of civilians, extrajudicial killings, torture and ill-treatment, arbitrary arrests and detentions, the rights of women and girls in Afghanistan, fundamental freedoms and the situation in places of detention. The report also contains recommendations to both the de facto authorities and the international community.
Despite an overall, significant reduction in armed violence, between mid-August 2021 and mid-June 2022, UNAMA recorded 2106 civilian casualties (700 killed, 1406 wounded). The majority of civilian casualties were attributed to targeted attacks by the armed group self-identified “Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant – Khorasan Province” against ethnic and religious minority communities in places where they go to school, worship and go about their daily lives.
“It is beyond time for all Afghans to be able to live in peace and rebuild their lives after 20 years of armed conflict. Our monitoring reveals that despite the improved security situation since 15 August, the people of Afghanistan, in particular women and girls, are deprived of the full enjoyment of their human rights,” said Markus Potzel, Acting Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Afghanistan.
While the de facto authorities have taken some steps seemingly aimed at the protection and promotion of human rights, such as the amnesty for former government officials and security force members, the 3 December decree on women’s rights and a code of conduct relating to prisoners, they also bear responsibility for a broad range of human rights violations.
The erosion of women’s rights has been one of the most notable aspects of the de facto administration to date. Since 15 August, women and girls have progressively had their rights to fully participate in education, the workplace and other aspects of public and daily life restricted and in many cases completely taken away. The decision not to allow girls to return to secondary school means that a generation of girls will not complete their full 12 years of basic education. At the same time, access to justice for victims of gender-based violence has been limited by the dissolution of dedicated reporting pathways, justice mechanisms and shelters.
“The education and participation of women and girls in public life is fundamental to any modern society. The relegation of women and girls to the home denies Afghanistan the benefit of the significant contributions they have to offer. Education for all is not only a basic human right, it is the key to progress and development of a nation,” said the UN envoy.
On 17 August 2021, the de facto authorities announced an amnesty for former government officials and Afghan National Security and Defense Force members. This amnesty does not, however, appear to have been consistently upheld, with UNAMA recording at least 160 extrajudicial killings of former government and security officials by members of the de facto authorities between 15 August 2021 and 15 June 2022.
UNAMA is concerned about the impunity with which members of the de facto authorities appear to have carried out human rights violations. UNAMA’s report details extrajudicial killings of individuals accused of affiliation with armed groups, as well as cruel, inhuman and degrading punishments and extrajudicial killings of individuals accused of “moral” crimes and the excessive use of force by law enforcement officials. Human rights violations must be investigated by the de facto authorities, perpetrators held accountable, and ultimately, incidents should be prevented from reoccurring in the future.
UNAMA’s report highlights specific concerns with respect to two bodies within the de facto authorities – the de facto Ministry of Propagation of Virtue and Prevention of Vice (Amr bil Maruf) and the de facto General Directorate of Intelligence (Istikhbarat). Many of the directives issued by the de facto Ministry of Propagation of Virtue and Prevention of Vice limit the human rights and freedoms of Afghans, in particular women and girls. Although such directives are said to be recommendatory in nature, at times members of the de facto authorities have taken a harsh stance on their implementation, including carrying out physical punishments for alleged infringements of their directives.
Officials of de facto Istikhbarat have been identified for their particularly severe treatment of people deprived of their liberty. UNAMA’s report details instances where the de facto Istikhbarat was involved in perpetrating human rights violations against individuals in their custody, including extrajudicial killings, torture and ill-treatment, as well as arbitrary arrests and detentions.
In the 10 months since they took control of Afghanistan, the de facto authorities have made clear their position on the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly, freedom of expression and freedom of opinion. They have limited dissent by cracking down on protests and curbing media freedoms, including by arbitrarily arresting journalists, protestors and civil society activists and issuing restrictions on media outlets.
“The rights to freedom of peaceful assembly, freedom of expression and freedom of opinion are not only fundamental freedoms, they are necessary for the development and progression of a nation. They allow meaningful debate to flourish, also benefiting those who govern by allowing them to better understand the issues and problems facing the population,” said Fiona Frazer, UNAMA Chief of Human Rights.
With regards to places of detention: encouragingly, the de facto authorities do appear to be seeking to fulfil their obligations in relation to the treatment of detainees, with the Taliban leader having issued guidance on this issue in January 2022. Progress is hindered by financial constraints, resulting at times, in inadequate food, medical care and hygiene supplies for detainees and the cessation of vocational education and training programs for prisoners that were previously funded by the international community.
This is compounded by detainees remaining in extended pre-trial detention in some cases, due to the functioning of the justice system.
The human rights situation has been exacerbated by a nationwide economic, financial and humanitarian crisis of unprecedented scale. At least 59% of the population is now in need of humanitarian assistance – an increase of 6 million people compared with the beginning of 2021. UNAMA’s report calls on the international community to continue its support for the people of Afghanistan by ensuring that urgent humanitarian and basic needs are met. Further, the international community has an obligation to ensure that sanctions, while they remain in place, do not have a negative impact on human rights.
The findings and recommendations contained in the report reflect many of the concerns raised by UNAMA with a number of de facto entities over the past 10 months. UNAMA has appreciated the level of engagement to date and remains committed to supporting the de facto authorities in protecting and promoting the human rights of all Afghan women, men, girls and boys.
“As reflected by the United Nations Security Council in the extension of UNAMA’s mandate, Afghanistan as a state remains party to a number of instruments concerning human rights and fundamental freedoms. With this in mind, I urge the de facto authorities to do their utmost to address the concerns outlined in our report and meet their international obligations to protect and promote the human rights of all Afghans,” said Marcus Potzel, Acting Secretary General’s Special Representative for Afghanistan.
Key findings for the period 15 August 2021 – 15 June 2022:
Over the reporting period, UNAMA documented:
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/191046-un-releases-report-human-rights-afghanistan




Date: 29 April 2022
Title: United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator for Afghanistan condemns today’s heinous attack on worshippers in Kabul Province
Content: 29 April 2022
The UN Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Humanitarian Coordinator for Afghanistan, Mr. Ramiz Alakbarov, expresses his deep sorrow over this afternoon’s heinous attack in Kabul province which has reportedly killed at least 10 people, and injured up to fifteen, many of them seriously.
According to initial reports, an explosion tore through Khalifa Sahib mosque in the Darulaman area of Western Kabul, damaging the roof which caved in on worshippers. Local hospitals have reported far higher casualty figures, with dozens said to be killed and injured, including many children. EMERGENCY hospital alone has received more than twenty victims, including two who were dead on arrival.
Mr. Alakbarov condemns the attack and conveys his sincere condolences to the families of the victims and those affected, and wishes the injured a speedy recovery.
“Today’s blast, which comes on the last Friday of the holy week of Ramadan, is yet another painful blow to the people of Afghanistan who continue to be exposed to unremitting insecurity and violence,” Mr. Alakbarov said. “It is unconscionable for civilians to be targeted indiscriminately as they go about their daily business, gathering for prayers, going to school or the market, or on their way to work.” “I reiterate that directing attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, including mosques, is strictly prohibited under international humanitarian law.”
Yesterday, bombs aboard two minibuses in Mazar-e-Sharif in Balkh province, killed at least nine people and wounded a further fifteen.
Mr. Alakbarov reminds all parties to fully adhere to their obligations under international humanitarian law and human rights law, and calls for accountability for crimes perpetrated.
For further information, please contact: Katherine Carey, Deputy Head of Office, OCHA Afghanistan, carey2@un.org, Mobile +93 79 300 3700
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/180048-united-nations-humanitarian-coordinator-afghanistan-condemns-today%E2%80%99s-heinous-attack




Date: 22 April 2022
Title: United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator for Afghanistan condemns attack on worshippers in Kunduz Province
Content: 22 April 2022
The UN Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Humanitarian Coordinator for Afghanistan, Mr. Ramiz Alakbarov, expresses his deep sorrow over this afternoon’s horrific attack in Kunduz province which has reportedly killed more than 25 people, and injured up to forty.
According to initial reports, an explosion tore through Mawlawi Sekander Mosque in Imam Sahib district, northern Kunduz, as worshippers gathered for Friday afternoon prayers. Officials fear the number of casualties could rise further.
Mr. Alakbarov condemns the attack, the second in Kunduz province in as many days, and conveys his sincere condolences to the families of the victims and those affected, and wishes the injured a speedy recovery.
“This week’s tragic events are a painful reminder of the insecurity and dangers facing the Afghan people daily,” Mr. Alakbarov said. “The indiscriminate use of improvised explosive devices, which has already caused more than a hundred civilian casualties this week, is unacceptable and must cease immediately.”
Mr. Alakbarov reminds all parties to fully adhere to their obligations under international humanitarian law and human rights law, and ensure the safety of civilians and civilian facilities, and calls for accountability for crimes perpetrated.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/178962-united-nations-humanitarian-coordinator-afghanistan-condemns-attack-worshippers-kunduz




Date: 21 April 2022
Title: United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator for Afghanistan strongly condemns today’s separate attacks in Balkh, Kabul and Kunduz Provinces.
Content: 21 April 2022
The UN Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Humanitarian Coordinator for Afghanistan, Mr. Ramiz Alakbarov, strongly condemns the three separate attacks today in Balkh, Kabul and Kunduz provinces, which have reportedly killed up to 30 people, and injured scores more.
According to reports, one explosion occurred in Seh Dokan mosque in Mazar-e-Sharif, Balkh province, killing at least 10 worshippers and wounding another forty. Officials fear that the number of casualties could rise as victims are received in hospitals. Earlier in the day, an improvised explosive device in Police District 5 of Kabul city mildly wounded two youngsters.
Also, in a separate incident in Sardawar, Kunduz Province, eleven people were reportedly killed or injured by a third blast.
Mr. Alakbarov expresses his profound condolences to the families of the civilian victims and those affected by today’s attacks and wishes the injured a speedy recovery. “The people of Afghanistan have already endured immense suffering, and must be spared from such senseless and horrific attacks,” Mr. Alakbarov said. “I urge all parties to fully adhere to their obligations under International Humanitarian Law and International Human Rights Law to ensure the safety of civilians and civilian facilities.”
Today’s tragic incidents come just two days after suicide bombings outside educational facilities in western Kabul killed at least six people and injured many children.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/178922-united-nations-humanitarian-coordinator-afghanistan-strongly-condemns-today%E2%80%99s-separate




Date: 19 April 2022
Title: United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator for Afghanistan strongly condemns today’s attacks on educational institutions in Kabul
Content: 19 April 2022
The UN Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Humanitarian Coordinator for Afghanistan, Mr. Ramiz Alakbarov, strongly condemns today’s horrific attacks on a high school and education centre in Western Kabul.
According to reports, multiple explosions hit Abdul Rahim Shahid high school and the nearby Mumtaz Education Centre in the Dasht-e-Barchi area of Western Kabul, killing at least six people and injuring dozens more. Several of the wounded are reported to be in critical condition. Officials have expressed concerns that the number of casualties could rise.
The Abdul Rahim Shahid high school was reported to have been hit by the blasts as students were coming out of their morning classes, and was followed by an explosion a few kilometers away near the Mumtaz Education Centre.
“On behalf of the entire humanitarian community in Afghanistan, I extend my sincere condolences to all those affected, and to the families of those killed,” Mr. Alakbarov said. “Violence in or around schools is never acceptable. For the people of Afghanistan, already beleaguered by forty years of war, schools should be safe havens, and places where children can learn and flourish.”
Mr. Alakbarov reiterates that attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, including schools, are strictly prohibited under international humanitarian law.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/177979-united-nations-humanitarian-coordinator-afghanistan-strongly-condemns-today%E2%80%99s-attacks




Date: 31 March 2022
Title: Humanitarian Donors Urged to Step up Again for Afghanistan
Content: 31 March 2022
Afghanistan is trapped in a humanitarian crisis with 23 million people facing acute food insecurity. We need to act now to stop the situation from getting worse
Humanitarian agencies have scaled up assistance and are ready to expand, stressing the central role of women in delivering aid
Hosted by the United Nations and the Governments of the United Kingdom, Germany and Qatar, donors are meeting today to pledge essential humanitarian funding
The pledging conference is live streamed here from 1500 CET / 0900 ET. Link to download the video file of pre-conference press briefing is here and photos from Afghanistan are freely available here
(Geneva, 31 March 2022): Last year, international donors showed remarkable generosity for Afghans in need. With US$1.8 billion disbursed, aid groups were able to reach 20 million people with life-saving food, clean water, healthcare, protection, shelter, education and winter supplies as Afghanistan went through profound turmoil and international isolation.
Today, donors convene to keep the funds flowing and growing again this year. The UNcoordinated relief operation – the largest but not the only one in Afghanistan – asks for $4.4 billion, three times the amount requested in 2021.
Fund-raising has so far secured only 13 per cent of the requirements of the 2022 Humanitarian Response Plan. At today’s pledging conference, hosted by the United Nations, the United Kingdom, Germany and Qatar, pledges of support are urgently needed to ramp up deliveries. Fund-raising will continue for the remainder of the year.
Years of conflict have caused prolonged suffering in Afghanistan. Now the country faces economic collapse and its worst drought in 30 years, creating unprecedented levels of need. Aid organizations warn that while emergency response is necessary, it is not enough to meet the totality of needs in Afghanistan. The economy, basic institutions of the state and essential service delivery must be preserved to stave off worsening food insecurity and a breakdown in the social fabric.
More than 24 million people – or 60 per cent of the population - need humanitarian assistance to survive. Needs are 30 per cent higher than last year and acute hunger is a daily reality for half the population. Basic health, education and other services are severely strained, livelihoods have been crushed and households are spending 80 per cent of their meagre income on food.
UN humanitarian chief Martin Griffiths said: “We have the power to stop the downward humanitarian spiral in Afghanistan and it is our moral duty to use this power by pledging generous, flexible and unconditional funding today. That is how humanitarians can scale up operations now and save lives.”
UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: “The UK is rallying countries in support of the Afghan people and helping lead the way in providing life-sustaining food, shelter and medical supplies. Together with allies and partners, we can do more and will do more to help Afghanistan.”
H.E. Mr. Sultan bin Saad Al Muraikhi Minister of State for Foreign Affairs said: “The key factor for improving humanitarian situations is the achievement of sustainable peace. Accordingly, The State of Qatar has made extensive and successful efforts over the past years to support reaching this desired goal. With the continuing deterioration of the humanitarian situation, the economic collapse, and the increase in the number of people in need of humanitarian aid to survive in Afghanistan, it is our collective responsibility to maintain the commitment and to provide the necessary humanitarian support and funding.”
In the first eight weeks of 2022, humanitarian partners reached 12.7 million people with life-saving assistance, prioritizing women, girls and minority groups.
Deliveries have included nutritious food for hundreds of thousands of malnourished children, pregnant and breastfeeding women; nutritious meals for school-children; getting seeds and tools into the hands of farmers; training unemployed workers in basic skills; supporting protection for vulnerable groups; ensuring clean water supply in communities; and supporting trauma treatment and reproductive healthcare.
By pledging generously, the world can send a strong signal of solidarity to the people of Afghanistan, who have already been through far too much.
At today’s high-level event, H.E. António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, will deliver opening remarks. He will be joined by H.E. Mr. Sultan, the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs of Qatar; H.E. Rt. Hon Elizabeth Truss, Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom; Annalena Baerbock, Federal Foreign Minister of Germany; and Martin Griffiths, UN Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator. Member States and partners will also take the floor for interventions.
More information about the event is available here
Media contacts
UN OCHA, Jens Laerke, laerke@un.org
UK FCDO News desk, newsdesk@fcdo.gov.uk
German Foreign Office, Andreas Feil, s07-5@auswaertiges-amt.de
Qatar Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Aisha AlMuhannadi, aralmuhannadi@mofa.gov.qa
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/176476-humanitarian-donors-urged-step-again-afghanistan




Date: 31 March 2022
Title: UNFPA scaling up support to save and protect the lives of Afghan women and girls
Content: 31 March 2022
UNFPA calls on international community to increase funding for lifesaving maternal health and protection services in Afghanistan

Kabul, Afghanistan - The people of Afghanistan are facing unprecedented levels of suffering with more than half the population – 24.4 million people – in dire need of humanitarian assistance. The country is facing an economic crisis that has sent prices skyrocketing, driving food insecurity and a malnutrition crisis of unparalleled proportions.
The situation of women and girls is particularly dire. Their rights and opportunities have been increasingly restricted and the impacts of recent upheavals and the current crisis are resting disproportionately on their narrow shoulders.
Interim funding at the end of 2021 prevented the total collapse of the health system in the country following the withdrawal of development assistance, but women and girls’ access to lifesaving sexual and reproductive health services has been severely diminished especially in remote parts of the country.
Over the last two decades, important gains have been made for women and girls including significant declines in one of the highest maternal mortality rates in the world and increases in the provision of prenatal and antenatal care, the use of modern methods of birth spacing, and the number of attended births.  These gains are now in peril.
“Today in Afghanistan, a woman dies every two hours during pregnancy and childbirth from causes that are almost entirely preventable,” said Dr. Aleksandar Sasha Bodiroza, UNFPA Representative in Afghanistan. “UNFPA is committed and ready to expand and scale up our existing sexual and reproductive health service delivery points to reach more women, girls and young people, especially those in the most remote and underserved areas of Afghanistan.”
In spite of the challenging context, UNFPA continues to provide essential and life-saving maternal health and protection services, with support from local communities. Between August and December 2021, more than 260,000 people were reached with reproductive health and protection services across the country through family health houses and mobile health clinics and teams. Toll-free hotlines for midwives and young people also remain operational.
On 31 March, the United Nations and the Governments of Qatar, the United Kingdom and Germany are convening a virtual high-level pledging event on supporting the humanitarian response in Afghanistan. UNFPA requires US$251.9 million in 2022 to continue and scale up the delivery of maternal health and protection services to meet the urgent needs of 9.3 million Afghans, including 2.2 million women of childbearing age, 2.3 million adolescents and 289,000 women expected to give birth this year.

UNFPA media contacts:
In New York: Eddie Wright, ewright@unfpa.org; +1 917 831 2074
In Kabul: Zaeem Abdul Rahman, zaeem@unfpa.org; +93 799 714 314
Multimedia contents available on UNFPA’s response in Afghanistan here. Any photos used must be credited to UNFPA.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/176435-unfpa-scaling-support-save-and-protect-lives-afghan-women-and-girls




Date: 30 March 2022
Title: Millions of Afghan lives and livelihoods in danger without support, says UN Development Programme Chief
Content: 30 March 2022
30 March, Kabul | New York – The head of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) reminded the international community that Afghans must not be forgotten as the world turns its attention to the war in Ukraine and urged continued investment to save the lives and livelihoods of the Afghan people.
Achim Steiner also stressed the importance of girls’ and women’s rights in the country. Recent decisions to bar girls from secondary education from Grade 6 onwards is of great concern, he said, and UNDP is committed to working with UN agencies to defend and promote girls’ and women’s access to education and work, and to protect these rights.
“UNDP’s partnerships are often multidimensional, and sometimes we are faced with challenges that, like girls’ education in Afghanistan, can become fault lines,” Steiner said. “Both boys and girls must be allowed in the classrooms because the future of Afghanistan must be for all Afghans, not just a selected few. UNDP will continue to help Afghans to create strong socio-economic foundations from which to grow from the ground up.”
Steiner made the comments during a two-day trip to the country where he met with women business owners, academics, civil society representatives, private sector, and decision makers. He also flagged the urgent need for action to prevent spiralling poverty and economic instability.
“We reported late last year that an estimated 97 percent of Afghans could be living in poverty by mid-2022, and regrettably, that number is being reached faster than anticipated,” Steiner said. “And with commodities pricing skyrocketing globally, we know that people here cannot afford to meet their basic human needs like food, healthcare, and education. However, I have witnessed the determination of Afghans to get back on their feet and work for social stability.”
The first stop on his two-day trip was to meet women business owners and members of the Chamber of Commerce in Mazar-e-Sharif. He listened to them discuss the struggles they face in keeping their businesses afloat and the lack of access to capital.
“The women small business owners I spoke with are tenacious in their determination to continue to earn an income and provide for their families and communities against all odds,” Mr Steiner says. “It is vital that the international community shows its solidarity and commitment to preventing further economic hardship, especially for women,” Steiner says. “This year alone, we aim to support more than 50,000 small and medium enterprises, many of which are led by women.”
Following the change in government in August 2021, Afghanistan is facing a potential non-reversable economic collapse, a frozen banking system and liquidity shortage leaving as many as 80 percent of people in debt.
This instability and the need to get cash in the hands of those who need it most, says Steiner, is why the international community must commit to new funding in the upcoming High-level Pledging Event on Supporting the Humanitarian Response in Afghanistan on 31 March.
“We must get the economy back up and running from the ground up, and that means support to individuals, their families and their businesses,” he said. “While the world’s attention is turned to Ukraine and the ripple effect from that war, we must also stand in solidarity with the Afghan people.  We will stay and deliver to ensure that hard-fought gains in gender equality, health, livelihoods, and access to energy aren’t lost during this period of hardship.”
On the second day of his tour, Steiner met with NGOs, civil society leaders, private sector leaders, women’s organisations, and academics. He listened to their vision for the future of Afghanistan and the pathways to go forward.
“In building a better future in Afghanistan, the country must retain its thought leaders and young people who are desperate to create the pathways forward in ways that benefit all,” Steiner said. “The very future of the country must be one built upon human rights and dignity, access to livelihoods, and one that leaves no one behind.”
UNDP leads the UN socio-economic recovery in the country under the One-UN Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF). In October 2021, UNDP launched an ambitious local recovery programme, ABADEI, to safeguard livelihoods and small productive activities.
Since then, the ABADEI programme has supported 76,000 people with temporary work; supported 25,000 small farmers and traders with market access, benefiting over a quarter million people; including building vital irrigation systems benefiting 105,000 people, and provided clean and affordable energy access to 18,000 people in poor households and to 80 MSMEs through solar-hydro mini grids.
UNDP has also supported the improvement of health services by helping 3.1 million Afghans - including 1.1 million children and 780,000 women – to access basic medical care including COVID-19 vaccinations, payment of salaries to healthcare workers, and supporting to health facilities.
The creation of a financial mechanism, the Special Trust Fund for Afghanistan, was spearheaded to channel donor funding into a unified response comprising 16 UN agencies ensuring a linked up, cohesive effort to support the basic human needs and essential services in the country.
In addition to the $4.4 billion needed to meet humanitarian needs, UN agencies working in Afghanistan urgently require a further US$3.6 billion to sustain essential social programmes to help 38 million people under the UN’s Framework. UNDP requests US$134.6 million for Afghanistan this year to support its response.
The Administrator acknowledged the financial support already given through the Trust Fund and from bilateral partners, which has helped UNDP to deliver on the ground and contribute to stabilizing livelihoods in Afghanistan, but he said that sustained support and new commitments can further strengthen the potential prosperity of the country.
“I urge international partners to commit to the continued support to the people of Afghanistan in the upcoming pledging conference,” Steiner says.  “UNDP is committed to building resilience at the local level, particularly helping women and girls who must not be left behind in the recovery of Afghanistan,” Steiner says. “On the macro-level, we are committed to developing strategies and options to address the virtual collapse of the commercial banking sector and key central banks functions which have paralyzed the financial system and resulted in an unprecedented liquidity crisis.”
About UNDP: UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality, and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and planet. Learn more at undp.org or follow at @UNDP.
For media inquiries, please contact:
In New York: Anna Ortubia | Email: anna.ortubia@undp.org
In Toronto: Lesley Wright | Email: Lesley.wright@undp.org
In Bangkok: Cedric Monteiro | Email: cedric.montiero@undp.org
In Geneva: Sarah Bel | Email: sarah.bel@undp.org
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/176250-millions-afghan-lives-and-livelihoods-danger-without-support-says-un-development-programme




Date: 15 March 2022
Title: Statement by Dr Ramiz Alakbarov, Deputy Special Representative for the Secretary General, Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator, on the Continued Food Insecurity and Malnutrition Crisis Facing People in Afghanistan
Content: 15 March 2022
People in Afghanistan are today facing a food insecurity and malnutrition crisis of unparalleled proportions. The rapid increase in those experiencing acute hunger – from 14 million in July 2021 to 23 million in March 2022 – has forced households to resort to desperate measures such as skipping meals or taking on unprecedented debt to ensure there is some food on the table at the end of the day. These unacceptable trade-offs have caused untold suffering, reduced the quality, quantity, and diversity of food available, led to high levels of wasting in children, and other harmful impacts on the physical and mental wellbeing of women, men, and children.
In Afghanistan, a staggering 95 per cent of the population is not eating enough food, with that percentage rising to almost 100 per cent for female-headed households. It is a figure so high that it is almost inconceivable. Yet, devastatingly, it is the harsh reality.
Hospital wards are filled with children suffering from malnutrition: smaller than they should be, many weighing at one year what an infant of six months would weigh in a developed country, and some so weak they are unable to move.
As Afghanistan continues to grapple with the effects of a terrible drought, the prospect of another bad harvest this year, a banking and financial crisis so severe that it has left more than 80 per cent of the population facing debt, and an increase in food and fuel prices, we cannot ignore the reality facing communities. Enormous challenges lie ahead.
With this in mind, as the United Nations Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Afghanistan, I want to reiterate that the United Nations, alongside our national and international partners, are doing everything we can to support a comprehensive and coordinated effort to alleviate the impacts of hunger and malnutrition, while giving communities the means to protect and sustain their livelihoods in the future.
Already in 2022, humanitarian partners have supported 8.2 million people with life-saving and life-sustaining food assistance, including emergency food rations, seasonal support, school meals for children, agricultural supplies for farmers such as seeds, fertilizers and animal feed, and nutritious foods and supplements for nursing mothers and their infants.
Over the next months, the United Nations and humanitarian partners will continue to focus on scaling-up response activities, reaching underserved and remote areas that have been inaccessible in previous years due to insecurity and active conflict.
Acute malnutrition rates in 28 out of 34 provinces are high with more than 3.5 million children in need of nutrition treatment support. Already, there are over 2,500 nutrition treatment sites spread across all 34 provinces, both urban and rural, reaching 800,000 acutely malnourished children since mid-August and we plan to reach 3.2 million affected children this year. We also aim to reach one million people through vocational skills training, one million children through school feeding, and millions more people both directly and indirectly through programmes that will protect and boost the agricultural livelihoods upon which so much of the population depends.
We must remain mindful that while the massive humanitarian response mounted since August 2021 has prevented our worst fears from being realized over the winter, food insecurity and malnutrition remain at historic highs and require an immediate, sustained, and large-scale humanitarian response to prevent the loss of more lives and livelihoods. The fate of an entire generation of Afghans is at stake.
In the coming weeks, the United Nations will continue to provide regular updates on our combined efforts. On 31 March, the United Nations and the Governments of the United Kingdom, Germany, and Qatar will co-host an international pledging conference in support of the humanitarian response in Afghanistan. I urge Member States to dig deep for the people of Afghanistan at this time, and to continue their generous support to these life-saving efforts.
Humanitarian assistance alone is not enough to address all needs now and in the future. But it is absolutely necessary to keep people alive and healthy, and to prevent vulnerable people in the most precarious situations from sliding ever further into need.
As we collectively support millions of Afghans to rebuild their lives and communities, we must remember that the long road to a better future is impossible on empty stomach.

END

For further information, please contact:
Pierre Peron, Public Information Officer OCHA, peronp@un.org

Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/174875-statement-dr-ramiz-alakbarov-deputy-special-representative-secretary-general-resident




Date: 10 March 2022
Title: Women’s rights in Afghanistan
Content: 10 March 2022
Statement by UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet
As we mark International Women’s Day this week, I am speaking from Kabul, Afghanistan.
The women of this country are often portrayed in the international fora and media as victims. In fact, Afghan women have – in the face of war, extreme poverty and unspeakable violence and discrimination – been working tirelessly to protect and provide for their families and communities. They have been threatened and attacked for speaking up, and denied and excluded from positions of power and decision-making, but this has not stopped them from advocating courageously for their rights and creating networks of support. They are not passive bystanders.
For this beautiful country to finally find peace and progress, Afghan women should be active agents for change and be given the space to lead peacebuilding, humanitarian and development processes.
Girls should be able to go to school and university and be empowered to contribute robustly to the future of their country. Women should be visibly represented in the police force, in courts of law, in government and in the private sector – indeed in every sphere of civic and public life.
Women have the equal right to demonstrate peacefully without fear of reprisal, to speak openly about the problems in society, and to have a genuine, meaningful seat at the table to craft solutions that reflect and respond also to their realities and demands. Solutions that really work.
Violence against women and girls – in public and private spheres - should never be tolerated, should be condemned and perpetrators brought to justice.
Here in Kabul, I am listening to women share their experiences and those of their sisters, and I am speaking to the de facto authorities about the urgent, critical need to make progress towards the realization of women and girls’ fundamental human rights and to bring to an end the many serious human rights violations to which women and girls are being subjected.
I have served my home country, Chile, as President, as Minister of Defence and as Minister of Health. I speak from experience when I say: sustainable peace and economic development and realisation of the rights of all people – to healthcare, to education, to justice, and more – requires the inclusion and empowerment of women and girls - half the population.
I stand with women all around the world – and I stand with the women and girls of Afghanistan, today and every day.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/174651-women%E2%80%99s-rights-afghanistan




Date: 08 March 2022
Title: UN IN AFGHANISTAN STANDS BY AFGHAN WOMEN AND GIRLS AMIDST DIRE CRISES
Content: 08 March 2022
KABUL, 8 March 2022 - On International Women’s Day, the United Nations in Afghanistan stands by Afghan women and girls as they face the consequences of multiple crises, combined with entrenched gender inequality and discrimination, with courage and perseverance.
Women in Afghanistan are disproportionately impacted by a legacy of conflict, in addition to drought and the collapsing economy, which has plunged millions in Afghanistan into debt and humanitarian need.
“What we are witnessing today in Afghanistan is a crisis of catastrophic proportions. Everyone in the country is affected by the current crises, but the situation for women and girls is particularly concerning as their rights and access to opportunities have become increasingly challenged,” said Deborah Lyons, the Secretary-General’s Special Representative (SRSG) for Afghanistan.
The full and equal participation of Afghan women and girls in all areas of public life is critical to the future of Afghanistan. Denying women their rights to freedom of movement, work, participation in public life, and education, is limiting greater economic development for the country.
“In our conversations with Afghan women, they have spoken of the importance of girls’ education, as well as the need of subsequent opportunities to pursue higher education and gain employment. More needs to be done to promote equality of opportunity for women and girls in all areas of their lives,” said SRSG Lyons.
Afghan women have a vision for Afghanistan and must be given an opportunity to participate in shaping the country’s future. The United Nations in Afghanistan is committed to protecting and promoting women’s and girls’ rights in Afghanistan. We remain firm in our belief that no durable peace, recovery, or stability is possible without women’s active engagement and participation in the social, economic, and political life of their country.
* * *
For more information, please contact:
UN Women: olguta.anghel@unwomen.org
UNAMA: spokesperson-UNAMA@un.org
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/174133-un-afghanistan-stands-afghan-women-and-girls-amidst-dire-crises




Date: 25 February 2022
Title: Team of Humanitarian Experts Concludes Mission to Afghanistan and Calls for Support to Life-Saving Humanitarian Action
Content: 25 February 2022
(Kabul, 25 February 2022): Concluding a five-day field mission to observe the dire humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, a delegation of senior UN and NGO representatives have found that humanitarian organizations have shown their ability to scale up operations to provide life-saving assistance to people who desperately need aid.
In Kabul and travelling to humanitarian projects in Kandahar, Panjwai, and Spin-Boldak, the team met with frontline aid workers, healthcare professionals, and humanitarian coordination teams. They also spoke with women and men directly affected by decades of conflict and displacement, climate events including recurrent drought, and the severe economic decline in Afghanistan since 15 August.
“The enormity of human suffering and the urgent needs of Afghans was tragically evident from what we saw and the people we spoke with during our mission, but it was also clear that humanitarians remain absolutely committed to deliver principled and unconditional humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan,” said Reena Ghelani, Director of Operations and Advocacy Division at OCHA. “As the humanitarian and economic crises in Afghanistan grow, the resolve of the international community must remain steadfast in support of humanitarians, health-workers, and other frontline responders.”
The group of senior humanitarian professionals visiting Afghanistan represent the Emergency Directors Group, an advisory body that provides recommendations to the international humanitarian community on strategic and operational issues.
“I met a woman who told us she has not cooked in the last 14 days because her kitchen is empty. I have seen first-hand women skipping meals to ensure their children and families are fed first, and this is simply unacceptable,” said Deepmala Mahla, Vice President of Humanitarian Affairs at CARE. “People need access to basic services like food, education, the ability to heat their homes in freezing temperatures, and people need cash to pay for their needs and choices. We as an international community have to come together to serve the people of Afghanistan, because every single day we delay means lives lost."
Despite an extremely challenging operating environment, including ongoing banking and liquidity constraints, humanitarian organizations operating in Afghanistan are scaling up operations and are achieving their objectives in providing humanitarian aid to vulnerable people in need.
In the last quarter of 2021, humanitarian partners assisted almost double the number of people reached earlier in the year. By the end of 2021, humanitarian partners reached 19.6 million people across the country, 2 million people more than the 17.7 million people initially prioritized in the 2021 Humanitarian Response Plan. By December 2021, 180 humanitarian partners – both international and national – had delivered multi-sector assistance across 397 of the 401 districts of Afghanistan.
‘’Now is the time to stand by the people of Afghanistan, we don’t have a minute to spare and right now reaching those in the remotest and furthest parts of the country is a priority” said Margot van der Velden, Director of Emergencies at WFP. “Families have already gone through so much. I met women who want jobs, mothers who have no food and their children are malnourished.’’
The level of humanitarian needs in Afghanistan is unprecedented. Over 24 million people – 59 per cent of the population – now require lifesaving assistance, a staggering 30 per cent higher than in 2021. The second severe drought in four years combined with disruptions to agricultural production have increased the risk of food insecurity and water shortages. Houses and shelters that were severely damaged over decades of conflict urgently need to be repaired, including for displaced people who wish to return home. Livelihoods have been devastated by the economic crisis. People’s limited reserves have been exhausted, forcing many into harmful coping mechanisms to survive, including child marriages and child labour. Women and girls are particularly affected amidst a tightened chokehold on their human rights, participation in society, ability to work, and access to education.
Launched by the UN and humanitarian partners on 11 January, the 2022 Afghanistan Humanitarian Response Plan is the largest humanitarian appeal ever launched for a single country, calling for US$4.44 billion to provide vital humanitarian relief to over 22 million people. If funded, aid organizations can further ramp up the delivery of life-saving food and agriculture support, health services, treatment for malnutrition, emergency shelter, access to water and sanitation, protection, and emergency education.
“Visiting communities in rural Afghanistan highlights just how urgently scaled-up humanitarian assistance, including healthcare, education for girls and boys, and protection, is needed,” said Jeremy Wellard, Head of Humanitarian Coordination at ICVA. “Vital projects are already being delivered by national and international NGOs and their partners, and with further funding and international support much more can and must be done; now and in the future.”

Notes to Editors:
Key facts on the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan:
The Emergency Directors Group is composed of senior humanitarian professionals who advise on strategic and operational issues for the Inter-Agency Standing Committee (IASC), a long-standing and high-level humanitarian coordination forum bringing together aid organizations to formulate policy, set strategic priorities, and mobilize resources in response to humanitarian crises
The mission team was in Afghanistan between 20-24 February 2022 and was composed of the following emergency directors:
Media Resources
Media Contacts
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/173375-team-humanitarian-experts-concludes-mission-afghanistan-and-calls-support-life-saving




Date: 24 February 2022
Title: United Nations mourns the death of health workers and halts polio vaccination campaign in Kunduz and Takhar Provinces of Afghanistan
Content: 24 February 2022
Eight polio vaccination workers in four locations in northern Afghanistan were killed today while carrying out their life-saving work. One member of the vaccination transit team was killed in Taloqan district in Takhar province, four members of house-to-house teams were killed in two separate incidents in Kunduz city, and two vaccinators and a social mobilizer were killed in Emamsaheb district of Kunduz province.
The United Nations extends its deepest condolences to the families, friends, and colleagues of these courageous health workers.
We are appalled by the brutality of these killings, across four separate locations. This is not the first time health workers have come under attack. In 2021, we witnessed the killings of nine innocent polio workers during national polio vaccination campaigns. These are the first attacks on polio workers since nationwide campaigns resumed in November last year.
Polio immunization campaigns are a vital and effective way to reach millions of children to protect them against polio. Depriving children from an assurance of a healthy life is inhumane.
This senseless violence must stop immediately, and those responsible must be investigated and brought to justice. These attacks are a violation of international humanitarian law.
The United Nations strongly condemns all attacks on health workers anywhere. The delivery of health care is impartial and any attack against health workers and those who work to defend them is an attack on the children, whose very lives they are trying to protect. With immediate effect, the national polio vaccination campaign has been suspended in Kunduz and Takhar provinces.
......

Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/173207-united-nations-mourns-death-health-workers-and-halts-polio-vaccination-campaign-kunduz-and




Date: 20 February 2022
Title: UNICEF provides support to all public school teachers for 2 months
Content: 20 February 2022
KABUL, February 20, 2022 – As part of efforts to ensure all school-age girls and boys in Afghanistan go to school and learn, UNICEF and partners are providing emergency cash support to all public education teachers for the months of January and February.
The EU-funded payment – amounting to the equivalent of $100 a month in Afghani, per teacher, male and female, will benefit an estimated 194,000 public school teachers nationwide in recognition of their crucial role in the education of millions of children in Afghanistan. The teachers include all those from public Primary and Secondary schools Technical & Vocational Institutions and Teachers’ Training Centres.
“Following months of uncertainty and hardship for many teachers, we are pleased to extend emergency support to public school teachers in Afghanistan who have spared no effort to keep children learning,” said Dr. Mohamed Ayoya, UNICEF Afghanistan Representative.
“UNICEF requires an additional USD 250 million to be able to continue supporting public school teachers and calls on donors to help us fund this critical initiative. This is an essential measure to enable continued access to education for girls and boys.”
Additional UNICEF efforts to strengthen the broader education system in Afghanistan include support to community-based education, distribution of teaching and learning materials and training of teachers, in particular female teachers.
As is standard practice for UNICEF in other countries, a robust monitoring process is underway. This includes verifying public school teachers’ identity and attendance; creating an agile payment strategy; devising a post-distribution monitoring and grievance mechanism; and engaging an official third-party monitoring agency to independently verify the results.
Around 8.8 million children are enrolled in public schools in Afghanistan. UNICEF continues to advocate, at all levels, for all girls and boys to be able to return to school following the current winter break. Schools are more than structures where children learn; they are a safe space which protects children from the physical dangers around them – including abuse and exploitation - and which can offer them much-needed psychosocial support.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/172914-unicef-provides-support-all-public-school-teachers-2-months




Date: 26 January 2022
Title: UN announces Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF) for Afghanistan to save lives, sustain services and preserve community systems
Content: 26 January 2022
Kabul, Geneva, New York, 26 January 2022 – The UN team in Afghanistan has launched its One-UN Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF) to assist Afghans in 2022. The TEF is the overarching strategic planning document, ensuring the coordination of the UN team’s work to reduce the suffering of the people of Afghanistan by saving lives, sustaining essential services—such as health and education—and preserving essential community systems.
“This UN system wide strategy will help ensure that Afghans can meet their basic human needs; acting on this now is more important than ever to avoid that an even wider proportion of the population requires lifesaving humanitarian assistance. It’s especially important now as millions are suffering with the harsh winter months, and we thank the international community for stepping up their vital support to the Afghan population,” said UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Afghanistan Dr. Ramiz Alakbarov.
The US$8billion required to implement this UN-wide framework include the $4.44 billion previously requested through the Humanitarian Response Plan, launched on 11 January, since all the activities in the TEF complement one another and are interdependent. While the HRP aims to deliver lifesaving assistance to 22.1 million people, through the TEF, the UN requires an additional $3.6 billion in immediate funding to sustain essential social services such as health and education; support community systems through maintenance of basic infrastructure; and maintain critical capacities for service delivery and promotion of livelihoods and social cohesion, with specific emphasis on socio-economic needs of women and girls.
“The United Nations are grateful to all donors for their continued generous support of relief and recovery efforts in Afghanistan, demonstrating the strong solidarity of the international community with the people of Afghanistan,” Dr. Alakbarov said, launching the TEF in Kabul today with UN team representatives and members of the international community.
The European Union recently announced 268 million Euros (US$302 million) to meet the basic human needs of the Afghans. Key contributions also include $308 million from the United States as well as continued generous support from the UK, Germany, Australia, Italy, Canada, Japan, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Netherlands, Republic of Korea and other donors. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has approved $405 million in grants to support food security and sustain delivery of essential health and education services, while the World Bank (WB) and the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) donors approved first transfer of $280 million in support of delivery of essential services.
Staying and delivering at the grassroots level across Afghanistan, the UN and partners will continue to engage in the sustained effort to meet humanitarian and basic human needs of Afghans, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution 2615 adopted in December of 2021.
“With the world coming together in aid of the resilient Afghans, adherence to the principles of equity, transparency and accountability inscribed in TEF will work towards restoring hope and dignity for all Afghans,” the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Afghanistan added.
Contact:
Ahmad Ali Fakhri
Communications and Advocacy Officer | Resident Coordination Office | E-mail: ahmad.fakhri@un.org| Phone: +93790429427 | Kabul, Afghanistan
NOTE TO EDITORS
One UN Transitional Emergency Framework is arranged into three strategic outcomes:
OUTCOME 1 - By the end of 2022, more people in Afghanistan will have benefitted from life-saving humanitarian assistance that enable them to live in safety and dignity.
The scope of work under Outcomes 1 includes:
The total estimated cost for Outcome 1 on a needs basis is US$ 4.44 billion, although not all will be covered by UN programming, as other international and humanitarian international actors will also contribute to the collective outcomes of the 2022 Humanitarian Response Plan.
OUTCOME 2 - By the end of 2022, essential services are sustained that address basic human needs for the people in Afghanistan.
The total estimated cost for Outcome 2 is US$ 3.42 billion.
OUTCOME 3 - By the end of 2022, Afghanistan will preserve social investments and community-level systems essential to meeting basic human needs, protect gains to the SDGs, and develop scenarios for future engagement.
The total estimated cost for Outcome 3 is US$ 208 million.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/169690-un-announces-transitional-engagement-framework-tef-afghanistan-save-lives-sustain-services




Date: 19 January 2022
Title: ILO estimates underscore Afghanistan employment crisis
Content: 19 January 2022
A rapid assessment by the International Labour Organization highlights huge losses in jobs and working hours since the change in administration with women workers especially hard hit.
BANGKOK (ILO News) - Job losses in Afghanistan following the change in administration in August 2021 totalled more than half a million in the third quarter and may reach 900,000 by mid-2022, according to new estimates released by the International Labour Organization (ILO).

The contraction – a 14 per cent loss by mid-2022 – reflects workers pushed out of employment due to the change in administration and ensuing economic crisis as well as restrictions on women’s participation in the workplace.

The total number of hours worked in the Afghan economy is estimated to have dropped by 13 per cent in the third quarter of 2021 compared to a hypothetical scenario with no change in administration.

Women workers have been disproportionately impacted by the crisis. Already extremely low by global standards, women’s employment levels are estimated to have decreased 16 per cent in the third quarter 2021 with a pessimistic scenario projecting falls of up to 28 per cent by mid-2022.
“The situation in Afghanistan is critical and immediate support for stabilization and recovery is required. While the priority is to meet immediate humanitarian needs, lasting and inclusive recovery will depend on people and communities having access to decent employment, livelihoods and basic services,"
Ramin Behzad, Senior Coordinator of the International Labour Organization (ILO) for Afghanistan
Key sectors have been devastated since the takeover including agriculture, the civil service and the construction industry which have all seen large-scale job losses or workers go unpaid.

The ILO continues to promote productive employment and decent work for the Afghan people with a focus on emergency employment, employment intensive investment, enterprise promotion and skills development.

Further details can be found at Employment prospects in Afghanistan: A rapid impact assessment .
Steve Needham
Senior Communications Officer
ILO Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific
Email: needham@ilo.org

Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/168714-ilo-estimates-underscore-afghanistan-employment-crisis




Date: 11 January 2022
Title: UN and Partners Launch Plans to Help 28 Million People in Acute Need in Afghanistan and the Region
Content: 11 January 2022
(Geneva, 11 January 2022): The United Nations and non-governmental organizations will today launch joint response plans aiming to deliver vital humanitarian relief to 22 million people in Afghanistan and support 5.7 million displaced Afghans and local communities in five neighbouring countries.
The humanitarian and refugee response plans combined require over US$5 billion in international funding in 2022.
People in Afghanistan face one of the world’s most rapidly growing humanitarian crises. Half of the population face acute hunger, over 9 million people are displaced, millions of children are out of school, the fundamental rights of women and girls are under attack, farmers and herders are struggling amid the worst drought in decades, and the economy is in free fall. Without support, tens of thousands of children are at risk of dying from malnutrition as basic health services have collapsed.
Conflict has subsided, but violence, fear and deprivation continue to drive Afghans to seek safety and asylum across borders, particularly in Iran and Pakistan. More than 2.2 million registered refugees and a further 4 million Afghans with different statuses are hosted in the neighbouring countries. This has stretched the capacity of the communities hosting them, and they also need support.
The UN Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator,
Martin Griffiths, said: “Events in Afghanistan over the past year have unfolded with dizzying speed and with profound consequences for the Afghan people. The world is perplexed and looking for the right way to react. Meanwhile, a full-blown humanitarian catastrophe looms. “My message is urgent: don’t shut the door on the people of Afghanistan. Humanitarian partners are on the ground, and they are delivering, despite the challenges. Help us scale up and stave off wide-spread hunger, disease, malnutrition and ultimately death by supporting the humanitarian plans we are launching today.”
UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi said: “The international community must do everything it can to prevent a catastrophe in Afghanistan, which would not only compound suffering but would drive further displacement both within the country and throughout the region. At the same time, we must also urgently scale up the response in support of refugees and the communities that have hosted them for generations. The needs of refugees cannot be dismissed, nor can the generosity of host countries be taken for granted. They need support and they need it today.”
The Afghanistan Humanitarian Response Plan requires $4.44 billion, the largest humanitarian appeal ever launched. If funded, aid organizations can ramp up the delivery of life-saving food and agriculture support, health services, treatment for malnutrition, emergency shelter, access to water and sanitation, protection and emergency education.
The Afghanistan Situation Regional Refugee Response Plan requires $623 million in funding for 40 organizations working in protection, health and nutrition, food security, shelter and nonfood items, water and sanitation, livelihoods and resilience, education, and logistics and telecoms.
Mr. Griffiths and Mr. Grandi will host today’s launch at a virtual event beginning at 11:30 a.m.
CET.
The launch will be webcast on UN Web TV
Media resources with links
• Afghanistan - Humanitarian Needs and Planned Response 2022
• Summary of the Afghanistan Situation Regional Refugee Response Plan (RRP)
• News edit for broadcasters is available from 6 a.m. CET, 11 January, on UNifeed
• Photos from OCHA
• Photos from UNHCR
Media contacts
OCHA:
In Geneva, Jens Laerke, laerke@un.org, +41-79-472-9750
In New York/London, Zoe Paxton, zoe.paxton@un.org, +1-917-297-1542
In Kabul, Pierre Peron, peronp@un.org, +93 796000155
UNHCR:
In Geneva, Babar Baloch, baloch@unhcr.org, +41 79 513 9549
In Bangkok, Kasita Rochanakorn, rochanak@unhcr.org, +66 64 932 0803
In Islamabad, Qaiser Khan Afridi, afridiq@unhcr.org, +92 300 501 8696
In Tehran, Farha Bhoyroo, bhoyroo@unhcr.org, +98 912 132 7183
In New York, Kathryn Mahoney, mahoney@unhcr.org, +1 347 443 7646
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/167815-un-and-partners-launch-plans-help-28-million-people-acute-need-afghanistan-and-region




Date: 12 December 2021
Title: Joint Statement: UNHCR & UN Women join efforts to protect and uphold the rights of women and girls in Afghanistan
Content: 12 December 2021
Kabul, 12.12.2021- UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, and UN Women, the UN entity dedicated to gender equality and the empowerment of women signed a letter of intent committing to strengthen their partnership to protect the rights of women and girls in Afghanistan.

The complex humanitarian crisis unfolding in Af­ghanistan is marked by gender-specific restrictions that directly impact the ability of women and girls to realize their rights. Afghan women and girls face unique vulnera­bilities and risks as gender inequality is interwoven with conflict dynamics and humanitarian needs.
Recognizing how gender inequality is shaping the ongoing humanitar­ian crisis in Afghanistan, UNHCR and UN Women committed to further strengthen their partnership to protect the rights of women and girls in Afghanistan.
The overall objective of UNHCR and UN Women in Afghanistan is to strengthen cooperation between the two organizations leveraging their respective leadership role in ensuring the centrality of protection, with a particular focus on addressing the specific needs of women and girls, through jointly advocating for the rights; and responding to the needs, of women and girls among refugees, returnees, internally displaced persons, and vulnerable members of host communities.
Without a gender lens the interna­tional community risks exacerbating pre-existing forms of inequality rather than creating pathways to ensuring no one is left behind. The UNHCR, UN Women partnership also strives to advance the civic, social and economic empowerment of women and girls and strengthen the evidence-base by improving sex and gender disaggregated data collection systems and gender analysis that address discriminatory gender norms.
For more information on this topic, please contact:
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/165996-joint-statement-unhcr-un-women-join-efforts-protect-and-uphold-rights-women-and-girls




Date: 25 November 2021
Title: UN CALLS FOR SOLIDARITY AND COMMITMENT TO END VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN AND GIRLS AMIDST HUMANITARIAN CRISES
Content: 25 November 2021
Kabul, 25 November 2021 - On the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women (EVAW), the United Nations in Afghanistan calls on everyone for concrete actions to end violence against women.

Gender-based violence continues to be a serious threat to women and girls and a major obstacle to achieving lasting sustainable development and peace. Referred to as a ‘shadow pandemic’ violence against women has been worsened by the COVID-19 pandemic and the humanitarian crisis.
Globally, 1 in 3 women have experienced physical or sexual violence, mostly by an intimate partner. Afghanistan has one of the highest rates of violence against women globally, with 9 out of 10 women experiencing at least one form of intimate partner violence in their lifetime.
“We must act together to tackle this shadow pandemic. The violence should be prevented, we must change attitudes that shame survivors and support violence, we must support services for survivors,” said Deborah Lyons, Special Representative of the Secretary-General in Afghanistan.
The global community needs to listen to the voices and experiences of Afghan women and girls and urgently respond to their needs, especially survivors of violence and those who face multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination.
Violence against women and girls in Afghanistan has further increased due to restrictions in women and girls’ enjoyment of their rights and freedoms, particularly women’s right to work and their freedom of movement. While the need for services have increased, access to essential services for survivors of violence has been greatly impacted.
“The message we receive from our partners and women across the country is clear - violence against women that was already at alarming levels, has been exacerbated by both crisis and COVID-19. And yet, lifesaving services for women survivors of violence have closed on account of fear of being targeted,” said Alison Davidian, UN Women Country Representative in Afghanistan a. i.
Women and girls living in fear holds back all past and current efforts for peace and sustainable development that is necessary for Afghanistan. “Violence at home affects everyone – women and girls, men and boys, families and communities, societies and economies, in Afghanistan and around the world. Gender-based violence has devastating impacts on women’s physical and mental health. It limits their potential to prosper and to lead free and equal lives. Now more than ever we need to respond to the needs of women and girls’ survivors of violence and ensure their unimpeded access to life saving services including shelter, health care and counselling. These services are life-saving,” added Alison Davidian.
The UN in Afghanistan continues to respond to the needs of women and girl survivors of violence, to advocate for their rights and eliminate all forms of violence through direct support to service providers and women’s rights organisations, prevention and response programmes, and advocacy campaigns.
Powered by women’s rights grassroots organisations globally, the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence is an international campaign that takes place each year. It commences on 25 November, the International Day for the EVAW, and ends on 10 December, Human Rights Day.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/160136-un-calls-solidarity-and-commitment-end-violence-against-women-and-girls-amidst-humanitarian




Date: 07 November 2021
Title: UNICEF issues historic humanitarian appeal to save the lives of millions of children in Afghanistan
Content: 07 November 2021
KABUL/KATHMANDU/NEW YORK, 7 November 2021 – UNICEF launched its largest ever single-country appeal today to urgently respond to the humanitarian needs of over 24 million people in Afghanistan, half of whom are children. UNICEF’s appeal for US$2 billion will help to avert the imminent collapse of health, nutrition, WASH, education and other vital social services for children and families.
As the humanitarian situation continues to deteriorate in Afghanistan, there are alarming disruptions in health and nutrition services, a disastrous food crisis, drought, outbreaks of measles, acute watery diarrhea, polio and other preventable diseases, as well as the crippling onset of winter.
”The current humanitarian situation in Afghanistan is dire, especially for children. Winter has already set in and, without additional funding, UNICEF and partners will be unable to reach the children and families that need us the most,” said Alice Akunga, UNICEF Afghanistan Representative a.i. “As families struggle to put nutritious food on the table and health systems are further strained, millions of Afghan children are at risk of starvation and death. Others struggle to access water and sanitation, are cut off from their schools and at heightened risk of violence.  As the desperation of families and children increases, UNICEF is doing everything possible to save and protect children.”
UNICEF estimates that 1 in 2 children under five will be acutely malnourished in 2022 due to the food crisis and poor access to water, sanitation and hygiene services. Outbreaks of life-threatening diseases continue, with over 60,000 cases of measles reported in 2021. An estimated 8 of 10 Afghans drink bacteriologically contaminated water. In addition, 10 million children are at risk of dropping out of school if teacher salaries are not paid and crippling poverty levels continue. Almost 4.5 million children are in need of mental health and psychosocial support.  With harsh winter conditions, where temperatures can reach as low as -12 degrees Celsius, families are struggling to heat their homes and keep their children warm.
Guided by humanitarian principles, UNICEF will prioritize life-saving interventions to treat children and provide other vital services. UNICEF’s response will help ensure continuity of essential services by preventing the collapse of systems that are critical for children, while also safeguarding hard-won gains, including protecting the rights of women and girls.
UNICEF plans to use the funds to scale up services to:
“UNICEF is strongly urging donors to support Afghanistan’s children through its humanitarian appeal,” added Akunga. “We need to call to mind our common humanity and do everything it takes to keep children alive, well-fed, safe and learning. It won’t be easy but with the lives and wellbeing of so many children at stake, we must rise to the challenge. We appeal to the international community to stand with us, shoulder to shoulder, so that the children of Afghanistan can have the life and future that is their right.”
Thanks to the immediate support of donors to UNICEF’s 2021 appeal, UNICEF was able to provide life-saving services, including ready-to-use therapeutic food to nourish starving children; water trucking to the most in need communities; education supplies to children, including girls; and mobile health clinics to bring urgent medical care directly to vulnerable families and children in hard-to-reach areas are providing respite to those most in need.
###
Samantha Mort
Chief of Communication
UNICEF
Tel: +93 799 98 7110
Tel: +93 799 95 7110
Email: smort@unicef.org

Marixie Mercado
UNICEF Afghanistan
Tel: +41 79 559 7172
Email: mmercado@unicef.org
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/163831-unicef-issues-historic-humanitarian-appeal-save-lives-millions-children-afghanistan




Date: 22 October 2021
Title: Afghanistan: ERC Griffiths releases $45M from UN CERF for life-saving support
Content: 22 October 2021
Emergency Relief Coordinator Martin Griffiths today released US$45 million in life-saving support from the UN Central Emergency Response Fund to help prevent Afghanistan’s health-care system from collapse.
Medicines, medical supplies and fuel are running out in Afghanistan. Cold chains are compromised. Essential health-care workers are not being paid.
“Allowing Afghanistan’s health-care delivery system to fall apart would be disastrous. People across the country would be denied access to primary health care such as emergency caesarean sections and trauma care,” Mr. Griffiths said.
The funding will go to the World Health Organization (WHO) and UNICEF and – working through national and international non-governmental organizations – will keep health-care facilities, including hospitals treating COVID-19 patients, operating until the end of the year.
The UN is determined to stand by the people of Afghanistan in their hour of need.
Meanwhile, humanitarian operations continue across Afghanistan.
The UN Humanitarian Air Service is operating flights, almost daily, to different provinces, including Kabul. UN cross-country road movements have been reestablished for the first time in several years.
Ahead of the September-October winter wheat planting season, the Food and Agriculture Organization is procuring more than 8,500 metric tons of certified wheat seeds to help more than 170,000 vulnerable families.
The International Organization for Migration is supporting the construction of causeways and other disaster risk mitigation infrastructure in Nangarhar Province.
The UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) is improving access to basic services for communities affected by conflict and displacement, including road construction in Khost Province to boost access to services, markets and employment.
The UN Population Fund (UNFPA) is supporting a hospital in Hirat Province with emergency reproductive health supplies covering the treatment of about 1,500 medical and surgical cases.
On 13 September, donors pledged more than US$1.2 billion for humanitarian and development aid to Afghanistan. To date, more than $121 million (20 per cent of the $606 million required through the end of the year) has been received.
The UN urges donors to disburse pledges so we can keep getting life-saving assistance, including food, medicines, health care and protection to people in need.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/156742-afghanistan-erc-griffiths-releases-45m-un-cerf-life-saving-support




Date: 11 October 2021
Title: Secretary-General’s Press Stakeout on Afghanistan
Content: 11 October 2021
Thank you very much for your presence.
Exactly four weeks after the humanitarian conference in Geneva, the humanitarian crisis is growing in Afghanistan — and so is the United Nations response to deliver for the Afghan people.
The crisis is affecting at least 18 million people — half of the country’s population.
Despite financial shortfalls, logistical challenges, and an increasingly complex geo-political situation, we are undertaking a massive humanitarian operation in the country.
I am particularly proud of the work of our colleagues, the vast majority of whom are Afghan nationals.
In September alone,
more than 3.8 million people received food assistance;
21,000 children and 10,000 women received treatment for acute malnutrition;
32,000 people received non-food items including blankets and warm clothes for winter;
10,000 children were reached with community-based education activities;
450,000 people were reached with primary and secondary healthcare;
160,000 farmers and herders were provided with livelihoods support;
12,000 people received emergency psycho-social and mental health support;
186,000 drought-affected people received water;
and 150,000 people received hygiene promotion and hygiene kits.
Last week alone,
• WFP conducted simultaneous food distributions in Kabul, Herat, Mazar, and Kandahar in a single day;
• WHO delivered medical supplies to treat 10,000 people with acute watery diarrhea — and opened two new COVID-19 labs;
• More than 170 UNFPA-supported “Family Health Houses” in remote areas were provided medical supplies for services through the end the year. These facilities, on average, enable around 11,000 safe birth deliveries each year;
• UNFPA also delivered Emergency Reproductive Health kits for 3,100 women to Kandahar Regional Hospital and Kunduz Regional Hospital;
• UNHCR, UNICEF and NGO partners reached well over 36,000 displaced and vulnerable Afghans during the week with core relief items and cash assistance;
• FAO and NGO partners delivered more than 870 metric tonnes of concentrated animal feed.
This is one week alone of work.
UN agencies and humanitarian NGOs in Afghanistan are in a race against time to deliver life-saving aid to crisis-affected people and pre-position supplies ahead of winter.
They won’t let up.
They have been acting with the cooperation of the Taliban, who have progressively granted access to the areas requested and provided security when needed. The number of incidents during humanitarian operations has been in constant decline.
Humanitarian assistance saves lives. But it will not solve the problem if the economy of Afghanistan collapses.
We also need to make sure we do everything we can to prevent the economic collapse of the country.
Already before the Taliban takeover in August, Afghanistan’s fragile economy -- which has been kept afloat by foreign aid over the past twenty years -- suffered from the impact of drought and COVID.
Right now, with assets frozen and development aid paused, the economy is breaking down. Banks are closing and essential services, such as healthcare, have been suspended in many places.
We need to find ways to make the economy breathe again.
This can be done without violating international laws or compromising principles.
We must seek ways to create the conditions that would allow Afghan professionals and civil servants to continue working to serve the Afghan population.
I urge the world to take action and inject liquidity into the Afghan economy to avoid collapse.
Clearly, the main responsibility for finding a way back from the abyss lies with those that are now in charge in Afghanistan.
Since their takeover, the Taliban have – at various times – promised Afghan citizens — including women, children, minority communities, former government employees —that they would protect their rights.
Central to those promises was the possibility of women to move, to work, and to enjoy their basic rights — and for girls to have effective access to all levels of education, the same as boys.
Gender equality has always been an absolute priority for me.
In my visits to Afghanistan, I was deeply moved by the courage, the resilience and determination of Afghan women and girls.
I am particularly alarmed to see promises made to Afghan women and girls by the Taliban being broken.
Broken promises lead to broken dreams for the women and girls of Afghanistan.
Since 2001, three million girls have enrolled in school and average schooling has increased from six years to 10.
Women and girls need to be the centre of attention.
Their ability to learn, work, own assets, and to live with rights and dignity will define progress.
Eighty percent of Afghanistan’s economy is informal, with obviously a preponderant role of women.
Without them, there is no way the Afghan economy and society will recover.
I strongly appeal to the Taliban to keep their promises to women and girls and fulfill their obligations under international human rights and humanitarian law.
For our part, the UN is permanently engaging with the Taliban on the safety and security of our staff, humanitarian assistance and unhindered access for all, including female staff, and human rights with particular focus on women and girls’ rights.
This is a make or break moment.
If we do not act and help Afghans weather this storm, and do it soon, not only they but all the world will pay a heavy price.
Without food, without jobs, without their rights protected, we will see more and more Afghans fleeing their homes in search of a better life.
The flow of illicit drugs, criminal and terrorist networks will also likely increase.
This will not only badly affect Afghanistan itself, but also the region and the rest of the world.
We all must do our part.
Thank you.
Spokesman: Thank you. Edie Lederer, Associated Press.
**Questions and Answers
Question: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary General. You said that you were urging the world to take action and inject liquidity into the Afghan economy to avoid collapse. Are you calling on those western country that have frozen Afghan assets to release those assets to help bolster the Afghan economy?
And in the next sentence, you said, clearly, the main responsibility for finding a way back from the abyss lies with those who are now in charge in Afghanistan. Are you also saying in your plea to the Taliban to keep their promise for equal rights, especially for women and girls, that that is a condition that they must fulfil in order to receive western aid, aid from many other countries?
Secretary-General: Well, there's one thing for me that is clear. The Afghan people cannot suffer a collective punishment because the Taliban misbehave.
People should not die of hunger in any circumstance. And, so, one of my key messages is that the UN is in Afghanistan to deliver humanitarian aid and to deliver humanitarian aid [to] the people in need. And what we ask is unhindered access everywhere, and what we ask is for women and men to be able to deliver humanitarian aid in the same circumstances. This is one question. And humanitarian aid is based on the humanitarian principles: independence, neutrality, and impartiality.
Second thing, there are different questions related to the support, to Afghanistan. The questions of recognition or nonrecognition of a government, the question related to sanctions, the questions related to frozen assets. There are many questions of these that, obviously, the international community will be discussing with the Taliban and that will require that the Taliban abide by a number of important aspects, be it related to human rights and the rights of women and girls in particular, be it in relation to the question of terrorism, be it... so, there are a number... the inclusivity of the government. It's a second aspect.
The third is the following: Independently of those measures, there are forums to inject cash inside the economy through different entities, through NGOs, through UN agencies to allow for the people to receive assistance. And this is what we have been asking.
We need to find ways - respecting international law, as I mentioned, respecting principles, as I said, we need to find ways to inject liquidity in the economy for the economy not to collapse and the people not to suffer tremendously.
So, there are different aspects that need to be treated differently. And obviously, for me, as I said, personally, because this is a question that is very important for me personally, the question of women and girls is particularly relevant.
Spokesman: James Bays?
Question: James Bays, Al Jazeera. As you know, the G20 leaders are about to meet on this issue. Have the G20 so far been too hesitant? And how urgent is it that they take action now?
Secretary-General: I think that there has been a slow reaction of the international community in relation to what is a very complex problem, but I believe that there is a consensus in the international community about humanitarian aid, and I believe the UN is leading this process and, as you've seen, is doing a huge effort now.
There is another question that is more complex, which is related to avoid the collapse of the economy. In relation to that, things have been slow.
And then there is a more complex problem, which is the problem of a discussion about the future of Afghanistan and how Afghanistan relates with the international community. But that will be a lengthy, complex process.
But in relation to the injection of liquidity in the Afghan economy, I think the international community is moving too slow.
Spokesman: Pam Falk, CBS.
Question: Thank you. Secretary General, a follow up on the liquidity question. That would imply, to some extent, the IMF and the World Bank. How do you inject this liquidity if the world doesn't recognize the Taliban?
And since you said some of this is personal to you, do you suggest that countries now recognise the Taliban diplomatically since, as you said, they are in charge? Thank you.
Secretary-General: No, that's... those two things are completely different. The World Bank can create a trust fund and that trust fund can pay directly to people in need. UNDP has a trust fund that can then pay directly to people in need or organizations in need.
So, we need to inject cash in the economy. I'm not saying that I'm asking the international community to give money to the Taliban or to the present authorities. No. We need to inject cash in the economy. We need to make the economy breathe. We need to allow people to survive. That is our concern.
The questions of recognition and the questions of dealing with government are totally different and can be dealt with, of course, through the principles of international law and other principles.
What I'm talking now is to find instruments to inject liquidity in the economy, to benefit the people.
Spokesman: Betul?
Secretary-General: And there are many non governmental organizations operating, as you know, in Afghanistan.
Question: Thank you, Mr. Secretary General. You have expressed concern about Taliban not keeping their promises to protect the rights of women and girls. We did not see that happening in the past. We're not seeing it happening now. Does the UN have a plan to make sure that Taliban will keep up with their promises?
Secretary-General: I can tell you one thing. This is a matter in which we are engaging the Taliban every single day. Results are slow, but I'll give you an example. We want our female staff to have full and unimpeded work in relation to humanitarian aid.
Now, we have been engaging the Taliban province by province, day by day. And the result of that effort, in the months of September, is the following: We managed to reach full agreement with the Taliban on this freedom in six provinces, against three in the beginning of the month; we have partial agreement in 20, instead of 16 in the beginning of the month; we have no agreement in four, against six in the beginning of the month; and there are four in which we have not yet had the possibility to engage, against eight in the beginning of the month.
This is daily work, area by area, fighting for the rights of each woman, sometimes one by one. But this is our engagement to our staff and to the women and girls in Afghanistan in general.
Engagement is not proclamation. Engagement is daily work.
We might have difficulties. We might fail here and there, but one thing I can promise, we will not give up.
Spokesman: Majeed Gly, Rudaw Media Network.
Question: Thank you so much. Thanks, Secretary General. This is Majeed Gly, Rudaw Media Network.
I want to ask... take this opportunity to ask you about another issue, which is a big day in Iraq today, a major milestone after the war against ISIS, which is a relatively successful election with the help of hundreds of United Nations observers. The election, according to non partial observers, went well. So far, it's going great.
What's your message to the Iraqi leaders and the regional players in term of respecting the result of the elections and also not blocking the will of the Iraqis? Thank you.
Secretary-General: Well, first of all, I want to congratulate the Iraqi people for the way the elections took place. And, indeed, I'm proud of the work that the UN staff has done to support the process.
My appeal is for the people of Iraq now to be calm, to wait for the results as they are proclaimed by the relevant entities, and to be prepared for a process of political dialogue, as it is normal, after an election takes place, for the formation of the government with different political parties negotiating among themselves and in an environment that we want to be an environment of peace, of security, and of tranquility. That is my appeal to the Iraqi people.
But I think that the elections in themselves are a reason to congratulate the Iraqi people already.
Spokesman: Thank you very much. Thank you. [Cross talk]
Question: [Off mic] Any message for the regional powers? The regional powers, a message to them, to the neighbouring countries, the regional powers in term of not intervening in the political process...? [Cross talk]
Secretary-General: I think all countries should support Iraq according to the interests of the Iraqi people and with full ownership from the Iraqi authorities, instead of having agendas that have nothing to do with the interest of the Iraqi people.
Spokesman: Thank you very much. Thank you.

Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/151088-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-press-stakeout-afghanistan




Date: 06 October 2021
Title: UN and humanitarian partners scale up life-saving response to crisis in Afghanistan and call on all donors to urgently turn pledges into reality
Content: 06 October 2021
(Kabul, 6 October 2021) UN agencies and humanitarian NGOs in Afghanistan are in a race against time to deliver lifesaving aid to crisis-affected people and preposition supplies ahead of winter.
Millions of people in Afghanistan have been deeply affected by decades of conflict and displacement, chronic poverty, the COVID-19 pandemic, a severe drought, a failing health system, and an economy on the brink of collapse. The rights of women and girls, and of minorities in Afghanistan, are seriously under threat.
The UN and humanitarian partners are sparing no effort to overcome financial shortfalls, logistical challenges, and an increasingly complex geo-political situation to support the millions of women, men, and children in Afghanistan who depend on humanitarian assistance and protection.
In September, more than 3.8 million people received food assistance, 21,000 children aged 6-59 months and 10,000 women received treatment for acute malnutrition, 32,000 people received non-food items including blankets and warm clothes for winter, 10,000 children were reached with community-based education activities, 450,000 people were reached with primary and secondary healthcare, 160,000 farmers and herders were provided with livelihoods support, 12,000 people received emergency psycho-social and mental health support, 186,000 drought-affected people received water, and 150,000 people received hygiene promotion and hygiene kits.
At the beginning of 2021, the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan was already one of the worst in the world, with nearly half of the population – some 18.4 million people – in need of humanitarian assistance. Conflict and insecurity have displaced nearly 700,000 people within the county this year, with more than 3.5 million Afghans uprooted by conflict in total. Existing needs and vulnerabilities have deepened following recent events, and economic shocks are tipping more people in Afghanistan into crisis.
On 13 September 2021, the humanitarian community launched the Afghanistan Flash Appeal, calling for US$606 million to provide priority life-saving aid to 10.8 million of the most vulnerable people in need by the end of the year. Despite the outpouring of support and global attention to the dire situation in Afghanistan, the flash appeal remains only 35% funded.
Pledges and commitments by donors must urgently be turned into reality to ensure humanitarian organizations can respond before it is too late. UN member states are requested to allow the swift and unfettered movement of humanitarian supplies and personnel into and out of Afghanistan, and to provide humanitarian financial exemptions to allow funds to reach aid organizations in the country.
The free and safe movement of humanitarian goods and personnel in the country must be guaranteed, and necessary steps must be taken to ensure an inclusive response where all aid workers, including women, are free to perform their life-saving work. The humanitarian community in Afghanistan reiterates its commitment to deliver unconditional aid to millions of people on the basis of needs, in line with the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality, and independence.
Without urgent action, the humanitarian situation will continue to deteriorate into 2022. The de facto authorities, UN member states, donors, humanitarian organizations, and other stakeholders must mobilize immediately to prevent a further humanitarian catastrophe in Afghanistan.
Dr. Ramiz Alakbarov, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Afghanistan, said: “The people of Afghanistan must not pay the price of collective failures. They deserve a normal life in peace and dignity. We will spare no effort to respond to the needs of all women, men, and children in Afghanistan. We will continue to advocate for the rights of women and girls, and of minority groups, as well as the rights of all to employment, food, healthcare, education, and safety.”
Mary-Ellen McGroarty, Representative and Country Director of WFP Afghanistan, said: “Afghanistan is on borrowed time. In my long career with WFP I’ve never before seen a crisis unfold at this pace and scale. We are witnessing a new depth of destitution as the drought and the economic crisis drives up food and fuel prices. Getting food to families across Afghanistan before the cold and harsh winter is what we must do now!”
Lisa K. Piper, Director of the Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief & Development, said: “The NGO community is committed to staying and delivering an equitable and safe humanitarian response. We know that at least half of the people in need of humanitarian assistance are women and girls; and so to have a response that is based on actual identified needs, female aid workers must be able to work, move freely, and access communities.”
Marin Din Kajdomcaj, UNHCR Deputy Representative in Afghanistan, said: “If the commitments made by the international community are not delivered on now, millions of displaced Afghans will struggle to survive over the coming winter. A lack of immediate action will inevitably lead to a deeper humanitarian crisis and further displacement that will have not only regional, but global implications.”
Astrid Sletten, Country Director of the Norwegian Refugee Council in Afghanistan, said: “As the economy spirals and the banking system is at risk of collapse, the impact on Afghans across the country who are already struggling to survive will be catastrophic. NRC stands ready to scale-up our response to meet growing needs but we need unhindered humanitarian access, including our female staff, to be able to do so. Member states must also urgently find ways to stabilize the economy and address the liquidity crisis so that we can continue supporting the Afghan people.”
Stuart Simpson, IOM Afghanistan Chief of Mission said: “Now more than ever, we need commitments from the international community to materialize so we can support those displaced, the local communities, while also giving Afghans a chance at living with dignity through decent work.”
Dr Luo Dapeng, WHO Country Representative in Afghanistan, said: “Access to health for Afghans is falling further out of reach just as winter approaches. Outbreaks of measles and acute watery diarrhoea are expanding. COVID-19 transmission continues across the country. The immune systems of children are increasingly compromised by malnutrition. This deeply troubling combination of factors will lead to an increase in preventable illness and death unless urgent action is taken.”
Abdul Khaliq Zazai, Executive Director of the Accessibility Organization for Afghan Disabled (AOAD), said: “The inclusion of persons with disabilities in humanitarian and development assistance is a critically important cross-cutting agenda recognized by the United Nations. Afghanistan has one of the largest populations per capita of persons with disabilities in the world, most of them conflictaffected people who need physical rehabilitations, prostheses, orthoses, assistive devices, or food support.”
Hervé Ludovic De Lys, UNICEF Representative in Afghanistan, said: “As more families struggle to put food on the table, the nutritional health of mothers and their children is getting worse by the day. Children are getting sicker and their families are less and less able to get them the treatment they need. Rapidly spreading outbreaks of measles and acute watery diarrhoea will only exacerbate the situation.”
Abdallah Al Dardari, UNDP Resident Representative for Afghanistan, said: “In addition to immediate assistance to save lives, the international community must act to save livelihoods and local economy, enhance resilience of communities, and prevent a total economic and social breakdown in the country.”
Richard Trenchard, FAO Representative in Afghanistan, said: “FAO is deeply concerned about the rural crisis affecting 70 per cent of the Afghan population. 80 per cent of Afghans depend directly or indirectly on rural livelihoods. The importance of agriculture in keeping the people of Afghanistan fed, alive, and self-reliant cannot be overstated.”
Notes to editors
• The Afghanistan Flash Appeal can be downloaded here: https://bit.ly/3uKBOpw
• B-roll video is available by request and hand-out photos are available here: https://bit.ly/3oxWFes
• The cumulative figures for the humanitarian response in September are available here: https://bit.ly/3mrB8l8
• A snapshot of key humanitarian facts and figures is available here: https://bit.ly/3DgIyON
• For further details, please contact: Pierre Peron, OCHA Afghanistan, +93 796000155, peronp@un.org
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/150267-un-and-humanitarian-partners-scale-life-saving-response-crisis-afghanistan-and-call-all




Date: 29 September 2021
Title: Joint Statement by the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator and the Heads of ICRC, OCHA, UNICEF, and WHO in Afghanistan
Content: 29 September 2021
On 27 September 2021, we met in Kabul for an urgent meeting on the alarming situation facing people requiring healthcare in Afghanistan and the dire human consequences if the healthcare system is allowed to collapse.
In the meeting, we agreed to collaborate closely together and have committed our organizations to spare no effort in our joint objective to support the existing health system in Afghanistan to ensure all people have access to the healthcare they need and depend on.
Our organizations are now taking the necessary steps to scale up this collaboration and stand ready to work with donors and UN member states to establish mechanisms that would allow funding to directly support health facilities and life-saving health responses across Afghanistan.
This statement is endorsed by:
Dr. Ramiz Alakbarov, United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Afghanistan
Eloi Fillion, Head of Delegation in Afghanistan, International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)
Dr Luo Dapeng, Country Representative in Afghanistan, World Health Organization (WHO)
Hervé Ludovic De Lys, Country Representative in Afghanistan, United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
Isabelle Moussard Carlsen, Head of Office in Afghanistan, UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)
Abdallah Al Dardari, Resident Representative in Afghanistan, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
Akbar Ali Pesnani, Special Envoy of His Highness the Aga Khan for Afghanistan, Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN)
Daniel Madhani, Country Director, Swedish Committee for Afghanistan (SCA)
Astrid Sletten, Country Director in Afghanistan, Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC)
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/146675-joint-statement-un-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-and-heads-icrc-ocha-unicef-and-who




Date: 13 September 2021
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres remarks to High-Level Ministerial Meeting on the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan
Content: 13 September 2021
I urge you to support our Flash Appeal for $606 million, to get urgent assistance to 11 million people in the next four months.
Excellencies,
Ladies and gentlemen,
The people of Afghanistan need a lifeline.
After decades of war, suffering and insecurity, they face perhaps their most perilous hour.
Now is the time for the international community to stand with them.
Let us be clear: This conference is not simply about what we will give to the people of Afghanistan. It is about what we owe.
Excellencies,
Even before the dramatic events of the last weeks, Afghans were experiencing one of the worst humanitarian crises in the world. Today, one in three Afghans do not know where their next meal will come from. The poverty rate is spiralling – and basic public services are close to collapse.
Hundreds of thousands of people have been forced to flee their homes.
At the same time, Afghanistan faces a severe drought – the second to hit the country in four years.
Many people could run out of food by the end of this month, just as winter approaches.
And, of course, COVID-19 continues to stalk the country.
Excellencies,
The United Nations family - and the humanitarian system at large - are delivering for the people of Afghanistan — with food, life-saving interventions and essential health care – including maternal health care. We have established robust mechanisms to coordinate the response across development and humanitarian efforts – anchored in human rights.
I asked the Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, Martin Griffiths, to travel to Kabul last week to meet the leadership of the Taliban.
He reinforced our commitment to deliver impartial and independent humanitarian assistance and protection to millions of people in need.
He emphasized the critical role of women in the delivery of aid, and urged all parties to ensure their rights, safety and well-being.
He called for all civilians – especially women, girls and minorities – to be protected at all times.
The de facto authorities pledged — in person and in a follow-up letter to Under-Secretary-General Griffiths — that they will cooperate to ensure assistance is delivered to the people of Afghanistan.
Our staff and all aid workers must be allowed to do their vital work in safety — without harassment, intimidation or fear. Excellencies,
To continue our life-saving efforts in Afghanistan we need four things right away.
First, funding.
We need more. We need it quickly. And we need it to be flexible enough to adapt to the fast-changing conditions on the ground.
I urge you to support our Flash Appeal for $606 million, to get urgent assistance to 11 million people in the next four months.
Today we are announcing a $20 million allocation from the UN’s Central Emergency Response Fund to support the humanitarian operation in Afghanistan.
Second, we need your help to boost humanitarian access, including the airbridge with Kabul and other hubs in Afghanistan.
The United Nations Humanitarian Air Service — UNHAS — established an airbridge from Islamabad into Kandahar, Mazar and Herat, with operations running since the end of August.
Yesterday, UNHAS flights were resumed from Islamabad to Kabul — and are now fully operational across the country.
This work must continue. Much more is needed.
We need to be able to move aid workers and humanitarian supplies in and out of the country.
We need unimpeded access to get to hotspots quickly, safely monitor response and move relief items within the country.
Third, we need to safeguard the rights of women and girls in Afghanistan — including through access to education and other essential services.
One of the bright spots of Afghanistan today is the new generation of women leaders and entrepreneurs — educated and flourishing over the last two decades.
Afghan women and girls want to ensure that gains are not lost, doors are not closed and hope is not extinguished.
This is central to the future of the country and every Afghan.
Finally, we need to ensure that our humanitarian response saves lives but also saves livelihoods.
The people of Afghanistan are facing the collapse of an entire country — all at once.
Afghanistan faces a development emergency and we must protect the progress of the two last decades.
In doing so, we must ensure that local economies remain functional; that people can stay in their communities and in their homes; that they have access to basic services, basic income and social protection.
Stopgap solutions are critical — but the Afghan people will need our support over the long haul.
So, too, will Member States generously opening their doors to Afghans forced to flee their country.
And all Member States must respect international refugee protection responsibilites.
Our support must match the scale of the needs.
Excellencies,
Ladies and gentlemen,
I have visited Kabul many times over many years of conflict.
These missions were full of horror, misery and grief.
But they were also marked by the hope, faith and determination of the Afghan people I met.
They want extreme poverty to be eradicated. They want decent jobs to be available. They want their lives and basic freedoms to be protected. They want their country free of insecurity and terror.
In short, they want what every member of the human family wants and deserves.
We need to invest in that hope and promise.
Allow me to close with a special word of admiration and gratitude to our United Nations staff and the entire aid community in Afghanistan — the vast majority of whom are Afghan nationals.
They are doing extraordinary work throughout the country and have my full solidarity.
Let us commit to support them as they support the Afghan people— and to ensure they can do that work safely.
Time is short and events move quickly in Afghanistan.
Let us extend that lifeline to the people of Afghanistan — and do everything we can — and everything we owe — to help them hold on to hope.
Thank you.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/144102-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres-remarks-high-level-ministerial-meeting




Date: 17 August 2021
Title: United Nations staying to support aid response in Afghanistan
Content: 17 August 2021
Statement by Dr. Ramiz Alakbarov, United Nations DSRSG, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator on UN staying to support aid response in Afghanistan
The United Nations in Afghanistan reiterate their commitment to stay and deliver aid to millions of people in need in the country. While some UN personnel that are not location dependent has temporarily been relocated, the majority of humanitarian personnel are staying to support the humanitarian response in line with the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence.

The humanitarian community – both the UN and non-governmental organizations – remain committed to helping people in Afghanistan. While the situation is highly complex, humanitarian agencies are committed to supporting vulnerable people in Afghanistan who need us more than ever.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/140377-united-nations-staying-support-aid-response-afghanistan




Date: 30 July 2021
Title: UNITED NATIONS COMPOUND IN HERAT ATTACKED
Content: 30 July 2021
KABUL, 30 July 2021 - The United Nations in Afghanistan condemns in the strongest terms the attack today on its main compound in Herat that resulted in the loss of life of an Afghan police guard and injuries to other officers.

The attack targeting entrances of the clearly marked United Nations facility was carried out by Anti-Government Elements.
The area around Herat where the compound is located witnessed fighting today between the Taliban and government forces. The UN is urgently seeking to establish a full picture about the attack and for this purpose is in contact with the relevant parties.
“This attack against the United Nations is deplorable and we condemn it in the strongest terms,” said Deborah Lyons, the United Nations Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Afghanistan. “Our first thoughts are with the family of the officer slain and we wish a speedy recovery to those injured.”
No UN personnel was hurt in the incident, in which entrances were attacked by rocket-propelled grenades and gunfire.
“The perpetrators of this attack must be identified and brought to account,” said Lyons, who is also head of UNAMA.
Attacks against civilian UN personnel and compounds are prohibited under international law, and may amount to war crimes.
The United Nations in Afghanistan is a civilian entity focused on supporting peace efforts, promoting the rights of all Afghans and providing humanitarian and development assistance.
The UN expresses its gratitude to the Afghan Directorate of Protection Services officers who defended the compound from the attackers.

Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/138106-united-nations-compound-herat-attacked




Date: 14 July 2021
Title: MOUNTING CONCERN ABOUT REPORTS OF HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES IN COMMUNITIES MOST AFFECTED BY MILITARY OFFENSIVE
Content: 14 July 2021
The UN reiterates that parties are obliged to respect the human rights and dignity of all Afghans, especially those of women and girls who have in the past been subjected to particularly acute forms of discrimination.
ABUL, 14 July 2021 – The United Nations in Afghanistan is increasingly concerned with the number of reported serious human rights abuses and violations alleged in communities most affected by the ongoing military offensive across the country.

The reports of killing, ill-treatment, persecution and discrimination are widespread and disturbing, creating fear and insecurity.  Those who carry out any such acts must be held accountable.

The UN reiterates that parties are obliged to respect the human rights and dignity of all Afghans, especially those of women and girls who have in the past been subjected to particularly acute forms of discrimination.   

The best way to end harm to civilians is for peace talks to be re-invigorated in order for a negotiated settlement to be reached.
Those genuinely interested in the future of Afghanistan and its people, should prioritize negotiating a peace and committing to measures, including safeguarding the country’s infrastructure, that will show a real concern for the welfare of all Afghans.

All parties are urged to announce an Eid ceasefire that can give Afghans a respite from the conflict and that may contribute to sustained and meaningful peace negotiations.

Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/135856-mounting-concern-about-reports-human-rights-abuses-communities-most-affected-military




Date: 15 June 2021
Title: Statement on attacks on polio workers - Dr. Ramiz Alakbarov, United Nations DSRSG, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator
Content: 15 June 2021
The United Nations strongly condemns all attacks on health workers anywhere. The delivery of health care is impartial and any attack against health workers and those who work to defend them is an attack on the children, whose very lives they are trying to protect.
Health workers in five locations in Nangarhar province were attacked today during the course of their life-saving work. Five were killed, and four were injured in five separate incidents.
I extend my deepest condolences to the families, friends and colleagues of those who lost their lives and wish those who are injured a full and swift recovery.
I am appalled by the brutality of these killings. This is not the first time health workers have come under attack. We witnessed the killings of three innocent polio workers during the national polio vaccination campaign in March this year as well. Such senseless violence must stop immediately, and those responsible must be investigated and brought to justice.
The national polio vaccination campaign, which began yesterday, has been suspended in the East region. Polio immunization campaigns are a vital and effective way to reach millions of children to protect them against polio. Depriving children from an assurance of a healthy life is inhumane.
The United Nations strongly condemns all attacks on health workers anywhere. The delivery of health care is impartial and any attack against health workers and those who work to defend them is an attack on the children, whose very lives they are trying to protect.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/131465-statement-attacks-polio-workers-dr-ramiz-alakbarov-united-nations-dsrsg-resident-and




Date: 04 April 2021
Title: International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action
Content: 04 April 2021
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL
MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY FOR MINE AWARENESS AND ASSISTANCE IN MINE ACTION
New York, 4 April 2021
Today, on the International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action, we reflect on how far we have come in raising awareness of the dangers posed by landmines, and recommit to our target of a mine-free world.
More than 160 states are party to the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention. I call on those that have not yet acceded to the Convention to do so without delay.
Landmines, explosive remnants of war and improvised explosive devices disproportionally affect the vulnerable, the forcibly displaced, the dispossessed, and children. They impede peaceful solutions, hinder humanitarian responses and are an obstacle to
sustainable, inclusive development.
Unfortunately, we sometimes make progress on clearing mines only to see it rolled back. But we cannot be content simply with advocacy and campaigning to create awareness of the dangers posed by landmines.
The United Nations Charter calls us to complete the work: to survey, clear and destroy these deadly devices.
Let’s make this the last decade when we need to devote ourselves to this task.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/131179-international-day-mine-awareness-and-assistance-mine-action




Date: 08 March 2021
Title: COVID-19 vaccines shipped by COVAX arrive in Afghanistan
Content: 08 March 2021
Kabul, Afghanistan, 8 March 2021: Today, Afghanistan received COVID-19 vaccine doses shipped via the COVAX facility, a partnership between CEPI, Gavi, UNICEF, and WHO. This is a historic step towards the goal to ensure equitable distribution of COVID-19 vaccines globally, in what will be the largest vaccine procurement and supply operation in history. The delivery is part of the first wave of arrivals that will continue in the coming weeks and months.
On 08 March 2021, COVAX shipped 468,000 doses of the COVISHIELD vaccine, from the Astra Zeneca Serum Institute of India, in Mumbai. It arrived in the afternoon of Monday March 8, on an Emirates flight, at the Hamid Karzai International Airport. The arrival in Kabul marks a milestone moment. Afghanistan is the first country in central Asia to receive the vaccine via the COVAX – the facility that is set to deliver at least 2 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines by the end of 2021.
In addition to 468,000 doses of vaccines, 470,000 syringes and 4,700 safety boxes were also part of the shipment.
“The arrival of the first COVAX doses today is a major milestone. Gavi looks forward to continuing our collaboration with the people of Afghanistan and partners to ensure the smooth and equitable distribution of vaccines to those most in need. It is going to be challenging, but if we all maintain momentum and keep working together, we will defeat this pandemic,” said Ricard Lacort, Senior Country Manager Afghanistan and Djibouti for Gavi.
Sheema Sen Gupta, UNICEF Afghanistan Representative a.i.. said, “This is a great day for the people of Afghanistan. The imminent roll-out of the COVAX facilitated COVID-19 vaccine means that around 234,000 people, including teachers, will be better protected from the ravages of the COVID-19 virus. UNICEF is especially pleased that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education have included teachers as a priority for this wave of vaccines ahead of back to school on March 21. Together, our priority is to open all schools and get all of Afghanistan’s children back to their classes, their studies, and their friends.”
Dr. David Lai, WHO Officer-In-Charge said, “The COVID-19 vaccine is a huge step forward in our fight against the pandemic. Ensuring the quality, safety and efficacy of the vaccine has been one of WHO’s highest priorities but vaccines only work when they are combined with public health strategies. We did not get here in one day and we won’t get out in one day either but today our hope is renewed. The endgame is clear. However, Afghanistan will need continued support from the international community to ensure the country which is already affected by decades-long conflict and insecurity doesn’t get left behind in the race to end COVID-19.”
“The Ministry of Public Health of the Government of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is further enabled to fight the COVID-19 pandemic by rolling out the vaccine,” said Dr. Wahid Majrooh, Acting Minister of Public Health. “The MoPH appreciates the COVAX facility and the international donors for their continued support. We must accelerate our efforts to ensure that all eligible Afghans are vaccinated and protected from COVID-19, as it is the most important step to put an end to this pandemic.”
For several months, COVAX partners have been supporting governments and partners in readiness efforts, in preparation for this moment. They have been especially active in working with some of the world’s poorest countries: those that will benefit from the Advance Market Commitment (AMC), an innovative financial mechanism to help secure global and equitable access for COVID-19 vaccines. This includes assisting with the development of national vaccination plans, support for cold chain infrastructure, as well as stockpiling of half a billion syringes and safety boxes for their disposal, masks, gloves and other equipment to ensure that there is enough equipment for health workers to start vaccinating priority groups as soon as possible.
In order for doses to be delivered to COVAX Facility participants via this first allocation round, several critical pieces must be in place, including confirmation of national regulatory authorization criteria related to the vaccines delivered, indemnification agreements, national vaccination plans from AMC participants, as well as other logistical factors such as export and import licenses.
As participants fulfil the above criteria and finalize readiness preparations, COVAX will issue purchase orders to the manufacturer and ship and deliver doses via an iterative process. This means deliveries for the first round of allocation will take place on a rolling basis and in tranches.
As vaccines start to roll out around the world, they should complement, and not replace, proven public health measures. It is also important to expand access to rapid diagnostics and treatments, such as oxygen and dexamethasone, as advocated for by the ACT Accelerator. Countries must also continue to apply tried-and-tested measures to successfully prevent and control transmission, such as physical distancing, masks, ventilation and hand hygiene, alongside robust programs to test, trace, isolate and treat.
COVAX has built a diverse portfolio of vaccines suitable for a range of settings and populations, and is on track to meet its goal of delivering at least 2 billion doses of vaccine to participating countries around the globe in 2021, including at least 1.3 billion donor-funded doses to the 92 lower-income COVAX Facility participants supported by the Gavi COVAX AMC.
COVAX, the vaccines pillar of the Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator, is co-led by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance and the World Health Organization (WHO) – working in partnership with UNICEF as the key implementing partner, as well as civil society organizations, vaccine manufacturers, the World Bank, and others.
Notes to Editors:
Full COVAX News Note to Editors: https://www.who.int/initiatives/act-accelerator/covax/covax-news-note-to-editors
List of donor pledges to the Gavi COVAX AMC: https://www.gavi.org/sites/default/files/covid/covax/COVAX-AMC-Donors-Table.pdf
UNICEF COVAX page https://www.unicef.org/supply/covax-ensuring-global-equitable-access-covid-19-vaccines

Media contacts:
Ministry of Public Health, Afghanistan
Dr. Nazary, National EPI Manager 
Mobile: +93 (0) 79 722 3009
Email:dastagger_nazary@yahoo.com

CEPI Press office
Telephone: +44 7387 055214
Email: press@cepi.net
GAVI
Meghana Sharafudeen: +41 79 711 55 54 msharafudeen@gavi.org
Evan O'Connell +33 6 17 57 21 26 econnell@gavi.org

UNICEF Afghanistan
Dr. Fazil Ahmad, UNICEF Afghanistan |+93 (0) 799987605 | fahmad@unicef.org
Dr. Sanjay Bhardwaj, UNICEF Afghanistan, +93 (0) 799987607,  sabhardwaj@unicef.org

WHO Afghanistan
Ahmadullah Amarkhil, WHO Afghanistan |+93 (0) 70 026 3232 | amarkhila@who.int
Bisma Akbar, WHO Afghanistan |+93 (0) 78 220 0354 |akbarb@who.int

WHO global
+41 22 791 2222 mediainquiries@who.int
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/115395-covid-19-vaccines-shipped-covax-arrive-afghanistan




Date: 15 February 2021
Title: KILLING OF HUMAN RIGHTS DEFENDERS AND MEDIA PROFESSIONALS IN AFGHANISTAN – NEW UN REPORT
Content: 15 February 2021
KABUL, 15 February 2021 - The period following the start of Afghanistan Peace Negotiations in September 2020 has witnessed a sharp and chilling number of killings of human rights defenders and media professionals in Afghanistan. A new report issued today by the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) analyses data and trends connected to the killings from 1 January 2018 to 31 January 2021. It traces the changing patterns of attacks on these key sectors of civil society and provides recommendations.
No fewer than 11 human rights defenders and media workers were killed in targeted attacks in Afghanistan from the 12 September 2020 start of peace negotiations through to 31 January 2021. This trend, combined with the absence of claims of responsibility, has generated a climate of fear among the population.
Human rights and media space has contracted as a result, with many professionals exercising self-censorship in their work, quitting their jobs, and leaving their homes and communities with hopes it will improve their safety. Many, including high profile personalities, have fled the country. The killings have had the broader impact across society of also diminishing expectations around efforts towards peace.
“The Afghan people need and deserve a flourishing civic space - a society where people can think, write and voice their views openly, without fear,” said Deborah Lyons, the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Afghanistan. “The voices of human rights defenders and the media are critical for any open and decent society. At a time when dialogue and an end to the conflict through talks and political settlement should be the focus, the voices from human rights and the media need to be heard more than ever before, instead they are being silenced,” said the envoy, who is also head of UNAMA.
Attacks against representatives of the human rights and media sectors in Afghanistan are not a new development, but, as the report documents, there has been a distinct change in the type of killings. The most recent wave, that of intentional, premeditated and deliberate targeting of individuals with perpetrators remaining anonymous contrasts to previous years. Then, such deaths were mainly caused by the proximity of individuals to attacks by organised armed groups, mainly the Islamic State in the Levant-Khorasan-Province (ISIL-KP), involving the use of improvised explosive devices.
The report records a total of 65 human rights defenders and media professionals killed in the period from 1 January 2018 – 31 January 2021, 32 from the human rights sector and 33 from the media. Of these, 11 (five human rights defenders and six media) were killed in the four-month period from 1 October 2020 – 31 January 2021 alone.
The report notes that as they work to provide timely information to the population of Afghanistan on a range of issues (including violations of international humanitarian law and human rights law), human rights defenders, journalists and media workers are far too often exposed to threats, intimidation, harassment, surveillance or arbitrary detention.
The report underlines that all actors have an important role to play in preventing such killings and intimidation, promoting accountability and preventing impunity. Investigations into killings must be independent, impartial, prompt, thorough, effective, credible and transparent. The prosecution of suspected perpetrators should strictly follow due process and fair trial standards. The use of charged rhetoric against the role of civil society and the media, threats or actions taken against whistleblowers, and the circulation of “target lists” all contribute to perpetuating the conditions in which civic space can only shrink further and exacerbate the unsettling effect on the population, especially human rights defenders and media professionals.
A series of recommendations to both state and non-state actors are contained in the report:
The Government of Afghanistan
Non-state actors
The Taliban
The international community

PDF versions of Press Releases in Dari, Pashto and English are available in attachments.

Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/111921-killing-human-rights-defenders-and-media-professionals-afghanistan-%E2%80%93-new-un-report




Date: 16 December 2020
Title: People and Planet: A Delicate Balancing Act
Content: 16 December 2020
The Human Development Report 2020 presents an experimental global planetary adjusted index, with new criteria to measure human development, and explores how to tackle poverty and inequality while easing pressure on the planet.

Kabul, 16/December/2020 - The COVID-19 pandemic is the latest world crisis, but unless humans loosen their grip on nature, it won’t be the last, according to a new global report launched yesterday by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in collaboration with the government of Sweden. Today’s launch of the HDR 2020 in Kabul is also co-organized by UNDP Afghanistan and the Swedish Embassy in Kabul. The report includes a new experimental index on human development which takes into account countries’ carbon emissions and material footprint.
Globally, this year marks the 30th anniversary of the first Human Development Report and the Human Development Index (HDI), developed and pioneered in 1990. The HDI replaced traditional measurements of a country’s development such as Gross Domestic Product (GDP) with criteria such as life expectancy, education and Gross National Income (GNI). It gained recognition and popularity as an alternative approach to mainstream development economics, as it considers an individual’s capabilities as a measure of developmental progress.
The HDR 2020 challenges and explores how we define and measure human development, and outlines how we can use human development in the Anthropocene to change our current trajectory, which is mutually reinforcing planetary and social imbalances. It goes further than a routine sustainability report, summarizing familiar problems and policy solutions; instead, the HDR 2020 details the contemporary challenge of how we can, and must, successfully navigate this new geological era, by furthering human development in balance with environmental concerns, and the needs of our planet.
“Development choices of the past have systematically undervalued the environment, posing human progress and sustainability as conflicting pursuits” said Kanni Wignaraja, UN Assistant Secretary-General and UNDP Regional Director for Asia and the Pacific. “We all need to work together on a trajectory that balances the pursuit of economic growth with planetary considerations” she said.
According to the new report, Afghanistan’s HDI value for 2019 is 0.511, which puts the country in the lowest human development category, positioned at 169 out of 189 countries and territories. Between 1990 and 2019, Afghanistan’s HDI value increased from 0.302 to 0.511, an increase of 69.2 percent. Afghanistan’s life expectancy at birth increased by 14.5 years, whereas mean years of schooling (average number of years of education of population aged 25 and older) increased by 2.4 years, and expected years of schooling increased by 7.6 years. Afghanistan’s GNI per capita decreased by approximately 10 percent between 1990 and 2019.
Afghanistan’s 2019 HDI is below the average for countries in the ‘low human development group’ and below the average of countries in South Asia. The 2019 female HDI value for Afghanistan is 0.391 in contrast with 0.593 for males highlighting a significant gender gap.
“The release of this year’s HDR coincides with the conclusion of the  Geneva Conference on Afghanistan and a clear commitment from international community to continue supporting the country to improve the lives of citizens” said Abdallah Al Dardari, UNDP Resident Representative for Afghanistan. “All partners must work together with the government and people of Afghanistan on  integrated programmes to help the country move up the HDI scale and closer to achieving Sustainable Development Goals.”
Human activity often has a detrimental impact on the natural world, but it can also be regenerative. Our challenge is to create and sustain positive cycles while preventing and ending negative spirals.
“The Planet-Adjusted Index introduced this year fills an important gap by showcasing new and more honest ways of measuring human development” said Ambassador of Sweden to Afghanistan Mr. Torkel Stiernlöf. “ There is an urgent need to shift to a green and sustainable relationship with nature” added the Ambassador. “Industrialized countries with the means for transition, like Sweden, must lead the way by building partnerships with developing countries to support their endeavors to find a path that is friendly to both people and the environment.”
The report outlines three mechanisms for collective change:
1.     Social norms and values: As we seek to expand agency and empower people through human development, we must also establish new norms that give greater weight to planetary balance and sustainability.
2.     Incentives and regulations: Incentives and regulations can be used to promote or deter action, helping bridge the gap between behaviors and values.
3.     Nature-based solutions: These can create a virtuous cycle between human development and planetary health by generating and supporting actions that protect, sustainably manage and restore ecosystems.
Afghanistan is blessed with rich natural resources which could be a major source of financing for the country’s socioeconomic development. However, managing the delicate balancing act of utilizing natural resources for sustainable development, and preserving the environment, is paramount. UNDP is offering a comprehensive package of programmes to help the government and people of Afghanistan towards self-reliance, sustainable development and responsible use of natural resources.
Contact Information: Farhad Zalmai, UNDP Afghanistan, 0790509133, farhad.zalmai@undp.org
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/105866-people-and-planet-delicate-balancing-act




Date: 15 December 2020
Title: UN Afghanistan Announces ‘Dedgah Zan’ Photo Competition Winners
Content: 15 December 2020
“The photo contest helped challenge prevailing social norms that rob Afghan girls and women of the opportunity to realize their full potential.”
Kabul, 15 December, 2020 – To conclude the UN's annual “16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence” campaign, United Nations in Afghanistan announced the winners of the ‘Dedgah Zan’ or ‘Through Her Eyes’ photo competition today during an award ceremony at the Asia Culture House in Kabul.
Each year, the #16Days campaign provides an avenue for supporters of gender equality to come together, stand with survivors, and unite against all forms of violence against women and girls. Alarmingly, 2020 reports have revealed a distressing increase in the already existing pandemic of domestic violence against women, a consequence of stay-at-home orders and lockdowns to stymie the increasing rates of COVID-19 community transmission. The ‘Dedgah Zan’ photo contest therefore brought together Afghan photographers in competition to capture and honour favourable visuals of Afghan women challenging gender stereotypes and inspiring survivors of violence through the dismantlement of barriers preventing women’s meaningful participation in society, the promotion of inclusivity, and encouragement for a positive role for women in Afghanistan.
“The photo contest helped challenge prevailing social norms that rob Afghan girls and women of the opportunity to realize their full potential,” declared Dr. Ramiz Alakbarov, UN Resident Coordinator, a.i. Afghanistan, Kabul at the award ceremony. “We received over 200 submissions, with more than half sent by women photographers from across the country.”

Judges from the UN Resident Coordinator office, UN Development Programme, World Food Programme, and the UN Population Fund, together with a special jury from UNDP’S donour partner, the Embassy of the Republic of Korea in Afghanistan, selected the winning photographers as well as the ten best photographs based on the theme and level of creativity encapsulated in the submissions.
Ms. Nilofar Niekpor, a photojournalist from Radio Killed won the ‘Dedgah Zan’s first prize during the ceremony at the Asia Culture House. Kabul-based fashion photographer Ms. Olya Moradi was awarded second place and Mr. Zabihullah Habibi, a freelance photographer from Ghazni won third prize following their adherence to and achievement in capturing the photo competition’s theme.
The judges’ top ten photographs were the compositions of Neman Noori, Shukria Azadmanesh, Fatima Hasani, Hasibullah Asmati, Tahira Fahimi, Kawa Basharat, Enayatullah Atal, Ahmad Hussain, Mohsen Hussaini and Elaha Sahel.
“I would like to thank and congratulate all the photo contest participants, as well as the winners whose art helped support this important campaign” added Abdallah Al Dardari, UNDP Afghanistan Resident Representative. “If we look closely, the contest photographs show how a peaceful Afghanistan, free from violence against women, can and will appear.”
The award ceremony concluded with closing remarks by Ms Rada Akbar, an Artist, Photographer and Founder of Abarzanan.
At the conclusion of the UN’s 2020 #16Days campaign, UNDP Afghanistan with support from the Republic of Korea takes pride in the progress made so far as considerations of gender and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) inform every development programme in the country. Highlights from UNDP Afghanistan’s Enhancing Gender Equality and Mainstreaming in Afghanistan (EGEMA) project include: establishing the first Master’s Programme in Gender and Women Studies within the Social Science Faculty of Kabul University in 2015, building 200 beekeeping farms for and training women-headed households to produce and sell honey across four districts of the Daikundi Province, organizing a school competition with Afghanistan’s Ministry of Haj and Religious Affairs on the rights of women in Islam, and facilitating gender awareness programming in public and private universities throughout the country.
The 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence is an international campaign that takes place each year. It commences on 25 November, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and ends on 10 December, Human Rights Day, indicating that violence against women is the most pervasive breach of human rights worldwide.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/105867-un-afghanistan-announces-%E2%80%98dedgah-zan%E2%80%99-photo-competition-winners




Date: 08 December 2020
Title: EU-UN flagship Spotlight Initiative launched in Central Asia and Afghanistan
Content: 08 December 2020
The Programme is focused on strengthening efforts to end sexual and gender based-violence against women and girls and by symbolically shining a spotlight on barriers that hinder women and girls from development.
NUR-SULTAN – In the framework of the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-based Violence, the Spotlight Initiative Regional Programme for Central Asia and Afghanistan was officially launched today with participation of UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina J. Mohammed, EU Commissioner for International Partnerships Jutta Urpilainen and high-level government representatives from Central Asian countries and Afghanistan. Funded with an initial approved budget of USD 4.3 million, this regional programme is part of a global initiative funded by the European Union in over 25 countries and regions addressing different forms of violence against women as well as harmful practices.
In Central Asia and Afghanistan the Programme is focused on strengthening efforts to end sexual and gender based-violence against women and girls and by symbolically shining a spotlight on barriers that hinder women and girls from development.
Addressing the audience, UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina J. Mohammed noted that “since the outbreak of COVID-19 gender-based and domestic violence has increased globally, and the countries in Central Asia and Afghanistan are no exception”.
The ultimate goal of the Spotlight Programme is to create an environment where there is zero tolerance for sexual and gender-based violence and harmful practices, which the national stakeholders and an estimated 35 million women and girls in the five Central Asian countries and Afghanistan will contribute to and benefit from.
EU Ambassador to Kazakhstan Mr. Sven-Olov Carlsson noted: “I am convinced that the Spotlight Initiative will benefit from the longstanding leadership and active support of governments, institutions and civil society organisations in this region. I am glad to acknowledge that governments and institutions have committed themselves to promoting gender equality. We are therefore looking forward to the robust implementation of relevant laws and policies”.
Working in partnership with key institutions and diverse partners, the Spotlight Initiative will focus on developing good practices as well as forging alliances in the region around areas such as legislative reform, institutional strengthening, tackling social norms and attitudes, strengthening civil society and women’s movements. The measures will also include digital literacy training and engaging key stakeholders to contribute to respecting and protecting women’s and girls’ rights. The Initiative is coordinated by the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in Kazakhstan and is implemented through the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and UN Women.
In her address to partners and invited guests, the United Nations Resident Coordinator Designate for Kazakhstan, Michaela Friberg-Storey emphasized: “The Spotlight Initiative will provide an important platform for the United Nations to support the countries as they tackle the pandemic of violence, one that threatens individual health and integrity, families, communities, and the global efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals in this region”.
During the event participants spoke about their work and the challenges when addressing violence against women and girls. There was a collective agreement that all stakeholders, from the UN, EU, government, chiefs, women, men, girls and boys, need to be involved, and behaviours and mindsets need to be changed to combat any form of violence.
The Spotlight Initiative provides an opportunity for a multi-sectoral, coordinated and holistic approach in addressing violence against women and girls working through multiple stakeholders including governments, service providers, civil society and other key stakeholders. Being launched during a landmark year – celebrating the 25th anniversary of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, as well as the 75th anniversary of the United Nations, the Spotlight initiative provides an opportunity to highlight the women’s right to a life free from violence.
Background
The Spotlight Initiative (SI) is a global partnership between the European Union (EU) and the United Nations (UN) to eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls (VAWG), including harmful practices. Launched globally in 2016, with a global funding commitment of EUR 500 million from the European Union, the Spotlight Initiative represents an unprecedented global effort to invest in gender equality as a precondition and driver for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. In Central Asia and Afghanistan the Spotlight Initiative will focus on employing innovative approaches to understand, prevent and respond to sexual and gender-based violence and harmful practices. The Initiative joins existing efforts and complements the work of regional institutions and diverse partners. Find out more on www.spotlightinitiative.org

For more details please contact:
tel: +7 701 9400086, e-mail: elnara.bainazarova@un.org,
tel: +7 775 6730823, e-mail: yerkezhan.amriyeva@eeas.europa.eu
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/104288-eu-un-flagship-spotlight-initiative-launched-central-asia-and-afghanistan




Date: 25 November 2020
Title: UN CALLS FOR SOLIDARITY AND COMMITMENT TO END VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN AND GIRLS AMIDST GLOBAL PANDEMIC
Content: 25 November 2020
Kabul, 25 November 2020 - On the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women (EVAW), the United Nations in Afghanistan calls on everyone to increase efforts to prevent and redress violence against women and girls, particularly in the context of the outbreak of COVID-19.

The International Day kicks off the global campaign of 16 Days of Activism against Gender Based Violence, which culminates on 10 December, International Human Rights Day. This year’s EVAW theme – “Orange the World: Fund, Respond, Prevent, Collect!” – is focused on accelerating concrete policy responses to gender-based violence in the context of COVID-19 and promoting zero tolerance of gender-based violence across all spheres of society.
The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated key risk factors for violence against women and girls, such as food shortages, unemployment, economic insecurity, and school closures. Worldwide, there has been an alarming increase in multiple forms of violence against women and girls, and information indicates that Afghanistan is no exception.
The consequences of violence against women and girls are multiple and grave, including physical, sexual, and psychological impacts which prevent them from fully participating in society.
“Violence against women and girls has negative consequences not only for survivors, but also for their families, communities, and society. It is an impediment to the eradication of poverty, sustainable development, and efforts towards peace,” said Deborah Lyons, the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Afghanistan. “In Afghanistan, violence against women and girls jeopardizes their enjoyment of fundamental human rights and freedoms at one of the most critical times in the modern history of the country”, stated Ms. Lyons, who is also head of UNAMA.
Measures put in place to curb the spread of the virus have also raised additional barriers and increased risks for survivors seeking help. Where services exist, many survivors of violence are often unable to seek support due to movement restrictions, disruption of services, and limited opportunities to seek help.
“For millions around the world, home became the safe space to protect us from a deadly virus. But for too many women and girls, home became the place where they found themselves trapped with their abusers”, said Aleta Miller, UN Women Representative in Afghanistan. “Our daily engagement with Afghan women across the country from the beginning of the pandemic flagged an alarming rise in the levels of violence against women and girls. Our data on the gender differentiated impact of COVID-19 also matched this.”
As it is an unprecedented time for Afghanistan, our solidarity with Afghan women and commitment to promoting and protecting their human rights must be equally unprecedented.
The United Nations in Afghanistan is working with the Government, civil society, non-governmental organizations, and development partners to respond to all forms of violence against women and girls through direct support to service providers, social norms programmes to prevent violence, and campaigns and advocacy.
During the 16 Days Campaign, the Afghan government, supported by the UN, is intensifying its advocacy and awareness-raising activities to address violence against women and girls.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/102341-un-calls-solidarity-and-commitment-end-violence-against-women-and-girls-amidst-global




Date: 24 November 2020
Title: STRONG SUPPORT FOR AFGHANISTAN AT THE 2020 AFGHANISTAN CONFERENCE
Content: 24 November 2020
International community renews its long-term commitment to the people of Afghanistan with significant pledges at the conference. Afghanistan and international partners commit to shared development objectives for 2021 – 2024, and adopt a communique calling for an end to the war and a durable peace, stability and prosperity.
GENEVA, 24 November 2020 - The 2020 Afghanistan Conference provided a strong expression of the international community’s enduring commitment to Afghanistan for the critical period ahead up to 2024. The donors pledged at least US$ 3.3 billion for the first year of the upcoming quadrennial, with annual commitments expected to stay at the same level year-on-year.
Afghanistan’s development partners remain firmly committed to backing Afghanistan through to 2024. All development assistance will be subject to annual joint review processes by the government and international partners with donors continuing to exercise their right to decide upon the level and modality of their annual financial support.
“We, the Afghans, want an end to the violence and are committed to finding a political settlement that can not only bring an end to the suffering of the Afghan people but strengthen, safeguard and preserve the gains of the past 19 years,” said Abul Hadi Arghandiwal, Minister of Finance. “Today’s conference must represent our solidarity in which our international donors and development partners can take decisive steps in continuing to support Afghanistan and its people.”
The renewal of international support comes at a pivotal moment with unprecedented Afghanistan Peace Negotiations ongoing, a dynamic security setting and humanitarian needs peaking as winter sets in and the threat of COVID-19 remains. The pledges are made as Afghanistan enters the final four-year cycle of its Transformation Decade.
“The challenges Afghanistan faces are truly daunting. But the tremendous commitment shown at the conference by international partners to Afghanistan’s development provides real hope for a better tomorrow,” said Deborah Lyons, the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Afghanistan. “The Geneva conference can be seen as mutually reinforcing with the historic Peace Negotiations in Doha – together they can provide solid foundations for peace and prosperity.”
“The significant pledges made at the 2020 Afghanistan Conference, despite a difficult year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, show that the international community continues to stand firmly with the Afghan people at this crucial time,” said Ville Skinnari, Finland’s Minister for Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade.
The Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, supported by its international partners, is committed to preserving and expanding on the economic, social, political and development gains that have been since 2002. Democracy, human rights -including those of women, children and minorities- are fundamental issues to be protected and further developed.  Participants emphasized the need to address key challenges such as poverty reduction, institution building, good governance, anti-corruption and private sector development.
International partners welcomed the second version of the Afghanistan National Peace and Development Framework which provides the Afghan government’s vision, strategy and plan for the next five years (2021-25). Afghanistan and the international community have entered a new phase of cooperation, as articulated in the Afghanistan Partnership Framework, marked by conditionality and enhanced joint review mechanisms to ensure results and impact for the people of Afghanistan.
The conference adopted a communique calling for an immediate, permanent and comprehensive ceasefire. Partners also called for a meaningful peace process with the participation of women and youth, as well as ethnic, religious and other minorities. The communique establishes a renewed partnership to strengthen a sovereign, unified, democratic and peaceful Afghanistan on its path towards prosperity and self-reliance for the benefit of all Afghans.
“The Conference echoes the demand of the Afghan people for an immediate ceasefire and a lasting peace that they deserve – these demands must not be failed,” said Pekka Haavisto, Finland’s Minister for Foreign Affairs.
Around 70 countries and more than 30 international organizations, along with Afghan Government officials and civil society representatives participated in the 2020 Afghanistan Conference. The Conference was jointly organized by the governments of Afghanistan and Finland with the United Nations. Given the serious risks posed by COVID-19, all participants took part in the proceedings virtually, with the co-chairs located in the UN Palais des Nations in Geneva.

Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/102294-strong-support-afghanistan-2020-afghanistan-conference




Date: 06 October 2020
Title: AFGHANISTAN AND INTERNATIONAL PARTNERS PREPARE FOR 2020 AFGHANISTAN CONFERENCE
Content: 06 October 2020
More than 70 countries, international organizations and Afghan Government officials, as well as civil society representatives are expected to take part in the conference.
KABUL, 6 October 2020 – Afghanistan and international partners in Kabul today officially launched preparations for the 2020 Afghanistan Conference, scheduled to take place 23-24 November at the Palais des Nations in Geneva and be co-hosted by the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (GoIRA), Finland and the United Nations.
The launch event was attended by representatives of more than 70 countries and international organizations, as well as civil society representatives either virtually or physically at the Presidential Char Chinar Palace in the Afghan capital.
The 2020 Afghanistan Conference is the last pledging conference of the Transformation Decade (2015-24), which aims to take the country towards self-reliance, and is expected to renew international community and Afghan commitments to the development and stability of Afghanistan up to 2024.
The main conference will take place on 24 November, with side events to discuss key challenges and accomplishments for Afghanistan occurring the day before.
The Afghan Minister of Finance, Abdul Hadi Arghandiwal, in his opening remarks said: “The 2020 Afghanistan Conference presents a unique opportunity to work together with a strong commitment to the principles of aid effectiveness and mutual accountability for improved transparency, legitimacy, as well as effectiveness. Progress on mutual accountability is all the more important and both the government as well as our international partners must hold themselves and each other accountable for use of development resources and for development results.”
Afghanistan has achieved real progress since 2001 in economic and social fields, as well as with democratic institutions, governance and human rights – especially that of women, children and minorities. Afghanistan and its global partners need to protect these gains.
President Ashraf Ghani in a recorded message said, “The process of preparing for the conference has provided us, as partners, an opportunity to have a comprehensive and detailed discussion on Afghanistan’s past, present, and future development trajectory. More specifically, the conference will be an opportunity to signal to the Afghan people the international community’s continued partnership with Afghanistan. The constructive conversation will be continuous, focusing on policy and implementation until and after the Conference.”
The Conference will devise a second version of the Afghanistan National Peace and Development Framework (ANPDF-II) which provides vision, strategy and plans for development for the 2021-25 period and is organized around the three pillars of market-, state-, and peace-building. It will form the foundation of a new aid framework.
“Preparations for the 2020 Afghanistan Conference are well underway, in good cooperation with our co-hosts the Government of Afghanistan and UNAMA. At this extraordinary time, it is more important than ever that the development partners continue their strong support to the Afghan people and ensure the long-term development of the country on its path to peace, prosperity and self-reliance,” said Janne Taalas, Finland’s Special Envoy to the 2020 Afghanistan Conference.
With the recent start of peace talks between the GoIRA and the Taliban in Doha, Qatar, there are new opportunities and hope for Afghanistan and the Afghan people.
“As critical peace talks progress in Doha, the international community recommits its stand with the Afghan people to ending the war and building a better future with stability, sound governance and greater economic opportunities,” said Deborah Lyons, the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Afghanistan.
More than 70 countries, international organizations and Afghan Government officials, as well as civil society representatives are expected to take part in the conference.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic the Conference will be organized in a hybrid format. The option for online participation will be provided to Conference delegates and an open live webcast will be available.
In view of evolving travel and gathering restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic, more detailed information about the conference will be made available closer to the date of the event.
Conference media accreditation will begin in the first half of October and more information on media events will be announced in due course.
More information on Conference arrangements is available at:
https://mof.gov.af/en
https://um.fi/afghanistan-conference-2020
https://unama.unmissions.org/afghanistan-2020-conference

Follow and discuss the Conference on Twitter:
#Afghanistan2020
@mediaoffice_mof
@UNAMAnews
@FinlandinAFG

Contacts:
Shamroz Khan, Director of Communications & Spokesperson, Ministry of Finance of Afghanistan, shamroz.masjidi@mof.gov.af, tel. +93 (0) 797 332 334

Liam McDowall, Director of Strategic Communications, United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), mcdowalll@un.org, tel. +93 (0) 728 426 195

Johanna Kaprio, Communications Coordinator, Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Finland, johanna.kaprio@formin.fi, tel. +358 50 522 8916
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/94273-afghanistan-and-international-partners-prepare-2020-afghanistan-conference




Date: 24 September 2020
Title: Afghanistan and Tajikistan step up environmental cooperation
Content: 24 September 2020
The agreement provides a structured framework for Afghanistan and Tajikistan to practically address the threats of climate change and biodiversity loss.
Dushanbe/Kabul, 24 September – The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the Republic of Tajikistan have taken an important step in strengthening joint efforts to protect their unique, shared mountain ecosystem of the Panj Amu Darya river basin with the signing of the two nations’ first-ever bilateral Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on environmental protection.
The agreement, which was signed in Dushanbe on 17 September 2020 and has a five-year duration, focuses on five key areas: climate change adaptation; biodiversity conservation; monitoring of water quality; environmental assessment and sharing of knowledge and expertise on ecosystem management. It also includes a commitment by the two countries to undertake environmental impact assessments of joint projects and to notify each other in case of potential environmental impacts across borders.
“It gives us great pleasure to welcome our friends and neighbours from Afghanistan in Dushanbe to conclude today’s important agreement and join our hands in conserving the outstanding wildlife of our shared mountain ecosystems and help our peoples adapt to the growing impacts of climate change,” said Sheralizoda Ahmadjon, Chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection of Tajikistan.
The spectacular landscape of the Pamir and Wakhan mountains, whose glaciers give rise to the Amu Darya – Central Asia’s largest river – is home to iconic species including the endangered snow leopard, mountain goats and sheep, and endemic vegetation communities.
With the ranges’ strategic location at the crossroads of the historic Silk Road, the new agreement seeks to solidify the alliance between the two countries in protecting the fragile mountain ecosystem by mitigating the environmental impacts of future investment plans in infrastructure, extractives and trade, as well as supporting local communities in adapting to climate change through sustainable natural resource management practices.
Discussions between the two countries first took place in 2012 under the auspices of the UN Economic Commission for Europe, which led to the endorsement of an MoU on the exchange of hydrological data for the Panj-Amu Darya in 2014. This MOU has enabled the installation of hydrological stations along the over 1,000-kilometre-long shared river border between the two countries, and the exchange of water flow data. This data is critical not only for water resources management and climate adaptation, but also for flood and drought forecasting and early warning systems.
The conclusion of a new environmental cooperation MOU represents the second major milestone of this bilateral dialogue process, which UNEP helped facilitate, supported by the European Union, under the Opportunities for Mountain Area Integrated Development project.
“The agreement provides a structured framework for Afghanistan and Tajikistan to practically address the threats of climate change and biodiversity loss. We hope this cooperation will continue to extend to the other countries of the Amu Darya basin in the future,” said Gary Lewis, Director of UNEP’s Disasters and Conflicts Programme.
The MoU also fulfils the commitments made by the two countries under the Protocol of the 7th Meeting of the Intergovernmental Economic, Commercial, Social and Technical Commission (July 2019) to expand their cooperation efforts to protect and sustainably manage their natural resources.
Zoi Environment Network – a non-governmental organisation based in Switzerland - also contributed to the organization of meetings and has been a long-standing partner in the Afghan-Tajik cooperation process.
The new agreement also establishes a Technical Working Group on environmental protection responsible for development and implementation of cooperative programmes and activities.
One of the first activities under the new agreement is a study tour for environmental experts from both countries to survey the environmental challenges in the Panj basin – Pamir Mountains region – and to develop a joint environmental action plan. To facilitate knowledge exchange, UNEP is also supporting both countries in developing a geospatial platform to exchange environmental information.
Notes to Editors
UNEP Boilerplate
Resources: Visual Atlas of Cooperation
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/92830-afghanistan-and-tajikistan-step-environmental-cooperation




Date: 25 August 2020
Title: Afghanistan Human Development Report 2020
Content: 25 August 2020
Pitfalls and Promises: Minerals Extraction in Afghanistan
Kabul, August 25, 2020 – Today, UNDP Afghanistan launched its National Human Development Report on minerals extraction in Afghanistan. The report is based on extensive field work, substantive consultation with civil society, private sector, government and UN agencies, and focused group discussions with communities living around mines.
National Human Development Report (NHDR) 2020, provides rich insights into the present situation of Afghanistan’s extractive industry. The Report elaborates on the interaction with various dimensions of human development, employment and investment opportunities in the extractive industry value chain, and more importantly its fiscal revenue potential. NHDR 2020 also assesses the country’s current state of human development, and the potential contribution and risks of the extractive industry. The Report focuses on 6 value chains which includes lapis, talc, onyx, chromite, oil and copper. NHDR is examines the pitfalls and promises in extractive industries, as well as challenges and shortcomings, and provides recommendations and solutions from a human development perspective.
Legal and sustainable extraction of mines is a driver for peace, development, and economic growth, but It is important to have a vision of how the benefits will reach the people before starting extraction. Decades of mining without a clear vision not only has not helped reduce poverty but has triggered local conflicts and harmed the environment. The report proposes requirements of conducting the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) through site inspections and monitoring to require certain health and safety standards and environmental impact mitigation.
Illegal mining is a complex phenomenon, contributing to insecurity, corruption, human rights violations and conflict that affects lives of citizens. Unregulated mining feeds and is fed by conflict. It has become the magnet of corrupt individuals and networks, and some mining businesses are implicated in serious human rights violations, often acting with impunity. Rent seeking by powerful individuals, corruption among officials, and insecurity in large parts of the country facilitate illegal mining.
The resource curse in its political dimension is characterized by rapid resource-led growth accompanied by large inflows of revenues to the government and to extractive companies, which leads to reduced accountability, increase in corruption, and collision between corrupt officials and businesses. The legal and regulatory framework provides the foundation on which mining operations can take place. There are several areas within the legal framework that may be conducive to corruption. The Report identifies such areas for reform and provides recommendations to enhance transparency and accountability
The report also provides a glimpse of unemployment, inadequate access to health care, low levels of education, water shortages, multidimensional poverty, increased vulnerability of young people, peace priority, and provides specific recommendations on preventing loss of fiscal revenues, protecting people and the environment and promoting a legitimate and responsible extractive industry based on the global experiences.
“In Afghanistan, there is an urgent need to improve governance, tackle corruption and put an end to illegal extraction and trade of minerals” said Abdallah Al Dardari, UNDP Resident Representative for Afghanistan. “Large-scale mineral, oil and gas projects can be instrumental for financing development, but it will require stability and enhanced government capacity to get its due share from these projects and use them well for human development” he added.
The Report recommends that all partners implement programmes demonstrating good practices, methods and technologies in mining. It is critical to strengthen the capacity of informal, small and medium-scale businesses. These programmes can include studies commissioned to understand the economics of small- and medium-scale mines, training to spread the use of better methods and technologies, and awareness raising on the environmental impacts. Such methods and technologies can include general management skills, better mine and quarry planning, mine benching, safer methods and procedures, using less environmentally damaging methods, safe use and disposal of explosives and chemicals, post-mine rehabilitation and restoration, recycling of waste and the like. All of the above areas are broadly illustrated in the report for relevant entities.
“I welcome the release of the report and look forward to our collaboration with UNDP and other partners on the opportunities explored by this report on the potential of economic growth through extractive industries” said acting Minister of Mines and Petroleum Haroon Chankhansuri. The minister added “the recommendations on policy choices to ensure people benefit from and participate in extractive industries potential, and mitigating the risks associated with this type of development will be considered in the government’s plans for the sector.”
UNDP Afghanistan’s new programmes, Afghanistan Sustainable Development Goals (A-SDGs) and Agenda 2030 is focused on transferring the war economy into peace economy, whereas, extractive industries is the key sector for revenue generation for and economic growth. Investment in this area is a top priority of UNDP interventions. UNDP is committed to support the government of Afghanistan develop the sector with improved regulatory framework and innovative methods.
Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/89940-afghanistan-human-development-report-2020




Date: 14 July 2020
Title: European Union helps WFP support people affected by conflict and natural hazards in Afghanistan
Content: 14 July 2020
Kabul – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) welcomes a new contribution of EUR 3.6 million from the European Union (EU) that will help provide lifesaving assistance to the most vulnerable Afghans affected by natural and man-made disasters.
“Humanitarian needs across Afghanistan are high and communities in hard-to-reach areas, often with minimal healthcare services, are amongst those most in need of assistance,” said Luigi Pandolfi, head of EU humanitarian programs in Afghanistan. “Coronavirus struck Afghanistan at a time of urgent needs and therefore the capacity of aid workers to reach food-insecure families, malnourished children and mothers has never been more important.”
This contribution will allow WFP to distribute food to nearly 470,000 people displaced by conflict or affected by natural hazards, including seasonal flooding and landslides. It will also help WFP reach more than 150,000 malnourished children as well as pregnant and breastfeeding mothers in remote areas with food and nutrition assistance through mobile health teams.
“We would like to express our heartfelt thanks to the EU,” said Robert Kasca, WFP Deputy Country Director and Officer-in-Charge in Afghanistan. “This generous funding comes at a critical time, as needs are rising rapidly due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It will help us save and protect many lives, offering critical support to communities which are still struggling to overcome the long-term impact of conflict and insecurity, compounded by the worst drought in a decade that hit the country in 2018.”
Recently, the EU has contributed an additional EUR 500,000 to boost WFP’s supply chain capacity in Afghanistan. With that funding, WFP will purchase four new all-terrain trucks to replace old vehicles that have been in service for three decades. The country has some of the world’s most rugged terrain and the new trucks will help WFP deliver food to those who need it most, especially in hard-to-reach areas.
As one of WFP’s top humanitarian donors, the EU has provided over EUR 6 million to support WFP’s work in Afghanistan over the last five years, including social protection activities which have helped families in western Badghis province rebuild their lives after the devastating drought.

The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies, building prosperity and supporting a sustainable future for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/53033-european-union-helps-wfp-support-people-affected-conflict-and-natural-hazards-afghanistan




Date: 30 June 2020
Title: Against my will: Defying the practices that harm women and girls and undermine equality in Afghanistan
Content: 30 June 2020
Kabul, Afghanistan – Every year, millions of girls are subjected to practices that harm them physically and emotionally, with the full knowledge and consent of their families, friends and communities, according to the State of World Population 2020, released today by the United Nations Population Fund.
At least 19 harmful practices are considered human rights violations globally, but child marriage is the most prevalent one in Afghanistan.
“Harmful practices against girls cause profound and lasting trauma, robbing them of their right to reach their full potential,” says UNFPA Executive Director Dr. Natalia Kanem.
Some harmful practices are waning in countries where they have been most prevalent. However, because of population growth in these countries, the number of girls subjected to them will actually rise in the coming decades, if urgent action is not taken.
“Conflict, poverty, and holding on to certain traditional beliefs and behaviours puts underage girls at risk in Afghanistan, especially in remote and rural areas,” notes Koffi Kouame, UNFPA Representative in Afghanistan. “These risks not only prevent girls and women from exercising their human rights, but also their social rights, and prevents them from education, harms their protection, and increases health threats including their reproductive health and the ability to choose if and when they have children.”
Many harmful practices are human rights violations because they arise from discriminatory gender norms that perpetuate inequality. And they are imposed on women and girls, regardless of consent.
As harmful practices violate human rights, it's the obligation of the governments to ensure these practices end because they have ratified the international treaties to protect the rights of women and children. Afghanistan has signed on most international conventions to protect children, including early marriage. From the policy perspective, the National Action Plan for the Elimination of Early and Child Marriage (NAP ECM) in Afghanistan has been adopted and is a key progress towards prevention and ending early marriage in the country.
The COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 resulted in quarantine and lockdowns in many countries around the world, which still continues. The COVID-19 pandemic threatens the lives of millions of women and girls. A recent analysis revealed that if services and programmes remain shuttered for six months, an additional 13 million girls may be forced into marriage globally. Risks of gender-based violence/violence against women are heightened during all types of emergencies, including the COVID-19 pandemic.
“The pandemic both makes our job harder and more urgent as so many more girls are now at risk,” Dr. Kanem says. “We will not stop until the rights, choices and bodies of all girls are fully their own.”
Child marriage is a fundamental violation of human rights that robs girls of their education, health and long term prospects. The elimination of child marriage requires joint action of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, religious communities, civil society, and national and international partners.
“We need to renew our commitment and ensure this harmful practice is prevented, and girls and their rights are respected,” says UNFPA Representative Kouame. “Doing so will help strengthen Afghan society, and the country and its future prospects, as a whole.”

Resident Coordinator Office
UNOCA Compound, Kabul Jalalabad Road
Kabul, Afghanistan
URL: https://afghanistan.un.org/en/52309-against-my-will-defying-practices-harm-women-and-girls-and-undermine-equality-afghanistan




