Date: 06 June 2024
Title: Bangladesh government steps up efforts to end child marriage, reaching over 6 million nationwide, supported by UNFPA and UNICEF
Content: 06 June 2024
UNFPA-UNICEF Global Programme to End Child Marriage announces phase III, urging increased and targeted investments as well as strengthened legislations to meet the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals.
DHAKA, 5 June 2024 – The Ministry of Women and Children Affairs in Bangladesh, in collaboration with UNFPA and UNICEF, launched today the Phase III of the joint Global Programme to End Child Marriage (GPECM).

Set to run till 2030, the Global Programme targets the most marginalized communities across the country and aims to bolster resources and sharpen focus to support the Government of Bangladesh on its endeavor to end child marriage. The new phase will focus on strengthening the legal framework against child marriage, increasing education completion rates, and shifting social norms by leveraging the Government’s social protection schemes and engaging with communities.

To meet Sustainable Development Goal 5, which calls for the elimination of child marriage by 2030, Bangladesh must accelerate its efforts by 22 times.[1] While latest available data indicates a downward trend in child marriage in many districts, an increase is appreciated in others, affecting those most vulnerable - Affluent and educated girls experience more significant reductions, while child marriage remains high among underprivileged, uneducated, and rural girls.

While addressing the launching event Ms. Simeen Hussain (Rimi), Honorable State Minister, Ministry of Women and Children Affairs said, “Eradicating child marriage is a cornerstone of our commitment to safeguarding the rights of children in Bangladesh. We commend the collaborative efforts of UNFPA and UNICEF and affirm our commitment to working closely and effectively to implement the National Plan of Action to End Child Marriage and roll out the Child Marriage Restraint Act. We also must focus on the behavioural aspect for changing people’s outlook as law alone cannot change what is being practiced for long.”

The Honorable Prime Minister of Bangladesh has publicly pledged to abolish marriages for girls under the age of 18 by 2041.[2] Supporting the government, the Global
Programme will leverage multi-sectoral, scalable, and evidence-based interventions to ensure the full execution of the National Plan of Action to End Child Marriage.

“Currently, the rate of reduction of child marriage in Bangladesh is only 2.1 percent per year, which means it will take Bangladesh over two centuries — 215 years — to eliminate child marriage,” said Ms. Kristine Blokhus, Country Representative to UNFPA Bangladesh.

"Keeping girls in school is a game changer. Increased, targeted investments in sexual and reproductive health services and comprehensive sexuality education equip adolescent girls with the tools to make informed decisions about their bodies and lives and empower them as agents of change and future leaders," she added.

"UNICEF is entering this new phase with a renewed commitment to empowering every child, especially rural adolescent girls and young women with life skills,” said Mr. Stanley Gwavuya, OIC Representative of UNICEF in Bangladesh. “Working in districts with a high prevalence of child marriage, we will work with partners to address the root causes, engage key actors, and provide comprehensive support to both unmarried and married adolescent girls."

During the previous phases, UNFPA and UNICEF collaborated closely to assist the government in reaching 5.5 million girls, analysing factors driving child marriage, empowering grassroots organizations, and strengthening services and protection for vulnerable girls in Bangladesh.

Over the next four years (2024-2027), UNFPA and UNICEF aims to achieve significant milestones through the joint workplan by engaging over 1,200,000 adolescent girls (aged 10-19) in life skills or comprehensive sexuality education (CSE) interventions.

Additionally, over 6,100,000 individuals will be reached with mass media messaging on child marriage, the rights of adolescent girls, and gender equality. The program will also involve 2,174,300 individuals and 1,206,413 boys and men in group education and dialogue sessions in addressing harmful masculinities and gender norms.

The joint efforts of UNFPA, UNICEF, and partners underscore the collective determination to ensure every girl and boy in Bangladesh can enjoy their childhood and thrive to their full potential without the threat of child marriage. In particular, the initiative will address the root causes of child marriage such as poverty, gender-based violence, limited access to sexual and reproductive health services, climate shocks, and humanitarian emergencies.

Launched in 2016, the UNFPA-UNICEF Global Programme to End Child Marriage is the largest global initiative to address child marriage. It is supported globally by the Governments of Belgium, Canada, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and Zonta International.




For more information please contact:

Faria Selim, Communication specialist, UNICEF Bangladesh, Email: fselim@unicef.org

Asma Akter, National Programme Officer - Communication (Social and Media), UNFPA Bangladesh,  Email: asma@unfpa.org


Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/270869-bangladesh-government-steps-efforts-end-child-marriage-reaching-over-6-million-nationwide




Date: 05 June 2024
Title: Children and UNICEF join hands to advocate for a child-centric budget at the National Parliament
Content: 05 June 2024
The briefing, putting children at the center of the budget discussion, was organized by UNICEF with the members of the Parliamentary Caucus on Child Rights, Standing Committees on the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Health and the Bangladesh Parliamentary Forum on
Health & Wellbeing.
Dhaka, 03 June 2024 – UNICEF and children representatives from the Bangladesh Generation Parliament initiative highlighted today the critical need for enhanced allocation and effective utilization of the national budget in key child welfare sectors during a parliamentary pre-briefing held at the Bangladesh National Parliament today.

This year, the “Safeguarding Children’s Interest in the National Budget: Pre-Budget Briefing” is jointly organized by UNICEF with the members of the Parliamentary Caucus on Child Rights, Standing Committees on the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Health and the Bangladesh Parliamentary Forum on Health & Wellbeing.

This briefing follows the comprehensive analysis of the national budget for the fiscal year 2023-2024 conducted by UNICEF and presented it to the parliamentarians, revealing concerning trends in budget allocation and utilization for key sectors, particularly education, health, and social protection. The presentation also sheds light on the investment needs in the three key sectors for the upcoming budget and recommendations going forward.

Children representing eight divisions of Bangladesh were present at the event and voiced their concerns and aspirations of their peers at the briefing. "If we can participate in budget discussions, it will help us express our opinions, the obstacles that we face in our everyday life and the needs related to our education, health and other areas”, said 11-year-old child journalist Owaiz Abtee from Kurigram.

“Engaging children in pre-budget analysis is a powerful step towards fostering active citizenship and ensuring their voices are heard in shaping our nation's future. UNICEF's support in this initiative underscores our commitment to inclusive and participatory governance”, said the Chief Guest, Noor-E-Alam Chowdhury, Chief Whip in the Bangladesh National Parliament.

Among other key issues, the briefing referred to the need of highlighting the underutilization of funds in critical sectors, which is complemented by the lack of allocation in other critical areas.

In the 2023-2024 fiscal year, despite an increase in the total budget size by 12.3 per cent compared to the previous year, the allocation for crucial sectors like health, education, and social protection has proportionally declined, posing a significant risk to the well-being of children and in achieving the country's development goals.

"Investing in our children is not just a moral obligation—it is a smart economic strategy that would bring high returns. Ensuring full utilization of the allocated budget for children is essential for sustaining the remarkable developmental strides Bangladesh has made," said Mr. Stanley Gwavuya, OIC Representative to UNICEF in Bangladesh, emphasising the importance of strategic investments in children.

"It is our duty as policymakers to ensure that the allocation and execution of budgets reflect our commitment to the well-being and rights of every child in Bangladesh. Today’s discussion reiterates our collective responsibility to enhance the mechanisms of budget utilization,” said Mr. Shamsul Hoque Tuku, MP, the Deputy Speaker of the National Parliament, and the Chair of the Parliamentary Caucus on Child Rights echoing the need for legislative support.

In the Health sector, Bangladesh has achieved remarkable progress in reducing maternal mortality and under-five mortality. However, the upcoming national budget needs to ensure 2 per cent of GDP investment in health with a special focus on access to universal health services for all, increasing the health workforce, medicines and equipment in primary healthcare facilities and increasing immunization financing.

In Education, Bangladesh has achieved nearly 100% enrolment in primary education with gender parity. It is crucial to ensure 3 per cent of GDP investment in education and focus on increasing students’ competencies in the primary and secondary levels, curriculum reform, strengthening the student assessment system, training teachers, and making schools heatproof.

In social protection, Mother and Child Benefit Programme is a critical intervention to ensure children’s nutrition in their early years. Though Bangladesh invests reasonable resources in social protection, benefits need to reach those in need.

Additionally, UNICEF conducted a U-report poll involving over 28,000 young voices, to incorporate broader youth opinions. 84 per cent of the participants responded that it is important for the Government to spend more on health, education and social protection directly impacting children. This initiative is a testament to UNICEF's commitment to incorporating children's voices in policy dialogues that affect their lives directly.



For more information, please contatc: Farjana Sultana, Communication Officer, UNICEF Bangladesh, fasultana@unicef.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/270603-children-and-unicef-join-hands-advocate-child-centric-budget-national-parliament%C2%A0-%C2%A0




Date: 02 June 2024
Title: WFP increases food rations again for Rohingya in Cox’s Bazar – will reach full ration by August
Content: 02 June 2024
31 May 2024
DHAKA—Starting June 1, the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) will partially increase food rations for all Rohingya in Cox’s Bazar camps, raising the entitlement from US$10 to US$11 per person per month. This marks the second increase this year and a step closer to reaching the full ration target of US$12.50 by August.
In addition to the monetary increase, WFP has included fortified rice in its food assistance since the beginning of this year. Locally procured and fortified, this rice has significantly higher nutritional value than regular rice, containing essential vitamins and micronutrients critical to people’s health and wellbeing. Coverage of this enhanced assistance has already reached 100 percent of the Rohingya population in Cox’s Bazar.
In 2023, faced with an unprecedented funding crisis, WFP had to cut its food assistance from the full entitlement at the time of US$12 to US$8, leaving the Rohingya with just 25 cents to meet their daily food needs. While a partial increase was made at the beginning of this year, from US$8 to US$10, consequences of hunger and malnutrition persisted, exacerbating the already dire situation in the camps.
By November, 90 percent of the population could not afford an adequate diet, up from 80 percent in June. The nutritional status among children deteriorated rapidly, with the global acute malnutrition (GAM) rate rising to 15.1 percent, exceeding the WHO emergency threshold and the highest rate recorded since 2017.
“It is imperative that we return to full rations as soon as possible. Doing so will not only address the immediate suffering but also reduce the strain on other critical programmes, such as protection, health, education, shelter, cooking gas – many of which now face severe funding cuts,” said Dom Scalpelli, WFP Country Director for Bangladesh.
To escape the hardships in the camps, nearly 4,500 Rohingya risked their lives at sea in 2023, some 569 of them died or went missing along the journey – the most since 2014. In the camps, the security situation has deteriorated. In recent months, violent incidents occurred nearly daily in the camps, with alleged abductions and forced recruitment of men by military groups being a major concern.
On May 24, a large fire broke out in one section of the camps, leaving some 4,000 people homeless. As an immediate response, WFP has been providing the affected households with hot meals and high-energy biscuits. This was followed by Cyclone Remal, which hit the southern coastal regions of Bangladesh two days later, with Cox’s Bazar and Bhasan Char along its path. Fortunately, no major damage occurred, but WFP and its partners remain on high alert as the monsoon season starts in June.
"We thank the international community for their unwavering support. Their efforts at every level, not just in mobilizing funds but also through tireless advocacy to keep the Rohingya crisis high on their governments' political agendas, are the best examples of humanitarianism and humanity. Their support remains critical until a lasting solution can be found for the 1 million Rohingya in Bangladesh," added Scalpelli.


For more information please contact:
Tareq Salahuddin, Communications Officer, WFP Bangladesh tareq.salahuddin@wfp.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/270367-wfp-increases-food-rations-again-rohingya-cox%E2%80%99s-bazar-%E2%80%93-will-reach-full-ration-august




Date: 28 May 2024
Title: 3.2 million children are at risk as Cyclone Remal hits hard in the coastal areas of Bangladesh
Content: 28 May 2024
Statement attributable to Sheldon Yett, UNICEF Representative to Bangladesh
27 May 2024
“As Cyclone Remal hits the coastal areas of Bangladesh, over 8.4 million people, including 3.2 million children, are at high health, nutrition, sanitation, and safety risks. Our thoughts go out to the children and their families at this critical moment as they endure the storm's impact.
“From the information received to date, Bhola, Patuakhli and Bagerhat have been impacted the most with many upazillas being inundated.
“UNICEF has been on the ground since the beginning and supporting the government in its early warning efforts while ensuring a swift and effective response to address the aftermath of the cyclone. UNICEF has prepositioned supplies that include water purification tablets, jerrycans, mobile toilets, hygiene and family kits and more in 35 warehouses countrywide for distribution in the affected communities and shelters.
“Additionally, we have two rapid response teams ready to be deployed to the most affected areas.
“Through our initial response, UNICEF plans to reach people in the coastal region including Rohingya Camps and Cox’s Bazar. Critical funding gaps remain across all sectors to meet the immediate needs of girls, women, and persons with disabilities.
“We are working closely with the Government and our partners to monitor the situation and ensure coordinated efforts to provide swift support and relief to those in need. Our priority is to protect the lives and well-being of the most vulnerable, particularly children, who are the most vulnerable during such disasters.
“We remain committed to standing by the people of Bangladesh through this challenging time and providing all necessary assistance to help them survive and recover from the aftermath of Cyclone Remal.”


For more information, please contact:
Faria Selim, Communication Specialist, UNICEF Bangladesh,
Tel: +880 181 758 6096, fselim@unicef.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/269785-32-million-children-are-risk-cyclone-remal%C2%A0hits-hard-coastal-areas-bangladesh




Date: 28 May 2024
Title: UN Headquarters Observes International Day of   United Nations Peacekeepers on 30 May
Content: 28 May 2024
Two peacekeepers from Bangladesh to be honored posthumously at UN ceremony
UN Headquarters will observe the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers on Thursday, 30 May 2024.

In 1948, the historic decision was made to deploy military observers to the Middle East to supervise the implementation of Israel-Arab Armistice Agreements, in what became the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization.

Since that time, more than two million peacekeepers from 125 countries have since served in 71 operations around the world. Today, some 76,000 women and men are serving in 11 conflict zones across Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East.

Bangladesh is the 3rd largest contributor of uniformed personnel to UN Peacekeeping.  It currently deploys more than 5,900 military and police personnel to the UN operations in Abyei, Afghanistan, the Central African Republic, Cyprus, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lebanon, Libya, Mali, South Sudan and Western Sahara,

During formal ceremonies at United Nations Headquarters, Secretary-General, António Guterres, will lay a wreath to honour all UN peacekeepers who have lost their lives since 1948. He will also preside over a ceremony in the Trusteeship Council Chamber, at which Dag Hammarskjöld Medals will be awarded posthumously to 64 military, police, and civilian peacekeepers, who lost their lives serving under the UN flag, including 61 who perished last year.
Among the peacekeepers to be honoured posthumously with the Dag Hammarskjold medal are 2 from Bangladesh: SGT Mamanur Rashid who served with the UN Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo (MONUSCO); and Ms Shipra Bose a civilian peacekeeper who worked for the UN Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM).

The Secretary-General will also present the 2023 Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award to Major Radhika Sen, a military officer from India, who served with the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO).
Created in 2016, the Award “recognizes the dedication and effort of an individual peacekeeper in promoting the principles of UN Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women, peace and security”.
In his message, the Secretary-General said: “Today we pay tribute to the more than 76,000 United Nations peacekeepers who embody humanity’s highest ideal: peace. Day in and day out, at great personal risk, these women and men bravely work in some of the most dangerous and unstable places on earth to protect civilians, uphold human rights, support elections and strengthen institutions. More than 4,300 peacekeepers have paid the ultimate price while serving under the UN flag. We will never forget them.”

The theme for 2024 International Day of UN Peacekeepers is “Fit for the future, building better together.”   The theme denotes that while UN Peacekeeping has proven to be part of the solution for over 75 years -- assisting host countries in navigating the difficult path from conflict to peace --  the Secretary-General’s New Agenda for Peace policy brief sets out a path for multilateral peace and security operations to remain viable tools to address future crises and conflict.

“UN Peacekeeping remains a unique global partnership, with peacekeepers from over 120 countries making a meaningful difference every day to millions of people in some of the most world's most difficult places,” said Jean-Pierre Lacroix, Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations. "As we respond to tomorrow's challenges, UN Peacekeeping continues to evolve, leveraging partnerships to be nimble, responsive and fit-for-purpose, promote stability, protect the vulnerable and help to build a durable peace.”

The International Day of UN Peacekeepers was established by the UN General Assembly in 2002, to pay tribute to all men and women serving in peacekeeping, and to honour the memory of those who have lost their lives in the cause of peace.
Schedule of Events at Headquarters on 30 May
09:45 a.m.:  The Secretary-General will lay a wreath in honour of fallen peacekeepers at the Peacekeepers Memorial Site on the North Lawn. (If inclement weather, the ceremony will be held near the Chagall window in the Visitors’ Lobby).  While UN Photo and UN TV will cover the ceremony, members of the UN press corps are invited.  It will not be webcast live, but will be available on demand soon after the event: https://webtv.un.org/en
11:00 a.m.:  The Dag Hammarskjöld Medal and Military Gender Advocate of the Year ceremonies will be held in the Trusteeship Council Chamber and shown live on UN Webcast:  https://webtv.un.org/en/asset/k1u/k1udwgod6x
+12:15 p.m.: Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations, Jean-Pierre Lacroix will be the guest at the noon briefing.  It will be webcast live at https://webtv.un.org/en

Media Contacts:  Douglas Coffman, Department of Global Communications -+1 (917) 361-9923,  e-mail: coffmand@un.org; or Hector Calderon, hector.calderon@un.org or Aditya Mehta, mehta2@un.org from the Department of Peace Operations .
For more information, please visit the Peacekeepers Day websites here: https://www.un.org/en/observances/peacekeepers-day; or
https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/international-day-of-un-peacekeepers-2024-0

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/269794-un-headquarters-observes-international-day-united-nations-peacekeepers-30-may




Date: 27 May 2024
Title: Ahead of Cyclone Remal, WFP’s Anticipatory Action Cash Assistance Reaches Over 30,000 Families Most At-Risk in Khulna and Barishal Division
Content: 27 May 2024
26 May 2024 Dhaka
Ahead of Cyclone Remal's anticipated landfall in the southern coastal regions of Bangladesh, the World Food Programme (WFP) has swiftly dispatched cash assistance to families most at risk across Khulna and Barishal Division.

A total of 30,000 families, or 150,000 people, in 11 upazilas spanning five districts—Khulna, Satkhira, Barguna, Patuakhali, and Bhola—received BDT 5,000 (US$43) each earlier today. The cash, facilitated through bKash, a Bank-led Mobile Financial Service Provider partnering with WFP, will aid families in preparing for and recovering from the impending storm.

With this assistance, families have been able to procure essential items such as food, medicines, and cattle feed. Additionally, some have utilized the funds to reinforce their homes with ropes and arrange transportation for family members to safer locations. The cash distribution was complemented by early warning messages and evacuation support, coordinated with local government authorities in alignment with the Cyclone Preparedness Programme managed by the Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief.

Cyclone Remal, meaning "sand" in Arabic, is the first pre-monsoon cyclone in the Bay of Bengal this season. The Government of Bangladesh has issued cyclone signal number 10, out of a maximum of 11, indicating the severity of this storm.

This timely response is part of one of WFP's flagship programmes, Anticipatory Action (AA) for climate shocks. With generous support from Germany, through WFP’s Anticipatory Action Trust Fund, WFP activated this support and provided forecast-based cash assistance.

"Early action saves lives. WFP has amassed years of experience in Anticipatory Action worldwide and here in Bangladesh," remarked Dom Scalpelli, WFP Bangladesh Country Director. "Through innovative approaches like this, we will continue to assist the Government in bolstering its national emergency preparedness and enhancing the resilience of communities disproportionately impacted by climate change.”

The AA programme enables the implementation and financing of actions before an extreme weather event occurs. These anticipatory actions aim to prevent and mitigate – to the extent possible – the effects of extreme weather on the food security and nutrition of highly vulnerable people.

Launched in 2015, WFP’s AA portfolio now includes 36 countries in Asia, Africa, and Latin America and the Caribbean. In Bangladesh, WFP, together with national and local government partners, has been supporting the development of early-warning systems and anticipatory actions for critical natural hazards such as floods, cyclones, flash flood, and heavy rainfall.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/269696-ahead-cyclone-remal-wfp%E2%80%99s-anticipatory-action-cash-assistance-reaches-over-30000-families




Date: 26 May 2024
Title: Workshop highlights importance of integrating nutrition into agriculture value chain
Content: 26 May 2024
Dhaka, 22 May 2024
Speakers emphasized the importance of integrating nutrition into the agricultural value chain to enhance food security and improve livelihoods at a workshop held yesterday at Sech Bhaban in the capital.
The National Inception Workshop, organized by the Smallholder Agricultural Competitiveness Project-Diversified Resilient Agriculture for Improved Food and Nutrition Securities (SACP-RAINS), focused on promoting climate resilience and diversifying agriculture. The workshop discussed that by incorporating nutritional considerations at each stage of the value chain—from production and processing to distribution and consumption—agricultural policies and practices can play a crucial role in addressing malnutrition.
The Department of Agricultural Extension, the leading implementing agency of the project, has coordinated efforts with the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute, Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation, and the Department of Agricultural Marketing to improve the life and livelihood of smallholder farmers.
Dr Malay Choudhury, Additional Secretary (Extension), Ministry of Agriculture said, "I hope that all participants and associated institutions agree on adopting innovative ideas and practical strategies to advance the activity of the project." He also emphasized the importance of sustainable technology, necessary inputs, and training provided to smallholder farmers, noting that these resources would significantly improve their production, consumption, and marketing activities.
The four-year project works in 20 districts in the coastal region, the drought-prone region, and the northern Char region, supporting communities to build resilience to environmental and economic shocks. By specifically targeting households most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, RAINS directly improves the income and nutrition of 670,000 women and men.
The IFAD-financed SACP project supports 250,000 coastal farmers to diversify crops, improve livelihoods, and build climate resilience and its success of this model has opened opportunities to extend the project's reach to an additional 420,000 farmers through a grant financing provided by the Global Agriculture and Food Security Program. Technical assistance for the project is provided by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
The project targets climate-vulnerable hotspot areas, including coastal regions, river erosion zones, and drought-prone districts, aiming to enhance the income and living standards of 670,000 smallholder farmers. The project's integrated approach ensures close collaboration among key agricultural bodies, guaranteeing effective implementation and tangible outcomes.
Rilla Kirk, Prgramme Manager, IFAD in Bangladesh, highlighted the importance of the initiative, saying, "this initiative represents a vital step towards ensuring that smallholder farmers are equipped with the tools and knowledge to build resilience against climate change. We are proud to work hand in hand with the government of Bangladesh and other partners to support a project that promises to enhance food security and nutritional outcomes for vulnerable communities in rural Bangladesh."
The workshop was presided over by Md. Tajul Islam Patwari, Acting Director General and Director of the Field Wing of the Department of Agricultural Extension. Project Director Dr. Muhammad Emdadul Haque delivered the welcome speech and presented the project's keynote.
"Within 50 years of independence, Bangladesh has quadrupled its rice production and significantly increased vegetable and fruit yields. This success is due to improved agricultural education, research, and extension services, with credit to the government and, notably, the hardworking farmers,’ said Md. Tajul Islam Patwari.
Dia Sanou, Deputy Country Representative, FAO Bangladesh, and Rudaba Khondker, Country Director, Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN), were also present at the event.
IFAD’s programme in Bangladesh is one of its largest. Currently, IFAD has invested USD 519 million in Bangladesh, distributed across six ongoing projects implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Local Government Engineering Department, Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation, and the Bangladesh Water Development Board. Bangladesh has also shown its strong commitment to IFAD’s mandate, contributing USD 2 million to IFAD’s resources as a member of its Governing Council.

Contact:  Farhana Urmee, f.urmee@ifad.org




Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/269618-workshop-highlights-importance-integrating-nutrition-agriculture-value-chain




Date: 19 May 2024
Title: U.S. Ambassador to UN Agencies in Rome Calls for Urgent and Sustained Support for Rohingya Refugees and their host communities in Bangladesh
Content: 19 May 2024
DHAKA - After a week-long mission in Bangladesh, visiting projects of the World Food Programme (WFP), the Food and Agriculture Organization  (FAO), and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), Ambassador Jeffrey Prescott, the U.S. Representative to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture, called on the international community to continue its support to the Rohingya refugees and their Bangladeshi host communities for a crisis that shows no signs of abating.

Some of the challenges the Ambassador witnessed firsthand include the poor living conditions in the camps and continued restrictions on movement and job opportunities. The camps are highly susceptible to hazards such as fires and climate shocks such as floods and cyclones, which deepen the population’s vulnerability each time they strike. In addition, in 2023, humanitarian assistance was scaled back for the first time due to a lack of funding, resulting in cuts in food rations.

The Ambassador invited a team of international and local journalists to join the trip. Together, they witnessed the work of the three agencies on the ground, including WFP’s food assistance to the nearly one million Rohingya people. In an upcycling centre in the camps, they observed how vulnerable Rohingya men and women are trained to repurpose wrappings of nutrition products into useful products, including seedling bags for vegetable gardening.

In the Cox’s Bazar community, the delegation observed how WFP and FAO are collaborating to enhance the livelihoods of local communities by sourcing fresh produce for WFP’s food distribution in the camps. At a primary school, they learned about the comprehensive support provided by both agencies in school feeding, health, literacy, and gardening. The school feeding programme in Bangladesh has been generously funded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture through the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program for nearly two decades.

They also visited a crab hatchery financed by IFAD as part of its long-lasting solutions to develop climate-resilient, local food production and value chains for poor, rural, small-scale farmers.

At the Rohingya Culture and Memory Centre, Rohingya artists and volunteers curated a poignant exhibition for the delegation, showcasing the rich cultural heritage and identity of the Rohingya people.

“It is humbling to witness the unimaginable scale of this crisis and the concerted efforts by the Government and humanitarian partners in response. Many of the programmes we visited are designed not just to alleviate immediate hardships but also to extend impact beyond the camps, playing a critical role in building the resilience of host communities. The United States is fully committed to supporting our partners on the ground, and we call on others to also step up and join us," Ambassador Prescott said.

The United States is the single largest donor to the ongoing refugee crisis in Bangladesh, committing US$2.4 billion since August 2017, of which nearly US$2 billion has been provided for Rohingyas and host communities.

"We are delighted that Ambassador Prescott had the chance to meet the Bangladeshi rural women and men and hear from them how our investment and support have helped them build better lives and livelihoods,” said Arnoud Hameleers, IFAD Country Director.

“We showed the Ambassador and the delegation some of our major initiatives in Cox’s Bazar, particularly in the areas of homestead gardening, aggregation centres, and tree plantation sites. We eagerly anticipate continued collaboration with USAID and our sister UN agencies to further expand our interventions in food and agriculture in Bangladesh,” said Dr Jiaoqun Shi, FAO Representative.

“While the situation remains precarious in the camps, we are fortunate to have the steadfast support of the United States and the rest of the international community. Starting in June, we will increase the ration again partially, from US$10 to US$11. We thank Ambassador Prescott for choosing Bangladesh for his first field mission and the media for shedding light on the urgent needs and resilience of the Rohingya and their host communities,” said Dom Scalpelli, WFP Country Director.

The U.S. Mission to the UN Agencies in Rome works with the Rome-based international food and agriculture organizations to fight global hunger and promote sustainable development in an efficient and effective manner. With staff representing the U.S. Departments of State, Agriculture, and the Agency for International Development, the U.S. Mission specifically works to advance UN efforts in the areas of emergency food assistance and resilience building, agricultural development, and food safety.  Follow @USUNRome on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter and @USUNRomeAmb on Twitter

About the UN Rome-Based Agencies

The World Food Programme (WFP) is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) is the specialized agency of the United Nations that leads international efforts to eliminate hunger. Its goal is to achieve food security for all and make sure that people have regular access to enough high-quality food to lead active, healthy lives.  With 195 members, FAO works in more than 130 countries around the world.

IFAD is an international financial institution and a United Nations specialized agency. IFAD invests in rural people, empowering them to reduce poverty, increase food security, improve nutrition and strengthen resilience. Since 1978, it has provided more than US$24 billion in grants and low-interest loans to fund projects in developing countries.





Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/269088-us-ambassador-un-agencies-rome-calls-urgent-and-sustained-support-rohingya-refugees-and




Date: 19 May 2024
Title: Progress Review of UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework And Way Forward
Content: 19 May 2024
Dhaka, 19 May 2024
Today the Government of Bangladesh and the United Nations Country Team held a Joint Steering Committee (JSC) meeting to launch the 2023 UN Country Results Report and discuss 2024 priorities for implementing the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (Cooperation Framework). The bi-annual meeting was co-chaired by Mr. Md. Shahriar Kader Siddiky, Secretary of the Economic Relations Division (ERD), Ministry of Finance, and Ms. Gwyn Lewis, UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh with the participation of line ministries and UN agencies.

The Cooperation Framework covers the period 2022-2026 and outlines United Nations support to Bangladesh to advance the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and achieve the objectives of the 8th Five-Year Plan across five strategic priorities:


The 2023 Results Report shows how the United Nations delivered $219 million in development programming under the Cooperation Framework in 2023. Highlights included 28 million people reached with digital financial services, 250,000 marginalized children reached with remedial education, 268,491 cases resolved through UN-supported village courts, support to 267,600 survivors of gender-based violence, and 3.5 million people assisted to build urban resilience. The UN also worked to support preparations for Bangladesh’s graduation from Least Developed Country (LDC) status, and to support job creation and labour sector reforms, health and education, climate adaptation and disaster risk management, with gender equality as a key cross-cutting issue.

The UN commended the Government for its leadership role in global UN initiatives such as Early Warning for All, Transforming Education and the Food Systems Summit, which all progressed in 2023. Looking ahead to 2024 and beyond, the JSC reviewed the opportunities presented by the Summit of the Future and six key transitions to accelerate the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), highlighting the importance of integrated policy, financing and programming at scale, with a focus on Leaving No One Behind. UN agencies presented policy and programming priorities for the United Nations in 2024 across the five strategic priorities, with a special focus on climate and environment.

“The UN’s priorities are fully aligned with the Government’s vision, including the essential work needed to prepare for LDC graduation and adapt to climate change. Our focus in 2024 is on consolidating joint efforts to deliver programmes at scale and strengthen multistakeholder partnerships that can help the Government to unlock vital financing for the SDGs, including for climate action. We renew our commitment to working with Bangladesh towards a prosperous, climate-resilient future for all Bangladeshis, with gender equality, human rights and Leave No One Behind principles integrated across all our efforts,” added Ms. Lewis.

The 2023 UN Country Results Report for Bangladesh is available online at: United Nations in Bangladesh Country Results Report 2023 | United Nations in Bangladesh

“We express our gratitude to the United Nations for providing today's comprehensive review of the accomplishments in 2023 and engaging in a productive dialogue regarding development priorities for the upcoming year. As Bangladesh progresses towards LDC graduation and lays the groundwork for the 9th Five-year Plan, we anticipate sustaining our collaborative efforts with the UN, fostering a deepened partnership that includes active involvement in the Summit of the Future. Climate action and adaptation remain paramount for Bangladesh, and we deeply appreciate the UN's dedicated support to the country to  further strengthen our endeavors in this crucial area.,” said Mr. Siddiky.

The next meeting of the JSC will be held in November 2024.




For Further Information, please contact: Anahita Ahmed, Public Information Officer, UNIC, Resident Coordinator’s Office, anahita.ahmed@un.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/269098-progress-review-un-sustainable-development-cooperation-framework-and-way-forward




Date: 12 May 2024
Title: IFAD deepens partnership with Bangladesh, opens new office to drive rural development
Content: 12 May 2024
Dhaka, 3 May 2024 –
Gerardine Mukeshimana, Vice-President of The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), yesterday inaugurated a new country office in Bangladesh on her first official visit to the country, marking another step forward in IFAD’s enduring commitment to supporting Bangladesh's rural development efforts.
Speaking at the event, Mukeshimana said, “Over the past week, I have seen how IFAD and the Government of Bangladesh have worked together to empower small-scale farmers – especially women and youth - to adapt to climate change, increase their incomes, and produce more nutritious food for their communities. IFAD’s new office in Bangladesh marks a strategic milestone in our mission to be closer to our partners, foster stronger collaboration, and drive even impactful change in rural Bangladesh.”
“Today, as we open the new IFAD country office in Bangladesh, we applaud their commitment to advancing rural development. This milestone highlights our shared dedication to empowering communities and promoting sustainability. Wishing IFAD all the best on this new journey,” said Md. Hafizur Rahman, Additional Secretary and Wing Chief (Coordination and NORDIC), Economic Relations Division, Government of Bangladesh.
“The inauguration of this office is an opportunity to celebrate all that IFAD and Bangladesh have achieved together on the path to building better lives and livelihoods for rural people. It also signifies a renewed energy and enthusiasm within the country team to enhance collaborative efforts to tackle persistent development challenges,” said Reehana Rifat Raza, IFAD Regional Director, Asia-Pacific.
As IFAD strengthens its presence and expands its financial resources in Bangladesh, it recognizes the immense potential for even greater impact through enhanced partnerships with the government, bilateral and multilateral donor agencies, and the private sector. IFAD-assisted interventions have invested in everything from ensuring easy and affordable access to rural finance and enhancing infrastructure development to promoting climate-smart agricultural practices.
“This new space signals the depth of IFAD’s commitment to supporting Bangladesh in reducing poverty and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030,” said Arnoud Hameleers, IFAD Country Director, Bangladesh.
The ceremony was graced by distinguished guests, including Stephanie Micallef, Senior Adviser to the Vice-President, Jiaoqun Shi, Country Representative, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in Bangladesh, and Domenico Scalpelli, Representatives, World Food Programme Bangladesh, were also present.
The IFAD delegation, led by the Vice-President, had earlier visited IFAD-financed projects in northern Bangladesh, where they met officials from implementing partners -- the Local Government Engineering Department and Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation -- in Nilphamari, and Thakurgaon districts. They also and engaged directly with project participants, including small-scale farmers and agribusinesses. Through IFAD's support, these communities have gained access to vital resources such as finance, inputs, training, and market linkage information.
Since 1978, IFAD has supported the Government of Bangladesh in its ambitious rural development goals. Over the past 45 years, IFAD has supported 37 projects, mobilizing USD 3.9 billion in financing, to improve the lives and livelihoods of more than 11 million families.
Today, IFAD’s programme in Bangladesh is one of its largest. Currently, IFAD has invested USD 519 million in Bangladesh, distributed across six ongoing projects implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Local Government Engineering Department, Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation and the Bangladesh Water Development Board. Bangladesh has also shown its strong commitment to IFAD’s mandate, contributing USD 2 million to IFAD’s resources as a member of its Governing Council.
Read more about IFAD’s work in Bangladesh.
Contact:
Farhana Urmee
Email: f.urmee@ifad.org
Tel: +8801308 311 347




Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/268465-ifad-deepens-partnership-bangladesh-opens-new-office-drive-rural-development




Date: 06 May 2024
Title: UNICEF supports Directorate General of Health Services on dissemination of guidelines on protection of children and pregnant women from heat stress in Bangladesh
Content: 06 May 2024
As the country reels from a suffocating heatwave, we help the government to help people in combatting heat-related risks, such as preterm birth and severe heat stress in young children.

Dhaka, 5 May 2024 – The Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) in Bangladesh, with UNICEF's support, launched today the National Guidelines on Heat-Related Illnesses to protect children and vulnerable populations, including pregnant women from heat-related health risks.

This event marks a critical step in keeping children safe as Bangladesh is increasingly buffeted by the impacts of climate change. In alignment with UNICEF's Healthy Environments for Healthy Children global program framework, launched in 2021, the National Guidelines, jointly developed by DGHS with UNICEF support, underscore the importance of a primary healthcare approach in protecting vulnerable populations from the adverse effects of climate change.


These National Guidelines, developed in collaboration with experts from health and other sectors, provide a comprehensive framework for responding effectively to heat-related health risks. These risks, according to UNICEF reports, include that the odds of a preterm birth rise by 5 per cent per 1°C increase in temperature, and by 16 per cent during heatwave versus non-heatwave days, demonstrating that the risk of a preterm delivery is higher during a heatwave – i.e., greater exposure and severity result in greater risk.  The preterm birth rate in Bangladesh (16.2%) is the highest in the world and this is further aggravated by heatwaves.

In addition, the Guidelines include UNICEF’s B.E.A.T the Heat framework, based on the English acronym: 1) BE AWARE of heat stress and protect yourself; 2) EASILY IDENTIFY the symptoms of heat stress; 3) ACT IMMEDIATELY to protect yourself and others; and 4) TAKE the person to a health facility if an individual is showing serious symptoms. These directives are aimed at raising public awareness and fostering mass participation in heat-related health initiatives. These guidelines will be disseminated widely through various government ministries, mass media channels, and grassroots organizations to ensure broader community and public engagement.

"Every child has the right to a healthy environment, and we all have a role to play. By addressing heat-related illnesses and prioritizing skills for healthcare professionals, we can help pave the way for a healthier and brighter future for children in Bangladesh," emphasized Sheldon Yett, Representative of UNICEF in Bangladesh.

According to recent projections from UNICEF and as a stark reminder of climate change impact, by 2050 a staggering 35.5 million children in Bangladesh, 99 per cent of the total child population at that time, are set to face high heatwave frequency - meaning on average 4.5 or more heatwaves per year. This will be a significant surge from 2020, when just 2.6 million children, representing 5 per cent, were exposed to such risks.

UNICEF estimates that one in three children in Bangladesh, nearly 20 million children, bear the brunt of climate change every day. Children are victims of extreme weather, such as the current heatwaves, floods, river erosion, sea level rise, and other environmental shocks driven by climate change.

As the impact on children is diverse, UNICEF is also working on supporting the Government in addressing these risks in the education sector. Last week 30 million children had their classes and learning upended, when all schools were closed in Bangladesh due to the scorching heatwave as temperatures skyrocketed to 40C and beyond. With technical support from UNICEF, the Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education has organized a workshop with education ministries and directorates to develop a Climate Change in Education framework. This initiative aims to integrate climate change education into the educational landscape, fostering a generation equipped to tackle environmental challenges.

Extreme heat waves have become increasingly prevalent in Bangladesh, posing significant health risks to its population, particularly during the humid months from April to August. UNICEF remains committed to supporting Bangladesh in its efforts to combat climate-related health challenges and looks forward to continued collaboration with DGHS, the Ministries of Education, and other partners in building a resilient and sustainable future for every child.



For more information please contact:
Farjana Sultana, Communication Officer, UNICEF Bangladesh, Tel: +880 191 151 9507, fasultana@unicef.org








Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/267869-unicef-supports-directorate-general-health-services-dissemination-guidelines-protection




Date: 02 May 2024
Title: SDG Cafe 10.0: Discussing the Primary Healthcare Challenges in Bangladesh over Coffee
Content: 02 May 2024
Bangladesh has made commendable progress in advancing healthcare access and outcomes in recent years. However, ensuring equitable access to quality primary healthcare services remains a significant challenge, particularly in remote and underserved areas.
May 2, 2024: UNOPS Bangladesh hosted the 10th episode of "SDG Café," a monthly roundtable discussion series dedicated to addressing pressing development challenges and co-creating innovative solutions. As part of UNOPS’s commitment to getting Agenda 2030 back on track, this episode places the spotlight on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG 3), dedicated to ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all in Bangladesh and beyond.
This roundtable took place on May 2, 2024 with the theme, ‘Primary Healthcare Challenges in Bangladesh’. Bangladesh has made commendable progress in advancing healthcare access and outcomes in recent years. However, ensuring equitable access to quality primary healthcare services remains a significant challenge, particularly in remote and underserved areas.
The COVID-19 pandemic has further underscored the importance of robust and accessible primary healthcare services. It has laid bare existing disparities and vulnerabilities within the healthcare system, highlighting the urgent need for innovative approaches and collaborative efforts to strengthen primary healthcare delivery. Additionally, Bangladesh faces a shortage of healthcare workers, particularly in rural areas. The World Bank estimates that Bangladesh has a density of only 0.8 doctors per 1,000 people, which is far below the WHO recommendation of 4.45 doctors per 1,000 people.
The highlight of the event was the keynote speech delivered by esteemed public health expert Dr. Benazir Ahmed, Coordinator of the Bangladesh TA Project at the Mérieux Foundation under the French Development Agency (AFD).
He stated, "We are at a pivotal moment in healthcare, where the convergence of innovation and dedication can reshape the landscape of primary healthcare in Bangladesh. As we gather to address the challenges and chart the course forward, it's imperative to ground our discussions in data-driven insights and practical solutions." He mentioned, “According to the World Bank, as of 2022, only 61% of the population in Bangladesh had access to basic healthcare services, indicating a significant gap in coverage. Communicable diseases such as diarrhea, pneumonia, and tuberculosis continue to pose significant challenges to public health, with non-communicable diseases like diabetes and cardiovascular ailments on the rise. A crucial element is strengthening bio-safety practices within healthcare facilities. This safeguards both patients and healthcare workers from infectious diseases, which are a major public health concern in Bangladesh.”
The Partnerships and Program Development Manager of UNOPS in Bangladesh, Berhanu Assefa Tegegne acknowledged the gravity of the situation and the crucial need for collaborative efforts. He stated that, “As UNOPS, We are deeply committed to supporting the Government of Bangladesh in achieving its Sustainable Development Goals, particularly in the realm of primary health care. According to WHO, Bangladesh has made remarkable progress in healthcare, but challenges persist, especially in ensuring equitable access and quality services for all. In 2021, the infant mortality rate in Bangladesh was 24 deaths per 1,000 live births, and the under-five mortality rate was 38 deaths per 1,000 live births. These rates, while improved from previous years, are still above the global averages.”
He further highlighted, “With data indicating that around 80% of healthcare in Bangladesh is provided by the private sector, there's a critical need for strategic partnerships and innovative solutions to strengthen the public healthcare system. Through collaborative efforts and leveraging technology, we can enhance healthcare delivery, improve infrastructure, and empower communities towards a healthier future. Despite the challenges, there are also reasons for optimism. The Government of Bangladesh has made primary healthcare a priority, and there are a number of initiatives underway to improve access to quality care. UNOPS is proud to be a partner in these efforts, and we are committed to working with the government to ensure that everyone in Bangladesh has access to the healthcare services they need.”
After the keynote speeches, a lively open discussion unfolded, providing a platform for participants to exchange thoughts, share insights, and delve into potential collaborations aimed at advancing primary healthcare services. The roundtable discussion sought to identify the primary healthcare challenges in Bangladesh.
This SDG Café convened essential stakeholders in Bangladesh, including government representatives, international organizations, and development partners like the Health Services Division, Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO), World Bank, Asian Development Bank (ADB), UN agencies, academics, and public health experts. Through engaging discussions, they offered valuable guidance and put forward inventive strategies and recommendations to advance SDG 3 and enhance healthcare accessibility for all.
For media inquiries, please contact: Musfika Sultana Communications Focal Email: musfikaS@unops.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/267599-sdg-cafe-100-discussing-primary-healthcare-challenges-bangladesh-over-coffee




Date: 25 April 2024
Title: MOU Signing Ceremony Between UNOPS Bangladesh and The Department of Disaster Management (DDM), Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief, Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Content: 25 April 2024
April 24, 2024
The Department of Disaster Management (DDM) under the Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief and The United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) have signed a landmark Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to strengthen collaboration on disaster risk reduction (DRR) initiatives in Bangladesh.
The MOU was signed by Md. Mijanur Rahman, Director-General of the Department of Disaster Management (DDM) and Sudhir Muralidharan, Country Manager of UNOPS Bangladesh in the presence of the representatives from DDM & UNOPS. The Director-General of the Disaster Management Department (DDM), presided over the ceremony, emphasizing the shared commitment to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and fostering an empowered & Smart Bangladesh. With its infrastructure and procurement expertise, UNOPS will support DDM in rehabilitating critical infrastructure, providing emergency supplies and establishing robust field operations.
Additionally, specialized assistance will be extended in areas such as gender integration, stakeholder engagement and human-centered design. Md. Mijanur Rahman, Director-General of the Department of Disaster Management, emphasized that this partnership, which aligns with Bangladesh's goal of reducing disaster risks, comes at a crucial time.
“With Bangladesh being one of the most disaster-prone countries in the world, experiencing an average of 7-10 tropical cyclones annually, and with over 60% of its land vulnerable to flooding, the collaboration with UNOPS is essential. This collaboration will enhance institutional capacity, implement innovative solutions, and facilitate knowledge sharing, fortifying Bangladesh's resilience against disasters and safeguarding vulnerable communities. Together, we can create a safer and more resilient future for all.” Mr. Sudhir Muralidharan, Country Manager of UNOPS Bangladesh, expressed optimism about the partnership, stating,
“Today marks a significant milestone in our joint efforts to build resilience and strengthen disaster preparedness in Bangladesh. This MOU between UNOPS and the Department of Disaster Management reflects our shared commitment to safeguarding communities across the country from the increasing impacts of climate change and natural hazards.”
He further highlighted that, “Bangladesh is regrettably one of the nations most vulnerable to climate-induced disasters like cyclones, floods and riverbank erosion. The devastation wrought by events like Cyclone Sidr in 2007 and the recent floods of 2022 underscore the urgent need for enhanced disaster risk reduction measures and adaptive solutions. Through this partnership, we aim to leverage UNOPS' expertise in infrastructure, procurement and project management to support the Department in developing resilient infrastructure, fortifying emergency response capacities and rolling out innovative technologies. Our complementary strengths can pave the way for a more proactive, coordinated and holistic approach to disaster management.” Key Highlights of the MoU Purpose:
The MoU establishes a framework of cooperation and collaboration between UNOPS and DDM in various areas of common interest. Areas of Cooperation: The cooperation aims to develop and implement plans aligning with government DRR policies, priorities and the Sendai Framework for DRR, enhance institutional capacity for disaster preparedness, coordinate efforts for pre and post-disaster situations, craft guidelines in line with international standards, explore innovative DRR solutions, and foster knowledge sharing to implement best practices, ensuring comprehensive disaster resilience in Bangladesh.
The partnership upholds the core principles of the Sendai Framework, prioritizing localized, inclusive and whole-of-society approaches to reduce disaster risks, minimize losses and safeguard human well-being. By uniting DDM's mandate and UNOPS' technical strengths, the collaboration will ensure Bangladesh is well-equipped to anticipate, respond to, and recover effectively from cyclones, floods, and other hazards exacerbated by climate change.
This strategic alliance represents a significant milestone in fostering a partnership that aligns with the global 2030 agenda for sustainable development.


For media inquiries, please contact: Musfika Sultana Communications Focal, UNOPS Bangladesh Email: musfikaS@unops.or
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/267045-mou-signing-ceremony-between-unops-bangladesh-and-department-disaster-management-ddm




Date: 25 April 2024
Title: Children are at high risk amid countrywide heatwave in Bangladesh
Content: 25 April 2024
Statement attributable to UNICEF Representative in Bangladesh, Mr. Sheldon Yett
DHAKA, 24 April 2024 – "With an oppressive heatwave persisting throughout Bangladesh, UNICEF remains deeply concerned about the health and safety of children across the country due to sweltering temperatures.

According to UNICEF’s 2021 Children's Climate Risk Index (CCRI), children in Bangladesh, are at 'extremely high risk' of the impacts of climate change. The unusual rise in temperatures poses grave risks, particularly to newborns, infants, and young children who are considered to be an especially vulnerable population to heat-related illnesses such as heat stroke and diarrhea caused by dehydration.

Moreover, as the Primary and Mass Education Ministry has ordered the closure of all government primary schools in the country till 27 April due to concerns with the impact of rising temperatures on children, UNICEF is urging parents to be extra vigilant in keeping their children hydrated and safe.

The severity of this heatwave underscores the urgent need for action to protect children from the worsening impacts of climate change. With temperatures soaring to unprecedented levels, we must prioritize the well-being of children and the most vulnerable populations.

To protect children from this heatwave, UNICEF urges frontline workers, parents, families, caregivers and local authorities to protect children and pregnant women by taking the following steps:




For more information, please contact:
Faria Selim, UNICEF Bangladesh, Tel: +880 181 758 6096, fselim@unicef.org
Farjana Sultana, UNICEF Bangladesh, Tel: +880 191 151 9507, fasultana@unicef.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/267046-children-are-high-risk-amid-countrywide-heatwave-bangladesh




Date: 25 April 2024
Title: Report launch and panel discussion on bridging skills gap for job creation in Cox's Bazar
Content: 25 April 2024
Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh, April 24, 2024
ILO Bangladesh and Cox's Bazar Chamber of Commerce and Industry released a report, titled “Skills demand and supply Assessment in the Chattogram-Cox's Bazar region,” identifying skills gaps impeding economic growth.
The shortage of qualified trainers, especially female trainers was identified as an important barrier to progress. Additionally, the absence of sector-specific data on employer’s skills needs hampers progress. Low enrolment of women in training programs highlights the urgent need to adopt measures for inclusiveness.
The findings were discussed with the objective of tackling the pressing issue of skill development and job creation in the high economic potential Chittagong-Cox's Bazar region. The panel discussion was titled “Bridgingthe Skills Gap for Job Creation in the Chittagong-Cox's Bazar Region for the Host Community of Bangladesh,”aimed to foster dialogue between a wide range of stakeholders to address the skills gap for jobs creation in theregion.
The chief guest, Dr. Gazi Md. Saifuzzaman, Director General (Grade I), Department of Youth Development (DYD), Ministry of Youth & Sports stated, “It gives me immense pleasure to know of the launch of ‘Skills Demand and Supply Assessment in Chattogram-Cox's Bazar region’ study conducted by ILO. I am certain that the outcomes of the study will guide the Government, Private Sector, UN organizations, NGOs, and Development Partners to design and deliver quality-assured harmonized market-driven skills development programmes for NEET youth and women aligned to the National Skills Development Framework – it is a commendable step towards bridging the skills gap for job creation in the Chittagong-Cox’s Bazar economic corridor.”
Mr. Vivek Prakash, Counsellor and Head of Cooperation, Rohingya and Host Communities Program, Global Affairs Canada said, “Canada has been a development partner of Bangladesh since its independence and we were an early and sustained supporter for the Rohingya crisis as well, including a significant amount of support to the host communities. When I speak with young people in the Cox's Bazar region, they tell me they dream of building their skills for modern jobs such as graphic design. That's why we are proud to support ISEC and this comprehensive evaluation of required skills and accessible training. Using regional economic investments as our driving force, we can forge a path to inclusive employment, spanning soft skills to industry specific expertise, so that we leave no one behind.”
Ms. Gwyn Lewis, United Nations Resident Coordinator for Bangladesh said, “The private sector, Government, UN agencies and NGOs all have a role to play in training young people. Through this new report, forty-nine professions have been identified in the Chattogram Division and we need to work together to prepare young people for these professions. The inclusion of women and youth is a high priority and we particularly want to advance women in skills development and access to jobs.”
Mr. Tuomo Poutiainen, Country Director, ILO Bangladesh said, “The Cox’s Bazar and Chattogram EconomicCorridor has significant economic potential with its comparative advantages, government mega-projects, and increasing private investments in high-potential sectors. However, we must jointly build human and institutional capabilities, enhance investments and private sector connectivity, and promote partnerships for decent work opportunities. The skills anticipation study is a major step in the right direction. It has identified systemic and sector-specific skills needs, and 49 hard-to-fill occupations that have high growth and employment potential inthe region.”
The project titled "Leaving No One Behind: Improving Skills and Economic Opportunities for Women and Youth in Cox's Bazar (ISEC project)" is funded by the Government of Canada. The event took place on April 24th,2024, at the Ramada Hotel in Cox's Bazar, and brought together experts and stakeholders from various sectors,whose collective expertise and insights contributed to the success of the discussions and paved the way foreffective solutions to address the skills gap and promote inclusive economic growth.Also present were Mr. Abu Murshed Chowdhury, President, Cox’s Bazar Chamber of Commerce & Industry; Mr. Md. Johar Ali, Member (Joint Secretary), National Skills Development Authority (NSDA); Mr. M. A. Akher, Director (Planning), Department of Youth Development (DYD); Mr. Anjan Shekhar Das, Director, Chittagong Chamber of Commerce & Industries; Mr. K A M Majedur Rahman, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), A. K. Khan & Co Ltd.; Ms. Sharmin Sultan, Chief People Officer, GPH Ispat Ltd.; Mr. Abdul Quader Munshi, Director, ICT & Tech Division, Ocean Paradise Hotel and other representatives from GoB, UN, partners, NGOs, private sectors, local workers union and related stakeholders.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/267034-report-launch-and-panel-discussion-bridging-skills-gap-job-creation-coxs-bazar




Date: 24 April 2024
Title: Climate change creates a ‘cocktail’ of serious health hazards for 70 per cent of the world’s workers, ILO report finds.
Content: 24 April 2024
The health consequences of climate change can include cancer, cardiovascular disease, respiratory illnesses, kidney disfunction and mental health conditions.
GENEVA (ILO News) – A “staggering” number of workers, amounting to more than 70 per cent of the global workforce, are likely to be exposed to climate-change-related health hazards, and existing occupational safety and health (OSH) protections are struggling to keep up with the resulting risks, according to a new report by the International Labour Organization (ILO).
The report, Ensuring safety and health at work in a changing climate, says that climate change is already having a serious impact on the safety and health of workers in all regions of the world. The ILO estimates that more than 2.4 billion workers (out of a global workforce of 3.4 billion) are likely to be exposed to excessive heat at some point during their work, according to the most recent figures available (2020). When calculated as a share of the global workforce, the proportion has increased from 65.5 per cent to 70.9 per cent since 2000.
In addition, the report estimates that 18,970 lives and 2.09 million disability-adjusted life years are lost annually due to the 22.87 million occupational injuries, which are attributable to excessive heat. This is not to mention the 26.2 million people worldwide living with chronic kidney disease linked to workplace heat stress (2020 figures).
However, the impact of climate change on workers goes well beyond exposure to excessive heat, the report says, creating a “cocktail of hazards”, which result in a range of dangerous health conditions.
The report notes that numerous health conditions in workers have been linked to climate change, including cancer, cardiovascular disease, respiratory illnesses, kidney disfunction and mental health conditions. The impact includes:
“It’s clear that climate change is already creating significant additional health hazards for workers,” said Manal Azzi, OSH Team Lead at the ILO. “It is essential that we heed these warnings. Occupational safety and health considerations must become part of our climate change responses – both policies and actions. Working in safe and healthy environments is recognized as one of the ILO’s fundamental principles and rights at work. We must deliver on that commitment in relation to climate change, just as in every other aspect of work.”
The report also explores current country responses, including revising or creating new legislation, regulations and guidance, and improving climate mitigation strategies – such as energy efficiency measures – in working environments.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/266847-climate-change-creates-%E2%80%98cocktail%E2%80%99-serious-health-hazards-70-cent-world%E2%80%99s-workers-ilo-report




Date: 01 April 2024
Title: Swedish Crown Princess witnesses Bangladesh's digital progress
Content: 01 April 2024
Dhaka, March 18, 2024
Her Royal Highness Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden, during her visit to Bangladesh as a Goodwill Ambassador for the UNDP, observed the significant strides made by the country in achieving digital transformation in an event titled 'Innovate Together for #ZeroDigitalDivide', organized by the ICT Division and Aspire to Innovate-a2i with the support of UNDP. The event was held at the Foreign Service Academy in Dhaka on 18 March.

The event underscore Bangladesh's steadfast commitment to realizing a future free of digital disparities, aligning with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the vision of leaving no one behind.

During the event, the Crown Princess witnessed Bangladesh's exemplary journey in bridging the digital divide through innovative initiatives such as Digital Centres, the National Helpline 333, e-commerce platforms, and freelancer support programs. These initiatives are empowering citizens, particularly young people and entrepreneurs, across Bangladesh, paving the way for inclusive growth and socio-economic development.

State Minister Zunaid Ahmed Palak, MP, shared insights into Bangladesh's Digital to Smart Bangladesh Journey, emphasizing how technology is driving social transformation by expanding access to education, healthcare, and economic opportunities. He reiterated Bangladesh's commitment to creating a world with ‘ZeroDigitalDivide’, ensuring equitable access to the benefits of the digital revolution for all citizens.

Ulrika Modéer, UN Assistant Secretary-General at UNDP, Johan Forssell, Swedish Minister for International Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade, Alexandra Berg von Linde, Ambassador of Sweden to Bangladesh, were also present during the event along with other senior government officials, UN representatives, and the private sector. Through interactive sessions and exhibitions, participants discussed the transformative impact of Bangladesh's digitalization efforts, emphasizing the opportunities created for individuals from diverse backgrounds. They also discussed Bangladesh's remarkable progress and unwavering commitment to creating a ZeroDigitalDivide world.

During the visit to Bangladesh, the Crown Princess will conduct field visits to witness firsthand the positive impact of inclusive digital development on poverty reduction in rural areas. The Crown Princess will also explore initiatives led by women and young entrepreneurs aimed at mitigating the effects of climate change in vulnerable areas, implemented by the government and UNDP.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/264786-swedish-crown-princess-witnesses-bangladeshs-digital-progress




Date: 01 April 2024
Title: UNOPS' Roundtable Discussion on the ‘Invest in  Women: Accelerate Progress’
Content: 01 April 2024
21 March, 2024

Dhaka, Bangladesh - UNOPS Bangladesh hosted the 9th episode of "SDG Café," a monthly roundtable discussion series dedicated to addressing pressing development challenges and co-creating innovative solutions.
As part of UNOPS’s commitment to getting Agenda 2030 back on track, this episode places the spotlight on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG 5), dedicated to advancing gender equality and empowering women in Bangladesh and beyond. This roundtable took place on March 21, 2024 with the theme, ‘Invest in Women: Accelerate Progress’.
The session focused on highlighting the importance of investing in women to foster inclusive and sustainable economic growth, in line with SDG 5. Addressing the enduring gender disparities in investment, especially in developing nations, the talks revolved around discussing obstacles, prospects, and inventive approaches to boost investment in businesses owned by women, elevate women into leadership positions, and advance initiatives supporting gender parity.
The highlight of the event was the keynote speeches delivered by esteemed personalities Rubana Huq, Vice-chancellor of Asian University for Women and Chairperson of Mohammadi Group, and Azmeri Haque Badhon, renowned Bangladeshi actress. Huq's address emphasized the urgency of accelerating investment in women, drawing from her extensive experience in academia and business leadership.
Badhon, known for her impactful advocacy on women's rights and social issues, brought a fresh perspective to the conversation, inspiring attendees with her passionate remarks. Rubana Huq further highlights, "Empowering women isn't just a moral imperative; it's a strategic necessity for global progress. Data consistently show that investing in women yields high returns in economic growth, GDP, social development, and sustainability. We must accelerate our efforts to bridge the gender gap. By harnessing the full potential of women, we unlock solutions to some of the world's most pressing challenges." She emphasized on the significant yet often overlooked contribution of women to Bangladesh's economy, particularly through their engagement in domestic work.
Currently, women contribute around 20 percent to the country's economy. However, if the government were to formally recognize and account for the value of domestic work performed by women, their contribution to the GDP could nearly double, potentially reaching close to 50 percent. The recognition of domestic work would lead to a substantial shift in how women's economic participation is perceived and measured.
Currently, a significant portion of women's labor, which is primarily focused on household chores and caregiving responsibilities, is not considered in traditional economic indicators. By acknowledging and valuing this work, it would not only reflect a more accurate representation of women's economic activity but also lead to broader implications for policy-making and social change. The Country Manager of UNOPS in Bangladesh, Sudhir Muralidharan acknowledged the gravity of the situation and the crucial need for collaborative efforts. He stated that, "As we commemorate International Women's Day 2024, let us reaffirm our commitment to gender equality and women's empowerment.
Recent data underscores the urgency of our mission: globally, women continue to face significant barriers to full participation in society and the economy. According to the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2023, at the current rate of progress, it will take 162 years to close the Political Empowerment gap, 169 years for Economic Participation and Opportunity, and 16 years for Educational Attainment. Despite progress, South Asia still lags behind, with only 63.4% gender parity achieved. While countries like Bangladesh, Bhutan, and Sri Lanka show promise, others struggle to keep pace.
As UNOPS Country Manager, I am committed to accelerating efforts to bridge these divides and ensure a future where every individual, regardless of gender, can thrive and prosper with dignity. Let's unite to transform these statistics into stories of progress and equality."
Azmeri Haque Badhon, renowned Bangladeshi actress mentioned, "As an actress, my journey has been enriched by projects like 'Rayhana Mariam Noor', 'Khufiya' and so on, where I've had the privilege to delve into complex narratives that spotlight the resilience and strength of women. These films not only showcase the diverse experiences of Bangladeshi women but also challenge societal norms surrounding gender roles. In my personal life, I've encountered both triumphs and challenges including getting the legal guardianship of my daughter, navigating the expectations placed on women in the entertainment industry. However, each experience has only fueled my determination to advocate for gender equality on and off the screen. Through my work and personal endeavors, I strive to inspire others to embrace their authenticity and fight for a world where every individual is empowered to thrive regardless of gender."
Following the keynote speeches, an open discussion ensued, allowing participants to exchange ideas, share experiences, and explore collaborative opportunities in advancing gender equality and women's economic empowerment. The roundtable discussion sought to facilitate investment in women and address the gender gap in Bangladesh and beyond.
This SDG Café convened essential stakeholders in Bangladesh, including government representatives, international organizations, and development partners like the Department of Women Affairs (DWA), Armed Forces Division (AFD), Asian Development Bank (ADB), UN agencies, academics, and emerging local entrepreneurs. Through meaningful dialogue, they provided guidance and proposed innovative strategies and suggestions to promote gender equality and support investing in women.
For media inquiries, please contact: Musfika Sultana Communications Focal Email: musfikaS@unops.or
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/264789-unops-roundtable-discussion-%C2%A0%E2%80%98invest-%C2%A0women-accelerate-progress%E2%80%99




Date: 17 March 2024
Title: Bailey Road restaurant and other recent fire incidents show again how enforcement, prevention and safety culture is needed to keep work and public places safe
Content: 17 March 2024
14 March 2024
The ILO is deeply saddened by the tragic loss of life of at least 46 individuals at the Green Cozy Cottage Shopping Mall on Bailey Road on 29 February 2024 and the recent gas cylinder fire in residential are in Gazipur on 13th of March 2024. The ILO extends its heartfelt condolences and solidarity to the families of the victims and the injured, emphasizing the urgent need for improved safety measures, regulatory reforms, and strict enforcement to prevent such tragedies in the future.

These incidents illustrate the urgent need for both Bangladesh’s authorities and building owners to ensure strict adherence to safety regulations and the meticulous enforcement of building codes to keep workers safe. The tragic Bailey Road fire, originating from the restaurant in the Green Cozy Cottage Shopping Mall, underscores the devastating consequences of lax oversight and inadequate safety measures in commercial buildings. The absence of fire exits, fire extinguishing systems, and proper evacuation routes, despite prior warnings, has resulted in a staggering loss of life and injuries. This serves as a stark reminder that immediate action must be taken to address structural failures, close loopholes in building codes, and prioritize the safety of people in and around buildings.

Furthermore, this incident underscores the imperative for an efficient industrial and enterprise safety framework, along with a robust enforcement and training system, to guarantee a systematic approach to mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery from all potential hazards. Enhanced collaboration and partnerships between government departments, employers, workers' representatives, and civil society are crucial in achieving this goal. The need for a well-coordinated effort to prioritize safety measures, implement comprehensive training programs, and enforce regulations becomes evident, aiming not only at preventing such tragic incidents but also ensuring a resilient and secure environment for workers and the community at large.

The ILO is actively collaborating the Government of Bangladesh and other stakeholders to have a fully coordinated industrial safety framework, ensuring the optimal functionality of the Industrial Safety Units across all sectors to strengthen safety inspections. ILO will also support the Government of Bangladesh to update and implement occupational safety and health (OSH) regulatory and policy frameworks and implement the National Plan of Action on OSH. By leveraging these efforts, the goal is to enhance safety standards across all sectors, ensuring a safer working environment for all workers in Bangladesh.

It is our hope that this tragic incident will lead to ownership from all stakeholders to approach the task of addressing safety deficiencies in workplaces across the country with renewed determination and urgency.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/263549-bailey-road-restaurant-and-other-recent-fire-incidents-show-again-how-enforcement-prevention




Date: 14 March 2024
Title: The Government expands social service workforce by 40 per cent, supported by UNICEF, to strengthen child protection services in Bangladesh
Content: 14 March 2024
With funding support from the European Union, the Ministry of Social Welfare recruits over 1,200 additional social workers for Child Protection Services, bringing the total number to over 4,000.
DHAKA, 14 March 2024 - The Government of Bangladesh, supported by UNICEF, has hired more than 1,200 social workers in child protection services. This notable initiative underscores the importance of ensuring the welfare of children and families across the nation.

As a first step towards their integration in the Child Protection Social Services, today the Department of Social Services (DSS) and UNICEF jointly completed a 3-day long orientation Training of Trainers (ToT) in Dhaka for the social workers.

This program is designed to equip a carefully chosen group of social workers with the knowledge and skills needed to introduce new recruits in Bangladesh to the field. Additionally, it will enhance their ability to offer essential services in critical areas such as child protection, support for families, emergency response, and the implementation of child rights policies. The goal of this initiative is to cultivate a highly skilled workforce, thereby enhancing the quality of services provided and broadening the availability of protective services delivered by social workers.

"The Government of Bangladesh, under the visionary leadership of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina is committed to safeguarding the children of Bangladesh from harm. The recruitment of the new batch of social workers is a testament to our commitment towards enhancing the nation's child protection system," said Dr. Dipu Moni, Hon’ble Minister, Ministry of Social Welfare. "We appreciate UNICEF's commitment to support the government’s efforts, enhancing service providers' capacity, and ensuring every child receives the care and protection they deserve," she added.

"Children are the future; protecting them is critical to creating a prosperous nation. The European Union welcomes the commitment of the Government of Bangladesh to invest in child protection by boosting the social services workforce by 40%. We have been working in the social services field with the Government and likeminded partners over the past 20 years, and we are proud to see the impact of our joint efforts", says the EU Ambassador to Bangladesh, Charles Whiteley.

“It is important to increase the number of social workers in child protection, but it is equally important to equip them with the right information and knowledge, as they have a critical role to offer essential care and support to those experiencing violence,” said Sheldon Yett, UNICEF Representative to Bangladesh.

Despite the recruitment of new social workers, challenges persist, including the prevalence of child labor, inadequate birth registration, children in institutional care and lacking family support, and high rates of child marriage. UNICEF emphasizes the importance of addressing these issues through collaborative efforts among the government, civil society, and international partners.

Additionally, there is a need for ongoing investment in human resources and the development of specialized training programs to meet the evolving needs of vulnerable children and families.

UNICEF calls on the government to prioritize the further expansion and empowerment of the child protection workforce to effectively support the country's vulnerable child population. Together with the European Union and other stakeholders, UNICEF remains committed to building a comprehensive national child protection system that ensures the rights and well-being of every child in Bangladesh.

###
For more information please contact:
Farjana Sultana, UNICEF Bangladesh, fasultana@unicef.org
Faria Selim, UNICEF Bangladesh, fselim@unicef.org



Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/263548-government-expands-social-service-workforce-40-cent-supported-unicef-strengthen-child




Date: 13 March 2024
Title: UN and partners seek $852.4m to support Rohingya refugees and Bangladeshi hosts
Content: 13 March 2024
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, with other humanitarian partners, today called on the international community to redouble efforts to protect and assist Rohingya refugees and their host communities. Bangladesh is generously hosting nearly a million Rohingya refugees, most of whom fled Myanmar seven years ago.

The 2024 Joint Response Plan for the Rohingya Humanitarian Crisis is being launched under the leadership of the Bangladeshi authorities. The funding appeal seeks $852.4 million to reach some 1.35 million people including Rohingya refugees and host communities.

The plan and related financial needs is being presented to donors in Geneva by Masud Bin Momen, Foreign Secretary of Bangladesh; Mohammad Tofazzel Hossain Miah, Principal Secretary to the Bangladesh Prime Minister; Filippo Grandi, UN High Commissioner for Refugees; and Amy Pope, Director General of the International Organization for Migration.

International solidarity with Bangladesh and refugee protection is needed more than ever as the conflict in Myanmar escalates.

The Joint Response Plan brings together 117 partners, nearly half of them Bangladeshi organizations. It aims to help some 1 million Rohingya refugees in Cox’s Bazar and on the island of Bhasan Char, and 346,000 from host communities, with food, shelter, health care, access to drinkable water, protection services, education and livelihood opportunities and skills development.

Some 95 per cent of Rohingya households in Bangladesh are vulnerable and remain dependent on humanitarian assistance.  Sustained assistance is critically and urgently needed, particularly by women and children, who make up more than 75 per cent of the targeted refugee population, and face heightened risks of abuse, exploitation and gender-based violence. More than half of the refugees in the camps are under 18, languishing amidst limited opportunities for education, skills-building and livelihoods.

The Government of Bangladesh, local communities and aid agencies need sustained international support to respond to increasing needs as this humanitarian crisis remains largely out of the international spotlight.

Underfunding in previous years has had serious implications as Rohingya women, children and men -- who fled to Bangladesh to escape violence and persecution in Myanmar -- struggle to meet basic needs and their plight risks slipping into obscurity. Rohingya refugees remain in limbo relying on humanitarian assistance to survive in crowded camps plagued by insecurity and natural disasters.

The international community must continue funding life-saving and life-sustaining assistance to refugees in the camps, investing in education, skills training and livelihood opportunities. This is a lifeline to refugees struggling to meet their basic needs and supplement limited humanitarian assistance. Steps are also needed to ensure pledges made at the Global Refugee Forum in Geneva in December are fulfilled. These included advancing enhancing self-reliance for Rohingya to provide hope and reduce their compulsion to take dangerous boat journeys.



FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT:
Mostafa Mohammad Sazzad Hossain; hossaimo@unhcr.org
Shari Yasmin Nijman; nijman@unhcr.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/263209-un-and-partners-seek-8524m-support-rohingya-refugees-and-bangladeshi-hosts




Date: 12 March 2024
Title: The Government, with UNICEF support, accelerates efforts in combating violence against children and child marriage in Bangladesh
Content: 12 March 2024
“Red Card” National multimedia campaign launched to promote behavioral change and social movement against violence and child marriage at the community level
DHAKA, 11 March 2024 - The Ministry of Women and Children Affairs (MoWCA), with technical support of UNICEF, today launched the "National Multimedia Campaign on Prevention of Violence Against Children (VAC) and Child Marriage (CM).”

The initiative is a part of the ongoing efforts of the Accelerating Protection for Children (APC) project led by MoWCA and UNICEF to address the alarming prevalence of violence against children and child marriage in Bangladesh. The project is focused on strengthening institutional capacity and establishing a system for child protection at national and sub-national level.

"Today’s launching is a pivotal moment in our ongoing mission to protect the rights and dignity of children in Bangladesh," stated Ms. Simeen Hussain (Rimi), Honorable State Minister, Ministry of Women and Children Affairs.
"Violence against children and child marriage not only violates their fundamental rights but also has enduring detrimental effects on their physical, emotional, and psychological well-being. The government is committed to working hand in hand with UNICEF and other stakeholders to eradicate these harmful practices and create a safe and nurturing environment for all children," she added.

Supported with funding from the European Union and the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO), the campaign is aligned with the National Children’s Policy to uphold the rights of children and the National Action Plan (NAP) to eliminate child marriage in Bangladesh by 2041.
"The campaign underscores our unwavering dedication to empower communities to champion child protection," expressed Emma Brigham, Representative a.i. UNICEF Bangladesh. "Through strategic communication and community mobilization, we aim to create an environment where every child can thrive free from violence and exploitation. We call any concerned person to call Child Helpline 1098, the toll-free nationwide number, providing counselling and referrals to protection, legal aid, shelter, health, and education services.”

Dr. Bernd Spanier, Chargé d'Affaires of the EU Delegation in Bangladesh, expressed support for the initiative, reiterating the fact that "the European Union stands in solidarity with Bangladesh in its endeavours to safeguard children's rights. We commend the Government of Bangladesh and UNICEF for kick-starting this much needed campaign to address violence against children and child marriage."

The Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) 2019 revealed that almost 9 out of 10[1] children aged between 1 to 14 years have encountered instances of physical violence and psychological aggression within their homes.

In addition, Bangladesh ranks among the top 10 countries globally with over half of girls[2] married before becoming 18, almost one out of four girls have given birth before the age of 18, while eight out of 10 have given birth before reaching the age of 20.

Drawing from evidence, the campaign will provide a comprehensive approach to facilitate behavioral change through Public Service Announcement (PSA) and initiate a social movement against violence and child marriage. It will prioritize community engagement in hard-to-reach areas and districts with a high prevalence of violence against children and child marriage and reinforce collaborative action to challenge harmful social norms while advocating for positive parenting practices.




For more information please contact:
Farjana Sultana, UNICEF Bangladesh, Tel: +880 191 151 9507, fasultana@unicef.org
Faria Selim, UNICEF Bangladesh, Tel: +880 181 758 6096, fselim@unicef.org


[1] An estimated 89 percent of children.
[2] 51.4 percent
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/263062-government-unicef-support-accelerates-efforts-combating-violence-against-children-and-child




Date: 12 March 2024
Title: UN urged to assist in addressing post-LDC challenges
Content: 12 March 2024
Dhaka 11 March 2024
UN Resident Coordinator Ms Gwyn Lewis had a meeting with ICC Bangladesh President Mahbubur Rahman at ICC Bangladesh Secretariat on Sunday, says a statement.
At the meeting, Ms Lewis was briefed about the activities of ICC HQs and ICC Bangladesh. They discussed the challenges to be faced by Bangladesh after its graduation to Middle-Income country in 2026.
ICC Bangladesh President Mahbubur Rahman said that the relationship between Bangladesh and the United Nations started during the initial stage of Bangladesh's liberation war in 1971.
Mr Rahman mentioned that Bangladesh has set out an ambitious journey path to transform into a Smart-Bangladesh High-Income Country by 2041, as delineated in its Perspective Plan (2021-2041). The plan for achieving the vision -- the Perspective Plan 2021-2041 -- defines the targets: achieving Upper-Middle Income Country Status and eliminating extreme poverty by 2031, and eradicating poverty altogether while achieving High-Income Country status by 2041.
As part of this trajectory, Bangladesh has fully committed to achieving the SDGs, and embraced the Secretary-General's call for a "Decade of Action" to accelerate progress toward the achievement of the 2030 Agenda, he added.
The ICCB President urged the UN Resident Coordinator to extend all-out assistance and cooperation to Bangladesh to overcome the challenges after the LDC graduation.
He said that UN agencies have been supporting the government in various projects in the field of sustainable development solutions, poverty alleviation, disaster management, peace, good governance, police reform, human rights, environment, climate change, reproductive health, family planning etc.
Over the next five years, he said, progress towards this ambitious political, economic, and social development vision will be delivered through the 8th Five-Year Plan.
This medium-term development strategy comes at a time when Bangladesh looks to promote a strong and resilient recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, sustain and build on its economic growth, and put the country on track to achieve the SDGs, Middle-Income Country Status, and the elimination of extreme poverty by 2030-31, Mr. Rahman noted.
In response, UN Resident Coordinator Ms. Gwyn Lewis said that the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework ("Cooperation Framework") represents the UN development systems' collective response to support Bangladesh in addressing key development priorities and challenges to the achievement of the objectives of the 8th Five-Year Plan, leading to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda, its SDGs, and the Perspective Plan for 2041.
The UN looks forward to working jointly with the International Chamber of Commerce Bangladesh in addressing various development issues, she added.
Considering the potential change in the development finance landscape due to Bangladesh's graduation from Least Developed Country (LDC) category in 2026, the UN has placed a particular emphasis on development effectiveness through different instruments in the Cooperation Framework, which will complement the public financial management efforts of different international financial institutions and multilateral development banks, she added.
ICCB Vice President A. K. Azad said Bangladesh stands to lose a number of international support measures associated with LDC status, namely preferential market access under LDC-specific schemes.
Bangladeshi garment exporters rely on the European Union's 'Everything But Arms (EBA)' scheme for duty-free, quota-free access to the region's markets, he said, adding that any measures to extend or replace EBA could prove critical in smoothing the transition. He sought UN's support in this regard.
ICCB Vice President Naser Ezaz Bijoy said the climate change impact is posing a severe threat to Bangladesh's agriculture as well as to the overall economy. As a result, annual GDP is likely to shrink by 1.0 to 2.0 per cent.
Required investment is crucial as investment of US $ 1.2 billion within 2030 could save $11.6 billion by 2030, he added.
He urged more UN investments and programmes designed to assist Bangladesh in climate adaptation.
During the meeting, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between United Nations Global Compact Network Bangladesh (UN-GCNB) and the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Bangladesh.
The purpose of the MoU is to ensure growth and value addition of Sustainability Projects countrywide through Private Sector engagement for future market development, to facilitate and empower members of the ICC in accessing global networks and resources through UN-GC platforms on Sustainable business practices; and to provide capacity building/training to support the sustainability journeys in the private sector of Bangladesh.
The meeting was also attended by ICCB Executive Board Members Abdul Hai Sarkar and Anwar-ul-Alam Chowdhury (Parvez); UN Global Compact Executive Director Asia Pacific & Ocenia Shahamin S. Zaman, ICCB Banking Commission Chairman Muhammad A. (Rumee) Ali, ICCB Secretary General Ataur Rahman, former Bangladesh Bank Executive Director Md. Ahsan Ullah; UN Senior Development Coordinator Officer and Strategic Planner Louise Barber and Development Coordination Officer/Economist Md. Mazedul Islam; UN Global Compact Network Bangladesh Coordinator Stakeholder Engagements Juliana Awo Quist Lawson; ICCB General Manager Ajay Bihari Saha and Deputy General Manager Syeda Shahnewaz Lotika.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/263077-un-urged-assist-addressing-post-ldc-challenges




Date: 10 March 2024
Title: Fearless in bringing change
Content: 10 March 2024
The Daily Star and UNDP jointly organized the fourth edition of Nirbhoya, aiming to recognize six exemplary women and celebrate their achievements in community leadership.
Sheuly Khatun, 36, hailing from an impoverished background in Satkhira, faced dire circumstances when her husband abandoned her, leaving Sheuly to fend for her two children with no income.
Thanks to financial assistance from UNDP Bangladesh's "SWAPNO" project, Sheuly, who once struggled to sustain herself and her children, now manages an ice cream factory, supporting her own family as well as six destitute women.
On the occasion of International Women's Day 2024, six women, including Sheuly Khatun, were awarded "Nirbhaya" (fearless) by The Daily Star and UNDP Bangladesh yesterday.
The others are Asma Begum of Dhaka, Nazma Akter Reshmi of Cox's Bazar, Nipu Tripura of Khagrachhari, Poly Khatun of Satkhira, and Suraiya Khan of Khulna.
They were recognised for championing the cause of women changemakers from grassroots communities and handed crests and certificates during a ceremony at The Daily Star Centre in the capital. This was the fourth edition of the "Nirbhaya" initiative.
Asma Begum, 40, was honoured for her efforts to restore greenery by planting trees in the capital's slum areas, while 23-year-old Nazma Akter Reshmi was recognised for her innovative business venture producing fish powder and crackers.
Nipu Tripura, born in Rangamati, once uncertain about her future during the pandemic, now produces mushrooms on a large scale, generating 12,000 spawns per month. She has created job opportunities for five other women.
Poly Khatun, affectionately known as "Pani Apa" in her community, received training in installing and maintaining rainwater harvesting systems. She diligently cleans the catchment areas, gutters, and filters of numerous households in her village.
With just Tk 7,000 from UNDP's project, Suraiya Khan, a survivor of child marriage, has become a successful egg entrepreneur, setting an example for many women in her village.
At the event, Stefan Liller, resident representative of UNDP Bangladesh, said learning about the Nirbhaya's experience was deeply inspiring.
"Not only to us, but to all the people who will be reading about your journeys, about overcoming adversities, challenging discriminatory norms, and your triumphs to help uplift others in your communities and beyond," he said, addressing the Nirbhayas.
"Let us remember that achieving a sustainable and equitable world for our future generation requires guaranteeing the rights and freedom of women and girls across all aspects of life," he added.
Mahfuz Anam, editor and publisher of The Daily Star said the confidence displayed by the Nirbhayas should serve as an example for others.
"I extend my salute to you and find much inspiration in your confidence. For those facing financial hardships, it is very difficult to overcome such challenges and achieve success. And it is tougher for women," he said.
"It is a weakness on our part that we fail to respect women, and often harbour the perception that we are superior to women -- this mindset infects us, leading to discrimination against women in society," he added.
Recognising the invaluable contributions of women to both familial and societal life, he affirmed, "The Daily Star is steadfast in its commitment to combating discrimination against women, actively championing their achievements by highlighting their struggles and successes in our publications."
Sharmin Islam, leader of the UNDP gender team, said the Nirbhaya award commenced after the onset of the pandemic in 2021, when they honoured five women who played crucial roles in raising awareness about densely populated slum areas and impoverished regions of Dhaka.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/262934-fearless-bringing-change




Date: 10 March 2024
Title: UNDP and DoE launch climate resilience project
Content: 10 March 2024
DHAKA, Mar 6, 2024

The Adaptation Initiative for Climate Vulnerable Offshore Small Islands and Riverine Charland in Bangladesh Project, a collaborative effort between the Department of Environment (DoE) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), was launched today at an inception workshop at Charfashion Upazila Parishad in Bhola.
This five-year project, initiated in January 2023 and funded by the Adaptation Fund through UNDP, aims to significantly enhance climate resilience at both the household and community levels.
The project encompasses a multifaceted approach to address the diverse challenges posed by climate change, with a focus on vulnerable communities living on coastal islands and riverine chars in Bangladesh, a UNDP press release said.
Dr Abdul Hamid, Director General of DoE, spoke at the event as the Chief Guest, while Md Iqubal Hossain, Deputy Secretary and Director of the Environmental Department, Khulna Division, joined it as the special guest.
Sarder M Asaduzzaman, Assistant Resident Representative of UNDP Bangladesh, was also present as the guest of honor.
Mirza Shawkat Ali, Director of DoE and Project Director, presented the keynote paper on "Adaptation Initiative."
Dr. Abdul Hamid emphasized the pivotal role of transparency and accountability in the beneficiary selection process, stressing their significance for the project's success.
He called for collaborative efforts from all stakeholders to achieve the project's ambitious goals.
Sarder M Asaduzzaman from UNDP highlighted the paramount importance of gender equality and women's empowerment in project implementation.
He urged adherence to UNDP's Social and Environmental Standards (SES) to mitigate social and environmental risks throughout the project's execution.
Mirza Shawkat Ali, Director of DoE and Project Director, urged coordination among all government departments at the upazila level to facilitate the seamless and successful implementation of the project.
The inception workshop served as a platform for meaningful discussions, setting the tone for collaborative efforts in addressing climate vulnerabilities in Bangladesh and ensuring the sustainable development of offshore small islands and riverine charland communities.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/262933-undp-and-doe-launch-climate-resilience-project




Date: 06 March 2024
Title: WFP and MoDMR Sign MoU to Enhance Humanitarian Operations on Bhasan Char
Content: 06 March 2024
5 March 2024

Dhaka, Bangladesh – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) has signed two Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) with the Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief (MoDMR) of Bangladesh aimed at enhancing the humanitarian operations for the Rohingya refugees on Bhasan Char Island.
The MoUs were signed by Md. Kamrul Hasan, ndc, Secretary, MoDMR and Dom Scalpelli, WFP Country Director, in the presence of the new State Minister, Md, Mohibbur Rahman, MP, on 4th March in Dhaka. With the signing, MoDMR officially handed over the management of the United Nations common accommodation and office space, and the warehouse facilities to WFP, co-lead of the Food Security Sector and lead of the Common Services Sector of the Rohingya refugee response.
"This MoU signifies a pivotal step in enhancing our logistical support to the humanitarian community and the Rohingya refugees currently residing on the island. It will also boost WFP’s operational capacity by directly managing and maintaining the warehouses, contributing significantly to the effectiveness and efficiency of our assistance to the Rohingya refugees. We thank MoDMR for their longstanding support and collaboration, and we look forward to continuing working together to serve this vulnerable group,” said Dom Scalpelli, WFP Country Director.
As the Common Services Sector lead, WFP coordinates with the government on behalf of the UN and other humanitarian partners. Following the signing, WFP is committed to raising the resources needed to improve and upkeep the conditions of the accommodation, office and warehouse facilities to ensure quality service is provided to both humanitarians and the Rohingya refugees.


Media Contact:
Kun Li, Head of Communication, WFP Bangladesh
Mobile: +880 1322846137 Email: kun.li@wfp.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/262384-wfp-and-modmr-sign-mou-enhance-humanitarian-operations-bhasan-char




Date: 03 March 2024
Title: UNICEF and JAPAN join hands to improve the well-being of Bangladeshi and Rohingya children living in Bhasan Char Island and Cox’s Bazar
Content: 03 March 2024
Dhaka, 1 March 2024
With a generous funding contribution of US$2.7 million from the Government of Japan, UNICEF is broadening life-saving interventions to support Rohingya refugee children, women, and vulnerable host populations in Cox's Bazar district and Bhasan Char Island.

Through “The Project for Multiple Humanitarian Assistance for Displaced Persons from Myanmar in Cox’s Bazar District and Bhasan Char”, over 176,000 Rohingya refugees in Cox's Bazar and Bhasan Char camps, as well as individuals in host communities will receive assistance.

The project aims to deliver an integrated and multisectoral humanitarian response, providing access to education, WASH (Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene), health, and nutrition services to children and their families. It will also focus on fostering social and behavioral changes within the recipient communities.

“It is critical to ensure that Rohingya children are able to fully exercise their rights. Without education, refugee children have no hope for a better future. Further, lack of safe water and sanitation services exposes children to disease, putting their lives at risk and threatening their chance of survival,” said Mr Sheldon Yett, UNICEF Representative to Bangladesh.

"We thank the Government and the people of Japan for their generous contribution to the vulnerable Rohingya community in Bangladesh. With this invaluable contribution, we will be able to scale up our interventions, save lives, and give Rohingya children and their families a lifeline,” added Mr Yett.

Ambassador IWAMA Kiminori expressed his hope that the support from the Government of Japan would improve the living conditions of both Rohingya and host communities.

“I am concerned that, as the Rohingya crisis has been prolonged, the situation of the children is becoming even more difficult. Japan will continue to work towards durable solutions including early repatriation to Myanmar, while cooperating with international organizations including UNICEF for better living conditions for refugees and host communities. I hope the funding from Japan will contribute to easing the challenges faced by the Rohingya refugees and host communities, especially children.” he said.

Since the beginning of the Rohingya crisis in August 2017, Japan has been a steadfast supporter of the refugee response in Bangladesh, contributing over USD $43.65 million including the new funding to UNICEF programmes and helped improve the lives of thousands affected.


For more information please contact:
Kusali Nellie Kubwalo, UNICEF Bangladesh, Tel: +880 1847327230, knkubwalo@unicef.org
Faria Selim, UNICEF Bangladesh, Tel: +880 181 758 6096, fselim@unicef.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/262180-unicef-and-japan-join-hands-improve-well-being-bangladeshi-and-rohingya-children-living




Date: 25 February 2024
Title: WFP's Humanitarian Response to Rohingya Crisis Receives New Funding Boost from Japan
Content: 25 February 2024
Dhaka, Bangladesh
The World Food Programme (WFP) has received a new contribution of US$5.4 million from the Government of Japan. A handover ceremony was held in Dhaka earlier this week with the participation of H.E. Ambassador of Japan to Bangladesh Kiminori Iwama, and WFP Bangladesh Country Director Dom Scalpelli.
"We are pleased to have decided to provide $5.4 million in life-saving food assistance to the displaced Rohingya people through WFP, building on the $4.4 million provided in June last year. This contribution underscores Japan's unwavering commitment to humanitarian aid and our dedication to addressing hunger and malnutrition. By supporting the Rohingya community, we alleviate immediate suffering and contribute to the broader goal of fostering stability and peace in the region,” said Ambassador Iwama of Japan.
In 2023, dwindling donor funding forced WFP to reduce the monthly food entitlement for the entire Rohingya population in Cox’s Bazar from US$12 per person per month to US$10 in March, then to US$8 in June. The latest monitoring by WFP and humanitarian partners has shown that the situation in the camps has deteriorated significantly, with a staggering 90 per cent of the population lacking access to an adequate diet and over 15 per cent of young children suffering from malnutrition.
More worrying still is the increasing violence and insecurity in the camps, as well as human trafficking. UNHCR reported that nearly 4,500 Rohingya refugees embarked on deadly sea journeys in 2023 – a significant increase from previous years.
Thanks to the commitment of the donor community, starting 1 January, WFP has partially restored the ration to US$10 per person per month and added locally fortified rice into the assistance package for the first time. The timely funding from Japan will enable WFP to continue providing life-saving food assistance and bolstering disaster risk reduction initiatives for the Rohingya refugees. It will also be used to support the host community in Cox’s Bazar in building their resilience against climate shocks.
“We are deeply grateful for Japan's latest funding and their steadfast support over the years," said WFP Country Director Scalpelli. “While we are encouraged by the partial increase of the rations, the escalating hunger and malnutrition rates in the camps highlight the urgent need to fully restore the ration. We rely on Japan and the rest of the donor community to continue their vital support, ensuring that we can meet, at least, the Rohingya’s basic food and nutrition needs until they can be repatriated safely.”
WFP needs another US$38 million in funding to fully restore the ration – now US$12.5 per person per month, with fortified rice added – for the remainder of the year.


For more information please contact:Kun Li, Head of Partnerships, Communications and Reporting, WFP BangladeshMobile: +88 013 2284 6137 Email: kun.li@wfp.org
Tareq Salahuddin, Communications Officer, WFP BangladeshMobile: +88 017 3009 5592 Email: tareq.salahuddin@wfp.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/261623-wfps-humanitarian-response-rohingya-crisis-receives-new-funding-boost-japan




Date: 25 January 2024
Title: Bangladesh: Government must prioritise human rights in its fourth term
Content: 25 January 2024
24 January 2024
GENEVA (24 January 2024) – UN experts* urged the Government of Bangladesh to carry out major human rights reforms to reverse repressive trends in the country and restore political dialogue and participation, as it enters its fourth consecutive term.
“We are alarmed at reports that widespread attacks, harassment and intimidation of civil society, human rights defenders, journalists, and political activists, which marred the recent elections,” the experts said.
In the lead up to the elections, reportedly some 25,000 opposition leaders and supporters were arrested, and 56 people killed in election related violence, including alleged torture and deliberate denial of healthcare for political prisoners, excessive use of force by law enforcement authorities, arson, and violence by unidentified groups. There have been no independent investigations into these violations, the experts said.
The experts noted that the country’s main opposition party, the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) and some other political parties boycotted the elections, expressing a lack of trust in the process. Voters were reportedly pressured to vote by ruling party members and threatened with violence and loss of their social protection benefits if they failed to do so.
“We have written to the Government of Bangladesh, urging them to conduct full, prompt and independent investigations into the alleged numerous human rights violations,” the experts said.
“We are alarmed by the dangerous decline of human rights, fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law in Bangladesh, eroding public trust in state institutions. This is also tarnishing the country’s image and could endanger its social and economic development,” the experts said.
“We urge the Government to prioritise human rights reforms in its new work program and to create an enabling environment for the free and safe exercise of fundamental freedoms and political participation, to restore public trust in the democratic process. ‘‘This would also reassure foreign investors and send a clear message to the world that it is committed to upholding its international legal obligations,” the experts said.
The experts called on the Government to:
“We stand ready to support and advise the Government of Bangladesh on these and other measures to strengthen human rights and the rule of law,” the experts said.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/258704-bangladesh-government-must-prioritise-human-rights-its-fourth-term




Date: 24 January 2024
Title: Bangladesh’s progress in occupational health and safety could be leveraged to address workplace violence and harassment
Content: 24 January 2024
Occupational Safety and Health frameworks are proving to be effective means of preventing and addressing violence and harassment in the world of work, a new ILO report says.

The report aims to shed light on how Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) regulatory frameworks can help to prevent violence and harassment. It has been highlighted in the report whether the general duty of care for workers’ health provided for by OSH legislation is sufficient to prevent violence and harassment in the world of work. It also focused on the type of regulations best suited for work environments that provide safety and dignity.
In Bangladesh, Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) is primarily regulated by the Bangladesh Labour Act, which outlines the responsibilities of employers, workers, and labour inspectorate. The Government also developed a National Occupational Safety and Health Policy 2013, and the Domestic Workers Protection and Welfare Policy 2015 to promote health, safety, and dignity in the world of work.
OSH in Bangladesh has recently focused on hazards related to physical health and safety. On violence and harassment, the Labour Act provides protection for women at work in section 109, which prevents a woman being made to work at night without her consent; and section 332, which stipulates that no one in the workplace shall behave with a woman “[in a way] which may seem to be indecent or unmannerly or which is repugnant to the modesty or honour of that woman”.
“It is understandable that Bangladesh’s OSH framework is focused on prevention and physical safety of workers given the history of industrial accidents and disasters. These new findings show that Bangladesh can leverage and expand the scope of its OSH frameworks to also address violence and harassment at the workplace,” says Tuomo Poutiainen, ILO’s Country Director for Bangladesh.
Bangladesh has made notable progress in improving OSH in the readymade garment (RMG) sector but faces challenges in extending OSH and protection against violence and harassment in other sectors including in the informal economy.
The report titled Preventing and addressing violence and harassment in the world of work through occupational safety and health measures , is part of a research project aimed at providing “Practical guidance and tools to prevent and address violence and harassment in the world of work: An OSH perspective ”. Jointly funded by the European Commission and the ILO, the research findings are under discussion at a global conference taking place at the ILO headquarters in Geneva today.
The report highlights and lauds the Supreme Court of Bangladesh’s critical role in the prevention and elimination of sexual harassment, resulting in changes in the labour law. In 2009, the High Court Division of the Supreme Court issued Directives in the form of guidelines on Sexual Harassment for all workplaces and educational institutions in both the public and private sectors.
The Directives require all organizations to form complaint committees to receive sexual harassment-related complaints, conduct investigations, and make recommendations. They also provide for preventive measures, such as regular training and information dissemination on gender equality and on the prohibition of sexual harassment and place a general obligation on employers to ensure a workplace that is not hostile to women employees. Their implementation and enforcement are crucial for making the world of work in Bangladesh a safe and dignified place for women.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/258604-bangladesh%E2%80%99s-progress-occupational-health-and-safety-could-be-leveraged-address-workplace




Date: 09 January 2024
Title: Türk urges Bangladesh to change course, create conditions for truly inclusive democracy
Content: 09 January 2024
08 January 2024
GENEVA (8 January 2024) – UN Human Rights Chief Volker Türk today called on Bangladesh’s newly elected government to take steps to renew the country’s commitment to democracy and human rights, voicing distress that the environment for Sunday’s poll was marred by violence and repression of opposition candidates and supporters.
“In the months leading up to the vote, thousands of opposition supporters have been detained arbitrarily or subjected to intimidation. Such tactics are not conducive to a truly genuine process,” said Türk.
“I implore the Government to take the necessary steps to ensure that the human rights of all Bangladeshis are fully taken into account, and to strengthen the underpinnings of a truly inclusive democracy in the country.”
Mass arrests, threats, enforced disappearances, blackmailing and surveillance were all methods reportedly used by law enforcement officials prior to the ballot, which was boycotted by the main opposition Bangladesh Nationalist Party. Acts of political violence, including arson attacks allegedly committed by opposition groups, have also been reported.
Around 25,000 opposition supporters have been arrested, including key party leaders, since 28 October. At least 10 opposition supporters reportedly died – or were killed – in custody in the last two months, raising serious concerns about possible torture or harsh conditions of detention, the UN Human Rights Chief said.
Many human rights defenders have been forced to go into hiding, and some have fled the country, while dozens of suspected enforced disappearance cases have been reported, mostly in November.
“These incidents must be independently investigated, and those responsible must be brought to justice in fair and transparent trials,” Türk said. “Violations and irregularities during the campaign and on election day itself should also be thoroughly and effectively investigated.”
“Democracy was hard won in Bangladesh and must not become cosmetic,” said the High Commissioner. “Bangladesh has been a role model of development, and I fervently hope this will translate into the political and institutional spheres too. The future of all Bangladeshis is at stake.”

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/257390-t%C3%BCrk-urges-bangladesh-change-course-create-conditions-truly-inclusive-democracy




Date: 01 January 2024
Title: December 2023 Updates from FAO Bangladesh
Content: 01 January 2024
1 January 2023
28/12/2023
Dhaka – The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in partnership with the Department of Environment (DoE) and the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), organized a closing workshop of the project “Strengthening capacity for monitoring environmental emissions under the Paris Agreement in Bangladesh” today in Dhaka at DoE Auditorium. USD 2 million (GEF support and Govt. co-finance) project continued for three years and finished with outstanding results as of December 2023. Dr. Farhina Ahmed, Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) participated the closing workshop as the Chief Guest. Dr. Fahmida Khanom, Additional Secretary for Development Wing, MoEFCC, Sanjay Kumar Bhowmik, Additional Secretary for Climate Change, Mohammed Mizanur Rahman, Director General, Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics and Arnoud Hameleers, FAO Representative in Bangladesh (a.i.) attended the event as special guests; Dr. Abdul Hamid, Director General, Department of Environment chaired the event.
The Paris Agreement of 2015 established a global framework for averting dangerous climate change, which aims for keeping the global temperature far below 2°C and pursuing efforts to keep it below 1.5°C. Additionally, it strives to assist countries in their endeavours and strengthen their ability to combat climate change's effects. Bangladesh signed Paris Agreement in 2016. Despite being a relatively small contributor to global greenhouse gas emissions, Bangladesh has shown great commitment to climate governance and formulated National Adaptation Plan (NAP), Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC), Delta Plan, Mujib Climate Prosperity Plan.
Achievements of the project
The project supported Bangladesh in its efforts to Paris agreement implementation in following areas: developed an integrated climate change measurement, reporting and verification (MRV) platform (mrv.eis.gov.bd) for GHG Inventory, Mitigation Actions, Adaptation Actions, and Finance tracking and reporting for Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU), Energy, Industrial Processes and Product Use (IPPU) and Waste sectors outlined in the NAP, NDC and key climate change plans and strategies. This platform is supporting the preparation of national GHG inventory, National Communication and biennial transparency report (BTR) by providing updated activity and emission factors data with a structured archiving system, updating of GHG emission, adaptation, mitigation and finance database. One of the important aspects of this platform is to bring all the relevant stakeholders on a single platform for data sharing, analysis and interpretation. Additionally, the MRV system is not only supporting the monitoring the national progress on climate action but also contributing to the informed planning, programming, resource allocation and policy making.
The project significantly improved the DoE’s capabilities, particularly on GIS analysis, statistical software operation, programming, and enhancement of IT infrastructure and GIS lab. It also established an Environmental Information System (eis.gov.bd) for DoE to compile, analyse, archive, and share environmental data including GHG emissions, air, and water quality, brick kiln, enforcement, and sea level rise.
Additionally, the project prepared a national Enhanced Transparency Framework (ETF) Roadmap for Bangladesh to fast-track the Paris Agreement implementation process as well as biennial transparency report (BTR) preparation and submission. The includes a concise, strategic, and participatory plan for achieving ETF requirements, enhancing technical capacity, mainstreaming climate transparency, and fosters long-term climate resilience through target setting, stakeholder engagement, adaptability, and accountability.
However, as the permanence of institutional arrangements is a prerequisite of mainstreaming regular data collection, filling national data gaps, operationalize the MRV system, meeting transparency requirement, the project, has facilitated a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between DoE and Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) for data collection and sharing in the long term. This MoU will support regular data collection, sharing, archiving, and reporting of GHG emission and environmental data.
The project recognizes that building the knowledge and skills of stakeholders is essential for quality data generation, accurate emission and mitigation estimation, and standard GHG inventory preparation and reporting. In order to achieve this, the project trained more than 350 government and private sector stakeholders on GHG inventory, statistical analysis, GIS analysis, database management and MRV system.
FAO will continue its technical assistance to implement the ETF roadmap as response to the request from the Government of Bangladesh, operationalize the MRV platform and carry out the climate transparency related work in Bangladesh through a proposed CBIT Phase II project, national methene reduction framework, Food and Agriculture for Sustainable Transformation Initiative (FAST) and Hand in Hand Initiative as well as FAO’s technical cooperation program facility.

24/12/2023
Dhaka – The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), with Honorable, Director General Badal Chandra Biswas, distributed agricultural inputs to flash flood-affected households yesterday in Chattogram division. A.T.M Saiful Islam, Joint Secretary (Extension Wing) of Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), senior government officials from Agriculture Department and local community leaders also attended the program.
In response to the devastating flash floods that swept through the Chattogram Division of Bangladesh in August, FAO has undertaken the distribution of agricultural inputs to households affected by flash floods in Bandarban Sadar Union under Sadar Upazila of Bandarban District in collaboration with the Department of Agriculture Extension (DAE). FAO is delivering rice and vegetable packages to 33 000 smallholder farmers across four districts Rangamati, Bandarban, Cox’s Bazaar and Chattogram and 23 Upazilas with generous financial assistance from the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) of the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UN OCHA) and the Special Fund for Emergency and Rehabilitation (SFERA). Support includes rice seeds, 12 kinds of vegetables seed, fertilisers, spade, water can, rice storage silo.
Yesterday, the chief guest, Badal Chandra Biswas, Director General of Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) inaugurated the distribution of agricultural inputs to the flood affected farmers in Bandarban Sadar and Patiya Upazilas under Bandarban and Chattogram district respectively. He thanked and expressed his gratitude to FAO for quick response to support the flood affected smallholder farmers and said "In times of crisis, collaboration is key. Today's distribution is a step towards restoring normalcy and ensuring the resilience of our agricultural community."
Nur Ahamed Khondaker, Assistant FAO Representative (Programme) and Officer-in-Charge, FAO Bangladesh, said “FAO is dedicated to support the recovery of communities impacted by the flash floods. The presence of Mr. Badal Chandra Biswas, Director General at this event underscores the importance of collective action. FAO remains committed to working hand-in-hand with local authorities to address the immediate needs of the affected population."
The distribution aims to restore livelihoods and ensure resilience in targeted areas, including Bandarban, Rangamati, Chattogram, and Cox’s Bazar districts. The event showcased solidarity between government, FAO, and the farming community.

19/12/2023
Dhaka –The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) jointly organized the closing workshop for the project titled “Scaling up the Sustainable Management of the Fall Armyworm in Africa, the Near East and Asia” today in Dhaka.
Md. Ashraf Uddin, Director, Plant Protection Wing of the Department of Agricultural Extension participated as the Chair, Dr. Md. Abdus Salam, the Member Director (Crops) of Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) was the chief guest. Dr. Debasish Sarker, Director General, Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI), and Mst Zohra Khatoon, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, gracing the session as Special Guests, and Nur Ahamed Khondaker, Assistant FAO Representative (Programme) and Officer-in-Charge, FAO Bangladesh participated to the closing workshop.
The closing provided an opportunity to share comprehensive insights into the implemented project activities, presenting the finalized National Action Plan of Bangladesh for Combatting Fall Armyworm, fostering collaboration among stakeholders involved in FAW control, envisioning a sustainable path forward, and collectively developing a roadmap for ongoing FAW control and management efforts in Bangladesh.
FAO provided technical assistance to prepare the Bangladesh National Action Plan to Combat Fall Armyworm which was presented at the workshop and well received by the participants. The action plan will serve as an instrument to mobilize resources and integrated approach to tackle crop damage by the insect following the approval by the Ministry of Agriculture.
Background
The project’s main objectives included coordinating and enhancing national and local capacities for Fall Armyworm (FAW) management. The project supported the Ministry of Agriculture and national task force, and adopted a cascading model to train 1 650 farmers, 100 sub-assistant agriculture officers (SAAOs), and frontline extension workers providing crop production advice. Additionally, 51 Farmer Field Days were organized, reaching 5 100 farmers.

08/12/2023
Dhaka –The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), in collaboration with the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives, proudly announces the inauguration of the “My Food, My City” exhibition to showcase the activities done by the project Support for Modelling, Planning and Improving Dhaka’s Food System (DFS). This groundbreaking initiative aims to foster inclusivity, resilience, and sustainability in the urban food system of Dhaka Division's four City Corporations – Dhaka North, Dhaka South, Gazipur, and Narayanganj.
The exhibition will be open to public between 8-16 December, 2023 at the Vasker Novera Gallery of Bangla Academy, the exhibition contributes to the larger framework offered by the Dhaka Food Agenda 2041, a visionary project developed through action research, evidence-based analysis, and a collaborative multi-stakeholder approach. This project aligns seamlessly with national policies and priorities, representing a significant stride towards a more comprehensive and integrated urban food system.
Pedro Garzon Delvaux, Project Manager for FAO said, “Living in cities constantly changes the way we relate to food, even more so in an urban area like Dhaka which is evolving rapidly. Thinking about this ‘my food-my city’ relationship – and more so in an entertaining way – is something that can help us making better individual and collective choices today and, in the future”.
“My Food, My City” exhibition features a curated set of displays, including maps, infographics, and interactive games, all centred around the theme of healthier diets and future scenarios of Dhaka’s food systems. Running daily from 10 am to 6 pm, this exhibition seeks to re-think Dhaka’s urban food landscape. Visitors are invited to explore and engage with exhibits focusing on fresh food markets, supermarkets, diets, processed food, and urban agriculture.
Background
Support for Modelling, Planning and Improving Dhaka’s Food System (DFS) project aims to make the city's food system more inclusive, resilient, and sustainable by supporting the Government of Bangladesh to develop the Dhaka Food Agenda 2041. The project embraces a food systems approach with a focus on action research and collaborative multi-stakeholder partnerships. The local government division of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development, and Co-operatives leads project implementation with technical support from FAO and Wageningen University & Research (WUR). The project is funded by the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
So far, the Dhaka Food Agenda 2041 was launched as an anticipatory governance strategic resource document, alongside Food Charters for the city's four corporations. The capacity of 2700 food market vendors and market management committees in 130 fresh markets of the city strengthened. 16 farmers' markets created, providing fresh and safer produce by farmers endorsed by the Ministry of Agriculture. Over 100 organizations around the future of Dhaka’s urban food system are engaged in the project. Original GIS and economic modelling food system dashboards are introduced. 6 500 people received urban agriculture training and inputs. 8 700 beneficiaries received training on food selection, purchasing, and cooking safe food. Also, hotel and restaurant owners, cooks, butchers, and street food vendors are trained on food safety, safe handling of meat, and hygiene practices.

02/12/2023
Dhaka — The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) concludes the year with an insightful information meeting attended by resource partners, government stakeholders, UN agencies, and media representatives. The meeting aims to share progress and success of FAO Bangladesh office centered around FAO's commitment to four key pillars: better production, better nutrition, better environment, better life, living no one behind.
Bangladesh and FAO have been working closely in developing the areas of agriculture, food, forestry, fisheries, livestock, rural development and climate change for over 45 years. Bangladesh is one of the fastest growing economies in the world and is increasingly shifting its focus towards nutrition security and food exports.
Transforming agrifood systems
FAO Strategic Framework 2022-31 aims to support the 2030 Agenda by working together for transforming agrifood systems to be more efficient, inclusive, resilient, and sustainable, addressing better production, better nutrition, a better environment, and a better life, leaving no one behind. At the information meeting, the FAO experts provided information on various topics, some of which: sustainably increasing productivity in agriculture, fisheries, and forestry; fostering inclusive and resilient agrifood systems in a changing climate and environment; increasing food security and community self-sufficiency; promoting healthy and safe food supply; improving food distribution and reducing food loss and waste; protecting and restoring terrestrial and marine ecosystems; increasing incomes of small-scale food producers; guiding government expenditures towards the agriculture sector; securing land tenure by promoting ownership or strengthened rights over agricultural land; gender equality development.
FAO Representative ad interim in Bangladesh said in his speech “As we work towards our goal, the better production, better nutrition, a better environment, and a better life, leaving no one behind, we express our gratitude to our resource partners, government counterparts and colleagues for their continuous support.”

04/12/2023
Dhaka – Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) kick started the scoping mission to identify the areas of Technical Assistance and Implementation Support for the Program on Agricultural and Rural Transformation for Nutrition, Entrepreneurship, and Resilience in Bangladesh (PARTNER). Nafis Khan, Senior Programme Officer, Global Programme Coordinator, South-South and Triangular Cooperation Division (PST), Kenya Konno, Programme Officer, PST, Nikola Trendov, Digital Agriculture and Innovation Specialist, OIN, Bruno Telemans, Crop Production Specialist, Plant Production and Protection Division (NSP), Xi Cao South-South and Triangular Cooperation consultant and Zhou Bo, Agriculture Officer from Headquarter and Regional Office will be participating in meetings and discussions in coming days.
In response to the request from Department of Agricultural (DAE) FAO experts will meet with the implementing agencies of PARTNER at Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) between 3-10 December to discuss various topics to support on smooth implementation of the project.
PARTNER is a five-years program to continue until June 2028 that aims to promote diversification, food safety, entrepreneurship, and climate resilience in the agri-food systems of Bangladesh. It is led by the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh Department of Agricultural Extension and designed to be implemented by seven agencies and eight other strategic partners.

07/12/2023
Dhaka — The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the Economic Relations Division, Ministry of Finance of Bangladesh Government signed four agreements today to support Bangladesh in its efforts to improve food and nutrition security. The four agreements are Technical Assistance to the Diversified Resilient Agriculture for Improved Food and Nutrition Security project (RAINS-TA), Accelerating Economic and Social Inclusion of Smallholder Farmers through Strong Producers’ Organizations (ACCESS), Public-Private Blended Finance Facility for Climate Resilient Rice Landscape, Integrating Improved Agricultural Practices and Market Linkages to Improve Nutrition and Incomes of Smallholder Farmers in Ukhiya and Kutubdia Subdistricts of Cox’s Bazar District. The agreements are signed by Md. Shahriar Kader Siddiky, Secretary of the Economic Relations Division, Ministry of Finance and Arnoud Hameleers, FAO Representative in Bangladesh ad interim.
RAINS Technical Assistance will continue for 4 years with USD 4 million budget
The RAINS project with the total budget of USD 20 million is implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture. The project is funded by the Global Agriculture and Food Security Programme (GAFSP) of the World Bank, and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is serving as the supervising entity. The technical assistance part of RAINS, worth USD 4 million; it is a grant and funded by the Global Agriculture and Food Security Programme (GAFSP) of the World Bank, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is serving as the supervising entity, and FAO as the TA supporting entity.
RAINS seeks to enhance the resilience of the agriculture sector in three major climate hotspots of Bangladesh, namely the coastal, drought-prone, and northern char regions. The project spanning four years, will implement diversified, resilient and nutrition-sensitive production systems and improve off-farm opportunities along value chains in 14 districts of the nation. It aims to improve food and nutrition security resilience of rural households facing environmental and economic shocks, and is set to directly improve the income and nutrition of 420 000 people by specifically targeting communities who are most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change.
Scaling up for external shocks and crises
Accelerating Economic and Social Inclusion of Smallholder Farmers through Strong Producers’ Organizations (ACCESS) also received a grant of USD 3.26 million under GAFSP. ACCESS will be implemented jointly by FAO and the Sara Bangla Krishak Society (SBKS), a national network of Producers’ Organizations, that has already successfully partnered with FAO under a previous GAFSP pilot project—the Missing Middle Initiative (MMI). ACCESS will work in 60 climatic hotspot communities to improve the livelihoods of smallholder farmers so that they are more resilient to external shocks and crises. The project will scale up the successful MMI approach which has already resulted in an average 35% increase in annual household income for 10 000 farmers.
RAINS and ACCESS are grants from GAFSP which Bangladesh applied and won in the competition that 40 counties participated.
Supporting marginal and smallholder farming families
Integrating Improved Agricultural Practices and Market Linkages to Improve Nutrition and Incomes of Smallholder Farmers in Ukhiya and Kutubdia Subdistricts of Cox’s Bazar District project will be implemented with the budget of USD 300 000. It aims to promote climate-smart, nutrition-sensitive agriculture among primary school students and their families and improve the livelihood of farmers through. The project will provide agricultural inputs, training on nutrition and dietary diversification, and establishing market linkages to 2 700 marginal and smallholder farming families from the host communities as well as 140 primary schools in Ukhiya and Kutubdia sub-districts.
The project is a joint initiative between the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the World Food Programme (WFP), funded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture McGovern-Dole Food for Education Program, and is implemented in collaboration with the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) and the Bangladesh Institute of Research and Training for Applied Nutrition (BIRTAN).
Regional project for rice landscapes
Public-Private Blended Finance Facility for Climate-Resilient Rice Landscapes is a regional project to be implemented in Bangladesh, Cambodia and Vietnam; and funded by the Global Environment Facility (GEF). With the budget of USD 120 000 this project will support the design of a new blended finance facility to catalyze public and private financing for climate-resilient rice landscapes, value chains and livelihoods. It will support public and private sector investment to scale-up adaptation and resilience-building in rice landscapes across Asia.
The project aims to enhance the capacity of an estimated 6-9 organizations (financial institutions, farmers' organizations, private sector) and about 6 250 individuals. FAO will implement the project together with various partners such as Sustainable Rice Platform (SRP), World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and relevant government agencies in the project's target countries.
Nur Ahmed Khondaker, Assistant FAO Representative (Programme), said “Collaboration is key for achieving food and nutrition security resilience to challenges especially environmental”. Arnoud Hameleers, FAO Representative in Bangladesh ad interim, said “Through these projects signed today, we will be once step closer to build a more resilient future for Bangladesh’s agricultural sector.”




Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/257004-december-2023-updates-fao-bangladesh




Date: 31 December 2023
Title: WFP to increase food ration from US$8 to US$10 for all Rohingya refugees in Cox’s Bazar
Content: 31 December 2023
31 December 2023
Dhaka – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) is gearing up to restore its critical food assistance for the entire Rohingya population in Cox’s Bazar. Starting 1 January 2024, WFP will increase the food ration from US$8 to US$10 per person per month, and gradually add locally fortified rice to its food assistance package.
“The year 2023 was a tumultuous one for the Rohingya in Bangladesh, who lived through multiple fire outbreaks, cyclones, and, for the first time, ration cuts. The rapid deterioration of the food and nutrition situation in the camps is extremely worrying. Through all this, the donor community stood with the Rohingya – it's all thanks to its generous contributions we can now have this increase and also add locally fortified rice to WFP’s food assistance package,” said Dom Scalpelli, WFP Country Director in Bangladesh.
A sharp decline in resources led to a reduction in the Rohingya’s food entitlement in 2023. In March, the food voucher value for the entire population in the Cox’s Bazar camps was reduced from US$12 to US$10, and in June, to US$8 per person per month. Even before the ration cut, 40 percent of children under five were chronically malnourished and 12 percent were acutely malnourished.
Since then, WFP’s monitoring has shown a sharp decrease in food consumption and an increase in negative coping mechanisms among the population. By November, 90 percent of the population did not have adequate food consumption, up from 79 percent in June. Even more worrying is the fast deterioration of the nutrition status among children.
The preliminary results of the latest nutrition survey show that global acute malnutrition (GAM) has risen to 15.1 percent - the highest since the onset of the 2017 influx, exceeding the emergency threshold of 15 percent, according to WHO emergency classification.
In 2023, the refugees again endured multiple fire hazards and repeatedly cyclones, monsoon floods and landslides. Their vulnerability has further deepened due to the rising violence and insecurity in the camps, as well as human trafficking. As of 30 November, 3,468 Rohingya had embarked on risky boat journeys, almost half are women and children.
In addition to increasing the ration, WFP will begin the distribution of locally fortified rice to the Rohingya population. This will commence in one or two camps and gradually extend to all camps in Cox’s Bazar and on Bhasan Char Island.
“We remain fully committed to the Rohingya while supporting vulnerable Bangladeshis who have so generously hosted the Rohingya over the years. We are immensely grateful to all our donors for their unwavering support, and we count on them to step up even further to ensure we can provide the Rohingya with a full and nutritious ration in 2024,” added Scalpelli.
WFP currently has a funding gap of US$61 million to increase the food ration to the full amount, now US$12.5, with locally fortified rice added.



Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/256998-wfp-increase-food-ration-us8-us10-all-rohingya-refugees-cox%E2%80%99s-bazar




Date: 27 December 2023
Title: WFP and Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics commemorate long-term strategic MoU to strengthen national statistics in SDG monitoring
Content: 27 December 2023
26 December 2023
Dhaka, Bangladesh — The World Food Programme (WFP) and the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) have marked a significant milestone in their longstanding partnership with the launch of a strategic Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). This MoU aims to mobilize ‘Data for Life’ and strengthen official statistics, focusing on achieving Zero Hunger and supporting Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2 and 17.
Dom Scalpelli, the Country Director of WFP in Bangladesh, stated, “Our collaboration with BBS has been pivotal in generating crucial data over the years. We have jointly produced poverty and undernutrition maps and have been involved in policy research, like the Urban Socioeconomic Assessment Survey 2019 and the Vulnerable Group Development Survey. Our latest endeavour, the Food Security Assessment and Food Insecurity Experience Scale (FIES) Survey 2023, where WFP supported in training, analysis, and report writing, is a testament to our combined efforts towards addressing hunger and undernutrition in Bangladesh.”
Mohammed Mizanur Rahman, the Director General of BBS, expressed gratitude for the continued partnership, noting, “WFP has been an invaluable ally in our mission to deliver high-quality statistical services. This MoU is not just a formalization of our existing relationship but a step forward in integrating food security indicators into our surveys, like the Sample Vital Registration System Survey. This collaboration is essential for informing the government's 9th Five-Year Plan and enhancing our efforts to monitor progress towards the SDGs.”
Under the strategic MoU, WFP and BBS will extend their collaboration to include various areas such as poverty and undernutrition mapping exercises, food security surveys, and policy advocacy studies in the fields of shock-responsive social protection and urban programming with evidence-generation activities to support the upcoming 9th FYP. This partnership is a cornerstone in the fight against hunger and undernutrition in Bangladesh and serves as a model for leveraging data and statistics in humanitarian efforts.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/256810-wfp-and-bangladesh-bureau-statistics-commemorate-long-term-strategic-mou-strengthen-national




Date: 21 December 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL - MESSAGE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL DAY OF EPIDEMIC PREPAREDNESS
Content: 21 December 2023
27 December 2023
COVID-19 is no longer the international public health emergency it was, but it is still circulating, and its devastating effects are still with us. Economic damage inflicted by the pandemic endures.
Many healthcare systems are struggling. Millions of children are threatened by disease after missing out on routine childhood vaccinations. And three years after the first COVID-19 vaccines were developed, billions of people remain unprotected – overwhelmingly in developing countries.
When the next pandemic arrives, we must do better. But we’re not yet ready. W
e must prepare and act on the lessons of COVID-19. Working together, the world must improve surveillance of viruses, strengthen health systems, and make the promise of Universal Health Coverage a reality.
We must renounce the moral and medical disaster of rich countries hoarding and controlling pandemic healthcare supplies, and ensure everyone has access to diagnostics, treatments and vaccines.
And we must strengthen the World Health Organization’s authority and financing. These efforts are making progress. The High-level meeting on Pandemic Prevention, Preparedness and Response in September agreed a robust political declaration.
This complements the negotiations on a pandemic accord in Geneva. On this International Day of Epidemic Preparedness, I urge countries to build on this momentum by delivering a strong, comprehensive accord, focused on equity, by next year’s World Health Assembly in May.
Together, let’s act on the lessons of COVID-19, prepare, and build a fairer, healthier world for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/256458-secretary-general-message-international-day-epidemic-preparedness




Date: 10 December 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -MESSAGE ON HUMAN RIGHTS DAY
Content: 10 December 2023
10 December 2023
“All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.”
The iconic opening sentence of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is as important today as it was when it was adopted 75 years ago. The Universal Declaration is a roadmap, helping to end wars, heal divisions and promote lives of peace and dignity for all. But the world is losing its way.
Conflicts are raging. Poverty and hunger are increasing. Inequalities are deepening. The climate crisis is a human rights crisis that is hitting the most vulnerable hardest. Authoritarianism is on the rise. Civic space is shrinking, and the media is under attack from all sides.
Gender equality remains a distant dream and women’s reproductive rights are being rolled back. Today, it is more important than ever to promote and respect all human rights – social, cultural, economic, civil, and political – which protect us all.
The Universal Declaration shows the way to common values and approaches that can help resolve tensions and create the security and stability our world craves. As we work to update global frameworks and make them more effective in the 21st century, human rights must have a unique and central role.
I call on Member States to use this 75th anniversary, and the Summit of the Future next year, to strengthen their commitment to the timeless values of the Universal Declaration.
And on Human Rights Day, I urge people around the world to promote and respect human rights, every day, for everyone, everywhere.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/255347-secretary-general-message-human-rights-day




Date: 10 December 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL - MESSAGE FOR INTERNATIONAL MIGRANTS DAY
Content: 10 December 2023
18 December 2023
Migration is a fact of life and a force for good.
It promotes the exchange of knowledge and ideas and contributes to economic growth. It enables millions of people to pursue opportunities and improve their lives.
At the same time, poorly governed migration is a cause of great suffering. It forces people into the cruel realm of traffickers, where they face exploitation, abuse, and even death. It undermines trust in governance and institutions, inflames social tensions, and corrodes our common humanity.
On International Migrants Day, we highlight the urgent need for safe migration governance rooted in solidarity, partnership, and respect for human rights.
Five years ago, the international community adopted the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly, and Regular Migration.
This has become an important reference point and resource for Member States to assess actions, enhance cooperation, and expand rights-based pathways for migration.
Yet such measures remain the exception, not the norm.
Today and every day, we must work towards a more humane and orderly management of migration for the benefit of all, including communities of origin, transit, and destination. Together, let us secure a safer and more prosperous future for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/255348-secretary-general-message-international-migrants-day




Date: 07 December 2023
Title: From Crisis to Action: UNFPA, UNICEF, & UN Women shed light on key Essential Services to support Gender Based Violence survivors in Bangladesh
Content: 07 December 2023
The new joint report highlights the importance of providing survivor-centered and trauma-informed services to empower women and children.
Dhaka, Bangladesh – December 7, 2023 – On the framework of 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence, a meta-analysis report jointly was released today by UNFPA, UNICEF, and UN Women, focused on how women, girls, and children, including  adolescents, in Bangladesh face the brunt of the growing risk of gender-based violence (GBV) as an aftermath to COVID-19 pandemic.
This report titled "Justice Accountability and Support: Essential Services for Survivors of Gender-Based Violence," marks a collective effort by the three UN agencies to take decisive actions, supporting the Government of Bangladesh, aiming to end all forms of violence against women and children in the country.
The report highlights the urgent need to bridge the gap between health, police, justice, and social services and survivors, emphasizing the delivery of essential services to a GBV survivor.
A crucial recommendation from the analysis underscores the importance of providing survivor-centered and trauma-informed services. This approach is instrumental in empowering women and children including adolescents to seek help, thereby preventing all forms of harmful practices such as child marriage, trafficking, and various forms of gender-based violence (GBV).
"Now more than ever, it is critical to have a comprehensive and coordinated response to address the multifaceted challenges faced by GBV survivors,” said Emma Brigham, UNICEF Deputy Representative to Bangladesh. “Let’s strengthen our prevention and protection mechanisms, ensuring that women and children have access to the services they need to thrive," she added.
According to a 2021 UN Women report, 93% of women in Bangladesh reported having experienced or knowing another woman who has experienced violence against women and girls (VAWG).1 Moreover, Bangladesh also continues to witness one of the highest rates of child marriage, with more than half of women aged between 22 and 24 married when they were still children.2
"Essential Services Package (ESP) for Women and Girls Subject to Violence’ is a UN global guidance supporting national systems to respond to gender-based violence across four key sectors: health, social services, justice, and police. On behalf of UNFPA, and together with UNICEF and UN Women, I reaffirm our collective commitment to support Government efforts to address gaps identified. Closer partnerships with the relevant Government institutions, non-governmental and civil society organizations, and development partners are key to achieving all of them,” said Masaki Watabe, Deputy Representative, UNFPA Bangladesh.
During her presentation, UN Women Programme Coordinator, Shrabana Datta, shared “It is essential to work holistically, work in an intersectional and coordinated way, and involve all stakeholders to strengthen prevention and response programming for ending violence against women and girls. We need to scale up investments in prevention efforts. UN Women stands ready to work with the Government, civil society partners and development partners to advance prevention and response to gender-based violence efforts in the country.”
Key findings from the report include:
·       Legal Framework Gaps: The justice services assessment identifies gaps in the legal framework, with child marriages and marital rape exempted from the definition of rape under Section 375 of the Penal Code 1860.
·       Policing and Justice Service Challenges: The assessment emphasizes the need for training and capacity building of police officers, urging a survivor-centered and trauma-informed approach.
·       Health Services Coordination: Stressing the crucial need for coordination between medical and justice service providers, the health services assessment aims to ensure an appropriate response to GBV.
·       Social Services Investment: The report calls for increased investment in social services, advocating for a workforce capable of community outreach, awareness campaigns, and psychosocial support for GBV survivors.
Recommendations from the report for government, civil society, women's rights organizations, the media, and UN agencies, include capacity strengthening, improving accessibility of information related to GBV essential services, ensuring the safety of survivors, and enhancing data collection and management.
The proposed solutions advocate for the implementation of mutually reinforcing policy interventions and programs, fostering a comprehensive and collaborative approach to address the multifaceted challenges faced by GBV survivors in the country.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/255134-crisis-action-unfpa-unicef-un-women-shed-light-key-essential-services-support-gender-based




Date: 02 December 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL MESSAGE ON INTERNATIONAL VOLUNTEER DAY FOR ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Content: 02 December 2023
5 December 2023
On International Volunteer Day for Economic and Social Development, we salute the more than one billion people worldwide who are contributing their time and skills to creating a better, safer, more caring and peaceful world.
This year’s theme — “If everyone did…” — underscores the importance of collective action, cooperation, and people-led solutions to global challenges like poverty, inequalities, conflict, the climate crisis, food insecurity and more.
In every community on the planet, volunteers are taking action to support the most vulnerable people, including in the midst of conflict and other humanitarian emergencies.
Young volunteers are joining the fight for climate action, pressing governments, businesses and policymakers to take the decisions needed to end this planetary emergency.
Our own UN Volunteers hail from more than 160 countries, and are helping to spur peace and sustainable development, and the realization of human rights, for people around the world.
On this important day, let’s re-commit to ensuring that all people can lend their energies to shaping a better future for all people and the planet we share.
Let’s stand with volunteers, everywhere.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/254519-secretary-general-message-international-volunteer-day-economic-and-social-development




Date: 02 December 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL MESSAGE FOR WORLD AIDS DAY 2023
Content: 02 December 2023
1 December 2023
World AIDS Day arrives at a defining moment.
AIDS-related deaths have fallen by almost 70 per cent since their peak in 2004, and new HIV infections are at the lowest point since the 1980s.
But AIDS still takes a life every minute.
We can — and must — end AIDS as a public health threat by 2030.
Reaching this goal means heeding this year’s theme: Let Communities Lead.
The path to ending AIDS runs through communities.
From connecting people to the treatment, services and support they need — to the grassroots activism pushing for action so all people can realize their right to health.
Supporting those on the frontlines of the battle against AIDS is how we win.
That means placing community leadership at the centre of HIV plans, programmes, budgets and monitoring efforts.
We must also remove barriers to community leadership, and ensure space for local civil society groups to take forward their vital work.
Above all, we need funding.
The AIDS response in low and middle-income countries needs over 8 billion dollars more per year to be fully funded.
This must include scaled-up funding for local programmes led by people living with HIV, and prevention initiatives led by communities.
AIDS is beatable.
Let’s finish the job by supporting communities to end this scourge in their neighbourhoods, their countries and around the world.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/254518-secretary-general-message-world-aids-day-2023




Date: 02 December 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL REMARKS TO WORLD CLIMATE ACTION SUMMIT COP28
Content: 02 December 2023
1 December Dubai, UAE
Your Highness, President Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan,

I waant to express my profound gratitude for the wonderful hospitality that we are enjoying in Dubai from the government and the people of the United Arab Emirates.

COP28 President Dr Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, I want to congratulate you on the positive start to the COP with an expeditious approval of the agenda and the landmark operationalization of the Loss and Damage Fund. Congratulations.

Excellencies, friends, all protocol observed.

Just days ago, I was on the melting ice of Antarctica.

Not long before, I was among the melting glaciers of Nepal.

These two spots are far in distance, but united in crisis.

Polar ice and glaciers are vanishing before our eyes, causing havoc the world over: from landslides and floods, to rising seas.

But this is just one symptom of the sickness bringing our climate to its knees.

A sickness only you, global leaders, can cure.

Excellencies,

Earth’s vital signs are failing: record emissions, ferocious fires, deadly droughts and the hottest year ever. We can guarantee it even when we’re still in November.

We are miles from the goals of the Paris Agreement – and minutes to midnight for the 1.5-degree limit.

But it is not too late.

We can - you can - prevent planetary crash and burn.

We have the technologies to avoid the worst of climate chaos – if we act now.

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has charted a clear path to a 1.5-degree world.

But we need leadership – cooperation – and political will for action.

And we need it now.

It’s true. Our world is unequal and divided.

As we see in this region, conflicts are causing immense suffering and intense emotion. We just heard the news that the bombs are sounding again in Gaza.

And climate chaos is fanning the flames of injustice.

Global heating is busting budgets, ballooning food prices, upending energy markets, and feeding a cost-of-living crisis.

But climate action can flip the switch.

And renewable energy is the gift that keeps on giving.

It is good for our planet, our health, and our economies.

Cleaning our air.

Meeting the world’s growing energy demand.

Connecting millions of people to affordable electricity.

Bringing stability and security to markets.

And saving money – as renewable energy has never been cheaper.

Excellencies, friends,

The diagnosis is clear.

The success of this COP depends on the Global Stocktake prescribing a credible cure in three areas.

First, drastically cutting emissions.

Current policies would lead to an earth-scorching three-degree temperature rise.

So the Global Stocktake must set clear expectations for economy-wide Nationally Determined Contributions presented by all countries that cover all greenhouse gases, and align with the 1.5-degree limit.

The G20 – which represents 80 per cent of the world’s emissions -- must lead.

And I urge countries to speed up their net zero timelines, to get there as close as possible to 2040 in developed countries and 2050 in emerging economies.

Second, we cannot save a burning planet with a firehose of fossil fuels.

We must accelerate a just, equitable transition to renewables.

The science is clear:

The 1.5-degree limit is only possible if we ultimately stop burning all fossil fuels.

Not reduce.

Not abate.

Phaseout – with a clear timeframe aligned with 1.5 degrees.

The Global Stocktake must not only commit to that – it must also commit to triple renewables; double energy efficiency; and bring clean energy to all by 2030.

The economics are clear: the global shift to renewables is inevitable.
The only question is how much heating our planet will endure before it happens.

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has recommended ending our addiction to coal by 2030 in OECD countries and 2040 for the rest of the world.

At the same time, according to the International Energy Agency, the oil and gas industry accounts for just one per cent of clean energy investment.

So allow me to have a message for fossil fuel company leaders:

Your old road is rapidly aging.

Do not double-down on an obsolete business model.

Lead the transition to renewables using the resources you have available.

Make no mistake – the road to climate sustainability is also the only viable pathway to economic sustainability of your companies in the future.

I urge governments to help industry make the right choice – by regulating, legislating, putting a fair price on carbon, ending fossil fuel subsidies, and adopting a windfall tax on profits.

Excellencies,

Third, climate justice is long overdue.

Developing countries are being devastated by disasters they did not cause.

Extortionate borrowing costs are blocking their climate action plans.

And support is far too little, far too late.

The Global Stocktake must commit to a surge in finance, including for adaptation and loss and damage.

And it must support reform of the multilateral development banks to leverage far more private finance at reasonable costs for developing countries on climate action.

And developed countries must show how they will double adaptation finance to $40 billion a year by 2025 – as promised – and clarify how they deliver on the $100 billion – as promised.

Excellencies,

The climate challenge is not just another issue in your inbox.

Protecting our climate is the world’s greatest test of leadership.

And so I urge you to lead.

Humanity’s fate hangs in the balance.

Make this COP count.

Make this COP a gamechanger.

Make this COP the new hope in the future of humankind.

Thank you.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/254520-secretary-general-remarks-world-climate-action-summit-cop28




Date: 02 December 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  --  MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY  OF PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
Content: 02 December 2023

3 December 2023: This year’s International Day of Persons with Disabilities reminds us that achieving the Sustainable Development Goals requires living up to the promise to leave no one behind, especially the 1.3 billion persons with disabilities worldwide.
Today, at the halfway point to the 2030 Agenda, persons with disabilities continue facing systemic discrimination and barriers that restrict their meaningful inclusion in all areas of society.
Truly sustainable development for persons with disabilities requires a laser-like focus on their needs and rights — not only as beneficiaries, but as active contributors across social, economic and political life.
This means ensuring that persons with disabilities are at every decision-making table, in line with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and across countries’ efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals — from poverty eradication, to health, education and climate action.
The United Nations is leading by example through our Disability Inclusion Strategy, and by supporting Member States as they drive progress for, and with, persons with disabilities.
On this important day, I call on the world to work side-by-side with persons with disabilities to design and deliver solutions based on equal rights in every country and community.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/254516-secretary-general-message-international-day-persons-disabilities




Date: 22 November 2023
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women
Content: 22 November 2023
25 November 2023
Violence against women is a horrific violation of human rights, a public health crisis, and a major obstacle to sustainable development.
It is persistent, widespread – and worsening.
From sexual harassment and abuse to femicide – the violence takes many forms.
But all are rooted in structural injustice, cemented by millennia of patriarchy.
We still live in a male-dominated culture that leaves women vulnerable by denying them equality in dignity and rights.
We all pay the price: our societies are less peaceful, our economies less prosperous, our world less just.
But a different world is possible.
This year’s theme of the UNiTE campaign – “Invest to Prevent Violence against Women & Girls” – calls on all of us to take action.
Support legislation and comprehensive policies that strengthen the protection of women’s rights across the board.
Ramp up investments in prevention and support to women’s rights organization.
Listen to survivors and end impunity for perpetrators everywhere.

Stand with women activists and promote women’s leadership at every stage of decision-making.
Together, let us stand up and speak out. Let’s build a world that refuses to tolerate violence against women anywhere, in any form, once and for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/253457-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-elimination




Date: 19 November 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message  on the World Toilet Day
Content: 19 November 2023
Toilets transform lives.
They deliver dignity, boost school attendance – particularly for girls, and enhance health and nutrition by preventing the spread of disease.
Gradually, the world is making progress towards bringing sanitation to all – and fulfilling one of the ambitions of the Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs. Over nine hundred million more people have access to safely managed sanitation services than in 2015.  And almost three hundred million more people have been spared the indignity of open defecation over the same period.
But a massive sanitation shortfall still exists, with billions of people cut off from safe services. We’re racing the clock. To meet the 2030 deadline for the SDGs, we need to move five times faster.
This World Toilet Day focuses on accelerating action on sanitation to drive progress across the SDGs. The world must respond urgently to this call. We need a massive cash injection across the board to get the SDGs on track. My proposal for an SDG Stimulus of $500 billion a year is gaining traction, and I urge leaders to act now to make it a reality.
On this World Toilet Day, let’s recommit to realising every person’s human right to safe sanitation, to help to flush away poverty and indignity for good.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/253153-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-toilet-day




Date: 19 November 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message  on the World Day of Remembrance of Road Traffic Victims
Content: 19 November 2023
The World Day of Remembrance of Road Traffic Victims shines a light on a dark reality: every year, 1.35 million lives are cut short and 50 million more suffer life-changing injuries because of road accidents.
The World Day of Remembrance of Road Traffic Victims shines a light on a dark reality: every year, 1.35 million lives are cut short and 50 million more suffer life-changing injuries because of road accidents.
We must do more to avoid these entirely preventable tragedies.
The Global Plan for the Decade of Action for Road Safety – now in its third year – aims to halve road deaths by building capacities, accelerating the implementation of UN road safety conventions, raising awareness, and mobilizing resources for greater traffic safety.
This year, we also launched the Global Campaign on Road Safety which will reach 1000 cities across 80 countries.  And our UN Road Safety Fund is financing action in low- and middle-income countries, where around 90 per cent of traffic casualties occur.
Urgent action remains imperative. I call on all donors to scale up much-needed financial and technical contributions. On this World Day, let us join forces to make roads safer for everyone, everywhere.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/253154-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-day-remembrance-road-traffic-victims




Date: 16 November 2023
Title: Statement of the International Labour Organization (ILO) relating to the minimum wage in the Bangladesh Ready Made Garment (RMG) sector
Content: 16 November 2023
ILO calls for all parties to continue to engage in constructive dialogue to reach a consensus beneficial to workers and industry alike.
The International Labour Organization (ILO) underscores the necessity of conducting the minimum wage determination process for the RMG sector in Bangladesh with transparency, fairness and a foundation in evidence.
Demonstrations and instances of violence concerning wage levels in the sector give rise to concern and ILO calls for calm and restraint to avoid any further loss of life and damage to livelihoods.
We strongly encourage all parties involved to engage in constructive dialogue and negotiations with the objective of reaching a consensus on a minimum wage that not only assures workers of a decent standard of living but also considers the sustainability of businesses within the RMG sector.
We acknowledge the work of the minimum wage board and encourage the parties to continue to discuss in good faith and to take into account the concerns of workers and employers alike as part of the confirmation process of the minimum wage.
Moving forward, it is imperative for Bangladesh to establish a national wage policy and an evidence-based system for wage determination. Preliminary discussions in this regard are ongoing, and we welcome the establishment by the Government of a committee to explore this avenue.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/252883-statement-international-labour-organization-ilo-relating-minimum-wage-bangladesh-ready-made




Date: 15 November 2023
Title: UN experts urge Bangladesh to seize Human Rights Council review as opportunity to address deteriorating human rights situation
Content: 15 November 2023
14 November 2023
The severe crackdown against workers demanding fair wages and political activists calling for free and fair elections, judicial harassment of journalists, human rights defenders and civil society leaders, and failure to reform laws suppressing freedom of expression in Bangladesh are grave concerns, UN experts* said today, as the Human Rights Council completed its periodic review of the human rights situation in the country.
“As Bangladesh heads towards national elections in early 2024, we are deeply disturbed by the sharp rise in political violence, arrests of senior opposition leaders, mass arbitrary detention of thousands of political activists, use of excessive force by the authorities and internet shutdowns to disrupt protests, and allegations of harassment, intimidation and unlawful detention of family members as a retaliatory measure,” the experts said.
They expressed alarm at the threats to media freedom, noting that attacks, surveillance, intimidation and judicial harassment of the press over the past several years have led to widespread self-censorship in the media.
The weaponisation of the judicial system to attack journalists, human rights defenders and civil society leaders diminishes the independence of the judiciary and erodes fundamental human rights,” the experts said.
As an example of judicial harassment, the experts highlighted the case of investigative journalist, Rozina Islam, in which the prosecution has failed to produce material evidence after two years of investigation, repeated hearings and a travel ban that is affecting her work.
In September the secretary and director of the leading the human rights organisation, Odhikar, were convicted and imprisoned on charges of publishing “fake information” when in fact they had documented extrajudicial killings and excessive use of force by security forces in 2013 which the Bangladeshi government has never investigated. Odhikar was denied renewal of its registration last year.
“When prominent civil society leaders like Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus or human rights defenders like Adilur Rahman Khan or Nasiruddin Elan are charged or convicted in retaliation for human rights work, it sends a chilling message to all journalists and human rights defenders that any dissent or critical opinion may lead to the most severe sanctions, no matter how outrageous the accusations or how prominent the person,” the experts said.
“According to the authorities over 5,600 cases related to freedom of expression, including those of prominent journalists and editors, are still pending under the much-criticised draconian Digital Services Act,” noted the experts.
“Despite promises from the government of significant legal change, which we warmly welcomed, the new Cyber Security Act has made only few improvements and continues to retain many of the flaws of the legislation, threatening the legitimate exercise of the right to freedom of expression,” they said.
“The universal periodic review of the Human Rights Council is an opportunity for Bangladesh not only to reiterate its commitment to human rights in words but to take urgent, concrete action to end attacks on human rights defenders and journalists” the experts said. “We urge the Human Rights Council and the international community to press upon Bangladesh the urgency and importance of ensuring a safe, open and conducive environment for free and fair elections,” they said.
The Special Rapporteurs are in contact with the Government of Bangladesh on these issues.

*The experts: Ms. Irene Khan, Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression; Mr.Clément Nyaletsossi Voule; Special Rapporteur on the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association; and Ms. Mary Lawlor, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent of any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
For additional information and media requests please contact: hrc-sr-freedex@un.org
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Maya Derouaz (maya.derouaz@un.org) and Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org).
Follow news related to the UN's independent human rights experts on Twitter: @UN_SPExperts
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then stand up for someone's rights today.
#Standup4humanrights and visit the website at
http://www.standup4humanrights.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/252729-un-experts-urge-bangladesh-seize-human-rights-council-review-opportunity-address




Date: 08 November 2023
Title: Bangladesh’s human rights record to be examined by Universal Periodic Review
Content: 08 November 2023
GENEVA (8 November 2023)
Bangladesh’s human rights record will be examined by the United Nations Human Rights Council’s Universal Periodic Review (UPR) Working Group for the fourth time on Monday, 13 November 2023, in a meeting in Geneva that will be Bangladesh Review - 44th Session of Universal Periodic Review | UN Web TV
Bangladesh is one of 14 States to be reviewed by the UPR Working Group during its upcoming session from 6 to 17 November 2023. Bangladesh’s first, second and third UPR reviews took place in February 2009, April 2013, and May 2018, respectively.
The UPR Working Group is comprised of the 47 Member States of the Human Rights Council. However, each of the 193 UN Member States can participate in a country review.
The documents on which the reviews are based are: 1) national report - information provided by the State under review; 2) information contained in the reports of independent human rights experts and groups, known as the Special Procedures, human rights treaty bodies, and other UN entities; 3) information provided by other stakeholders including national human rights institutions, regional organizations, and civil society groups.
The three reports serving as the basis for the review of Bangladesh on 13 November can be found here.
Location: Room 20, Palais des Nations, Geneva
Time and date: 10:00 – 13:30, Monday, 13 November 2023 (Geneva time, GMT +1 hour)
The UPR is a peer review of the human rights records of all 193 UN Member States. Since its first meeting was held in April 2008, all 193 UN Member States have been reviewed thrice. During the fourth UPR cycle, States are again expected to spell out steps they have taken to implement recommendations posed during their previous reviews which they committed to follow up on and highlight recent human rights developments in the country.
The delegation of Bangladesh will be led by Mr. Anisul Huq, Minister of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs.
The three country representatives serving as rapporteurs (“troika”) for the review of Bangladesh are Cuba, Pakistan and Romania.
The webcast of the session will be at https://uprmeetings.ohchr.org/Sessions/44/Bangladesh/Pages/default.aspx

The list of speakers and all available statements to be delivered during the review of Bangladesh will be posted on the UPR Extranet.
The UPR Working Group is scheduled to adopt the recommendations made to Bangladesh between 15:30 and 18:00 on Wednesday, 15 November 2023. The State under review may wish to express its positions on recommendations posed to it during its review.
// ENDS //
For more information and media requests, please contact Pascal Sim, HRC Media Officer, at simp@un.org; David Díaz Martín, HRC Public Information Officer, at david.diazmartin@un.org and Verena Bongartz, HRC Public Information Officer, at verena.bongartz@un.org.
To learn more about the Universal Periodic Review, visit www.ohchr.org/en/hr-bodies/upr/upr-main
UN Human Rights Council, follow us on social media:
Facebook | Twitter | YouTube | Instagram
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/252165-bangladesh%E2%80%99s-human-rights-record-be-examined-universal-periodic-review




Date: 02 November 2023
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message on the International Day to End Impunity for Crimes Against Journalists
Content: 02 November 2023
Journalists and the media fulfill a vital role in society, upholding and enabling democracy and holding power to account.
They are essential to strong and accountable institutions and to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
But this important position puts journalists at risk. Their commitment to investigating and revealing the truth means they are often targeted for attack, illegal detention, and even death.
In 2022, according to UNESCO, at least 88 journalists were killed for doing their jobs – a sharp increase on the preceding years. The current conflict in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territory is taking a horrific toll on journalists.
But the majority of journalists who are killed are not war reporters; they are working in countries that are at peace, investigating corruption, trafficking, human rights violations, and environmental issues.
I am deeply alarmed by these figures, and by the rise in threats of all kinds against journalists. Detention of journalists is at an all-time high. Online harassment of journalists, particularly women, is being used as a tool to silence them.
We need better safeguards to defend the journalists who are keeping us informed.
On the International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists, we call on all States to prevent violence against journalists, to provide a safe environment for them to go about their jobs, to bring to justice those who commit crimes against journalists and media workers, and to ensure support for victims and survivors.
Today and every day, we are grateful to the journalists and all media professionals who risk their health and lives to keep us informed, and to keep the truth alive.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/251488-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-end-impunity




Date: 31 October 2023
Title: Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights' Statement on recent Bangladeshi political protests
Content: 31 October 2023
31 October 2023
We are deeply concerned by a series of violent incidents during ongoing protests in Bangladesh. As the country heads towards elections, we call on all political actors to make clear that such violence is unacceptable and to avoid any statements or actions that could constitute incitement to violence.
As of this morning, at least 11 people have died in connection with the protests in many parts of the country. Among the dead are two policemen, six opposition party staff members and two bystanders.
On 28 October, opposition protesters allegedly attacked the residences of the Chief Justice and other judges, and approximately 30 journalists were assaulted by protesters and masked individuals riding on motorcycles, who are thought to have been ruling party supporters.
In responding to the protests, police have reportedly attacked protesters with rods, batons, rubber bullets and sound grenades. They have also raided the homes of opposition activists across the country, indiscriminately arresting and detaining hundreds, including the activists’ family members.
We urge the police to ensure that force is only used when strictly necessary and, if so, in full compliance with the principles of legality, precaution and proportionality.
On 30 October, the head of the opposition BNP, Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir, was arrested and charged under the Explosive Substances Act in connection with the alleged arson attack on the Chief Justice’s residence. He remains in detention. Several other senior opposition leaders are reported to have gone into hiding for fear of arrest.
We urge the Government to observe the greatest restraint to curb political tensions at this critical time, and to take steps to ensure that human rights are fully upheld, for all Bangladeshis, before, during and after the elections.

Ravina Shamdasani ravina.shamdasani@un.org
Liz Throssell elizabeth.throssell@un.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/251214-office-high-commissioner-human-rights-statement-recent-bangladeshi-political-protests




Date: 26 October 2023
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message on the World Cities Day
Content: 26 October 2023
31 October 2023
World Cities Day is a time to consider the pivotal role cities play in sustainable development.
Cities are engines of economic growth and innovation that hold the key to achieving the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals. They are also on the frontlines of today’s complex challenges, from the climate crisis to growing inequalities and political polarization.
But local authorities are struggling with limited support and resources, while demand for infrastructure, affordable housing, efficient transport, and social services is immense and growing. This year's theme, Financing Sustainable Urban Development, is a call to action.
Governments, international organizations, the private sector, and civil society, must work together to mobilize finance for resilient, sustainable cities. I am a strong advocate for equitable financing solutions at the global level. These must be used, together with innovative and diverse funding sources, to strengthen local financing strategies that are climate-friendly, inclusive and equitable.
The Advisory Group on Local and Regional Governments I established recently will strengthen coordination to implement the SDGs, and make sure the voices of cities and regions are heard as we prepare for the Summit of the Future next year.
As we mark World Cities Day, let’s resolve to work together for urban areas that are not only engines of growth, but beacons of sustainability, resilience, and prosperity for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/250654-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-cities-day




Date: 23 October 2023
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message on the United Nations Day
Content: 23 October 2023
24 October 2023
The United Nations is a reflection of the world as it is – and an aspiration of the world we know it can be.
The United Nations is a reflection of the world as it is – and an aspiration of the world we know it can be.
It is our responsibility to help build that world of peace, sustainable development and human rights for all.
I know we can do it. The Charter of the United Nations – which entered into force 78 years ago today – points the way.
Above all, it is rooted in a spirit of determination to heal divisions, repair relations, and build peace.
To expand opportunities, and leave no one behind.
To ensure justice, equality and empowerment for women and girls.
To provide life-saving relief to those in need.
And to be flexible enough to address challenges that did not even exist when the UN was born – from the existential climate crisis to the perils and promise of artificial intelligence.
The United Nations is guided by timeless values and principles, but it must never be frozen in time. That is why we must always keep strengthening ways of working and applying a 21st century lens to all we do.
On this United Nations Day, let us commit with hope and determination to build the better world of our aspirations.
Let us commit to a future that lives up to the name of our indispensable organization.
We are a divided world. We can and must be united nations.
Video message of UNSG: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message on the United Nations Day 24 Oct 2023 - YouTube
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/250292-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-united-nations-day




Date: 23 October 2023
Title: Dozens of Journalists attend UN-organised workshop on climate action in Bangladesh
Content: 23 October 2023
Dozens of journalists participated in the workshop “Climate Action in Bangladesh: from Resilience to Prosperity”, organised by the United Nations (UN) in Bangladesh. The workshop was a unique opportunity for journalists and UN experts to meet, exchange views on climate action and policies, establish collaborations, and receive first-hand information on climate action initiatives and activities.
During the workshop, held on 22 October, journalists and UN experts discussed various aspects of climate action in Bangladesh, including climate resilient and green development, institutional and climate finance reforms, gender-responsive climate action, climate action in Rohingya refugee response, and the role of media.
Highlighting the importance of media coverage of climate action in the country, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, said, “In Bangladesh, one of the most climate-vulnerable countries, the media's role in providing accurate reporting and shaping public opinion on climate is particularly important. That is why in our engagement with media we aim to provide journalists with all necessary information to address sustainable development goals and drive climate action across all levels of society.”
“With the escalating climate crisis, accurate and fair reporting is needed more than ever, and I am grateful that journalists in Bangladesh are thoroughly covering climate change, which is the greatest challenge of sustainable development,” said the UN Resident Coordinator.
Over 20 journalists from print, broadcast, and digital national and international media participated in the workshop, organised by the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office and different UN agencies, funds and programmes based in Bangladesh, including the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), an entity for gender equality and the empowerment of women, UN Women, the UN Development Programme (UNDP), the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), the UN Population Fund (UNFPA), the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR), the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF), the UN Industrial Development Organisation, the World Food Programme (WFP).
Further information
In Bangladesh, climate action mainstreams across all UN activities in accordance with the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2022-2026 co-signed by the Government and all UN agencies, funds and programmes working in the country.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/250280-dozens-journalists-attend-un-organised-workshop-climate-action-bangladesh




Date: 16 October 2023
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message on the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty
Content: 16 October 2023
17 October 2023
In our world of plenty, poverty should have no home.
Yet, as we mark the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty, nearly 700 million people are barely scraping by, living on less than $2.15 per day.
Over a billion people are deprived of basic needs like food, water, health care and education. Billions more lack sanitation and access to energy, jobs, housing and social safety nets.
Meanwhile, conflicts, the climate crisis, discrimination and exclusion — particularly against women and girls — are deepening the distress.
This is compounded by an outdated, dysfunctional and unfair global financial system that hinders developing countries from investing in alleviating poverty and achieving the SDGs.
At current rates, almost 500 million people will still be living in extreme poverty in 2030.
This is unacceptable.
At the SDG Summit in September, world leaders recognized the need to reform the international financial architecture and committed to a bold plan to rescue the Sustainable Development Goals and accelerate efforts to eradicate poverty everywhere.
This includes support for an SDG Stimulus of at least $500 billion per year in financing for investments to achieve this.
Leaders also agreed on targeted action aimed at alleviating poverty and suffering for all people — from transformed food and education systems, to decent jobs and expanded social protection, as this year’s theme highlights.
Ending poverty is the challenge of our time.
But it is a challenge we can win.
On this important day, let’s renew our commitment to a world free of poverty.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/249599-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-eradication




Date: 15 October 2023
Title: UNSG’s Message on World Food Day
Content: 15 October 2023
16 October 2023


World Food Day 2023 comes during a global food crisis, with the world moving backwards on ending hunger and malnutrition.
Some 780 million people around the world are going hungry; almost fifty million children are at risk of death from severe wasting. Yet funding for this year’s global humanitarian appeal stands at just 32 percent.
In our world of plenty, it is outrageous that a person dies of hunger every few seconds, while the World Food Programme has been forced to cut its essential aid programmes.
In 2015, after years of progress, Governments set the goal of zero hunger by 2030.
But eight years later, the number of people suffering from hunger has increased significantly.
This crisis demands action – first and foremost from national governments, which have a responsibility to make sure their people have enough to eat.
But many governments lack the resources to do so, and so effective international solidarity is also essential.
The long-term causes of the global food crisis include conflicts, climate extremes, inequality, and economic instability.
It means leveraging science and technology to improve the efficiency and reach of food systems.
This year’s theme for World Food Day focuses on water – a necessity for nutritious and healthy food.
The sustainable management of water for agriculture and food production is essential to end hunger, achieve the SDGs, and preserve water for future generations.
Zero hunger is achievable.
This World Food Day, I call on governments, the private sector, civil society and academia to work together; to prioritize feeding the hungry; to bring ending this crisis to the top of the global agenda; and to invest in long-term solutions that provide everyone with enough to eat.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/249553-unsg%E2%80%99s-message-world-food-day




Date: 15 October 2023
Title: It’s been a dreadful week Humanity must prevail
Content: 15 October 2023
Statement by Martin Griffiths, Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, about the latest in Israel, the Occupied Palestinian Territory and the region
Civilians in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territory are suffering from a week of utter anguish and devastation. I fear that the worst is yet to come.
In Israel, families are reeling from the horror of last Saturday’s attack. More than a thousand people have been killed and many more have been injured. Over 100 people are held captive.
In Gaza, families have been bombed while inching their way south along congested, damaged roads, following an evacuation order that left hundreds of thousands of people scrambling for safety but with nowhere to go.
Nearly 2,000 people have been killed and many more have been injured.
There is no power, no water and no fuel. Food supplies are running dangerously low.
Hospitals, overwhelmed with patients, are running out of medicine.
Morgues are overflowing.
Homes, schools, shelters, health centers and places of worship are under intense bombardment.
Entire residential neighbourhoods have been razed to the ground.
Aid workers have been killed.
The humanitarian situation in Gaza, already critical, is fast becoming untenable.
In the West Bank, violence is on the rise, with a surge in civilian deaths and injuries. Families are facing ever greater movement restrictions.
And in Lebanon, the risk of the conflict spilling into the country is a major concern.
The parties’ actions and rhetoric over the past few days are extremely alarming and unacceptable.
Even wars have rules, and these rules must be upheld, at all times, and by all sides.
Civilians and civilian infrastructure, including humanitarian workers and assets, must be protected.
Civilians must be allowed to leave for safer areas. And whether they move or stay, constant care must be taken to spare them.
Essential supplies and services and unimpeded humanitarian access must be allowed.
Anyone held captive must be treated humanely. All hostages must be released.
All countries with influence must exert it to ensure respect for the rules of war and to avoid any further escalation and spillover.
The past week has been a test for humanity, and humanity is failing.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/249555-it%E2%80%99s-been-dreadful-week-humanity-must-prevail




Date: 12 October 2023
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message  on the International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction
Content: 12 October 2023
13 October 2023
2023 has shattered temperature records, and seen record drought, fire and floods around the world. Poverty and inequality are exacerbating these disasters.
Those with least are often at greatest risk from extreme weather. They may live in places that are more susceptible to flooding and drought; and they have fewer resources to deal with damage and to recover from it. They suffer disproportionately as a result, and may be pushed further into poverty.
Fighting inequality for a resilient future, is the theme of this year’s International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction. Countries must work to break the cycle of poverty and disaster by honouring the Paris Agreement, striving to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and implementing the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction.
We must also tackle inequality at the global level, by operationalizing the Loss and Damage Fund at COP28 this year and ensuring that every person on Earth is covered by an early warning system by 2027.
This International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction let us reaffirm our commitment to investing in resilience and adaptation, and building a safe and just future for everyone, everywhere.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/249174-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-disaster-risk




Date: 09 October 2023
Title: UNSG’s Message On The International Day Of The Girl Child
Content: 09 October 2023
11 October 2023
Halfway to the 2030 deadline for the Sustainable Development Goals, the world is failing girls.
On current trends, the end of child marriage is 300 years away. If nothing changes, by 2030, 110 million young women and girls who should be in classrooms, won’t be. And 340 million women and girls will still endure the grinding hardships of extreme poverty.
Old forms of discrimination against girls continue and in some cases are getting worse. Girls in Afghanistan are unable to exercise their most basic rights and freedoms, confined to their homes with no hope of education or economic independence.
New forms of bias and inequality are emerging. The digital divide means many girls are excluded from the online world. Algorithms based on the experience of men and boys are digitizing and amplifying sexism.
Yet around the world, girls are fighting back – confronting sexism, combatting stereotypes and creating change, on football pitches, in schools, and in the public square. We must stand with them.
My proposal for an SDG Stimulus to get the Goals on track is gaining traction. And we must invest in girls’ leadership – the theme of this year’s International Day of the Girl Child – to support girls to achieve their ambitions and to boost gender equality. When women and girls lead they can shift attitudes, create change, and advance policies and solutions that address their needs.
Women and girls can lead us to a fairer future. On this International Day of the Girl Child, let us amplify girls’ voices, and recommit to working together to build a world where every girl can lead and thrive.


Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/248792-unsg%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-girl-child




Date: 09 October 2023
Title: UN in Bangladesh starts implementing CERF-funded activities in flood-affected areas of Chattogram
Content: 09 October 2023
The United Nations in Bangladesh has started scaling up life-saving activities in Chattogram Division after the release of USD 4 million from the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) in September 2023. The efforts will tackle the consequences of severe wide-spread flash floods and provide support to over 100 thousand people in need, including women, and adolescent girls living in hard-to-reach areas of Chattogram Division.
According to recent estimates, flash floods in Chattogram Division have affected 1.3 million people of whom 600,000 are in need of aid and 213,000 have been displaced. Affected households from the Chattogram Division, are among the poorest in the country, and their humanitarian needs have been further compounded by Bangladesh's worst dengue outbreak on record.
Welcoming the start of the implementation of the CERF-funded activities, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, said, “The UN in Bangladesh is grateful for the Emergency Relief Coordinator's prompt support to allocate the funds for critically needed humanitarian aid for over 100 thousand people, affected by floods in Chattogram Division. In consultation with the government of Bangladesh, NGOs and humanitarian partners, the CERF will assist UN agencies to quickly scale up their life-saving relief activities and respond to the most critical needs of the vulnerable communities and individuals.”
The response activities funded by USD 4 million from CERF's rapid response window are being implemented by four UN agencies operating in Bangladesh – the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the UN Population Fund (UNFPA), and the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF), and the World Food Programme (WFP) – in the flood-affected regions of Chattogram, Cox’s Bazar, Rangamati, and Bandarban Districts in Chattogram Division.
FAO is providing food security and agriculture assistance to protect the livelihoods of the flood-affected vulnerable communities by enabling them to resume crop production. The agency’s project assists households with emergency life-saving crop production packages that include inputs such as rice and vegetable seeds, fertilizers, and tools. The targeted communities are those primarily dependent on agriculture for their livelihoods and severely affected by floods.
UNFPA is providing support for the floods affected pregnant women, adolescent girls and transgender people to ensure their access to life-saving sexual and reproductive health (SRH) services and information and to protection them from the risk of gender-based violence (GBV). The UNFPA response includes mobile camps providing maternal care, family planning and emergency referrals; cash support to mitigate protection risks and to facilitate the affected people’s access to SRH and GBV services; distributing emergency kits to ensure personal hygiene, manage menstrual health, and protect the mothers and newborns, and providing survivor centred GBV response including psycho-social support.
UNICEF is providing lifesaving water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) assistance to flood affected vulnerable communities. This UNICEF project provides households with sufficient quantities of safe water to meet their domestic needs and access to safely managed sanitation services. This will be achieved through constructing climate resilient new water supply systems and toilets, reducing the risk of life-threatening water and sanitation-related diseases in affected areas. The project will also ensure the dignity of vulnerable groups, particularly women and girls, while strengthening communities’ resilience and linking humanitarian and development work.
WFP is providing food and cash assistance to people affected by the severe flooding to help them meet their basic food, nutrition, and other essential needs. To build resilience in combating climatic shocks, the agency will prioritize the most affected households who are in precarious situations due to the impact of flash floods and landslides
CERF is a mechanism through which donors pool their contributions in advance, allowing humanitarian agencies to provide initial, life-saving assistance wherever crises strike while they await additional funding.
For further information, visit the CERF official website. For the latest funding updates, visit the OCHA Financial Tracking Service.

ENDS
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/248796-un-bangladesh-starts-implementing-cerf-funded-activities-flood-affected-areas-chattogram




Date: 09 October 2023
Title: UNSG’s Message On World Mental Health Day
Content: 09 October 2023
Mental health is a universal human right

10 October 2023:
Mental health is vital to humanity, allowing us to lead fulfilling lives and contribute fully to our communities.
Yet one in eight people around the world lives with a mental health condition, with women and young people being disproportionately impacted.  Three in four people affected receive inadequate treatment – or no care at all.  And many face stigma and discrimination.
Mental health is not a privilege but a fundamental human right – and must be part of universal health coverage.  Governments must provide care that promotes people’s recovery and upholds their rights.  This includes strengthening community-based support and integrating psychological help into broader health and social care.
We must also tackle abuses and break down the barriers that prevent people from seeking support. And we must address root causes – poverty, inequality, violence, discrimination – and create more compassionate and resilient societies.
On World Mental Health Day and every day, let us reaffirm and uphold mental health as a universal human right, and together, build a healthier world where everyone can thrive.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/248786-unsg%E2%80%99s-message-world-mental-health-day




Date: 01 October 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message  on the International Day of Older Persons
Content: 01 October 2023
This year’s International Day of Older Persons coincides with the 75th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
To realize the promise of the Declaration, we must do more to protect the dignity and rights of older persons everywhere.
Challenges abound.  Ageism is rampant in societies.  From the COVID-19 pandemic to poverty and climate emergencies, older persons are often among the first victims of crises.
Addressing these and other issues is a human rights imperative that will benefit everyone.
Older persons are invaluable sources of knowledge and experience and have much to contribute towards peace, sustainable development, and protecting our planet.
We must ensure their active engagement, full participation, and essential contributions – including through social and workplace policies built around their specific needs.
We must promote lifelong learning, quality healthcare, and digital inclusion.
And we must foster intergenerational dialogue and unity.
Together, let us build more inclusive and age-friendly societies and a more resilient world for all.


Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/247948-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-older-persons




Date: 01 October 2023
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message on the World Habitat Day
Content: 01 October 2023
2 October 2023
This year’s World Habitat Day focuses attention on ‘Resilient Urban Economies’ and the potential of cities as drivers of inclusive, green, and sustainable growth.
To fulfil this promise, cities must confront a range of challenges – from economic shocks and escalating climate emergencies to widening inequalities.
Through our Local 2030 Coalition, we are mobilizing the entire United Nations system to tackle these crises from the ground up and advance sustainable urbanization.
Local zero waste initiatives are supporting the creation of circular economies. Public efforts to expand green spaces help cool urban landscapes during heatwaves. And community action to reduce food waste and promote local production are key steps in transforming our food systems.
Building greater resilience and better protecting vulnerable populations requires far greater investments in sustainable infrastructure, early warning systems, and affordable, adequate housing for all.
At the same time, we must work to improve access to electricity, water, sanitation, transport, and other basic services – while investing in education, skills development, digital innovation, and entrepreneurship.
Local action is vital, and global cooperation indispensable.
On this World Habitat Day, let us pledge to build inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable human settlements for all people, everywhere.


Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/247969-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-habitat-day




Date: 28 September 2023
Title: UNESCO World Heritage Committee says further research needed  for Sundarbans’ sustainable development plan
Content: 28 September 2023
The World Heritage Committee of the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has said it had identified the need for further research and a data-gathering plan for the sustainable development of the Sundarbans, prepared by the Government of Bangladesh.
These recommendations were made at the 45th World Heritage Convention’s extended session in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, during which the UNESCO World Heritage Committee praised Bangladesh’s efforts to improve protection of the Sundarbans and the progress made in implementing the recommendations of the 2019 joint World Heritage Centre Reactive Monitoring mission. Key achievements include the completion of the Strategic Environment Management Plan, Dolphin Conservation Plan and National Oil Spill Containment Strategy. These provide stronger coordination and management measures to protect the forest’s unique biodiversity and heritage.
To continue the efforts towards more sustainable management of the Sundarbans, the World Heritage Committee identified the need for the Government of Bangladesh to conduct further research and establish a data-gathering plan, as described in the Strategic Environment Management Plan (SEMP). The Committee also noted that to prevent direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts from the developments in the South-West region over the next 20 years, as highlighted in the Strategic Environment Assessment, continued efforts are needed to ensure that future developments do not negatively impact the ecology of the land and marine systems of the Sundarbans.
Bangladesh was requested to submit reports on the research and monitoring of the Outstanding Universal Values of the Sundarbans Forests to the World Heritage Committee for review as soon as possible.
The UNESCO Committee further asked Bangladesh to ensure the Guidance and Toolkit for Impact Assessments in a World Heritage Context are used when making decisions on all future industrial developments near the property to ensure the long-term protection of the site. These steps are critical for the long term sustainability of the area.
During the meeting the Committee made a decision requiring Bangladesh to inform the World Heritage Centre of any significant project that could affect the Outstanding Universal Values of the World Heritage Site.
As a result of this decision, Bangladesh has been asked to maintain frequent contact with the World Heritage Committee and submit a progress report by December 1, 2025, and a State of Conservation report by 1 February, 2029.

Media Contacts:
Noore Jannat Proma, Communication & Information Officer, UNESCO Dhaka Office, nj.proma@unesco.org, +8801710227150
Kizzy Tahnin, Programme Officer for Culture, UNESCO Dhaka Office, k.tahnin@unesco.org, +8801714244244
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/247555-unesco-world-heritage-committee-says-further-research-needed-sundarbans%E2%80%99-sustainable




Date: 28 September 2023
Title: UN in Bangladesh visit to Khulna and Barisal highlights the need to accelerate gender equality
Content: 28 September 2023
A recent visit of the UN country team to Khulna and Barisal divisions in south-central Bangladesh has explored the challenges women face in the areas and highlighted the necessity to advance efforts in addressing gender inequality and women's empowerment. Although Bangladesh has made valuable achievements in ensuring progress on gender equality, information gathered during the visit indicated that women living in Khulna and Barisal divisions are facing many social and economic barriers significantly aggravated by the wide-reaching impacts of climate change.
Five UN agencies - UN Women, an entity for gender equality and the empowerment of women, the UN Population Fund (UNFPA), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF), and the International Labour Organisation (ILO), together with representatives of their development partners - Swiss and German Embassies in Dhaka and the EU Delegation to Bangladesh - took part in the three-day joint mission organised by the UN Resident Coordinator's Office.
Reflecting on the outcomes of the visit, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, said, “Despite progress made across the country, we heard from women and girls in Khulna and Barisal that the social, economic, and now increasing environmental barriers continue to be significant obstacles in the way of women's empowerment and eliminating gender-based violence. More efforts are needed to achieve the vision of the country and women need to be equal partners in that change.”
The delegation visited different UN projects aimed at tackling gender inequalities, promoting women’s empowerment and responding to gender-based violence in these climate vulnerable areas. It met women from diverse communities and backgrounds who spoke about the challenges women and girls, including children, are facing.
“Each day of the mission we continued to hear stories of courage, resilience, and determination shared by women and girls. While progress has been made on women’s empowerment, gender norms continue to hold back women and girls’ potential. Working with men and boys as partners of change to create an enabling environment for gender equality is critical,” the UN Women Country Representative, Gitanjali Singh, said during the visit.
The work of the UN agencies and its partners to improve gender equality in the Khulna and Barisal divisions covers various aspects of women’s everyday life and tackle different social and economic issues.
UN Women, for example, advocates at the national level to influence policies and laws to promote women’s rights and prevent gender-based violence against women and girls and uses a variety of tools and data to implement plans and policies for gender-responsive, human rights-based climate action.
The ILO Country Office, in cooperation with the European Union and the Government of Bangladesh, is implementing projects that aim to increase productivity and better employment opportunities for youth. “ILO has been supporting skills development through the Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) institutes and working with employers’ and workers’ organisations to ensure workplaces are free from violence and harassment so that women can maximize their potential and effectively contribute to the economy,” said the ILO Country Director for Bangladesh, Tuomo Poutiainen.
For its part, FAO addresses the issues of climate change and gender in relation to the national fisheries and aquaculture policy.  “Women’s voices were often unheard in decision making,” said Assistant FAO Representative (Programme), Nur Ahmed Khondaker, adding that today more women are taking the lead in community-based organisations, assuming ownership of aquaculture projects, and actively participating in the fish wholesale market system. “Empowering women helps them make a significant change in their family economy and become more resilient against the climate vulnerabilities,” the Assistant FAO Representative said.
The efforts to respond to GBV are also central to the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) mission to protect the health and well-being of children and women. “Strengthening a child protection system is crucial to prevent harmful practices like child marriage in the country. Understanding the underlying causes of violence and the social norms remains a priority to address violence. A critical strategy is to ensure children, including adolescents and their communities are empowered and become agents of social change,” said the UNICEF Bangladesh Representative, Sheldon Yett.
UNFPA supports gender-based violence multi-sectoral response services that have been considered non-essential in Bangladesh. It implements different programs to engage with married adolescent girls and schoolchildren from hard-to-reach areas and diverse communities to raise awareness about health, education, and well-being.
“Amidst all the notable achievements for gender equality and women’s empowerment, in regions like Barishal and Khulna, countless women and girls continue to endure the harmful effects of child marriage and emotional, physical, and sexual violence. We must prioritize the prevention and response to gender-based violence, empowering women and adolescents with skills, education, and counseling services” UNFPA Country Representative Kristine Blokhus commented on the visit.
The visit was part of the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2022-2026 in Bangladesh which aims to accelerate progress towards sustainable development goals, which includes a specific strategic priority to advance gender equality and eliminate gender-based violence (GBV).
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/247568-un-bangladesh-visit-khulna-and-barisal-highlights-need-accelerate-gender-equality




Date: 26 September 2023
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message  on the World Tourism Day on 27 September
Content: 26 September 2023
Tourism is a powerful force for progress and mutual understanding. But in order to deliver its full benefits, this force must be protected and nurtured.
Today, the climate emergency is threatening many travel destinations and the very survival of communities and economies that depend on tourism. And many developing countries that are severely affected by a changing climate are also facing a growing investment deficit and a cost-of-living crisis.
On this World Tourism Day, we recognize the vital need for green investments to build a tourism sector that delivers for people and planet.
Governments and businesses must invest in sustainable and resilient tourism practices. Private actors must adopt zero-emission pathways, lower their energy consumption and leverage renewable forms of energy. And everyone must protect the biodiversity and ecological balance of all destinations.
Targeted investments can deliver jobs and support local businesses and industries while mitigating the environmental impacts of tourism, empowering communities, promoting their cultures, and contributing to essential social protection systems.
So let us all do more to harness the full potential of sustainable tourism. Because investing in sustainable tourism is investing in a better future for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/247331-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-tourism-day-27-september




Date: 21 September 2023
Title: UN in Bangladesh marks International Day of Peace on community radio
Content: 21 September 2023
The United Nations in Bangladesh has teamed up with influencers and the Bangladesh Community Radio Association to mark the International Day of Peace.
On 21 and 22 September, 19 community radio stations reaching 28 districts across Bangladesh will broadcast inspiring messages on the link between peace and sustainable development. The messages were recorded by the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office and feature various voices from Bangladesh, including a teacher of the educational platform 10 Minute School, Sakib Rashid, the cricketer Jahanara Alam, the ActionAid Country Director, Farah Kabir, the general secretary of Bangladesh Adivasi Forum, Sanjeeb Drong, and the Development Coordination Officer at the UN RCO, Halima Neyamat.
The International Day of Peace (IDP) was established in 1981 by the UN General Assembly to strengthen the ideals of peace and build a more peaceful world for everyone. This year’s IDP theme - Actions for Peace: Our Ambition for the #GlobalGoals - draws attention to the interconnection between peace and sustainable development. Promoting and sustaining peace contributes to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and achieving SDGs is essential to ensure just, peaceful, and inclusive societies, free from fear and violence.


Commenting on the importance of the International Day of Peace, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, said: “Restoring peace in our lives and our world is crucially needed, and I am grateful that together with the Bangladesh Community Radio Association we were able to produce and spread inspiring messages to mark the International Day of Peace across Bangladesh.” She continued: “The responsibility for promoting peace does not solely lie with governments. Individual and collective action and a vibrant civic space are needed to promote solidarity, equality, inclusion, and respect. Everyone has a role to play in promoting peace and achieving the sustainable development goals.”
The 2023 observance of the International Day of Peace coincides with the SDG summit that takes place in New York in September, marking the mid-point milestone in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030, as well as with the 75th anniversaries of both the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide.
In his statement on the day, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said: “Peace is the result of action. Action to accelerate progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals and
ensure that no one is left behind. Action to end the war on our planet and its natural gifts. Action to uphold and protect the human rights and dignity of every person — especially as we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.”
In conclusion, UN Secretary-General stated that “Peace is not only a noble vision for humanity. Peace is a call to action.  Let us commit to build, drive, and sustain peace for all.”
The full UN Secretary-General’s statement published on 21 September is available in English and in Bangla on the UN in Bangladesh website. Please visit:   https://tinyurl.com/yv5f72ks
Links to the radio messages will be available on the UN in Bangladesh’s  X (previously Twitter) and Facebook  pages.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/246787-un-bangladesh-marks-international-day-peace-community-radio




Date: 20 September 2023
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message  on the International Day of Peace - 21 September 2023
Content: 20 September 2023
Tomorrow, as we mark this International Day of Peace, people and our planet are in crisis.
Conflicts driving record numbers of people from their homes.
Deadly fires, raging floods and soaring temperatures.
Poverty, inequalities and injustices.
Mistrust, division and prejudice.
This year’s theme reminds us that peace is not automatic.
Peace is the result of action.
Action to accelerate progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals and ensure that no one is left behind.
Action to end the war on our planet and its natural gifts.
Action to uphold and protect the human rights and dignity of every person — especially as we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Action to use the timeless tools of diplomacy, dialogue and collaboration to defuse tensions and end conflict.
And action for those millions of people living through the horrors of war.
Peace is not only a noble vision for humanity.
Peace is a call to action.
Let us commit to build, drive and sustain peace for all.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/246559-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-peace-21




Date: 16 September 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message  on the International Day for the Preservation of the Ozone
Content: 16 September 2023
The international treaties to protect the ozone layer have made a dramatic and measurable difference to protecting people and planet.
They show the power of multilateralism. And they should inspire hope that, together, we can avert the worst of climate change and build a sustainable and resilient world.
Limiting the rise in global temperature to 1.5 degrees Celsius is still possible if we immediately and drastically accelerate climate action. I have proposed a Climate Solidarity Pact and an Acceleration Agenda to help achieve this. I urge all leaders to work together to put them into effect – and to support these efforts by getting behind the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol and limiting planet-heating hydrofluorocarbons.
Fully ratifying and implementing the Kigali Amendment could avoid up to 0.5°C of warming by 2100. Combining the transition away from planet-heating gases with energy efficiency measures in cooling equipment could double this figure.
I call on all countries to ratify the Amendment. And I urge governments, along with business leaders, civil society, academia, youth groups, local communities, and others, to intensify efforts to bring about real change, and to ensure developing countries have the support they need to do so.
Let’s harness the spirit of the Vienna Convention and the Montreal Protocol to build a world where humans, nature and the planet thrive together.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/246139-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-preservation-ozone




Date: 15 September 2023
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message  on the International Day of Democracy
Content: 15 September 2023
Democracy, the rule of law, and respect for human rights are bedrocks of resilient, inclusive, and peaceful societies.
They underwrite freedom, advance sustainable development, and protect the dignity and rights of every person.
On the International Day of Democracy, we celebrate its promise to societies – and recognize the many threats it faces at this time of tension and turmoil.
The walls are closing in on civic spaces.
Mis- and disinformation is poisoning public discourse, polarizing communities, and eroding trust in institutions.
This year’s theme – “Empowering the Next Generation” – focuses on the essential role of children and young people in safeguarding democracy today and in the future.
It is not enough to listen to children and young people.
We must support them with massive investments in education, skills-building, and lifelong learning.
We must protect human rights and advance gender equality.
And we must expand the meaningful participation of young people in decision-making processes at every level.
On this important day, let us join hands across generations and work as one to build a more just world for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/245820-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-democracy




Date: 14 September 2023
Title: UNOPS Signs Host Country Agreement with the Government of Bangladesh
Content: 14 September 2023
In a significant milestone for development cooperation in Bangladesh, UNOPS Bangladesh has signed a Host Country Agreement (HCA) with the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh.
UNOPS Bangladesh Country Manager Mr. Sudhir Muralidharan, Foreign Secretary of Bangladesh Mr. Masud Bin Momen, and representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Director Mr. Mohammad Jobayed Hosen, Chief of Protocol Mr. Nayem Uddin Ahmed, Deputy Chief of Protocol Mr. Bidosh Chandra Barman, and Director General (UN) Mr. Md. Emdadul Islam Chowdhury attended the signing ceremony at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Dhaka on September 11, 2023. The signatories to the HCA were the Executive Director of UNOPS, Mr. Jorge Moreira da Silva, and the Foreign Secretary of Bangladesh, Mr. Masud Bin Momen.
The Host Country Agreement marks a pivotal moment in UNOPS' ongoing commitment to supporting Bangladesh in achieving its national development agenda, aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). UNOPS has been a key partner to the Government of Bangladesh, national NGOs, donors, partners and civil society in addressing critical challenges, particularly in the areas of climate resilience, environmental sustainability, sustainable procurement, infrastructure development, and technical capacity building.
UNOPS has a long-standing presence in Bangladesh, with a track record dating back to 2003. Over the years, the organization has played a vital role in capacity development, infrastructure building, and strengthening national systems. This includes support in procurement, human resources management, finance, and project management. The aim has been to empower communities and enhance their resilience against the impacts of climate change, among other pressing issues. UNOPS’s unique blend of private sector agility with public sector accountability brings forth a strong value proposition.
One notable achievement in UNOPS' partnership with Bangladesh was its role as a fiduciary management agent for the 'Strengthening Humanitarian Preparedness and Response Programme in Bangladesh.' Funded by the United Kingdom's Foreign, Commonwealth, and Development Office, this program has significantly impacted disaster-affected communities in Bangladesh. It improved access to essential services such as education, clean water, sanitation, healthcare, and gender-based violence prevention, and addressed basic food needs.
UNOPS has also collaborated closely with the Government of Bangladesh and the International Labour Organization (ILO) to enhance workplace safety in the Ready-Made Garment (RMG) sector. The organization has procured and installed specialized laboratory equipment and supported the strengthening of the vaccine testing laboratory of the Directorate General of Drug Administration (DGDA). Additionally, UNOPS has contributed to expanding oxygen therapy capacity in Bangladesh by procuring and installing pressure-swing adsorption (PSA) plants at 29 government hospitals nationwide.
The Host Country Agreement further solidifies UNOPS' commitment to supporting Bangladesh's development journey. It is expected to facilitate and enhance cooperation between UNOPS and the Government of Bangladesh, fostering continued collaboration on critical development projects that promote sustainable development, resilience, and inclusive growth. It is noteworthy that Bangladesh is the Vice President of UNOPS’s Executive Board.
ENDS
For media inquiries and further information, please contact:
Ms. Shirin Sultana, Partnerships Advisor, UNOPS Bangladesh
Email: shirins@unops.org; Mobile: 01711190212
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/245810-unops-signs-host-country-agreement-government-bangladesh




Date: 11 September 2023
Title: Shafal – Improving remittance management for migrants and their families in Bangladesh
Content: 11 September 2023

Migrant workers and their families can improve their socio-economic well-being and resilience by making informed decisions and accessing opportunities to improve their financial situation. We are excited to partner with UNCDF as the cofounder and implementing agency of this programme to bring these opportunities to reality.
Switzerland, represented by the Embassy of Switzerland in Bangladesh, and the UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) signed an agreement to implement the Shafal - Remittance Management for Socio-economic Stability of Migrant Families programme aiming to improve services for the efficient management of migrants’ remittances and to strengthen the resilience of migrant families. The signing took place in the presence of Ms. Corinne Henchoz Pignani, Head of Cooperation, Embassy of Switzerland in Bangladesh and Ms. Maria Perdomo, UNCDF Regional Coordinator for Asia.
With an initial budget of US$8 million, co-funded by Switzerland and UNCDF, the four-year inaugural phase of the Shafal programme is set to work in five migration-prone districts, mainly in the Chattogram and Dhaka divisions. By enabling productive investment, providing entrepreneurial capacity to low-income migrant families and improving the systems for better remittance management, Shafal will directly benefit more than 9,000 individuals from migrant families. Additionally, 800,000 people from these migration-prone districts will be reached through awareness campaigns.

Speaking at the signing ceremony, Ms. Corinne Henchoz Pignani said, Migrant workers and their families can improve their socio-economic well-being and resilience by making informed decisions and accessing opportunities to improve their financial situation. We are excited to partner with UNCDF as the cofounder and implementing agency of this programme to bring these opportunities to reality.
Bangladesh has around 14 million migrants working globally, who remitted around $99 billion in the last five years. Remittances have played a major role in transforming the socio-economic dynamics of rural Bangladesh and hence contributing towards poverty reduction. According to the World Bank, without remittances, 48 percent of Bangladeshi households with at least one migrant would be poor, increasing Bangladesh's poverty rate by 5 percent. However, the utilisation of remittances remains a challenge. Two-thirds of the remittance-receiving households do not have any savings and more than half do not have investments due to lack of access to information about the proper utilisation of remittances. This makes them more vulnerable to economic shocks that can potentially push them back into poverty. On the other hand, financial institutions are mostly unaware of this potential clientele and there is a general lack of coordination among various service providers and duty-bearers.
Against this backdrop, the Shafal programme will address three challenges that prevent migrant workers and their families from fully benefiting from the positive impacts of remittances. About the first challenge, Maria Perdomo, UNCDF Regional Coordinator for Asia stated,Migrant workers and their family members need access to the necessary knowledge to build a feasible strategy to accumulate assets and invest them in income-generating activities. Operational financial and entrepreneurial knowledge is key in this context, and the programme strives to provide both migrants and their families with information and adequate services.
The second challenge pertains to the availability and accessibility of financial products and services. Once the migrant workers and their families have developed their strategy, they need suitable financial instruments for asset accumulation and investment. Collaboration with interested financial institutions will enable demand-driven product development, offering vital services for asset management. Advancements in digitalisation will allow the delivery of high-quality products to low-income migrant families at reasonable costs. The programme focuses on creating a basic banking offer for migrant workers and their families, including transfers, savings and insurance to cover major risks.
Lastly, the third challenge is embedded in the regulatory framework and the necessary dialogue with the Government and non-governmental institutions providing services to migrants. The Government of Bangladesh places a strong emphasis on bolstering support for migrant workers. Policy dialogues with the authorities will help improve legal and regulatory frameworks to secure the rights of migrant workers and the security of their assets in financial institutions. Cooperation with public services for migrant workers will ensure that the Shafal programme aligns with the Government’s efforts to provide better support to migrants.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/245414-shafal-%E2%80%93-improving-remittance-management-migrants-and-their-families-bangladesh




Date: 11 September 2023
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message on the United Nations Day for South-South Cooperation
Content: 11 September 2023
In our world of deeply connected challenges, South-South cooperation plays a vital role in shaping a brighter future.
The United Nations Day for South-South Cooperation is a powerful reminder that when nations unite, they can overcome obstacles and accelerate sustainable development.
From climate action to poverty eradication, from healthcare to education, from trade to digitalisation, solidarity and strong partnerships between developing countries can pave the way for a more equitable and sustainable world.
Only together can we build a world of shared prosperity, where cooperation knows no borders. Through south-south cooperation, countries of the Global South can share knowledge, skills, expertise and resources, coordinate their efforts, and benefit from economies of scale.  Together, they can multiply their sustainable development efforts to mitigate climate disruption, find solutions to a global health crisis, manage supply chain disruptions and deliver humanitarian assistance.
South-South and triangular cooperation are important, high-value complements to cooperation with developed countries.  But they do not replace or reduce the responsibilities and commitments of the Global North.  Developed economies have a duty to work constructively with economies in the Global South, to reduce inequality and build bridges to a sustainable future for all.
As we mark the United Nations Day for South-South Cooperation, let us recognize this form of collaboration as an essential catalyst for change, embodying solidarity, innovation, and mutual support.
Thank you.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/245448-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-united-nations-day-south-south




Date: 09 September 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message  on the International Day to Protect Education from Attack
Content: 09 September 2023
Education is not only a fundamental human right, but a pathway to a better future for every person, and a more peaceful, understanding world.
On the International Day to Protect Education from Attack, we shine a light on a startling truth: 224 million children and young people are in urgent need of educational support — including 72 million who are out-of-school altogether — because of crises like armed conflict.
Attacks on students, teachers, educational personnel and schools are becoming all-too-common, cruelly disrupting young learners’ education and inflicting untold psychological and physical damage that can last a lifetime.
I call on all countries to ensure the protection of schools, children and teachers at all times.
I also urge all countries to endorse the Safe Schools Declaration, support the Global Coalition to Protect Education from Attack, and join the Global Initiative: Partnership for Transformative Actions in Crisis Situations that brings together partners to ensure children and young people can keep learning in times of crisis.
Together, we can ensure that schools are havens of safety and learning for every child, no matter where they live.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/245302-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-protect-education-attack




Date: 07 September 2023
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message on the International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies
Content: 07 September 2023
Air pollution is a global emergency. Ninety-nine per cent of humanity breathes air laced with soot, sulphur and other toxic chemicals, with low- and middle-income countries suffering the highest exposures.
Every year, seven million people die prematurely as a result, and air pollution is intimately linked to global heating.
Air pollution knows no borders, travelling thousands of kilometres, spreading contaminates with the wind. And the climate crisis is having devastating and growing impacts on every continent on Earth.
Global problems require global solutions. We must act together for clean air – the theme of this year’s International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies.
Together, we must accelerate a just and equitable transition away from fossil fuels, particularly coal, towards clean renewable energy, while ensuring that no one is left behind.
To help achieve this, I have proposed a Climate Solidarity Pact in which all big emitters make extra efforts to cut emissions, and wealthier countries mobilize financial and technical resources to support emerging economies to do so. And I have proposed an Acceleration Agenda to super-charge these efforts. I urge all countries to put both into effect.
We must also support the transition to clean cooking and electric vehicles. We must encourage walking and cycling in cities, and put in place systems to make responsible waste management second nature. And we must act on the pledge to reduce methane emissions.
Our air is a common good and a common responsibility. Let’s work together to clean it up, protect our health, and leave a healthy planet for generations to come.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/244811-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-clean-air-blue




Date: 06 September 2023
Title: CERF allocates $8 million to the Rohingya refugee response in Bangladesh
Content: 06 September 2023
The United Nations’ Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) has allocated $8 million to provide support to almost a million Rohingya refugees staying in camps in Cox’s Bazar district and on the island of Bhasan Char. The funding allocation to Bangladesh is a part of the CERF initiative to support underfunded humanitarian operations in 14 countries in Africa, Asia, the Americas and the Middle East.
Commenting on the allocation, the UN humanitarian chief, Martin Griffiths, said: “It is a cruel reality that in many humanitarian operations, aid agencies are scraping along with very little funding right at a time when people’s needs compel them to scale up. Thanks to the generosity of a vast range of donors, we can count on CERF to fill some of the gaps. Lives are saved as a result. But we need individual donors to step up as well - this is a fund by all and for all.”
In Bangladesh, under the leadership of the country’s UN Resident Coordinator and in consultation with the government of Bangladesh and local NGOs, the funding allocation will support priority programmes for refugees and host communities, who do not have any other source of support. Humanitarian agencies have appealed for $876 million this year to assist around 1.47 million people, including Rohingya refugees and local Bangladeshis. However, as of 6 September, funds for the Joint Response Plan only reached 30.6 per cent of this appeal.
“The UN in Bangladesh welcomes the decision of the Emergency Relief Coordinator to provide funding to the severely underfunded Rohingya Response to support refugees and the host community. This allocation is especially important in light of the funding shortfall in the humanitarian support for the Rohingya refugee response. The refugees remain entirely dependent on international community funding and are in need of help,” said the UN Resident Coordinator, Gwyn Lewis.
The CERF allocation announced today will also help scale up humanitarian assistance in Afghanistan and Yemen ($20 million each), Burkina Faso ($9 million), Mali ($8 million), Myanmar ($9 million), Haiti ($8 million), Venezuela ($8 million), the Central African Republic ($6.5 million), Mozambique ($6.5 million), Cameroon ($6 million), the Occupied Palestinian Territories ($6 million), and Malawi ($4 million).
In addition to Bangladesh, the allocation will also support refugee operations in Uganda ($6 million).
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/244845-cerf-allocates-8-million-rohingya-refugee-response-bangladesh




Date: 05 September 2023
Title: Spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights: Bangladesh legal harassment of human rights defenders and civil society leaders
Content: 05 September 2023
We are very concerned by the continued intimidation and harassment of human rights advocates and civil society leaders through legal proceedings in Bangladesh, including Nobel laureate Mohammad Yunus, known for his work on poverty alleviation through Grameen Bank, and two leaders of the respected human rights organization Odhikar.
UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Türk calls on the Bangladeshi authorities to create a safe and enabling environment for human rights defenders and other civil society representatives to carry out their essential work for the welfare and protection of all people in Bangladesh.
Yunus has faced harassment and intimidation for almost a decade. He currently faces two trials that carry potential prison sentences - one on charges of violating labour laws, the second for alleged corruption.
While Yunus will have the opportunity to defend himself in court, we are concerned that smear campaigns against him, often emanating from the highest levels of government, risk undermining his right to a fair trial and due process in line with international standards.
We have also been following closely the cases brought against the leaders of the Odhikar organization, Adilur Rahman Khan and Nasiruddin Elan, in which the verdicts are due to be delivered on Thursday 7 September. The criminal charges relate to a fact-finding report they compiled 10 years ago on extra-judicial killings. Both have faced harassment and intimidation, and their organisation’s licence was not renewed.
The legal harassment of civil society leaders, human rights defenders and other dissenting voices, is a worrying sign for civic and democratic space in Bangladesh. These cases also represent an important test for the independence of the judiciary in Bangladesh.
The High Commissioner urges the judicial authorities to ensure the most rigorous review in these cases to ensure that rights to due process and fair trial are strictly and consistently applied.
We are also studying closely the new Cyber Security law which has been presented to Parliament to replace the problematic Digital Security Act. The new law will replace imprisonment with fines and increase the scope for bail for several offences, but it is very important that Parliament address the remaining concerns to prevent any further arbitrary use of the law to suppress freedom of expression.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/244750-spokesperson-un-high-commissioner-human-rights-bangladesh-legal-harassment-human-rights




Date: 27 August 2023
Title: UNICEF delivers critical medical supplies and support as dengue outbreak escalates among children in Bangladesh
Content: 27 August 2023
With more than 21,000 cases of dengue reported among children under the age of 15, UNICEF is intensifying its support to the efforts of the Government of Bangladesh to contain the dengue outbreak in the country.
To protect children and to respond to the public health emergency, UNICEF is delivering USD2.25 million worth of urgently needed testing kits, training of professionals, along with other critical supplies and services in the health and water, sanitation and hygiene sectors.
The dengue outbreak has now spread to 64 districts. According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, more than 112,000 cases of dengue have been reported, of which 20 per cent are children below the age of 15 years. Over 500 dengue related deaths have been reported.
In a year when the world has seen a rising number of climate driven disasters, climate change is also exacerbating the spread of vector-borne diseases like dengue, directly impacting the lives of children as well as adults.
“Once again, children in Bangladesh are at the frontlines of climate change as the dengue crisis here escalates,” said Mr Sheldon Yett, UNICEF Representative to Bangladesh.
“The Government of Bangladesh is undertaking a timely and effective response to the ongoing dengue situation in the country. The need of the hour is for the communities to ensure that mosquitoes do not breed in their houses and take all precautionary measures to ward away mosquitoes,’ said Prof. Abul Bashar Mohammad Khurshid Alam, Director General of the Directorate General of Health Services. He also added that “we are providing testing kits, medical supplies, mosquito nets, and we are also working with the city corporation and relevant bodies to eliminate vector breeding sites.”
Among other measures, UNICEF is supporting the Government in engaging communities and raising awareness about dengue prevention and taking necessary preventive measures. UNICEF has mobilised religious and community leaders to influence people with actionable information to reduce the spread of dengue. Disseminating information at mass gatherings and through social media, UNICEF has assisted the Government in reaching over 50 million people with messages about protection from dengue in the last one month.
UNICEF is also working together with partners to support the Government with critical medical supplies, including kits with 13,400 tests, building capacities of staff, providing technical advice, and implementing actions such as campaigns to clean up breeding sites in select areas.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/243708-unicef-delivers-critical-medical-supplies-and-support-dengue-outbreak-escalates-among




Date: 22 August 2023
Title: Six years since the Rohingya refugee influx in Bangladesh, UNHCR appeals for sustained support and solutions
Content: 22 August 2023
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is again calling for renewed commitment from the international community for financial support to sustain the humanitarian response and political support to find solutions for nearly one million Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh.
This week marks six years since over 700,000 Rohingya women, men and children from Myanmar fled to Bangladesh. They joined hundreds of thousands of other Rohingya who had previously sought refuge in the country.
As the humanitarian condition in the world’s largest refugee settlement worsens, the challenges surrounding this protracted crisis continue to increase. Steep decline in funds is forcing humanitarian actors to focus on the most critical and life-saving needs. It has for the first time led to the reduction of refugees’ food assistance, raising concerns about cascading dramatic consequences: rising malnutrition, school dropout, child marriage, child labour and gender-based violence.
With their strength and resilience, the Rohingya refugees have over the past six years formed the backbone of the humanitarian response and supported the communities hosting them in turn.
UNHCR urges support to enable Rohingya refugees to benefit from education and skills development, with vocational training and other forms of capacity-building. This will not only equip refugees for their eventual return but also ensure their dignity, safety and productivity during their time in Bangladesh. This can empower them to address some of their own needs, as the refugees do not wish to be totally reliant on diminishing humanitarian aid.
A dignified and sustainable return to Myanmar remains the primary solution to this crisis. Rohingya refugees continue to tell us they want to return to Myanmar when it is safe for them to do so voluntarily. The international community must renew its efforts to make that possible. As the United Nations remains ready to support efforts to create the conditions that would be conducive to sustainable return, it is crucial that UNHCR and its partners are provided unimpeded, meaningful and predictable access in Rakhine State in Myanmar, including to assist and monitor the return of refugees.
The collective goal should be to ensure Rohingyas’ voluntary return to Myanmar — to their places of origin or choice, being able to move freely and access documentation, citizenship pathways, services and income-generation opportunities to rebuild their lives.
In Bangladesh, it is equally important that UNHCR is able to independently assess the refugees' decisions, devoid of pressure or misinformation.
Until they can return, they remain in refugee camps located in an area off the coast of the Bay of Bengal, which is extremely vulnerable to cyclones, flooding, landslides, fire outbreaks and the impacts of climate change. These have a devastating impact on the congested camps and their frequency barely leaves time to rebuild shelters made of bamboo and tarpaulin before the next disaster strikes. UNHCR continues to prioritize a climate action strategy, advocating for weather-and fire-resistant refugee shelter materials which can save millions of dollars in maintenance and rebuilding costs.
Hosting nearly one million Rohingya refugees, Bangladesh has demonstrated humanitarian commitments and a generosity which must be acknowledged through continued investment in both Rohingya refugees and Bangladeshi host communities. The international community must step up to share responsibility for the response. Stakeholders are encouraged to expand their support and commitments through pledges in support of the Rohingya situation at the Global Refugee Forum in Geneva in December 2023.
Humanitarian agencies have appealed for $876 million this year to assist around 1.47 million people, including Rohingya refugees and local Bangladeshis. However, as of mid-August 2023, funds for the Joint Response Plan only reached 28.9 per cent of this appeal, dismally highlighting the need for consistent and predictable financial backing to prevent a broader humanitarian crisis.
More information: UNHCR Asia Pacific
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/243042-six-years-rohingya-refugee-influx-bangladesh-unhcr-appeals-sustained-support-and-solutions




Date: 21 August 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the  International Day Commemorating the Victims of acts of Violence Based on Religion or Belief
Content: 21 August 2023
Freedom of religion and belief is an inalienable human right.
Faith and belief should never attract violence.
Yet, around the world, people and communities, particularly minorities, face intolerance, discrimination and threats – to their places of worship, their livelihoods and even their lives. Hatred stirred on and off line is often the cause.
On this International Day Commemorating the Victims of Acts of Violence Based on Religion or Belief, we remember all those who have suffered. And we renew our resolve to stamp out the hate speech that fuels these terrible acts of intolerance. Initiatives like my Call to Action for Human Rights and the UN Strategy and Plan of Action on Hate Speech provide a blueprint to do so.
I urge all governments to prevent and address acts of violence based on religion and belief. I call on everyone, particularly political, community and religious leaders, to speak out against hate and incitement to violence. And I encourage governments, technology companies and other stakeholders to support the United Nations’ work in developing a voluntary Code of Conduct for Information Integrity on Digital Platforms, ahead of next year’s Summit of the Future, to tackle hate speech online.
Together, let’s honour the victims of violence by striving to build a more inclusive, respectful, and peaceful world – one where diversity is celebrated.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/243029-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-commemorating-victims-acts




Date: 19 August 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message  on the World Humanitarian Day
Content: 19 August 2023
On that dark day, we lost 22 colleagues, including Special Representative Sergio Vieira de Mello.
On that dark day, we lost 22 colleagues, including Special Representative Sergio Vieira de Mello.
That tragedy marked a change in the way humanitarians operate.
Because today, although humanitarians are respected around the world, they may also be targeted by those who would do them harm.
This year, global humanitarian operations aim to get life-saving aid to 250 million people in 69 countries – ten times more than at the time of the Canal Hotel bombing.
Sadly, funding is far off track. As crises multiply, it is unacceptable that humanitarians are being forced to reduce aid to millions of people in need.
Other challenges have also multiplied over the past twenty years:
Rising geopolitical tensions;
A blatant disregard for international humanitarian and human rights law;
Deliberate assault and disinformation campaigns.
Humanitarianism itself is now under attack.
But these tests have made the global humanitarian community stronger.
Humanitarians – who are mostly national staff working in their own countries – are even closer to the people they serve.
They are finding new ways to venture deeper into disaster-stricken regions, and closer to the front lines of conflict, driven by a single purpose: to save and protect lives.
On this World Humanitarian Day, we salute the courage and dedication of humanitarian aid workers everywhere.
We reaffirm our full support for their determined and life-saving efforts across the world.
We celebrate their unwavering dedication to serve ALL people in need:
No matter who, no matter where; no matter what.
Thank you.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/243032-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-humanitarian-day




Date: 13 August 2023
Title: UNOPS Bangladesh's SDG Cafe Continues Success: Latest session focuses on "Digital Transformation and SDG: Challenges and Opportunities for Bangladesh"
Content: 13 August 2023
Building on the momentum of its previous sessions, UNOPS Bangladesh hosted another triumphant session of the SDG Cafe on August 13, 2023. Held at the UNOPS Bangladesh Office, the event welcomed distinguished guests, including government, development sector, and private sector representatives, who engaged in enlightening discussions under the theme "Digital Transformation and SDG: Challenges and Opportunities for Bangladesh."
The eminent Prof. Syed Munir Khasru, Chairman of the Institute for Policy, Advocacy, and Governance (IPAG), graced the event as the keynote speaker. Prof. Khasru's thought-provoking insights highlighted the intricate relationship between digital transformation and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly focusing on SDGs 9 and 17. He mentioned, “Although Bangladesh has made much progress on SDGs, there are key areas where the country can  do even better, especially in innovation and industrialization.” His expertise shed light on the potential for technology-driven solutions to tackle challenges and leverage opportunities for a more sustainable Bangladesh.
Representatives from key sectors, including the ICT Division Bangladesh, the World Bank, GIZ Bangladesh, EU, Women in Digital, Dhaka Cast Ltd, and Synesis IT PLC, graced the event. Their active participation and insightful contributions underscored the significance of multi-sectoral collaboration in advancing sustainable development. Dr. Fahreen, Founder of Dhaka Cast, said, "Whenever we try to reach the remote area people to provide our services, we can see that many of them are still lacking behind in terms of technology. Also, sometimes, even if they have mobile phones and internet connections, they still do not know how to ensure the best use of these facilities. So along with ensuring technological advancement, we should also work to increase awareness among the target users."
Mr. Sudhir Muralidharan, Country Director of UNOPS Bangladesh, expressed his appreciation for the engaged participants and their commitment to driving positive change. "We are heartened by the active participation of esteemed stakeholders in this edition of the SDG Cafe," he stated. "At UNOPS, we are dedicated to introducing innovative digital solutions to our projects, aligning with the SDGs. Together, we can propel Bangladesh towards a digitally inclusive and sustainable future."
The SDG Cafe series continues to serve as a dynamic platform, fostering meaningful conversations and knowledge exchange vital for advancing sustainable development in Bangladesh. UNOPS Bangladesh extends its gratitude to all participants and looks forward to further collaborative endeavors that contribute to achieving the SDGs.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/241392-unops-bangladeshs-sdg-cafe-continues-success-latest-session-focuses-digital-transformation




Date: 12 August 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Youth Day
Content: 12 August 2023
Every year, International Youth Day celebrates the determination, ideas and leadership of young people as we pursue a better world.
Across all of today’s challenges, young people are calling for bold and accelerated action, standing in solidarity with the most vulnerable, and designing solutions to ensure social, economic and climate justice, and peace and prosperity for all. To expand their participation, I recently launched a policy brief calling for governments to make youth participation the norm, rather than the exception, across decisions and policies around the world.
This year’s theme reminds us of the importance of ensuring young people gain and apply skills in the burgeoning green economy. From innovative sustainable technologies and renewable energy, to revolutions in transportation systems and industrial activity, young people must be equipped with skills and knowledge to shape a cleaner, greener, more climate resilient future.
Humanity depends on the boundless energy, ideas and contributions of youth everywhere. Today and every day, let’s support and stand with young people in shaping a just and sustainable world, for people and planet.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/241240-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-youth-day




Date: 09 August 2023
Title: The United Nations in Bangladesh holds human resources open day
Content: 09 August 2023
The United Nations in Bangladesh held the UN Human Resources Open Day for Gender Equality today at the Pan Pacific Sonargaon Hotel in Dhaka.
The event, co-organized by the HR Working Group and the Gender Equality Theme Group, aimed at encouraging and orienting women who are interested in pursuing a career with the UN.
Around 80 external participants attended the event to learn about the recruitment processes for securing a job with the UN.  24 UN agencies are working in Bangladesh, of which 16 UN residential agencies have approximately 3523 staff members (as of July 2023). The UN in Bangladesh is working to increase the overall number of female staff to reach gender parity by 2028.
Ms. Gitanjali Singh, Country Representative of UN Women Bangladesh, in her opening speech stated that “No country has achieved gender equality yet. Change must start somewhere, and the UN Country Team is committed to walking the talk. This HR Open Day is one step forward, with many more steps to come, including on diversity and inclusion."
The event included a presentation on the UN recruitment process along with a Q&A session where participants were offered the opportunity to ask UN HR experts questions related to applications, recruitment, and career advancement, among other things. Additionally, a Role Model Panel Discussion showcased inspiring stories of female colleagues from different UN agencies. The role models reflected on their career journeys while also answering questions from the audience.
Ms. Kristine Blokhus, Country Representative of UNFPA, in her speech mentioned that “The aim to achieve a 50/50 gender balance within our organization is not just a numerical target; it is a reflection of our dedication to dismantling barriers that hinder opportunities for all genders."
Mr. Sudhir Muralidharan, Country Manager of UNOPS, noted that ““A positive work environment is not just a mere aspiration, but a necessity. It is the foundation upon which we build strong teams, foster innovation, and drive positive change." The Country Director of ILO, Mr. Toumo Poutiainen, highlighted that the benefits of gender parity go well beyond the workplace as an unequivocal driver of economic growth and poverty reduction.
Finally, Ms. Gwyn Lewis, UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh in her closing remarks emphasized on the commitment of the UN in Bangladesh in achieving gender parity which is a precondition for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.
‘‘The UN in Bangladesh is committed to improve representation and leadership of women to support the pledge of the Government of Bangladesh in achieving gender parity in the labor force. We are keen to assist the inspirational women leaders of Bangladesh in their careers, providing tools and opportunities for growth and success.’’
The event also included a career fair with where various UN agencies set up booths for the participants to interact with different UN representatives and learn more about their work, as well as ask specific questions about potential career paths.
The Human Resources Open Day is a part of the United Nations in Bangladesh’s "Gender Parity Strategy" that commits to being a gender-balanced and inclusive organization and includes a number of actions to achieve gender parity, such as creating an enabling environment; strengthening leadership; and addressing gender bias in recruitment, retention, and career advancement.
This event showcased the dedication of the United Nations in Bangladesh to promote gender equality and creating a diverse and inclusive workforce. It served as a valuable platform for aspiring women professionals to explore exciting career opportunities with the UN.

About United Nations in Bangladesh:
Bangladesh and the United Nations have a strong relationship. Bangladesh's engagement with the United Nations began during the early stages of Bangladesh's liberation war in 1971. Bangladesh joined the United Nations as a full member on 1974. In accordance with the SDGs and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the UN System is currently working to support national development agendas through a new generation framework known as the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF).

For more please visit: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/about/about-the-un
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/241195-united-nations-bangladesh-holds-human-resources-open-day




Date: 09 August 2023
Title: UN Resident Coordinator welcomes the establishment of private sector sustainable development groups
Content: 09 August 2023
At the first formal meeting, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh has warmly welcomed the  establishment of the Bangladesh Private Sector Working Committee (BPSWC) and its subcommittees.
Aimed to catalyze the implementation of the country's sustainable development goals (SDGs), the newly established BPSWC thematic groups will be working closely with the Government of Bangladesh, the UN, and national and international development organisations.
The formal nominations of the groups’ memberships were adopted at the first working meeting of the committee, also held on 9 August.
Some fifty heads of Bangladeshi private companies and development organisations, as well as representatives of different UN agencies attended the event. The event was opened by the President of the Federation of Bangladesh Chamber of Commerce & Industries (FBCCI) and the Chairman of BPSWC, Md. Jashim Uddin, the President of Bangladesh Employers’ Federation (BEF), Mr. Ardashir Kabir, who welcomed the establishment of the thematic groups and highlighted the importance of the private sector in inclusive sustainable development.
The UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis also delivered remarks at the meeting, welcoming the initiative and encouraging dynamic and coordinated private sector engagement on achieving the SDGs in Bangladesh.
“I warmly welcome this first full meeting of the Bangladesh Private Sector Working Committee, and its five new Thematic SDG Working Groups, designed to increase private sector engagement and to accelerate efforts to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” said the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, in her opening remarks to the participants of the meeting.
The UN Resident Coordinator emphasised the important role of the private sector in bringing inclusive sustainable development changes in the country, and said that “innovation, collaboration and financial support from private sector is essential to support the government in achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals in Bangladesh by 2030”.
The establishment of the groups is one of the first initiatives of the committee, which was launched  in May 2023 by FBCCI, BEF, and the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in Bangladesh.
The BPSWC was established to support the country’s private sector to work together with the Government of Bangladesh, the UN, as well as national and international development organisations, for the advancement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. This committee is expected to focus on issues including job creation, youth employment and the fostering of a decent work environment, crucial challenges which need to be addressed in order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
Also attending from the UN in Bangladesh, representing the UN’s 2022-26 UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework’s (UNSDCF) five Strategic Priority inter-agency Results Groups:
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/241194-un-resident-coordinator-welcomes-establishment-private-sector-sustainable-development-groups




Date: 09 August 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message  on the International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples
Content: 09 August 2023
The theme of this year’s International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples is youth.
We celebrate young Indigenous Peoples, and their role in creating change and shaping the future.
Across the world, Indigenous Peoples face serious challenges, with their lands and resources threatened, their rights undermined, and their persistent vulnerability to marginalization and exclusion. Young Indigenous Peoples are helping to fight back.
They are leaders in the global climate action movement. They advocate justice and equality, celebrate their cultures, advance human rights and raise awareness of Indigenous history and issues around the world. And, learning from their elders, they ensure the continuity of Indigenous cultures, wisdom, and identities far into the future.
Indigenous knowledge and traditions are deeply rooted in sustainable development and can help to solve many of our common challenges. It is therefore vital that young Indigenous Peoples, both women and men, are involved in decision-making. The choices made today will determine the world of tomorrow.
So, let us reaffirm our commitment to guaranteeing the individual and collective rights of young Indigenous Peoples as well as supporting their engagement in global dialogues and decision-making.  And together, build a better future for us all.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/241095-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-world%E2%80%99s-indigenous-peoples




Date: 30 July 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the World Day Against Trafficking in Persons
Content: 30 July 2023
Human trafficking is a heinous violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms.
It preys on vulnerability and thrives in times of conflict and instability.
Today – amidst growing inequalities, worsening climate emergencies, and record displacement – more and more people are left vulnerable to traffickers.
The majority of detected victims are women and children, many of whom suffer brutal violence, forced labour, and horrific sexual exploitation and abuse.
Yet traffickers continue to operate with impunity. Their crimes are receiving not nearly enough attention. This must change.
We must invest much more in detection and protection. We must strengthen law enforcement to bring criminals that commodify human beings to justice. And we must do more to help survivors rebuild their lives.
On this World Day against Trafficking in Persons, let us redouble our efforts to detect, protect, and support survivors and leave no trafficking victim behind.
Together, let us build a world where no one can ever be bought, sold, or exploited.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/240443-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-day-against-trafficking-persons




Date: 18 July 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on  Nelson Mandela International Day
Content: 18 July 2023
Nelson Mandela was a colossus of courage and conviction.
A leader of immense achievement and extraordinary humanity.
A giant of our times, whose legacy we best honour through action:
Action to expel the poison of racism, discrimination and hate;
Action to extinguish the legacies of colonialism;
And action to promote equality, human rights and above all, justice.
Today, poverty, hunger and inequality are on the rise.
Countries are drowning in debt.
The climate crisis is destroying the lives of those who have done the least to cause it.
And our unfair and outdated international financial system is not fulfilling its function as a global safety net.
We have it in our power to solve each of these problems.
So, as we commemorate Nelson Mandela’s life and legacy, let us be animated by his spirit of humanity, dignity and justice.
Let us stand with women and girls, young people and change makers everywhere.
And let us take action to build a better world.
Thank you.
UNSG's video message with Bangla subtitle
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/239738-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-nelson-mandela-international-day




Date: 20 June 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on World Refugee Day
Content: 20 June 2023
During my decade as UN High Commissioner for Refugees, I witnessed the resilience and contributions of refugees across all walks of life.
During my decade as UN High Commissioner for Refugees, I witnessed the resilience and contributions of refugees across all walks of life.
Their perseverance in the face of adversity inspires me every day.
Refugees represent the very best of the human spirit.
They need and deserve support and solidarity — not closed borders and pushbacks.
As we mark World Refugee Day, we confront a startling statistic.
More than 100 million people living in countries rocked by conflict, persecution, hunger and climate chaos have been forced to flee their homes.
These are not numbers on a page.
These are individual women, children and men making difficult journeys — often facing violence, exploitation, discrimination and abuse.
This Day reminds us of our duty to protect and support refugees — and our obligation to open more avenues of support.
This includes solutions to resettle refugees and to help them rebuild their lives in dignity.
We need greater international support for host countries, as called for by the Global Compact for Refugees, to boost access to quality education, decent work, health care, housing and social protection.
And we need much stronger political will to make peace, so refugees can return safely to their homes.
This year’s theme is “Hope Away from Home.”
I call on the world to harness the hope that refugees carry in their hearts.
Let’s match their courage with the opportunities they need, every step of the way.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/237217-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-refugee-day




Date: 19 June 2023
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres Message on  the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict
Content: 19 June 2023
The use of sexual violence as a tactic of war, torture, and repression is widespread in the conflicts that affect hundreds of millions of people around the world.
The use of sexual violence as a tactic of war, torture, and repression is widespread in the conflicts that affect hundreds of millions of people around the world.
Harrowing reports from across the globe are a terrible reminder that this despicable crime persists despite international commitments to stamp it out. And many of those responsible never face justice. While stigma too often causes survivors to walk in shame, perpetrators walk free.
Today, on the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict, we stand in solidarity with survivors and everyone supporting them. And we commit to redoubling our efforts to prevent atrocities and hold those responsible to account.
That means listening to survivors. It means governments incorporating international humanitarian law into national laws, military rules and training. And it means holding perpetrators to account, so that they face justice – we must confront the belief that fighters can inflict horror with impunity.
This year’s International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict focuses on technology and the digital divide. Accessible technology can alert people to danger, help them to reach sanctuary and support, and enable abuses to be documented and verified, as a first step towards accountability. But it can also perpetuate violence, harm survivors and inflame hate. We must ensure technology supports our efforts to prevent and end these crimes, including by increasing access and holding people to account for their actions online.
Together, we must turn rhetoric into response, and commitments into action, to make the promises to end sexual violence in conflict a reality.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/237098-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres-message-international-day-elimination




Date: 18 June 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on International Day for Countering Hate Speech
Content: 18 June 2023
Hate speech is used to stoke fear and division, often for political gain, and at immense cost to communities and societies.
It incites violence, exacerbates tensions, and impedes efforts to foster mediation and dialogue. It is one of the warning signs of genocide and other atrocity crimes.
Hate speech is often aimed at vulnerable groups, reinforcing discrimination, stigma and marginalization. Minorities, women, refugees, migrants, and people of diverse sexual orientation and gender identity are frequent targets. Social media platforms can amplify and spread hate speech at lightning speed.
Misguided and ambiguous responses to hate speech – including blanket bans and internet shutdowns – may also violate human rights by restricting freedom of speech and expression. They may even silence some of those best placed to counter hateful narratives: human rights defenders and journalists.
But we are far from powerless in the face of hate speech. We can and must raise awareness about its dangers, and work to prevent and end it in all its forms.
The United Nations Strategy and Plan of Action on Hate Speech is our comprehensive framework for tackling the causes and impacts of hate speech, in line with international human rights standards.
Our offices and teams around the world are confronting hate speech by implementing local action plans, based on this strategy.
Education initiatives, positive speech campaigns, research to understand and address root causes, and efforts to promote inclusion and equal rights all have an important role. Religious, community and business leaders can all play their part.
The United Nations is consulting governments, technology companies and others on a voluntary Code of Conduct for information integrity on digital platforms, aimed at reducing the spread of mis- and disinformation and hate speech, while protecting freedom of expression.
As we mark the International Day for Countering Hate Speech, let us renew our efforts to prevent and end this toxic and destructive phenomenon, while promoting inclusive, just and peaceful communities and societies and protecting the rights and dignity of all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/237055-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-countering-hate-speech




Date: 17 June 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought
Content: 17 June 2023
“Her land. Her Rights: Advancing Gender Equality and Land Restoration Goals”
Excellencies, friends.
We depend on land for our survival. Yet we treat it like dirt.
Unsustainable farming is eroding soil 100 times faster than natural process can restore them.
And up to 40% of our planet’s land is now degraded:
Imperiling food production;
Threatening biodiversity;
And compounding the climate crisis.
This hits women and girls the hardest.
They suffer disproportionately from the lack of food, water scarcity, and forced migration that result from our mistreatment of land.
Yet they have the least control.
In many countries laws and practices block women and girls from owning land.
But where they do, they restore and protect it: increasing productivity; building resilience to drought and investing in health, education and nutrition.
Equal land rights both protect land and advance gender equality.
That is why this Desertification and Drought Day puts the focus on “her land, her rights”.
I urge all governments to eliminate legal barriers to women owning land, and to involve them in policymaking.
Support women and girls to play their part in protecting our most precious resource.
And together, let’s stop land degradation by 2030.
Thank you.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/237056-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-day-combat-desertification-and-drought




Date: 11 June 2023
Title: Bangladesh and UN agreed to work closely to achieve the SDGs
Content: 11 June 2023
The Government of Bangladesh and the United Nations Country Team conducted a comprehensive review of their collaborative efforts to accelerate progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
This discussion took place on 11 June at the second Joint Steering Committee meeting of the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2022-26, co-chaired by the Secretary of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance and the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh.
The UNSDCF 2022-26, co-signed by the Government of Bangladesh and all UN agencies, funds and programmes working in Bangladesh, is the UN’s five-year plan to accelerate progress towards the sustainable development goals in line with the Country’s 8th Five-Year Plan.
The Joint Steering Committee meeting, attended by 22 ministries of the Government of Bangladesh and 17 UN agencies, funds and programmes, discussed how in 2022, UN agencies, funds, and programmes provided over USD 241.2 million in assistance to support inclusive and sustainable economic development, equitable human development and well-being, a sustainable, healthy, and resilient environment, transformative, participatory and inclusive governance and gender equality and  efforts to eliminate gender-based violence.
During the meeting, the Secretary of the Economic Relations Division, Ms. Sharifa Khan, emphasized the significant role played by the partnership between the United Nations and the Government of Bangladesh in advancing the nation's development. As Bangladesh prepares to graduate from its status as a Least Developed Country in 2026, Ms. Khan expressed confidence that the collaboration would gain further momentum in the coming year.
In her remarks, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Ms. Gwyn Lewis, said that “The United Nations in Bangladesh stands ready to help the Government and the people of Bangladesh navigate the path towards inclusive sustainable development which leaves no one behind. We need to work together to not only advance development, but to accelerate our joint efforts to reach our shared goals by 2030.”
Further information:
The UNSDCF 2022-26 was launched by the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office and the Economic Relations Division of the Bangladesh Ministry of Finance on 21 November 2021.
The framework represents the UN response to support Bangladesh in overcoming the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and addressing key development priorities and challenges to the achievement of the objectives of the country’s 8th Five-Year Plan leading to the achievement of its sustainable development goals and the Perspective Plan for 2041.
The implementation of the UNSDCF is coordinated through the Joint Steering Committee, co-chaired by the Secretary of the Economic Relations Division of the Bangladesh Ministry of Finance and the UN Resident Coordinator. This committee periodically reviews progress and makes necessary adjustments to achieve the targets set within the framework. The first Joint Steering Committee meeting to review progress took place in November 2022, and another meeting is expected to be held later in 2023.
The UN in Bangladesh’s results report for 2022, published in April 2023, contains results of work towards these priorities in 2022.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/235830-bangladesh-and-un-agreed-work-closely-achieve-sdgs




Date: 08 June 2023
Title: United Nation Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the World Ocean Day
Content: 08 June 2023
The ocean is the foundation of life.
It supplies the air we breathe and food we eat.
It regulates our climate and weather.
The ocean is our planet’s greatest reservoir of biodiversity.
Its resources sustain communities, prosperity and human health around the world.
Humanity counts on the ocean.
But can the ocean count on us?
We should be the ocean’s best friend.
But right now, humanity is its worst enemy.
Human-induced climate change is heating our planet, disrupting weather patterns and ocean currents, and altering marine ecosystems and the species living there.
Marine biodiversity is under attack from overfishing, over-exploitation and ocean acidification.
Over one-third of fish stocks are being harvested at unsustainable levels.
And we are polluting our coastal waters with chemicals, plastics and human waste.
But this year’s World Oceans Day reminds us that the tides are changing.
Last year, we adopted an ambitious global target to conserve and manage 30 per cent of land and marine and coastal areas by 2030, as well as a landmark agreement on fisheries subsidies.
At the UN Ocean Conference in Lisbon, the world agreed to push for more positive ocean action.
A global, legally binding agreement to end plastic pollution is under negotiation.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/235306-united-nation-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-ocean-day




Date: 05 June 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s message on World Environment Day
Content: 05 June 2023
This World Environment Day is a call to beat plastic pollution.
Every year, over 400 million tons of plastic is produced worldwide – one third of which is used just once.
Every day, the equivalent of over 2000 garbage trucks full of plastic is dumped into our oceans, rivers, and lakes.
The consequences are catastrophic.
Microplastics find their way into the food we eat, the water we drink, and the air we breathe.
Plastic is made from fossil fuels – the more plastic we produce, the more fossil fuel we burn, and the worse we make the climate crisis.
But we have solutions.
Last year, the global community began negotiating a legally binding agreement to end plastic pollution.
This is a promising first step, but we need all hands-on deck.
A new report by the UN Environment Programme shows that we can reduce plastic pollution by 80 per cent by 2040 – if we act now to reuse, recycle, reorient, and diversify away from plastics.
We must work as one – governments, companies, and consumers alike – to break our addiction to plastics, champion zero waste, and build a truly circular economy.
Together, let us shape a cleaner, healthier, and more sustainable future for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/234783-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-environment-day




Date: 01 June 2023
Title: UN in Bangladesh appeals for immediate funding  as Rohingya refugees face new cuts in food aid
Content: 01 June 2023
As of today, 1 June, the monthly food vouchers that Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh’s Cox’s Bazar receive are reduced for the second time in three months - a 33% reduction in the daily ration. With the food voucher valued at as little as USD 8 (BDT 840) per person per month – that’s less than 10 cents per meal – the refugees face grim choices to make ends meet. Parents are already eating less and skipping meals so that their children can eat. The rations cuts affect approximately 1 million refugees who remain dependent on aid with no possibility of employment to sustain their livelihood.
At the beginning of the year, refugees were receiving a ration from the United Nations World Food Program (WFP) of USD 12 per person per month, just enough to meet their daily needs, however on 1 March due to lack of funding, the ration was reduced to USD 10. Now the ration will only have a value of USD 8 per person.
“We are extremely concerned that WFP has been forced to cut food aid for the Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh - the nutrition and health consequences will be devastating, particularly for women and children and the most vulnerable in the community. We urgently appeal for international support. Only 24.6 percent of the Rohingya response is funded to provide basic health services, nutrition, food, and education for refugees who do not have any other source of support. People living in Rohingya camps are barred from working and they are completely dependent on international community funding,” said the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, commenting on the cuts in food aid.
These new cuts in lifesaving assistance come at a time when Rohingya refugees are recovering from the devastating impacts of Cyclone Mocha and the widespread fire that hit the refugee camps this year, leaving thousands of refugees in desperate need of help.
Rohingya refugees are particularly vulnerable this year because the 2023 Appeal seeking USD 876 million dollars is only 24.6% funded as of 1 June resulting in other critical programmes and activities are also being cut.
Further information:
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organisation, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
On 23 May, The United Nations and its partners in Bangladesh appealed for USD 42.1 million for the Rohingya refugees and Bangladeshi communities in Cox’s Bazar who are facing the devastating impact of Cyclone Mocha. The cyclone severely affected all 33 refugee camps and surrounding Bangladeshi villages.
Media Contacts:
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/234253-un-bangladesh-appeals-immediate-funding-rohingya-refugees-face-new-cuts-food-aid




Date: 29 May 2023
Title: Economic growth cannot justify keeping workers in poverty, says UN expert
Content: 29 May 2023
The Government of Bangladesh must move away from its reliance on cheap labour if it is to ensure a rights-based development following its expected graduation from Least Developed Country (LDC) status, a UN poverty expert said today.
“A country’s comparative advantage cannot lie in keeping its people poor,” the UN Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, Olivier De Schutter, said at the end of a 12-day visit to the country. “Bangladesh’s development has largely been driven by one export sector – the ready-made garment industry – which is highly dependent on keeping wages low,” he said.
De Schutter urged the Government to use its upcoming graduation from LDC status in 2026 as an opportunity to rethink its reliance on the ready-made garment industry, which currently accounts for 82% of the country’s export revenue and employs 4 million workers. “As Bangladesh moves towards graduation, it continues to focus much of its energy on providing tax incentives to international investors and establishing special economic zones,” he said.
“The Government's time and resources would be better spent on ensuring fair wages, educating and training workers, and improving social protection,” the UN expert said. “Not only will this attract investors who care about their reputation, it will pave the way for a new form of development in Bangladesh – one driven by domestic demand rather than exploitative export opportunities,” he said.
The Special Rapporteur expressed alarm at the chilling effect on the ability of civil society to operate freely of the Government's NGO Affairs Bureau and the Digital Security Act – under which journalists, human rights defenders, opposition politicians and academics have been detained for exercising their rights to freedom of expression and opinion.
“These developments will not only scare off the very investors the country is trying to attract, but they are also an obstacle to the realisation of economic and social rights,” De Schutter said. “You cannot deliver health care, education or social protection without also improving accountability and transparency.”
During his visit, the expert travelled throughout the country and met with people living in poverty. He noted that while Bangladesh has made remarkable progress in reducing overall income poverty, multidimensional poverty remains high and income inequality has increased, particularly in urban areas.
“Overall economic progress has been uneven, with groups such as the Adivasi, Dalit, Bede, Hijra and religious and linguistic minorities such as the Bihari left out,” the Special Rapporteur said. “The Government has also carried out evictions in informal settlements under the guise of development, without following due process or providing adequate compensation and rehabilitation – in violation of the right to adequate housing,” he said.
De Schutter urged the Government to rationalise its social protection system, which he described as “a patchwork of 119 schemes that emerge on an ad hoc basis, are poorly coordinated and do not provide the level of income security that Bangladeshis should expect”.
He expressed concern that the tax-to-GDP ratio was particularly low (at around 7.8 per cent) and that almost two-thirds of public revenue to finance social protection came from indirect taxation, while only one-third came from direct taxation on income. “This should be reversed. It is high-income earners and large businesses that should contribute to the financing of public services and social protection, not consumers,” the expert said.
“Social protection programmes should be developed to protect the population from the new and significant risks posed by climate change,” the Special Rapporteur said. He noted that in 2022 alone, 7.1 million Bangladeshis were internally displaced due to riverbank erosion, cyclones, floods, and other disasters, or because their livelihoods were threatened by water salinisation.
The mission included a visit to Cox's Bazar, where De Schutter visited the camps that have housed 977,798 Rohingya refugees most of whom fled the genocidal attack in 2017. While paying tribute to the Government of Bangladesh for hosting nearly a million refugees in an already overcrowded country, he deplored the living conditions in the camps.
“Until the conditions for repatriation are met, the Rohingya must be allowed to live a decent and dignified life,” the expert said. “The Government of Bangladesh and the international community all have a role to play.”
The Special Rapporteur said it was “unconscionable” that international donors had contributed so little to the 2023 Joint Response Plan which calls for $876 million USD to address the urgent humanitarian needs in the camps, only 17% of which is funded. Since March 2023, the World Food Programme has had to cut the value of its food vouchers from $12 USD to $10 USD per person per month, and the value will be further reduced to $8 USD in June.
De Schutter warned that malnutrition and undernutrition would increase, with dramatic consequences, especially for children. “Families are growing desperate. If the Government of Bangladesh were to recognise the right of the Rohingya to seek employment and earn an income, as required under human rights law, that would alleviate at least some of the pain,” the expert said.
The Special Rapporteur will present his final report on Bangladesh to the Human Rights Council in June 2024.
Mr. Olivier De Schutter (Belgium) has been the Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights since May 2020. He was appointed by the UN Human Rights Council and is part of the Special Procedures, the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights Country Page: Bangladesh
For more information and media requests, please contact Sakshi Rai (+41 22 917 4258 / sakshi.rai@un.org)
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Maya Derouaz (maya.derouaz@un.org) and Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org).
Follow the Special Rapporteur: @srpoverty
Follow news related to the UN’s other independent human rights experts: @UN_SPExperts
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/233771-economic-growth-cannot-justify-keeping-workers-poverty-says-un-expert




Date: 28 May 2023
Title: Newly established Bangladesh Private Sector Working Committee aims to help implement national sustainable development agenda
Content: 28 May 2023
The establishment of the Bangladesh Private Sector Working Committee (BPSWC) was jointly announced on 28 May by the President of the Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FBCCI), Md. Jashim Uddin, and the President of Bangladesh Employers Federation (BEF), Ardashir Kabir and the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis.
The committee will support the country’s private sector to work together with the Government of Bangladesh, the UN, as well as national and international development organisations, for the advancement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals in Bangladesh.
The signing ceremony to establish the committee took place at the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in Bangladesh and was attended by representatives of the private sector, international organisations, and the Government of Bangladesh, including the Country Director of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), Tuomo Poutiainen; the Resident Representative of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Bangladesh, Stefan Liller, the Additional Secretary, SDG Affairs, Prime Minister’s Office, Mohd. Monirul Islam, the Adviser Safety Council, FBCCI, Brig Gen (Retd) Abu Nayeem Md. Shahidullah, the Adviser, Trade & Tariff Policy, FBCCI, Manzur Ahmed, and the SecretaryGeneral, BEF. Farooq Ahmed.
Welcoming the establishment of BPSWC, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, highlighted the committee’s potential to further the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its plan to link its work with the 2022-2026 UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework, signed by the UN and the Government.
“When it comes to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Bangladesh’s private sector has so much to gain, and so much to give. The UN welcomes the creation of a Bangladesh Private Sector Working Committee, because private sector action on the SDGs is essential to realise the 2030 Agenda, and enable Bangladesh to achieve inclusive sustainable development that leaves no one behind” the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh said.
The President of FBCCI and the Chairman of BPSWC, Md. Jashim Uddin, the President of the Bangladesh Employers Federation (BEF) and the Co-Chairman of BPSWC, Ardashir Kabir, shared their views on the BPSWC’s plans to help private companies support the implementation of Sustainable Development Goals.
The ILO Country Director for Bangladesh, Tuomo Poutiainen, and the UNDP Resident Representative in Bangladesh, Stefan Liller welcomed the establishment of the committee, adding that the UN agencies are looking forward to working together with the BPSWC for the sustainable development of the country and ensuring smooth transition towards the LDC Graduation.
Nineteen representatives of the Bangladeshi private sector companies have been selected to be members of the committee, while the UN Resident Coordinator or delegates of the UN agencies may participate in BPSWC meetings as guests and observers, or on the invitation of the committee’s Chairman.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/233702-newly-established-bangladesh-private-sector-working-committee-aims-help-implement-national




Date: 25 May 2023
Title: Second SDG Cafe roundtable explores challenges and opportunities  in decentralised renewable energy in Bangladesh
Content: 25 May 2023
UNOPS Bangladesh is delighted to announce the successful completion of the highly anticipated second roundtable of SDG Cafe, a flagship event aimed at propelling sustainable development goals in Bangladesh.

It is focused on the theme "Challenges and Opportunities in Decentralized Renewable Energy in Bangladesh," took place on May 24, 2023, at the UNOPS Bangladesh premises in Dhaka.
The SDG Cafe gathered key stakeholders from the Government of Bangladesh, academia/think tanks, UN agencies, INGOs, Bi-Laterals and multilateral Development partners, and policy advisories. The event fostered insightful discussions and meaningful dialogues, exploring current practices, innovative technologies, policies, and standards related to decentralized renewable energy in Bangladesh, focusing on achieving sustainable development goals.
The Keynote speaker for the roundtable, Dr. Ijaz Hossain, former Dean of Engineering of BUET and an esteemed expert in energy and environment, shared his valuable insights and expertise. Dr. Hossain's knowledge further illuminated the challenges and opportunities in decentralized renewable energy, providing a foundation for collaborative efforts toward sustainable solutions. Dr. Ijaz Hossain said, “Bangladesh needs to scale up its use of renewable energy urgently. And to accomplish this, participation from multi-sectoral stakeholders is crucial along with government initiatives.”
Distinguished experts from the energy sector and representatives from SREDA, BPDB, EU, World Bank, BBDF, UNDP and the UNRC actively participated in the event, enriching the discussions and contributing their expertise to drive positive change.
Commenting on the event, Mr. Sudhir Muralidharan, Country Manager of UNOPS Bangladesh, said: “The second edition of SDG Cafe successfully brought together experts and stakeholders to address the challenges and opportunities in decentralized renewable energy. We believe that by collaborating and innovating in this sector, Bangladesh can make significant strides towards sustainable development. The collective knowledge and insights shared during the event will undoubtedly shape future initiatives.”
The SDG Cafe provided an engaging platform for knowledge exchange, inclusive dialogue, and partnership building. The SDG Cafe is part of UNOPS Bangladesh's ongoing commitment to promoting sustainable development in Bangladesh. The event will provide a forum for relevant stakeholders to engage in meaningful discussions and collaborate on effective strategies for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/233264-second-sdg-cafe-roundtable-explores-challenges-and-opportunities-decentralised-renewable




Date: 23 May 2023
Title: UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh calls for urgent support following Cyclone Mocha
Content: 23 May 2023
Cyclone Mocha Flash Appeal for Bangladesh issued today seeks USD 42.1 million to support 536,000 Rohingya refugees and 243,000 Bangladeshis
The United Nations and its partners in Bangladesh appealed for USD 42.1 million today for the Rohingya refugees and Bangladeshi communities in Cox’s Bazar who are facing the devastating impact of Cyclone Mocha. The cyclone severely affected all 33 refugee camps and surrounding Bangladeshi villages, leaving thousands desperately in need.
The urgent appeal includes USD 36.5 million under the Rohingya Refugee Response to benefit refugees and Bangladeshi communities. Additionally, the UN and its partners seek USD 5.6 million exclusively for Bangladeshi families in Teknaf. The appeal focuses on the urgent needs to replenish contingency stocks, prepare ahead of the monsoon season, and use weather and fire-resistant materials for shelters and facilities that are critical in saving lives.
Cyclone Mocha struck the Bangladesh-Myanmar border on 14 May, bringing heavy rains and strong winds. Hundreds of thousands of Bangladeshis and Rohingya were impacted by the cyclone. Shelters built of bamboo and tarpaulin were damaged and destroyed. Many more lost access to clean drinking water and other water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) facilities. Key facilities for education, nutrition, protection, and more were damaged or destroyed.
“The cyclone has taken a huge toll on Bangladeshi and refugee communities, even if we missed the eye of the storm,” said Gwyn Lewis, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh.  “What we need to do is to build back better with weather and fire-resistant materials. Many refugees lost their homes in March due to devastating fires and had just begun rebuilding their lives. They are now rebuilding their shelters once again following the cyclone and are bracing for the monsoons that are around the corner.”
Rohingya refugees are particularly vulnerable this year because the 2023 Appeal seeking USD 876 million dollars is only 17% funded as of mid-May. Funding shortfalls, resulting in two ration cuts in March and imminently in June 2023, will decrease food assistance by 33.3%. Other critical programmes and activities are also being cut.
“Refugees are not allowed to work and are completely reliant on the international community.” said Lewis, “We desperately need USD 56 million to restore the full food rations of refugees. Now we also need additional support to rebuild the camps after the cyclone and prepare for the monsoons.”
The Resident Coordinator acknowledged the Government’s leadership in implementing its sophisticated disaster preparedness and response systems that has saved countless lives in the past years and during Cyclone Mocha.
In Myanmar, the humanitarian community also launched today a USD 333 million Flash Appeal to assist 1.6 million people affected by Cyclone Mocha.

Media Contacts:
In Dhaka: Igor Sazonov, UN Resident Coordinator's Office, igor.sazonov@un.org, +8801321169633
In Cox’s Bazar: Syed Md Tafhim, Inter Sector Coordination Group, tafhim@iscgcxb.org, +8801850018235 and Faik Uyanık, Inter Sector Coordination Group, faik@iscgcxb.org, +8801847421667
For more information please visit  rohingyaresponse.org/mocha
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/232854-un-resident-coordinator-bangladesh-calls-urgent-support-following-cyclone-mocha




Date: 21 May 2023
Title: 75 years of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: Minister of Law meets students at UN-organised discussion on the digital laws and freedom of expression and opinion
Content: 21 May 2023
The Human Rights 75 campaign marks the anniversary year of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. To commemorate the anniversary, the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office in Bangladesh in partnership with the Department of Law at BRAC University organised a panel discussion on the digital laws and freedom of expression and opinion.
The roundtable, held on 21 May, brought together independent experts, human rights activists, journalists, and students and was attended by the Minister of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs, Anisul Huq, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, and a technical expert from the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), who joined the roundtable via video link.
In his remarks, Minister Anisul Huq reaffirmed the government's commitment to safeguarding human rights and said that by September 2023 the country’s Digital Security Act (DSA) will be amended after consultations with civil society and other stakeholders.
Addressing the roundtable, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, noted that the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) provided the Government of Bangladesh with detailed technical comments to assist with a revision of the DSA and underlined the necessity to have a dialogue with the youth.
“I am grateful that the Honourable Minister Anisul Huq and respected guests are participating in this dialogue between the government, civil society, and the youth to exchange perspectives on progress and challenges related to the digital laws of Bangladesh and international standards. Only by having these discussions and listening to each other we can build a just and inclusive society.”
Earlier this year, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Volker Türk, called for immediate suspension of the Digital Security Act (DSA), as more than 2,000 cases have been filed under this law including the case against Matiur Rahman, the editor of the media outlet Prothom Alo.
OHCHR explained the comments the Office of the High Commissioner had sent to the government and stressed upon specific definitions, allowing for bail, limiting extensive powers given to the police. Several eminent panelists presented their views on the digital governance of Bangladesh, making recommendations for improvement.
The roundtable was attended by dozens of students from five universities in Bangladesh. Their participation in the discussion highlighted the important role of young people in shaping the future of human rights in particular in the digital space.
Further information
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) is a milestone document in the history of human rights. Drafted by representatives with different legal and cultural backgrounds from all regions of the world, it set out, for the first time, fundamental human rights to be universally protected.
The 75th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (Human Rights 75) will be celebrated on 10 December 2023. Ahead of this milestone celebration, Human Rights 75 will rekindle the spirit, impulse, and vitality of the UDHR and renew a worldwide consensus on human rights.
The organised roundtable is a part of the Human Rights 75 campaign that seeks to increase knowledge of the universality and indivisibility of human rights and empower people to fight for their rights, especially among young people. The year-long campaign seeks to shift the needle of understanding and action toward greater knowledge of the universality of the UDHR and the activism associated with it.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/232619-75-years-universal-declaration-human-rights-minister-law-meets-students-un-organised




Date: 17 May 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message  on World Telecommunication and Information Society Day
Content: 17 May 2023
On this World Telecommunication and Information Society Day, we highlight the power of technology to advance sustainable development in Least Developed Countries.
The digital revolution is a defining force of our era.
The opportunities are tremendous: from transforming education and health care, to accelerating climate action and the achievement of all the Sustainable Development Goals.
But to realize the promise of technology, we must confront its perils:
The lack of ethical guardrails and robust governance frameworks.
The proliferation of hate speech and disinformation.
The amplification of social divides and economic inequalities.
And the risks posed by Artificial Intelligence, from deep fakes to biased decisions by neural networks that no human can fully explain.
Technology must be an instrument to reduce divides – not deepen them.
As the internet becomes ever more central to value creation and innovation, Least Developed Countries risk falling further behind.
We must dramatically improve accessibility and inclusivity and eliminate the digital divide.
We must support the creation of digital public goods: open-source software, open data, and open content.
We must invest in the capacities of public institutions so that they have the skills and resources to understand, oversee, shape, and engage with Artificial Intelligence and other transformative technologies.
And we must come together around a Global Digital Compact – to avoid fragmentation, safeguard human rights, and ensure technology is a force for human wellbeing, solidarity, and progress.
I commend the International Telecommunication Union for working to accelerate global connectivity for all by 2030.
Let us all do our part in closing the digital divide and securing a more equitable and sustainable future everywhere.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/231871-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-telecommunication-and-information




Date: 17 May 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia
Content: 17 May 2023
As we mark the International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia, we face a stark fact. In every corner of the world, LGBTQI+ people continue to face violence, persecution, hate speech, injustice and even outright murder.
Meanwhile, retrograde laws continue to criminalize LGBTQI+ people around the world, punishing them for simply being who they are.
Each assault on LGBTQI+ people is an assault on human rights and the values we hold dear.
We cannot and will not move backwards.
The United Nations firmly stands with the LGBTQI+ community, and will continue working until human rights and dignity are a reality for all people.
I renew my call to all Member States to uphold the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and end the criminalization of consensual same-sex relations and transgender people. Being yourself should never be a crime.
In keeping with this year’s theme — “Together Always: United in Diversity” — I call on the world to speak with one voice to eliminate the stigma, discrimination, harmful practices, and often deadly violence endured by LGBTQI+ people.
Human rights are non-negotiable. They belong to every member of the human family — no matter who they are or whom they love.
Let’s continue working to build a peaceful, just world in which all people are free and equal in dignity and rights.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/231872-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-against-homophobia




Date: 15 May 2023
Title: As Cyclone Mocha damages Rohingya refugee camps, aid and support is urgently needed
Content: 15 May 2023
Nearly a million Rohingya refugees and Bangladeshi communities in three districts face the devastating impact of Cyclone Mocha. Although the impact of the cyclone could have been much worse, the refugee camps have been severely affected, leaving thousands desperately needing help. The UN and humanitarian partners urgently appeal for aid to address the dire situation.
Cyclone Mocha struck the Bangladesh-Myanmar border on Sunday (14 May) afternoon, bringing heavy rains, strong winds of up to 115 kilometers per hour, and devastating damage to the fragile infrastructure of Rohingya refugee camps and shelters made of bamboo and tarpaulin. Initial assessments reveal that thousands of families have been affected and homes and key facilities have been destroyed, especially in the Rohingya camps in the Teknaf area and neighbouring Bangladeshi communities.
The UN and its partners, along with government agencies, are on the ground to provide emergency relief to the affected communities. Rapid assessments are ongoing. As homes and key facilities were destroyed, immediate priorities include the provision of emergency shelter, clean drinking water, food supplies and ensuring access to health and sanitation facilities.
The Government of Bangladesh, in close coordination with the UN and its partners, developed a strong preparedness response, and  continue working tirelessly to provide emergency relief to the affected communities, including women, children, people with disabilities and those more vulnerable to different risks.
The Rohingya refugees themselves have bravely been at the forefront of the cyclone response, with more than 3,000 Rohingya men and women trained and equipped as first responders in fires, floods and cyclones helping their community stay safe before, during and after the cyclone. They helped evacuate people residing in landslide-prone areas and those with specific needs to safer locations within the camps.
“The preparedness efforts of the humanitarian community, led by the Government of Bangladesh, have saved lives. UN agencies and humanitarian partners prepositioned core relief items in the last week, and mobile medical teams were on standby to assist Bangladeshi and refugee communities,” said Gwyn Lewis, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh.
“The trail of destruction, with thousands of refugees seeing their shelters destroyed or damaged, requires our urgent response. The UN calls upon donors, NGOs, and individuals to rally in support of all those affected by Cyclone Mocha. Urgent financial contributions and donations of essential relief items are crucial to meet the immediate needs of those affected and to build back better,” said the Resident Coordinator. "We cannot stand idle in the face of this devastating humanitarian crisis."
This year’s humanitarian appeal for the Rohingya Humanitarian Crisis is only 16% funded.  Funding shortfalls have already led to a 17% cut in food assistance. The Rohingya refugees have endured unimaginable hardships, some thousands losing all their belongings in a huge fire just weeks ago. Cyclone Mocha has only compounded their suffering and made it more difficult to provide life saving support to refugees in Bangladesh.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/231600-cyclone-mocha-damages-rohingya-refugee-camps-aid-and-support-urgently-needed




Date: 11 May 2023
Title: Government commits to accelerate universal health coverage
Content: 11 May 2023
A vision of a Bangladesh where all people have access to high-quality primary healthcare without financial hardship
The Government of Bangladesh has reiterated its commitment for Universal Health Coverage and pledged to accelerate its efforts for achieving it by 2030 through expanding services, increasing resources and improving efficiency.
This renewed commitment was made by Her Excellency Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina today in her address as the Chief Guest at the High-Level Event on Accelerating Universal Health Coverage towards Smart Bangladesh. She stated that ensuring necessary health care to the entire population is our constitutional obligation, and we have been trying to fulfil it since our first day in the government. In addition to what we have already done, we will take additional measures including the ‘public provision of an essential package of healthcare for all’ to accelerate the progress so that we could reach the target by 2030. She gave directions on a number of issues including formulation of a proper package of essential services (ESP), filling the vacant position of health manpower, arranging primary health care in the urban area etc. so that health sector could take a faster track towards UHC.
Organized by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the program was supported by a number of national and international organizations like UNICEF, WHO, World Bank, Suchona Foundation, Centre for Research and Information, and Chatham House, London. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare appreciated the international organizations, especially UNICEF and WHO, for the support provided at every step.
Secretary, Health Services Division, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in his welcome speech remarked that this is a well-timed event as we are preparing our next five-year long sector program, and United Nations General Assembly is going to organize a High-Level Meeting on UHC in September 2023.
Rt Hon Helen Clark, former Prime Minister of New Zealand and presently, the Co-chair of Chatham House Commission on Universal Health was present in the event as the Special Guest. A number of dignitaries, including Ministers, MPs, national and international experts, senior officials, members of the civil society and youth leaders took part in the event.
In her speech, Rt Hon Helen Clack shared her experience and remarked that increasing government investment in comprehensive primary health care is a cost-effective and equitable investment towards ensuring a healthy population, a growing economy, and keeping Bangladesh on the path to meeting the Sustainable Development Goals.
Reflecting on the progress in health sector, Hon’ble Minister for Health and Family Welfare Mr Zahid Maleque, MP said that Bangladesh has been recognized globally for its country-wide network of health care delivery starting from Community Clinic to Medical University, its universal coverage of child immunization, and the recent success in Covid 19 Management and vaccination. Hon’ble Prime Minister is an internationally known proponent of UHC, and we will be able to achieve a UHC under her leadership- he added.
It might be noted that achieving UHC is a challenging target. It requires strong political commitment and sound technical knowledge in health planning and management, this event has been able to address both the areas of requirement. The event had two parts - first part was comprised of questions to and answers from the Chief Guest, Special Guest and the Experts – which was moderated by Ms. Saima Wazed, honourable Advisor to Director general of WHO on Mental Health and Autism, who is also an esteemed Commissioner of the Chatham House Commission on Universal Health.
Present at the event were Gwyn Lewis, UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Dr. Bardan Jung Rana, WHO Representative to Bangladesh, and Mr. Sheldon Yett UNICEF Country Representative to Bangladesh. Mr. Yett said that UNICEF and WHO congratulates the Government of Bangladesh for pledging to make primary health care accessible and affordable to all, including the most vulnerable children and families. Universal health coverage allows countries to make the most of their strongest asset: human capital.
The second part was dedicated to discussion and finding solutions to the challenges related to ensuring service delivery and arrangement of required financing for health care. Two parallel technical sessions, one on ‘Improving Access to Affordable and Quality PHC for Universal Health Coverage’ and the other on ‘Health Care Financing for Accelerating Universal Health Coverage’, took place. Discussions of the sessions were moderated by Dr. Robert Yates and Md. Ashadul Islam respectively.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/231096-government-commits-accelerate-universal-health-coverage




Date: 10 May 2023
Title: What works to prevent violence against women?
Content: 10 May 2023
UN Women Bangladesh shares learnings on prevention programming
UN Women Bangladesh held a learning sharing event at the Bangabandhu International Conference Center (BICC) today  showcasing the remarkable results achieved by the Combatting Gender-Based Violence (CGBV) project. Funded by the Government of Canada, the project aimed to develop effective strategies for preventing violence against women (VAW) in the country. Through extensive research, monitoring, impact evaluation, and innovative approaches, the project has made significant strides in promoting institutional and behavioral change, leading to a violence-free environment.
According to global data, approximately 736 million women, nearly one in three, have experienced physical and/or sexual intimate partner violence or non-partner sexual violence at least once in their lives. In Bangladesh, at least 50% of women have faced physical or sexual violence from their male counterparts during their lifetimes.
Recognizing the cost-efficiency of prevention programming on gender-based violence compared to response efforts, UN Women has been implementing the CGBV project since 2018. One notable outcome highlighted during the event was the Evidence (Amendment) Act 2022, as presented by the Programme Coordinator, Shrabana Datta. Through concerted advocacy by civil society, women rights activists, and the Rape Law Reform Coalition which was supported by UN Women, the law now prohibits the questioning of a rape survivor's character during cross-examinations and allows the submission of digital evidence in court.
Present as the Guest  of Honour, MD. Muhibuzzaman, Additional Secretary of the Ministry of Women and Children Affairs, said, “The more we involve men in these programs, it will be easier for us to achieve equality and reduce violence.”
He added, “We want to work together - government, non-profit organizations and civil society organizations. We want to involve everyone in the process of reducing VAW.”
Furthermore, the results highlighted the institutionalization of the Zero Tolerance to Sexual Harassment policy in 12 public and private workplaces, the establishment of 15 Complaint Committees in educational, public, and private institutions, and the formation of an additional 78 committees in compliance with the High Court Directive of 2009.
Applauding UN Women's efforts, Lilly Nicholls, High Commissioner of Canada to Bangladesh, who was present as the Chief Guest, said, “The project was exceptional in terms of achievement in such a short period of time. We have to work in a holistic fashion, we have to work in coalition,with  an intersectional approach, which means we have to include people of every gender and belief to achieve change.”
Over the course of five years, the CGBV project has worked with families, communities, and public and private institutions to transform mindsets and behaviors and prevent violence against women. The project has utilized globally adapted prevention models, including the community mobilization approach known as SASA! Together and the family-based prevention approach called Shomman O Shomotar Jeebon.
Present at the event as a special guest,  former adviser to the CareT Government, Sultana Kamal said, “We have to create a culture of good humanity and belief. If we can do that, only then we will be able to reduce violence against women in numbers.”
"Prevention works. We need to scale up investments in prevention efforts. The time for transformative action by all of us is NOW – no one can remain a bystander," stated Gitanjali Singh, Country Representative of UN Women Bangaldesh, in her opening remarks.
She emphasized on the cost-efficiency of prevention programming based on global data. The "What Works to Prevent VAW/G" program, supported by UK Aid in 12 countries in Africa and Asia, has provided evidence of reducing rates of violence against women and girls through prevention initiatives.
Melissa Alvarado, Program Specialist, UN Women, Asia and the Pacific, said in her closing remarks,  “This program has helped us to produce new knowledge and evidence, which would help combating VAW. We cannot leave the duty of achieving gender equality to future generation, it should be within us. We should act on it now.”
The event highlighted valuable insights and experiences gained throughout the duration of the CGBV project. Grassroots participants shared their transformative journeys, underscoring the importance of understanding the root causes of gender-based violence for effective prevention.
The event was graced by Lilly Nicholls, High Commissioner of Canada to Bangladesh, as the Chief Guest; MD. Muhibuzzaman, additional secretary of the Ministry of Women and Children Affairs, as the Guest of Honor; Gitanjali Singh, Country Representative of UN Women Bangladesh; Melissa Alvarado, Program Specialist, UN Women ROAP; Barrister Sara Hossain, global experts, local implementors, and representatives from the grassroots level.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/232033-what-works-prevent-violence-against-women




Date: 04 May 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s  Message on the Day of Vesak, the Day of the Full Moon
Content: 04 May 2023
I send my warmest wishes to the millions around the world celebrating the Day of Vesak, which marks the birth, enlightenment, and passing of the Buddha
The ideals celebrated on this sacred day have a deep resonance with the goals of our United Nations: understanding among peoples, the pursuit of harmony, the promotion of peace.
At this time of strife, the Buddha’s teachings of tolerance, compassion, and service to humanity are a source of solace and strength.
As we navigate the path to a better future, let us seize the spirit of Vesak.
Let us reach out to bridge differences, rise above narrow self-interest, and work together in solidarity for a more peaceful world for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/230314-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-day-vesak-day-full-moon




Date: 04 May 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s  Message on the Day of Vesak, the Day of the Full Moon
Content: 04 May 2023
I send my warmest wishes to the millions around the world celebrating the Day of Vesak, which marks the birth, enlightenment, and passing of the Buddha.
The ideals celebrated on this sacred day have a deep resonance with the goals of our United Nations: understanding among peoples, the pursuit of harmony, the promotion of peace.
At this time of strife, the Buddha’s teachings of tolerance, compassion, and service to humanity are a source of solace and strength.
As we navigate the path to a better future, let us seize the spirit of Vesak.
Let us reach out to bridge differences, rise above narrow self-interest, and work together in solidarity for a more peaceful world for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/231443-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-day-vesak-day-full-moon




Date: 03 May 2023
Title: Minister of Law and UN Resident Coordinator participate in roundtable on World Press Freedom Day
Content: 03 May 2023
Minister of Law and UN Resident Coordinator discuss media freedom at the event jointly organised by UNESCO, Transparency International Bangladesh and ARTICLE 19 South Asia
2023 marks the 30th anniversary of World Press Freedom Day. On this day all United Nations member states mark the importance of media freedom and honor journalists who foster dialogue and accountability, empowering people with information. Whatever the context or issues of the day, whether it is climate change, increasing food prices, or the upcoming elections, reliable information and journalism are essential in building resilient, informed societies.
To mark the anniversary, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) and Transparency International in Bangladesh organised a roundtable titled "Shaping a Future of Rights” to discuss issues journalism is facing in the country and in the world.
Over a dozen of guests including journalists, independent experts, the Minister of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs, Anisul Huq, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, the Chairman of National Human Rights Commission, Dr. Kamal Uddin Ahmed, and the Ambassador of Sweden in Bangladesh, Alexandra Berg von Linde, Professor Dr. Gitiara Nasreen, Executive Editor
Executive Editor of Dhaka Tribune Mr. Reaz Ahmad and Barrister Joytirmoy Barua took part in the event held with the support of Transparency International Bangladesh and human rights organisation Article 19.
During the roundtable discussion, the Minister of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs, Anisul Huq, spoke about Bangladesh’s vision for media freedom and answered a series of questions on the country’s Digital Security Act (DSA).
Addressing participants of the event, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, said that "by supporting freedom of the press, we provide ourselves with a powerful development tool." She later added: "Journalism is a public good that must be protected. In celebrating World Press Freedom Day, I thank all journalists in the country who continue to inform people by bringing the truth to light."
UNESCO Dhaka Officer-in-charge Dr Susan Vize commented saying that hosting this event was important for UNESCOs work in Bangladesh: "UNESCO works to promote freedom of expression, a key component of which is press freedom and safety. Today's panel highlights the critical role of press freedom in the achievement of sustainable development and fulfillment of human rights."
The discussion was moderated by Mr. Iftekharuzzaman, the Executive Director of Transparency International Bangladesh (TIB).
Further information
World Press Freedom Day was proclaimed by the UN General Assembly in December 1993, following the recommendation of UNESCO's General Conference. Since then, 3 May, the anniversary of the Declaration of Windhoek is celebrated worldwide as World Press Freedom Day.
After 30 years, the historic connection made between the freedom to seek, impart and receive information and the public good remains as relevant as it was at the time of its signing. Special commemorations of the 30th anniversary are planned to take place during World Press Freedom Day International Conference.
3 May acts as a reminder to governments of the need to respect their commitment to press freedom. It is also a day of reflection among media professionals about issues of press freedom and professional ethics. It is an opportunity to:
This anniversary coincides with the 30th anniversary of the Vienna Conference and its Declaration and Programme of Action on Human Rights, which established important institutions safeguarding human rights, and with the 75th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/229996-minister-law-and-un-resident-coordinator-participate-roundtable-world-press-freedom-day




Date: 03 May 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message  on the World Press Freedom Day
Content: 03 May 2023
For three decades, on World Press Freedom Day, the international community has celebrated the work of journalists and media workers.
This day highlights a basic truth: all our freedom depends on press freedom.
Freedom of the press is the foundation of democracy and justice. It gives all of us the facts we need to shape opinions and speak truth to power. And as this year’s theme reminds us, press freedom represents the very lifeblood of human rights.
But in every corner of the world, freedom of the press is under attack.
Truth is threatened by disinformation and hate speech seeking to blur the lines between fact and fiction, between science and conspiracy.
The increased concentration of the media industry into the hands of a few, the financial collapse of scores of independent news organizations, and an increase of national laws and regulations that stifle journalists are further expanding censorship and threatening freedom of expression.
Meanwhile, journalists and media workers are directly targeted on and offline as they carry out their vital work. They are routinely harassed, intimidated, detained and imprisoned.
At least 67 media workers were killed in 2022 — an unbelievable 50 per cent increase over the previous year. Nearly three quarters of women journalists have experienced violence online, and one in four have been threatened physically.
Ten years ago, the United Nations established a Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists to protect media workers and end impunity for crimes committed against them.
On this and every World Press Freedom Day, the world must speak with one voice.
Stop the threats and attacks.
Stop detaining and imprisoning journalists for doing their jobs.
Stop the lies and disinformation.
Stop targeting truth and truth-tellers.
As journalists stand up for truth, the world stands with them.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/231444-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-press-freedom-day




Date: 20 April 2023
Title: The UN shares Iftar with Children in Dhaka
Content: 20 April 2023

All month, those observing Ramadan have been fasting during the day and having Iftar in the evening.
Traditionally, those observing Ramadan break their fast by eating three dates, to emulate the way the Prophet Mohammed(SWT) broke his fast. Then, Iftar begins — a celebration with plenty of food, family, and friends. In Bangladesh, the sweet drink of shorbot is common at the Iftar table, typically made from fruits and flower petals.
For Abdullah, Samia , Ayesha and many other children living in the Korail slum, Ramadan means a month of prayer, fasting, and traditional ‘Iftari’ like , ‘Peyaju, ‘Chola’, ‘Jilapi’ etc. But sadly, these foods are not easily available on their tables every day.
On 19th April, the UN Bangladesh team headed out to spend an evening with children and honour the Holy month and the importance of the acts of charity and kindness.  The team went to four different locations in Dhaka city; Korail Orphanage, Gabtoli, Kamalapur, and Sadarghat to distribute 500 Iftar food and gift boxes to children.
“Spending time with children and their caregivers during Iftar reminds us that children need our empathy and support”, said the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis. “I would like to thank all of the UN agencies and the UN Staff Association for making this evening’s Iftar a very special one.”
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/228289-un-shares-iftar-children-dhaka




Date: 07 April 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Day of Reflection on the 1994 Genocide Against the Tutsi in Rwanda  29TH ANNIVERSARY
Content: 07 April 2023
On this International Day of Reflection on the 1994 Genocide Against the Tutsi in Rwanda, we mourn the more than one million children, women, and men who perished in one hundred days of horror 29 years ago.
We honour the memory of the victims – the overwhelming majority Tutsi, but also Hutu and others who opposed the genocide.
We pay tribute to the resilience of the survivors.
We recognize the journey of the Rwandan people towards healing, restoration, and reconciliation.
And we remember – with shame – the failure of the international community.
A generation since the genocide, we must never forget what happened – and ensure future generations always remember.
How easily hate speech – a key indicator of the risk of genocide – turns to hate crime.
How complacency in the face of atrocity is complicity.
And how no place, and no time is immune to danger – including our own.
Preventing genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, and other serious violations of international law is a shared responsibility.
It is a core duty of every member of the United Nations.
Together, let us stand firm against rising intolerance.
Let us be ever vigilant – and always ready to act.


Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/226954-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-reflection-1994-genocide




Date: 02 April 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message  On the World Autism Awareness Day 2023
Content: 02 April 2023
On World Autism Awareness Day, we celebrate the contributions of persons with autism and renew our resolve to advance their inherent rights.
Despite important progress, persons with autism continue to face social and environmental barriers to the full exercise of their rights and fundamental freedoms, in line with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
We must do better – by promoting inclusive education, equal employment opportunities, self-determination, and an environment where every person is respected. And as we do so, we also recognize the role of families, caregivers, and support networks in the lives of persons with autism.
Today and every day, let us fully recognize the active and diverse contributions of persons with autism to our societies – and let us work together with persons with autism to build an inclusive and accessible world for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/226053-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-autism-awareness-day-2023




Date: 26 March 2023
Title: UN Resident Coordinator congratulates the people of Bangladesh on Independence Day
Content: 26 March 2023
On behalf of the United Nations, I warmly congratulate the people of Bangladesh on the 52nd anniversary of independence.
Over the last 52 years, Bangladesh has made impressive and remarkable achievements: evolving from a war-torn country to one of the leading economic powers in South Asia standing at the threshold of upcoming graduation from Least Developed Countries (LDCs) in 2026, and planned achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) by 2030.
The UN fully supports Bangladesh’s commitments to economic and sustainable development and appreciates the strong and long-lasting relationship with Bangladesh and our shared values. The constitution of the country, that was adopted even before Bangladesh had formally become a member of the United Nations in 1974, guarantees fundamental human rights: the right to freedom of speech, religion, the right to freedom of movement and assembly, the right to speak one's own language and other rights that are in line with the UN charter.
Bangladesh has many accomplishments: extraordinary economic development, a very significant cultural legacy, leadership on a global stage for climate vulnerable countries and enormous generosity in welcoming and hosting nearly a million Rohingya refugees.
The hospitality of Bangladesh’s diverse people is just one of the many facets of a country that my colleagues and I have been fortunate to experience every day.
Wishing you all a Happy Independence Day!
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/224362-un-resident-coordinator-congratulates-people-bangladesh-independence-day




Date: 22 March 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the World Water Day
Content: 22 March 2023
Water is the lifeblood of our world. From health and nutrition, to education and infrastructure, water is vital to every aspect of human survival and wellbeing, and the economic development and prosperity of every nation.
But drop by drop, this precious lifeblood is being poisoned by pollution and drained by vampiric overuse, with water demand expected to exceed supply by 40 per cent by decade’s end.
Meanwhile, climate change is wreaking havoc on water’s natural cycle. Greenhouse gas pollution continues to rise to all-time record levels, heating the world’s climate to dangerous levels. This is worsening water-related disasters, disease outbreaks, water shortages and droughts, while inflicting damage to infrastructure, food production, and supply chains.
The theme of this year’s World Water Day reminds us of the cost of these failures on the billions of people who lack access to safe water and sanitation.
Out of every 100 people on earth, 25 fetch all their water from open streams and ponds — or pay high prices to buy water of dubious safety. 22 relieve themselves outdoors or use dirty, dangerous or broken latrines. And 44 see their wastewater flow back into nature untreated, with disastrous health and environmental consequences.
In short, our world is dramatically — and dangerously — off-track to reaching our goal of safely managed water and sanitation for all by 2030.
This year’s World Water Day reminds us of our individual and collective roles to protect and sustainably use and manage humanity’s lifeblood for present and future generations.
The United Nations Water Conference, which kicks off today, is a critical moment for national governments, local and regional authorities, businesses, scientists, youth, civil society organizations and communities to join forces, and co-design and invest in solutions to achieve clean water and sanitation for all.
Meanwhile, governments, businesses and investors must take much bolder actions to limit temperature rise to 1.5 degrees, with the G20 leading the way. We must break our addiction to fossil fuels and embrace renewable energy, while supporting developing countries every step of the way.
We don’t have a moment to lose. Let’s make 2023 a year of transformation and investment for humanity’s lifeblood.
Let’s take action to protect, sustainably manage and ensure equitable access to water for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/226055-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-water-day




Date: 15 March 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Day to Combat Islamophobia
Content: 15 March 2023
On this International Day to Combat Islamophobia, we focus attention – and call for action – to stamp out the poison of anti-Muslim hatred.
The world’s nearly 2 billion Muslims reflect humanity in all its magnificent diversity.
But they often face bigotry and prejudice for no other reason than their faith.
Beyond structural, institutional discrimination and the wholesale stigmatization of Muslim communities, Muslims suffer personal attacks, hateful rhetoric, and scapegoating.
We see some of the worst impacts in the triple discrimination against Muslim women because of their gender, ethnicity, and faith.
The growing hate that Muslims face is not an isolated development: it is part of the resurgence of ethno-nationalism, neo-Nazi white supremacist ideologies, and violence targeting vulnerable populations including Muslims, Jews, some minority Christian communities and others.
Discrimination diminishes us all. And it is incumbent on all of us to stand up against it.
We must strengthen our defenses by pushing for policies that fully respect human rights and protect religious and cultural identities.
We must recognize diversity as richness and ramp up political, cultural, and economic investments in social cohesion.
And we must confront bigotry by working to tackle the hate that spreads like wildfire across the internet.
For well over a millennium, Islam’s message of peace, compassion, and grace has inspired people the world over.
Every great faith and tradition summons the imperatives of tolerance, respect, and mutual understanding.
At the heart, we are dealing with universal values: they animate the United Nations Charter and lie at the core of our quest for justice, human rights, and peace.
Today and every day, let us strive to realize these values and counter the forces of division by reaffirming our common humanity.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/223819-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-combat-islamophobia




Date: 11 March 2023
Title: Cut in funding for Rohingyas is devastating: UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh Gwyn Lewis talks to Prothom Alo
Content: 11 March 2023
On 11 March, Prothom Alo published an exclusive interview with the UN Resident in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, in which she talks about the UN’s work in the country and impact of food cuts for Rohingya refugees.
Gwyn Lewis joined as the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh in May 2022.  Prior to her assignment in Dhaka, she had served as Director of United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) in the West Bank from 2019. She has over 20 years’ experience in international development, peace and humanitarian assistance. In an interview with Prothom Alo’s Raheed Ejaz and Ayesha Kabir taken on 25 February, she spoke in detail on the Rohingya crisis, freedom of expression, the elections and more.
Since independence the UN has been one of the major actors in Bangladesh's development.  Presently, which are the major areas of assistance and cooperation?
The UN has been here for a very long. The first UN organisation in Bangladesh was UNHCR, the UN refugee agency in 1971. A lot of people here talk about the UNICEF support they received at school or the World Food Programme assistance with food. So the UN is a part of the history of Bangladesh. Bangladesh is on its way to graduate out of least developed country category and the relationship has changed. We have a cooperation framework with the government where we focus on development areas of support. There are five areas at the moment. One is around economic development, particularly LDC graduation. Another is on environment and climate and how the UN can support in terms of mitigation and adaptation and reinforcing the government’s planning. We do a lot of work on the social side: education, through UNICEF and UNESCO, health support, through WHO, UNFPA, UNICEF. We also do work on social protection and social work. We have a pillar on gender and gender-based violence and working towards equality and addressing violence against women and girls. Finally we have a pillar on governance, reinforcing institutions and providing support to the ministries.
We have work on the humanitarian side, in close relationship with the ministry of disaster risk management. We do work on preparedness, anticipating disasters and immediate response for disasters. We are trying to reinforce that because the number of climate disasters that Bangladesh is facing is unfortunately going to be bigger and more recurrent.
The final piece is supporting the Rohingya refugees who are in Cox’s Bazar and Bhasan Char. UNHCR and IOM lead the response and the majority of the support to the Rohingya refugees comes through the UN partners and the NGOs on the ground.
The Rohingya crisis has been continuing for the last six years and we don’t see any sign of repatriation. Do you think the UN system can play a more active role in resolving these crises?
The UN system is made up of member states, and this is particularly relevant when it comes to the political side of the support. For the UN the work is really about leveraging the capacity and governments’ support to resolve issues like the conflict in Myanmar. There was a very positive move at the end of December – the Security Council resolution called for calm in Myanmar and for moving towards dialogue and addressing some of the more humanitarian issues. It also recognized Bangladesh’s role in supporting the Rohingya. The Security Council move helped in keeping the issue alive on the political stage. The work that the Special Envoy for Myanmar is doing is challenging, leveraging whatever political pressure can be brought to bear. It is challenging because the Myanmar junta is becoming more and more isolationist. The ASEAN five-point consensus is not getting as much traction as we would have liked. The UN is very often left to negotiate on humanitarian issues. It is about governments in the region and internationally engaging and putting pressure on the authorities in Myanmar. The UN has a very important role to play but it is about how the member states are engaging in those discussions.
We are worried about the lack of attention towards the Rohingya refugees in terms of funding. We are doing our best to raise the issue of financial support, because of the lack of attention and also competing crises -- whether the Ukraine crisis or the earthquake in Turkey. Global attention is going to there, which is also fair because people there are dying and suffering. But it also means a lot of the funding is moving away from the Rohingya response. That is very worrying.
WFP has said it will be slashing funds for refugees. That spells bad news for the Rohingyas in Bangladesh, and for Bangladesh. What is your stand on that?
WFP had to announce a ration cut and that is devastating. We, as a community, are very worried. I personally am worried. We will not be able to provide the 2100 kilo calories that are needed per person. Currently, with a full ration, we are not addressing all the nutrition needs of a person, only the basic calories needs, and reducing their ration from 12 dollars to 10 dollars will have a significant impact. Food doesn’t just keep you nourished. You are more vulnerable if you have underlying health issues. It has a greater impact on children and pregnant women. So we are trying to make a strong advocacy push with all of the donors and trying to find new donors, for example the Gulf countries to provide support.
We are launching an appeal for funding the Rohingya crisis in Geneva on 7 March. State Minister for Foreign Affairs, Shahriar Alam, will be at that event. We need to raise 125 million USD for food for the Rohingyas. When you are trying to compete and fund-raise, it is a challenge. It is very worrying because the refugees in Cox’s Bazar can’t work and are very dependent on the international community for their basic needs.
When you met the prime minister recently, she requested the UN to engage more in Bhasan Char. How are you engaging there, what with the fund crisis?
We are absolutely tight on funding, you are correct. Bhasan Char is a project that the Bangladesh government initiated and they created housing and facilities including buildings for schools and buildings for health centres on the island. The agreement is, we will do what we can to move up to 90,000 people on to the island. That process is ongoing. Right now there are close to 30,000 refugees on Bhasan Char. It is a very complex process. It has to be a voluntary movement. When they move, there is a process to make sure they have housing. It is not as quick as the government hoped initially, but it is ongoing.
The good news is, we have been able to provide full rations on Bhasan Char. But it is challenging to maintain fundraising for both Cox’s Bazar and Bhasan Char. We want to provide the same services. We don’t want to send refugees to Bhasan Char and then they will not be able to send their children to school or have access to health services. It is about 30 per cent more expensive to provide food to Bhasan Char. We are committed to provide humanitarian support same as in Cox’s Bazar camps. We are not able to build buildings or provide maintenance. Anything that is infrastructure or transportation on or off the island, we rely on the government to maintain.
Special rapporteurs have reminded Bangladesh about its commitment to freedom of speech, media freedom and right to assembly. Do you think the country is on the right track? If not, what are the flaws?
The Special Rapporteurs are independent experts. They come on the invitation of the government to discuss climate change, human rights, human trafficking or there was a recent visit regarding leprosy. There is a Bangladeshi Special Rapporteur Irene Khan who works on Freedom of Opinion and Expression. They would be much better placed to talk about these specific technical areas. The work that we do in my office is to facilitate those visits, provide them with support.
The prime minister has said she is committed to free and fair elections. We support and promote that. It is very important that the government is inviting special rapporteurs who are providing constructive feedback on these issues.
Outside of the special rapporteurs, does the UN have a stand on freedom of speech, media freedom, freedom of expression?
Of course, it is very much embedded in the UN Charter. It is very much something we believe, a part of our principles. This is an important ongoing dialogue with the government. The Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights has spoken and given feedback on the Digital Security Act and the Data Protection Act. To facilitate those processes, we consult with experts to provide advice about freedom of expression, freedom of media. I recently chaired a roundtable with the information ministry to talk about the freedom of media in Bangladesh and brought together stakeholders from the government and civil society to have an open dialogue about concerns that people have in the country.
Apart from the certain provisions of the Digital Security Act, the UN raised concern about the proposed Data Protection Act and submitted some proposals for amendments. What is the latest status of your suggestions?
The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) went through the law and provided comments. That was back in June. We have been following up. As far as I know, there have been no comments or feedback sent back to OHCHR on DSA specifically. I know what law minister Anisul Huq has been saying in the media, that these comments will be taken into consideration, but we haven’t got anything back from the government as yet. On Data Protection, the comments were submitted in July. We appreciated that there was a dialogue that we didn’t see in the case of the DSA. But there hasn’t been any feedback yet. The DSA has been passed into law, but the minister has said things can be changed despite that fact. He said the implementation on the ground would be adapted based on the requirements or issues. But we haven’t seen anything formally changed.
Have you had any discussions ahead of the parliamentary election? Any awareness programme or providing resources to the election commission?
I met the election commissioner a couple of weeks ago and talked about what support they needed. They mentioned voter awareness, capacity development for people who would be manning the polling stations. We are at the preliminary stage of that conversation and are still trying to articulate that support and waiting for the more formal request from the election commission.
We are approaching the next general election and the international community stresses on free, fair and credible elections. The EU has decided to send an election observation mission. In previous elections UN actively engaged with the government in the electoral process including the voter ID. What is your plan for the forthcoming election?
There needs to be a request from the government, if they would like election observers. The only other time that it doesn’t come from the government is in a different context. For example, if there was a crisis, a war, and something is decided in the Security Council or the General Assembly, which isn’t in the case of Bangladesh. I have talked to the election commission about what support the UN can provide. It is really up to the election commission and the government to decide if they want to request support.
Do you work with the civil society or the non-government sector in this area?
A UN agency, say UN Women, could work with civil society if it had something to do with ensuring women’s participation in the election or inter-party dialogue with women’s groups or something to that effect. Another example is when we chaired a roundtable on freedom of media, we invited civil society to make sure that there is consultation and feedback. Consulting with civil society is something that we recommend strongly when there are any policy changes or decisions including dialogue on the election. To reiterate, the support that we provide would have to be requested by the government. That is very much a part of UN policies.
The interview was published by Prothom Alo in Bangla and English on 11 March 2023.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/222883-cut-funding-rohingyas-devastating-un-resident-coordinator-bangladesh-gwyn-lewis-talks




Date: 08 March 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s message on the International Women’s Day
Content: 08 March 2023
On International Women’s Day, we celebrate the achievements of women and girls across all walks of life, in all corners of the world.
On International Women’s Day, we celebrate the achievements of women and girls across all walks of life, in all corners of the world.
But we also recognize the enormous obstacles they face — from structural injustices, marginalization, and violence, to cascading crises that affect them first and worst, to the denial of their personal autonomy and rights over their bodies and lives.
Gender-based discrimination harms everyone – women, girls, men, and boys.
International Women’s Day is a call to action.
Action to stand with women who are demanding their fundamental rights at great personal cost.
Action to strengthen protection against sexual exploitation and abuse.
And action to accelerate women’s full participation and leadership.
This year’s theme stresses the need for technology and innovation to advance gender equality.
Technology can expand pathways to education and opportunities for women and girls.
But it can also be used to amplify abuse and hatred.
Today, women make up under a third of the workforce in science, technology, engineering, and maths.
And when women are under-represented in developing new technologies, discrimination may be baked in from the start.
That is why we must close the digital divide and increase the representation of women and girls in science and technology.
Women’s exclusion from the digital world has shaved an estimated $1 trillion from the GDP of low- and middle-income countries in the last decade — a loss that could grow to $1.5 trillion by 2025 without action.
Investing in women uplifts all people, communities, and countries.
Let us work together – across governments, the private sector and civil society –to build a more inclusive, just, and prosperous world for women, girls, men, and boys everywhere.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/222252-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-women%E2%80%99s-day




Date: 06 March 2023
Title: UN agencies implement Rohingya refugee response activities following allocation of CERF funding
Content: 06 March 2023
Six United Nations agencies have started implementing Rohingya refugee response projects at refugee camps in Cox’Bazar and Bhasan Char following the allocation of over USD 9 million from the United Nation’s Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) in January 2023.
The agencies together with the government of Bangladesh and their partners are providing refugees with Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders, food assistance, water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) services, and protection. The projects are also aimed to provide support to women, girls, and people with disabilities.
In November 2022, the CERF allocated USD 9 million to six UN agencies including the UN Migration Agency (IOM), the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR), the UN Population Fund (UNFPA), the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the UN Population Fund (UNFPA), the UN Women and the World Food Programme (WFP) to provide life-saving services to over 943,000 Rohingya refugees staying in camps in Cox’s Bazar district and on the island of Bhasan Char, and over 17,800 members of the host community in Ukhiya and Teknaf.
IOM and UNHCR are distributing LPG to refugee households in camps in Cox’s Bazar. As a result, a total of 856,851 refugees have started receiving Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders. The distribution of LPG protects refugees’ health and living conditions, as it reduces smoke inhalation and protection risks related to the collection of firewood from forests. The projects supported by IOM and UNHCR in Cox's Bazar are also providing services to the most vulnerable groups including women, children, elderly and refugees living with disabilities, including community outreach programmes and awareness-raising activities.
UNFPA received 250,000 USD to support the Sexual and Reproductive Health (SRH) and gender-based violence (GBV) integration interventions in Cox's Bazar and Bhasan Char. The main objective of the UNFPA project is to strengthen the protection and response of over 335,000 Rohingya refugee women and girls from any form of GBV. The UNFPA supported interventions to be implemented by the end of 2023 including procurement and distribution of reproductive health kits, commodities, medicines, and supplies such as family planning methods as well as post-rape management kits, strengthening SRH/GBV referral services, building the capacity of health workers on clinical management of GBV and intimate partner violence, facilitation of basic sexual reproductive health services within women-friendly spaces by the deployment of midwives as well as provision of GBV case management within health facilities.
UNICEF and partners are preventing and responding to the pressing child protection and GBV concerns in Bhasan Char through an integrated approach that blends service provision with community awareness and empowerment activities. Children have access to Case Management, Psychosocial support and Life Skills-based learning. UNICEF will also provide water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) services for over 48,000 Rohingya refugees in Cox’s Bazar and Bhasan Char.
UN Women is enhancing access to lifesaving, essential GBV services and support among survivors and those at risk of GBV in the Rohingya refugee camps. The agency already has 5 multipurpose women’s centres in the camps, and the CERF funding will be allocated to livelihood activities and GBV support in these multipurpose centres.
WFP is providing food and nutrition assistance to refugees through food vouchers that could be redeemed for a wide range of dry and fresh food items at WFP outlets throughout the camps. However, due to a funding shortage, WFP has no choice but to cut the voucher value from US$12 per person per month to US$10, starting 1 March. The reduction came at a time when the entire Rohingya population remained dependent on WFP to meet their basic food and nutrition needs and malnutrition among children and women was already high.
Commenting on the allocation of the funds in November 2022, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis said, "The UN in Bangladesh welcomes the decision of the Emergency Relief Coordinator to allocate these funds to the currently underfunded Rohingya Response to support refugees and the host community in their daily struggle for survival. In consultation with the government of Bangladesh and local NGOs, the money allocated from the CERF will help protect refugees, tackle gender-based violence, and contribute to an environment respectful of refugee rights and well-being."
CERF is a mechanism through which donors pool their contributions in advance, allowing humanitarian agencies to provide initial, life-saving assistance wherever crises strike while they await additional funding.
For further information, visit the CERF official website. For the latest funding updates, visit the OCHA Financial Tracking Service.





Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/221904-un-agencies-implement-rohingya-refugee-response-activities-following-allocation-cerf-funding




Date: 22 February 2023
Title: UN experts urge Bangladesh to end judicial harassment of journalists
Content: 22 February 2023
UN experts* today urged the Bangladesh government to drop the charges against investigative journalist Rozina Islam and end the practice of protracted prosecution of journalists and human rights defenders
“We are seriously concerned that the criminal charges and the prolongation of the investigation against Ms. Islam appear to be in direct retaliation for her investigative reporting,” said the experts.
In 2021 Rozina Islam, a journalist employed by Bangladesh’s largest daily newspaper, Prothom Alo, reported on alleged corruption and mismanagement in the health sector and irregularities in the procurement of emergency medical supplies in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. On 17 May 2021, Ms. Islam went to the Bangladesh Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to meet with senior officials. While there she was detained and accused of having used her cell phone without permission to photograph documents related to government negotiations on the purchase of COVID-19 vaccines. She was later charged under the Official Secrets Act and the Penal Code.
On 3 July 2022, the Dhaka Metropolitan Police submitted its final report to the court stating that no substantial evidence had been found to support the allegations against Rozina Islam. Seven months later, following a petition by the Ministry of Health in January 2023, the same court ordered the police to carry out further investigations. The next hearing is expected to take place on 28 February.
“The protracted nature of Rozina Islam’s case reflects a dangerous trend in Bangladesh and beyond to bring serious charges, often on unsubstantiated grounds, against journalists and editors and then leave the cases hanging unresolved in the judicial process as a way of threatening, intimidating, harassing and silencing them,” said the experts.
“The judicial system should not be instrumentalised to chill critical reporting, undermine press freedom and encourage a culture of self-censorship,” said the experts.
“The government should review its prosecution policy of journalists and the use of the colonial era Official Secrets Act and the more recent Digital Security Act, and it should bring the laws and practices in line with its international human rights obligations,” advised the experts.
Noting that independent, uncensored and unhindered press is a cornerstone of democratic society, the experts called on the Government of Bangladesh to drop the charges against Ms Islam and withdraw other protracted cases against journalists and editors.
The experts noted that women journalists are doubly at risk as they also often face gender-based discrimination, harassment and violence.
“We urge the government to promote a safe and enabling environment for journalists and human rights defenders, and we stand ready to provide our technical advice and support to the authorities,” said the experts.
The experts are in communication with the government of Bangladesh on these issues.
*The experts:  Irene Khan, Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression;  Ms. Mary Lawlor, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders; Ms. Reem Alsalem, Special Rapporteur on violence against women and girls, its causes and consequences; and Ms. Margaret Satterthwaite, Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers.
For more information and media requests, please contact hrc-sr-freedex@un.org
For media inquiries related to other UN independent experts, please contact  Maya Derouaz (maya.derouaz@un.org) and Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org).
Follow news related to the UN's independent human rights experts on Twitter: @UN_SPExperts
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today. 
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/220254-un-experts-urge-bangladesh-end-judicial-harassment-journalists




Date: 20 February 2023
Title: UN Resident Coordinator meets Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to discuss UN-Bangladesh partnership and Rohingya refugee response
Content: 20 February 2023
On 20 February, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, had a courtesy meeting with the Honorable Prime Minister of Bangladesh, Her Excellency Sheikh Hasina.
The Honorable Prime Minister and UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh spoke of the important cooperation between the UN and Bangladesh in responding to climate-related disasters and economic volatility. They reaffirmed commitments to strengthen the UN-Bangladesh partnership on the Rohingya refugee response, despite funding shortages that forced cuts in food assistance for Rohingya refugees living in camps in Cox’s Bazar.
The Honorable Prime Minister also spoke of Bangladesh's important development initiatives in education, housing, health care and the promotion of women's rights. They also exchanged views on Bangladesh's economic growth ahead of the Fifth UN Conference on the Least Developed Countries (LDC5) in Doha, Qatar, on 5-9 March.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/220022-un-resident-coordinator-meets-prime-minister-sheikh-hasina-discuss-un-bangladesh-partnership




Date: 20 February 2023
Title: UN Bangla font in Unicode: UNDP’s initiative to mark International Mother Language day
Content: 20 February 2023
To mark International Mother Language day, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has launched the Unicode version of the UN Bangla font to ease access to internet for Bengali language users.
The UN Bangla font was first released on 21 February 2020 with a single version for offline use.
The Unicode version was launched by UNDP Resident Representative Stefan Liller and Goodwill Ambassador Jaya Ahsan at the agency’s office in Dhaka on February 20.
“We first launched the font in 2020 as a tribute to the Bengali language. Since the use of Bengali on the internet is on the rise, we decided to launch the Unicode version for everyone. I hope this Unicode version will help uncover new grounds in Bengali writing,” UNDP Resident Representative Stefan said.
“Now people who write on their cell phones and computers will have more diversity when they write,” he added.
UNDP’s Goodwill Ambassador Jaya Ahsan, who was also present during the launch, said, “It’s a great thing for those of us who write in Bengali. I am very happy to be part of this UNDP initiative for the International Mother’s Language Day.”
UNDP’s Head of Communications Md Abdul Quayyum said, “We will soon launch the Bengali version of our UNDP Bangladesh website using this font. All our other publications will use this font as well.”
He continued, “Not only UNDP, But all other UN organisations will also be able to use this font. It is also open for free public download and use.”
The Unicode font package includes seven iterations of the font, including a bold, regular, thin, light versions of the font with italics.
The font’s designer, Mohibubur Rahman Rajon, said, “There is a lot of diversity in the Bengali script due to variations in its phonetics, ligatures, etc, opening a lot of scope to work with its font. There are not too many Bengali fonts that have so many variations on offer in terms of design.”
Senior UNDP officials were also present during the launching.
The font is available on: www.undp.org/bangladesh
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/220428-un-bangla-font-unicode-undp%E2%80%99s-initiative-mark-international-mother-language-day




Date: 16 February 2023
Title: Launch of the Family Planning Strategy for Rohingya Refugees
Content: 16 February 2023
Ministry of Health, UNFPA and its partners increase efforts to provide voluntary family planning services to Rohingya women and girls
Today, the Directorate General of Family Planning (DGFP) of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare officially launched the Family Planning Strategy for the Rohingya Refugee Humanitarian Crisis in Cox’s Bazar 2022-2025. The strategy outlines an approach to increase the demand for modern contraceptive methods through community-based family planning interventions and facility-based family planning services among women and girls of Rohingya and surrounding host communities.
The strategy was developed and approved in October 2022 under the leadership of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the Health Sector Cox’s Bazar, and the Sexual and Reproductive Health (SRH) working group supported by the UN sexual and reproductive health agency, UNFPA.
Partners within the health sector operating in the camps provide sexual and reproductive health services from health facilities and women friendly spaces across the camps. Over the course of the last five years, demand for family planning services has increased dramatically, with health facilities seeing an increase of more than 200% in family planning visits between 2018 and 2022. This increase is due not only to the wide availability of services and trained health personnel, but also to community outreach, especially to men, and awareness-raising to dispel myths and misconceptions about contraception.
“This multi-year strategy covering 2022–2025 will guide humanitarian partners to make family planning accessible, voluntary, and choice based for everyone. I commend UNFPA and other partners for their hard work and I am hopeful that this strategy will be a beneficial resource for providers and planners to scale up our humanitarian efforts,” said Dr. Ashrafi Ahmad, Additional Secretary Medical Education & Family Welfare Division, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) and Chief Guest at the event.
UNFPA Representative in Bangladesh, Ms. Kristine Blokhus, said “We are pleased to have worked in productive partnership with the Government of Bangladesh to articulate a family planning strategy which focuses both on community demand and facility health services, as well as advocacy and coordination to ensure partnerships and efficiency. Increasing demand among Rohingya women shows that these strategies – of providing voluntary, rights-based and respectful services – works to improve their lives”
The UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Ms. Gwyn Lewis, spoke about the broader importance of comprehensive sexual and reproductive health services for women: "Providing women and girls family planning information and services as part of their basic social services package, enables them to ensure the health and sustainability of their families. Family planning empowers women and allows them to steer their families out of poverty”.
Among the participants of the launch were Dr. Nurun Nahar Begum, Line Director (CCSDP), DGFP; Mr. Abdus Salam, joint secretary, MoHFW; Dr. Nd, Bashirul Alam, Additional Secretary, DG, Islamic Foundation, Md. Samsud Doza, Additional RRRC, Refugee Relief and Repatriation Commission; Dr. Pintu Kanti Bhattacharjee, Deputy Director of Family Planning, Cox’s Bazar; Dr. Mahbubur Rahman, Civil surgeon, Cox’s Bazar, Sayed Rubayet, Country Director, IPAS Bangladesh, Representatives from the Government of Bangladesh, as well as the representatives and head of sub offices from other United Nations agencies, development partners, and other non-governmental organisations (NGOs) also attended the event.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/219478-launch-family-planning-strategy-rohingya-refugees




Date: 15 February 2023
Title: UN expert points to ‘needless suffering’ of leprosy patients
Content: 15 February 2023
The situation of persons affected by leprosy in Bangladesh indicates that the country’s outstanding economic growth is not reaching the entire population, a UN expert said today, calling for draft anti-discrimination laws to formally recognise leprosy, also known as Hansen’s disease, as a prohibited ground of discrimination.
“Leprosy is hidden beneath multiple layers of systemic exclusion, structural discrimination and institutional neglect,” said UN Special Rapporteur on the elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members, Alice Cruz, in a statement at the end of an eight-day visit to Bangladesh.
Bangladesh has the fifth highest number of leprosy cases in the world according to the World Health Organisation (WHO), with relevant data indicating ongoing transmission, late diagnosis, and gaps in the health system.
"While I commend the Prime Minister's commitment to eliminate leprosy by 2030, I am concerned that the State administration is failing to implement this promise. Adequate budget allocation with clear targets, indicators and benchmarks is essential to turn the government's pledges into reality,” Cruz said.
The UN expert expressed deep concern about a high potential number of hidden leprosy cases, critically delayed diagnosis, ongoing transmission and disability among children and widespread disease-related discrimination and stigmatisation. She also highlighted limited access to care for those affected – including rehabilitation, reconstructive surgery, assistive devices and psychosocial support. Cruz deplored the data gap and limited understanding about leprosy among the relevant authorities.
“Fundamental principles of the right to development, such as equity, self-determination, participation and justice are not being met,” the Special Rapporteur said.
“Persons affected by leprosy and their families are still not enjoying the benefits of economic growth, nor are they seeing discrimination against them duly redressed,” Cruz said. The expert expressed concerns about reports concerning corruption with regard to access to disability-related benefits and other cash transfer social protection schemes, limited efficiency of oversight institutions and essentially paternalistic approaches to people living in vulnerable situations.
She noted that the government of Bangladesh was committed to actively engaging with the international human rights system to protect the fundamental rights of persons affected by leprosy.
During her visit, Cruz met the members of the Government, representatives of civil society organisations, health care workers, and persons affected by leprosy. She visited health care facilities and communities affected by leprosy in Nilphamari and Bogura.
The Special Rapporteur will present her report on the visit to the Human Rights Council in June 2023.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/219289-un-expert-points-%E2%80%98needless-suffering%E2%80%99-leprosy-patients




Date: 14 February 2023
Title: The UN in Bangladesh congratulates Md Shahabuddin on his presidential election
Content: 14 February 2023
The United Nations in Bangladesh congratulates Md Shahabuddin on his election as the 22nd President of the People's Republic of Bangladesh.
We wish the President-Elect, Md Shahabuddin, success in assuming his new responsibilities and congratulate the people of Bangladesh for having him as the new President of the republic.
We hope the UN will extend its partnership with Bangladesh under his leadership to achieve Bangladesh’s commitments towards implementing the Sustainable Development Goals and the UN charter.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/219128-un-bangladesh-congratulates-md-shahabuddin-his-presidential-election




Date: 12 February 2023
Title: Government-Development Partners Discussion on Climate Action Priorities Leading Up to -COP28
Content: 12 February 2023
One hundred and fifty-four countries signed the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in 1992, agreeing to combat harmful human impacts on the climate.
Since then, Climate Change Conference of Parties (COP) meetings have been held annually to discuss how exactly that should be achieved and monitor what progress has been made.
From the perspective of Bangladesh and other climate-vulnerable countries, the successes of the recent COP27 held in Egypt, included the decision to create a Loss and Damage fund, an agreement on the way forward for the Global Goal on Adaptation, and the launch of a new five-year work program at COP27 to promote climate technology solutions in developing countries. However, concrete commitments on mitigation were further postponed raising concerns about the prospect of keeping the 1.5 degree limit to contain global warming alive.
The UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, chaired a discussion today between the Government of Bangladesh and Development Partners to hear reflections on the COP27 and Bangladesh’s priorities for COP28. Dr. Farhina Ahmed, Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change joined as the Chief Guest.
Dr. Farhina Ahmad spoke of how, “As a highly climate-vulnerable country with an imperative to develop fast, Bangladesh needs massive access to climate finance and technology. Support is needed for the implementation of the National Adaptation Plan, Nationally Determined Contributions, and the Mujib Climate and Prosperity Plan. In addition, high emitting countries must reduce their emissions to contain global warming within the 1.5 degree limit to protect our country from the recurrent climate disasters that are striking with increasing scale and frequency.”
Ms. Gwyn Lewis added that “Bangladesh’s needs for climate finance far exceeds what currently is available. Bangladesh has already developed plans to adapt and mitigate to the impacts of climate change, however as development partners we need to work in support the government to make the step change to save lives and livelihoods, and make the resources available to operationalize and better adapt to the challenges of climate in adopting and operationalizing this framework.”
Mr. Matt Cannell, the Development Director of the British High Commission in Bangladesh added “Tackling climate change is a top priority for the UK Government and we are supporting the Government of Bangladesh to adapt to its effects while also championing international action to keep 1.5 degrees alive. It is vital to mainstream climate action across all development and humanitarian work and engage the public and private sectors to ensure financing needs are met.”
During the discussions it became clear that the large volume of climate finance needed cannot come from the Government alone. Private sector and development partners must also support. Funds that are available need to be prioritized to protect people and communities most at risk. If communities are more resilient, Bangladesh will continue to make progress and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. . Finally there is a strong and urgent call for the highest emitters of greenhouse gases to make meaningful commitments to climate change mitigation to ensure that global warming is kept within the 1.5 degrees limit.
COP27 took place in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt in November 2022. COP28 will take place in Dubai, UAE during 30 November – 12 December 2023.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/218887-government-development-partners-discussion-climate-action-priorities-leading-cop28




Date: 11 February 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s message for the International Day  of Women and Girls in Science
Content: 11 February 2023
On this International Day of Women and Girls in Science, we highlight a simple equation: More women and girls in science equals better science.
Women and girls bring diversity to research, expand the pool of science professionals, and provide fresh perspectives to science and technology, benefiting everyone.
There is growing evidence that gender bias in science is leading to worse outcomes, from drug tests that treat the female body as an aberration, to search algorithms that perpetuate bias and discrimination.
Yet in too many places around the world, women and girls’ access to education is limited or denied completely.
As women look to progress in scientific careers, inequalities and discrimination continue to thwart their potential.
Women make up under a third of the workforce across science, technology, engineering, and maths and even less in cutting edge fields. Just one in five professionals working on Artificial Intelligence is a woman.
We must – and we can – do more to promote women and girl scientists:
Through scholarships, internships, and training programmes that provide a platform to succeed.
Through quotas, retention incentives, and mentorship programmes that help women overcome entrenched hurdles and build a career.
And crucially, by affirming women’s rights and breaking down stereotypes, biases, and structural barriers.
We can all do our part to unleash our world’s enormous untapped talent – starting with filling classrooms, laboratories, and boardrooms with women scientists.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/218864-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-women-and-girls-science




Date: 08 February 2023
Title: UN Secretary General’s SDG Advocate Her Majesty the Queen of the Belgians concludes her visit to Bangladesh
Content: 08 February 2023
The UN Secretary General’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Advocate, Her Majesty the Queen of the Belgians concluded her three-day visit to Bangladesh in the climate-vulnerable Khulna district.
During her visit, she saw the UN’s programmatic work covering several sustainable development goals including Climate Action, Gender Equality, Decent Work and Economic Growth, Responsible Consumption and Production, Quality Education, and others.
Her Majesty’s visit highlighted that the people of Bangladesh are the main drivers of the country’s development. In the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, recent global economic volatility and the devastating floods that hit the country in June last year, the visit refocused attention on the importance of the SDGs in building the resilience of communities and leaving no one behind.
In a statement, the Resident Coordinator of Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, noted her appreciation of the Her Majesty the Queen’s visit: “in highlighting once again that progress towards the SDGs needs to be accelerated.” She added that the United Nations and our partners will spare no effort to support Bangladesh in reaching the SDGs by 2030.
The Queen began her visit to the country at a garment factory in Narayanganj where the International Labour Organisation (ILO) is working with women to achieve equal rights, followed by a visit to a UNICEF ability-based accelerated learning centre in Dhaka that is helping children who have dropped out of school to catch up on their learning.
On the last day of her three-day visit to Bangladesh, Her Majesty the Queen of the Belgians visited a water treatment plant facility in Sutarkhali Union, an area that has been frequently hit by floods, cyclones, and was affected by salinity intrusion. The water treatment plant provides clean water to about 1600 people of 400 households in the area and was opened in 2020 under the Local Government Initiative on Climate Change (LoGIC) project.
The Queen then took a boat ride to Jhulanta Para to see the impact of climate change and how local communities are adapting. Located on the banks of the Surkhali and Shibsa rivers, Jhulanta Para is being increasingly hit by floods and cyclones, as well as river erosion each year.
During her visit, the Queen also went to Cox’s Bazar to see the ongoing humanitarian response for the Rohingya refugees. Her Majesty met with Rohingya women, men, and youths, and volunteers working in the camps, and also visited various facilities supported by the UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, and its partners.
Her Majesty Queen Mathilde
Her Majesty the Queen ascended to the throne in 2013. She is the honorary President of both Child Focus, a foundation for missing and sexually exploited children, and UNICEF Belgium. In 2001, Queen Mathilde established the Princess Mathilde Fund (now the Queen Mathilde Fund) to promote the care of vulnerable people. As an SDG Advocate, she is particularly focused on mental health.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/218324-un-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-sdg-advocate-her-majesty-queen-belgians-concludes-her-visit




Date: 06 February 2023
Title: UN Secretary General’s SDG Advocate Her Majesty the Queen of the Belgians arrives in Dhaka
Content: 06 February 2023
Today the UN Country Team in Bangladesh warmly welcomed to the country the United Nations Secretary-General’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Advocate Her Majesty the Queen of the Belgians.
During her three-day visit to Bangladesh, Her Majesty the Queen will meet with the Government, and the UN Country Team members, and visit project sites of multiple UN agencies covering a number of SDGs, including Education, Gender Equality, Decent Work and Economic Growth, Responsible Consumption and Production, and Climate Action, among others.
In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic which stalled and reversed development progress globally, and the subsequent war against Ukraine that precipitated a cost-of-living crisis, this visit highlights the heightened importance of the SDGs, and also showcases Bangladesh’s dynamism and commitment to them.
On her first day in the country, the Queen visited Fakir Apparels Ltd, a garment factory in Narayangan that produces clothes for major international brands. About one-third of the factory’s employees are women, who have participated in women’s empowerment initiatives by the UN International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) through the Better Work programme. Partnering with 47 of the world’s leading brands, employers’ associations, the Better Work programme supports 450 factories and has impacted more than 1.25 million workers in Bangladesh. This work contributes to the sustainable development goals of achieving gender equality, promoting inclusive and sustainable economic growth, and ensuring decent work for all.
Her Majesty the Queen of the Belgians met with some of the women working at the factory and visited the childcare facilities.
“I am delighted that Her Majesty the Queen of the Belgians has joined us in advocating for decent work and the SDGs in Bangladesh. Ensuring decent work contributes to progress on many other SDGs including those related to inequality, poverty, food security, health, and the environment—particularly for dynamic countries like Bangladesh," said Tuomo Poutiainen, ILO Country Director for Bangladesh.
Afterward, the Queen visited an Ability Based Accelerated Learning (ABAL) centre in Dhaka’s Khilgaon area, where she spoke with the children about how the COVID-19 pandemic had disrupted their lives and education.
In accordance with the sustainable development goal of Quality Education, UNICEF-supported learning centres and catch-up programmes offer flexible education for over 80,000 Bangladeshi children aged 7-14 who have dropped out, are at risk of dropping out from school, or have never been enrolled in formal education. Once children reach age-appropriate skills, the ABAL centres support their enrolment in formal primary schools.
Her Majesty Queen Mathilde
Her Majesty the Queen ascended to the throne in 2013. She is the honorary President of both Child Focus, a foundation for missing and sexually exploited children, and UNICEF Belgium. In 2001, Queen Mathilde established the Princess Mathilde Fund (now the Queen Mathilde Fund) to promote the care of vulnerable people. As an SDG Advocate, she is particularly focused on mental health.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/217994-un-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-sdg-advocate-her-majesty-queen-belgians-arrives-dhaka




Date: 05 February 2023
Title: UN expert on leprosy to visit Bangladesh
Content: 05 February 2023
GENEVA (3 February 2023) – The UN Special Rapporteur on discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members, Alice Cruz, will conduct an official visit to Bangladesh from 7 to 15 February 2023.
“The UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, at its most recent review on Bangladesh made several recommendations about leprosy-related discrimination,” the expert said. “I will explore how Bangladesh endeavors to eliminate discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members,” she said.
Cruz will assess issues of structural and interpersonal discrimination on grounds of leprosy, anti-discriminatory policies, strategies for stigma reduction and enjoyment of civil, political, economic, social, cultural and disability rights by persons affected by leprosy.
The expert will meet government representatives, UN agencies, civil society organisations, and persons affected, their family members and their representative organisations. She will visit communities outside Dhaka, including the Nilphamari and Bogura regions.
At the end of her visit, Cruz will share her preliminary observations and recommendations at a press conference on Wednesday 15 February, at 15:00 (GMT+6), at The Westin Dhaka (address: Main Gulshan Avenue, CWN (B) Road 45, Plot 1, Gulshan 2, Dhaka). Access is strictly limited to journalists.
The Special Rapporteur will present a full report on her visit, including findings and recommendations, to the Human Rights Council in June 2023.
ENDS
Ms Alice Cruz is the first UN Special Rapporteur on the elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members, appointed in November 2017 by the Human Rights Council. Ms. Cruz worked as External Professor at the Law School of University Andina Simón Bolívar – Ecuador and in several Portuguese universities as researcher on health and human rights, in particular leprosy. She participated in the elaboration of WHO Guidelines for Strengthening Participation of Persons Affected by Leprosy in Leprosy Services. She has researched and written on the subject of eliminating leprosy and the stigma attached to it and has interacted with various stakeholders, including persons affected by leprosy.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/217947-un-expert-leprosy-visit-bangladesh




Date: 01 February 2023
Title: The Government of Bangladesh and the humanitarian community are working to strengthen coordination on disaster response and preparedness
Content: 01 February 2023
Strengthening collaboration on disaster risk management for the government-led emergency response was discussed at the first meeting of the Humanitarian Coordination Task Team (HCTT) in 2023, co- chaired by the Hon. Secretary of the Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief (MoDMR), MD Kamrul Hasan, and the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis.
The Humanitarian Coordination Task Team meeting held on the 1st of February was attended by government officials, UN agency focal points, representatives of non-governmental organisations (NGOs), international organisations, the Red Cross Movement and the Red Crescent, and diplomatic missions.
Welcoming meeting participants, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, spoke about the importance of strengthening joint disaster response efforts so that when a flood or a cyclone hits Bangladesh, people that are impacted are supported in the best and quickest way possible.
“The Government of Bangladesh is playing a critical, and often life-saving role in responding to climate-related disasters. Anticipating climate risks is one way we can better support the government to act promptly and mitigate the impacts of disasters. The ultimate goal is to help affected people so that they can recover and get back to normal as soon as possible,” said UN Resident Coordinator Gwyn Lewis thanking the Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief for co-organising the meeting.
The Hon. Secretary thanked UN Resident Coordinator Gwyn Lewis for collaborative efforts to implement the 2019 National Plan for Disaster and the Standing Order on Disaster (SoD) and said that the HCTT and cluster collaboration need to transform considering muti-hazard early warning for all, anticipatory action, internal displacement management, and environmental protection. “Bangladesh is one of the most disaster-prone countries in the world. In addition, recent rapid urbanisation has increased the risk of earthquakes as well as man-made disasters. The recent fire incident in Sitakunda, Chittagong district and the protracted floods in Sylhet district reminds us of the necessity of efficient response,” he said, noting that protection and gender should be at the centre of the coordination work.
Overall, following the June 2022 floods, the Humanitarian Coordination Task Team and its partners mobilised around 20 million US dollars to respond to the most urgent needs reflected in the Government's Flash Flood Response Plan.
Another key achievement of this humanitarian coordination mechanism in 2022 was the creation of the INFORM Sub-national Risk Index of Bangladesh: an open source for risk assessment at the local level that is used to identify vulnerable populations. Participants of the event talked about ways to enhance collaboration and strengthen humanitarian preparedness and response to climate-related disasters.
HCTT members agreed to improve the disaster risk information system and to coordinate humanitarian work through effective planning, monitoring and resource mobilisation.
Further information
The Nexus Strategy for Climate-related Disasters 2021-2025 is a working group, co-charred by the Honourable Secretary of the Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief (MoDMR), MD Kamrul Hasan, and the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis. It was set up in 2012 to provide operational-level support coordinating disaster risk management, preparedness, and response efforts of government, national and international organisations in Bangladesh. Since 2016, the HCTT collectively raised over 103 million USD for nine different response plans in Bangladesh. The Nexus Strategy for Climate-related Disasters 2021-2025 is a humanitarian preparedness and response strategy developed to support the National Plan for Disaster Management (NPDM) 2021-25 and the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) for Bangladesh. The key strategic objectives of the strategy are:
The localised sub-national index for risk management INFORM is an open-source risk assessment methodology for humanitarian crises and disasters. It was developed by the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office (UNRCO) in collaboration with the Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief (MoDMR) with technical support from the Network for Information, Response and Preparedness Activities on Disaster (NIRAPAD) and the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/217423-government-bangladesh-and-humanitarian-community-are-working-strengthen-coordination




Date: 31 January 2023
Title: Bangladesh must boost regulation of migrant recruitment: UN expert
Content: 31 January 2023
“Recruitment currently imposes exorbitant high costs on many migrants, creating debt bondage, much of which are imposed by “middlemen” who are used to recruit workers,” said Felipe González Morales, UN Special Rapporteur on the human rights of migrants, in a statement at the end of a 10-day official visit to Bangladesh.
González Morales urged authorities to protect the rights of migrant workers at all stages of migration, including pre-departure, during employment abroad and upon their return.
The Special Rapporteur commended the Government for actions taken to curb these challenges, but said there was still a need to regulate, closely monitor and enhance the recruitment system to ensure effective protection for migrants, including better access to justice.
The expert noted the stark difference in skilled migration schemes channeled through Government-to-Government initiatives, which yield more beneficial results for migrants due to more robust regulation and oversight. “It is the lower-skilled migrants who are often subject to vulnerable situations, including exploitation, as they are often poor, lack education and without access to information that can help inform their decisions and enhance their migration experiences,” González Morales said.
The Special Rapporteur encouraged ongoing training initiatives for aspiring migrant workers but stressed the need to better equip them with adequate information prior to departure, including recourse when they suffer abuse. He welcomed the establishment of a database of aspiring migrant workers as well as better regulation of middlemen, including requirement for registration.
González Morales emphasised that responsibility for migrant workers equally falls on countries of destination.
“These countries must do their part in ensuring strong protection for migrant workers, particularly women who are disproportionately at risk of human rights violations when they are hired as domestic workers,” he said. “Destination countries – most of them in the Middle East – must also take an active role in investigating and sanctioning perpetrators of human rights violations against Bangladeshi migrant workers,” the Special Rapporteur said.
“At the same time, Bangladesh should continue reinforcing its consular services”, he added.
During his visit, the Special Rapporteur travelled to Cox’s Bazaar to meet with Rohingya refugees.
González Morales praised Bangladesh for receiving nearly one million Rohingyas escaping from Myanmar and said he was impressed by the resilience of the Rohingya refugees – some of whom have been living in camps for over five years, and others 30 years since first arrivals in the early 1990s.
“A durable solution for all Rohingya refugees is critical,” the UN expert said. He expressed concern about the lack of legal status for Rohingyas, and noted that children who are born in the camps he visited are not issued an official birth certificate.
The expert also called on the authorities to facilitate permits to improve access to education through learning centers and life skills training which many Rohingyas have praised and welcomed as a means to a more hopeful and dignified life. He also noted the need to upgrade the quality of housing in the camps particularly in light of the impact of climate change that have resulted in fire and flooding incidents.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/217242-bangladesh-must-boost-regulation-migrant-recruitment-un-expert




Date: 24 January 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Day of Education
Content: 24 January 2023
Education is a fundamental human right.
It’s the bedrock of societies, economies, and every person’s potential.
But without adequate investment, this potential will wither on the vine.
It has always been shocking to me that education has been given such a low priority in many government policies and in international cooperation instruments.
The theme of this year’s International Day of Education reminds us that “to invest in people, prioritize education.”
Investment is critical to achieving Sustainable Development Goal 4.
Last year’s Transforming Education Summit gathered the world together to reimagine education systems so every learner accesses the knowledge and skills required to succeed.
Over 130 countries made commitments to ensure that universal quality education becomes a central pillar of public policies and investments.
A Call to Action on Educational Investment and the establishment of the International Financing Facility for Education created a fresh push on domestic and international financing.
And the Summit launched a range of global initiatives to mobilize support for education in crises settings, girls’ education, foundational learning, transforming teaching, digital tools, and green education systems.
Now is the time for all countries to translate their Summit commitments into concrete actions that create supportive and inclusive learning environments for all students.
Now is also the time to end all discriminatory laws and practices that hinder access to education. I call on the de facto authorities in Afghanistan in particular to reverse the outrageous and self-defeating ban on access to secondary and higher education for girls.
I also encourage countries to place education at the heart of preparations for the SDG Summit in 2023 and the Summit of the Future in 2024.
Most of all, I urge civil society and youth to continue calling for more and better investment in quality education.
Let’s keep the flame of transformation burning.
Let’s deliver education systems that can support equal societies, dynamic economies and the limitless dreams of every learner in the world.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/216446-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-education




Date: 15 January 2023
Title: UN Resident Coordinator visits Sylhet to discuss lessons learnt in the response to the flood-affected areas
Content: 15 January 2023
On 15 January, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, met with the Deputy Commissioner of Sylhet, Md. Mozibor Rahman, regional non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and UN agencies' representatives to discuss the lessons learnt from some of the key projects of the Flash Flood Humanitarian Response Plan implemented following the devastating floods that hit the region in summer of last year.
In support of the government, the United Nations and NGO partners launched the large-scale Flash Flood Humanitarian Response Plan in July 2022 to provide lifesaving support to vulnerable communities in the five worst-hit districts.
At the meeting with NGOs, Gwyn Lewis said that “the dedication of the partners and their efforts to reach the most vulnerable is incredibly impressive” and she looked forward to continue to work with them to strengthen early warning and preparedness.
Among the themes discussed at the meetings were the implementation of the risk information and early warning system, information management, food security and livelihoods, and protection of vulnerable populations.
Further information
The Flash Flood Humanitarian Response Plan aimed to mobilise efforts to tackle the consequences of the floods has been produced by the Humanitarian Coordination Task Team (HCTT) jointly headed by UN Resident Coordinator and the honorable Secretary of the Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief (MoDMR), MD Kamrul Hasan.
A total of 20.45 million US dollars have been provided for essential needs of those affected by floods. 468,408 people in five heavily impacted districts of Sunamganj, Netrokona, Sylhet, Habiganj, and Moulvibazar were reached.
An estimated 7.2 million people have been affected by flooding and water congestion in the nine northeastern districts of Sylhet, Sunamganj, Moulvibazar, Habiganj, Netrakona, Kishorganj, Brahmanbaria, Mymensing, and Sherpur. The extent of the flooding surpassed any in previous decades including the ones in 1998 and 2004.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/215263-un-resident-coordinator-visits-sylhet-discuss-lessons-learnt-response-flood-affected-areas




Date: 16 December 2022
Title: UN Resident Coordinator congratulates Bangladesh on Victory Day
Content: 16 December 2022
Statement of the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, on the 51st anniversary of the victory of Bangladeshi forces in the Bangladesh Liberation War
On 16 December, Bangladesh is celebrating its 51st anniversary of Victory Day.
The country has been on an extraordinary voyage from being a war and famine-ravaged newborn nation, to its current standing as a United Nations member state standing at the threshold of LDC graduation, and providing shelter to nearly a million Rohingya refugees.
Bangladesh’s achievements in human development and disaster response, long before it became a middle-income country, made it an example for other countries to emulate.
Bangladesh too has contributed to shaping the UN’s development agenda and peace operations globally. Bangladesh has also been a vocal advocate for multilateralism, climate justice and the interests of least developed countries.
Bangladesh sponsored the Culture of Peace resolution that was unanimously adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1999. And it was thanks to Bangladesh’s advocacy that the UN General Assembly recognized the International Mother Language Day in 2008.
Bangladesh’s advocacy internally for the rights of the most vulnerable, and its constitution illustrates the country’s determination to be a democracy in which fundamental human rights and freedoms and respect for the dignity and worth of the human person shall be guaranteed.
The UN has been a partner of the Government and the people of Bangladesh since its birth. Starting with UNHCR in 1971, 22 UN agencies now have operations in the country.
On the eve of the 51st anniversary of Bangladesh’s independence, the United Nations stands with Bangladesh in partnership and wishes all Bangladeshi nationals, in the country and abroad a very happy Victory Day.
Wishing everyone a happy Victory Day!
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/212323-un-resident-coordinator-congratulates-bangladesh-victory-day




Date: 15 December 2022
Title: UN and Ministry of Disaster Management of Bangladesh hold technical workshop on multi-hazard risk assessment methods
Content: 15 December 2022
The Ministry of Disaster Management of Bangladesh, the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) together with the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office have organised a technical workshop on multi-hazard risk assessment methods.
The technical workshop on multi-hazard risk assessment methods and good practices for risk data governance took place on 13-14 December in Dhaka and was aimed to increase participant’s knowledge about how to perform multi-hazard risk assessment.
During the workshop, its trainers, a UNDRR’s risk knowledge initiatives consultant, Olaf Neussner, and an associate expert of the UNDRR’s Office for Asia and the Pacific, Harold Rice, covered different aspects of the notion of systemic risk and its core elements, primary and secondary effects of disasters, as well as disaster risk management. At the end of the 2-day seminar, the workshop participants received hands-on experience from various risk assessment approaches that could be applied to reduce risks within their own organisations.
Over thirty representatives from different government departments and UN agencies including the Ministry of Food, Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief, UN Children's Fund (UNICEF), UNDP, WFP, UN Population Fund UNFPA and others participated in the workshop that was addressed by the Honourable Secretary Minister of the Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief, Md Kamrul Hasan ndc, the Director General Department of Disaster Management and Relief, Md Atiqul Haque, and the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/212507-un-and-ministry-disaster-management-bangladesh-hold-technical-workshop-multi-hazard-risk




Date: 11 December 2022
Title: UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh and Minister of Information meet journalists to discuss human rights
Content: 11 December 2022
Dhaka 11 December 2022: The UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh has hosted a roundtable discussion on media freedom and human rights with the participation of over seventeen prominent national media outlets as well as some prominent civil society organizations. The Minister for Information and Broadcasting was the chief guest at the occasion.
At the event, which took place on 11 December and organized by the UN Resident Coordinator Office in Bangladesh to mark International Human Rights Day, key Bangladeshi journalists talked about their experiences and the issues faced when reporting in the country.
In the opening remarks the UN Resident Coordinator, Ms. Gwyn Lewis, said “Article 39 of the Constitution of Bangladesh guarantees freedom of expression and opinion as well as freedom of media. Today’s discussion is particularly timely given the political events over the past days and the important role that the media has in representing the many different views across the country. A responsible and credible media hold all parties to account, and provides solid and reliable information to citizens and voters of a country.”
Commenting on the implementation of media freedom commitments, the Minister of Information and Broadcasting of Bangladesh, Dr. Hasan Mahmud, stated that “the protection of human rights benefits and strengthens democratic society based on debate, discussion and the rule of law. Media freedom is essential.”
Among the participants of the roundtable were the Ambassador of Switzerland, Ms. Natalie Chuard, and the Deputy Head of the EU Delegation to Bangladesh, Dr. Bernd Spanier, who gave an overview of the media landscape in the EU and highlighted the importance of independent media to hold governments and businesses to account.
"Free press is vital to any society. It is not only a stimulating debate but also keeps us all honest. It is strengthening democracy,” said the Swiss Ambassador.
During the roundtable discussions, participants discussed the challenges of reporting on human rights issues and developments in media. The role of United Nations in bringing stakeholders together was much appreciated by participants.
Further information
Article 19 of the Universal Declaration for Human Rights outlines the freedom of expression and opinion as fundamental human rights.
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the 2030 Agenda are a transformative development framework based on human rights.
The United Nations will continue to work with the Government, UN agencies, international organizations, civil society, and the media in Bangladesh as the country makes progress on the SDGs and its human rights obligations.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/211034-un-resident-coordinator-bangladesh-and-minister-information-meet-journalists-discuss-human




Date: 07 December 2022
Title: Press Statement by Gwyn Lewis United Nations Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh  on Celebrating Human Rights Day 2022
Content: 07 December 2022
Dhaka, 7 December 2022: On 10 December, we mark International Human Rights Day. The day on which the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, entitling everyone, regardless of race, colour, sex, religion, political or other views to inalienable rights.
This year we have seen the consequences of crises driven by the Covid-19 pandemic, the devastating Ukraine war and climate change that have disproportionately impacted the most vulnerable across the world, impeding their access to basic services, to be protected and their right to live in peace.
Remembering the Declaration that says that “all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights,” the UN in solidarity with all Bangladeshis, recommits itself to uphold the core values of dignity, equality and liberty, including of thought and conscience.
As Bangladesh is coming closer to its national election next year, we remind Bangladesh of its commitments, as a UN member state, to free expression, media freedom, and peaceful assembly among others written in the Declaration. We reaffirm UN’s full support to Bangladesh in upholding its commitments.
Ours is a shared humanity rooted in universal values. A threat to the rights of one person is a threat to the whole of society. Celebrating Human Rights Day is an opportunity to reflect on what we have in common with each other and what that binds us together.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/210463-press-statement-gwyn-lewis-united-nations-resident-coordinator-bangladesh-celebrating-human




Date: 24 November 2022
Title: CERF allocates $9 million to the Rohingya refugee response in Bangladesh
Content: 24 November 2022
Dhaka, November 24, 2022: The United Nation’s Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) has released a USD 9 million allocation to help over 943,000 Rohingya refugees staying in camps in Cox’s Bazar district and in the island of Bhasan Char, and over 17,800 members of the host community in Ukhiya and Teknaf.  This funding, allocated to six UN agencies – the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR), the International Organization for Migration (IOM), the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF), the World Food Programme (WFP), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), and the UN Women will help provide life-saving services to refugees and contribute to an enabling environment respectful of their rights and well-being.
Under the leadership of the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, the UN agencies through national and local partners will focus on four prioritized sectors – food security, non-food items, protection, and water, sanitation and hygiene. This funding allocation will help maintain services and life-saving support to ensure equal access for refugees, who are highly dependent on humanitarian assistance.
Commenting on the allocation of the funds, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Ms. Gwyn Lewis said, "The UN in Bangladesh welcomes the decision of the Emergency Relief Coordinator to allocate these funds to the currently underfunded Rohingya Response to support refugees and the host community in their daily struggle for survival. In consultation with the government of Bangladesh and local NGOs, the money allocated from the CERF will help protect refugees, tackle gender-based violence, and contribute to an environment respectful of refugee rights and well-being."
The UNHCR will allocate the funding to its national and local partners to provide monthly Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders and refills to enhance food security, provide assistance to refugees, and help refugee volunteers to deliver life-saving community-led messaging. IOM will also focus on LPG distribution, as well as community mobilization, training, and monitoring. UNICEF will provide water, sanitation and hygiene services through local partners including national NGOs and the Department of Public Health Engineering. In addition, UNICEF will support the social service workforce to provide psychosocial support and life skills training to children, adolescents, and caregivers. WFP will provide lifesaving food assistance and support to increase and sustain dietary diversity. Through local partners, UNFPA will provide integrated services that prevent and respond to gender-based violence while also addressing sexual and reproductive health needs, including psycho-social support and referral services. UN Women will provide life skills training and livelihood support and strengthen capacities of women's groups to provide multisectoral gender-based violence services.
Further information
The Rohingya people have faced systematic disenfranchisement, discrimination, and targeted persecution in Myanmar’s Rakhine State for decades. Persecution has repeatedly driven Rohingya refugees across the border into Bangladesh. As of 31 August 2022, five years after the largest refugee influx from Myanmar into Bangladesh in August 2017, more than 943,000 Rohingya refugees are registered in Bangladesh as part of the Government-UNHCR joint registration exercise, residing in 33 extremely congested camps in Ukhiya and Teknaf Upazilas of the Cox’s Bazar District, as well as on the island of Bhasan Char.
The situation of the Rohingya refugees remains concerning. WFP’s June 2022 Refugee Influx Emergency Vulnerability Assessment (REVA V) shows that 95% of all Rohingya households are moderate to highly vulnerable and remain entirely dependent on humanitarian assistance. The impacts arising from the Ukraine crisis are also being felt in Bangladesh, where high levels of inflation, depreciating local currency and price hikes for basic goods and commodities have been recorded, heightening existing vulnerabilities among those already at risk, especially women and adolescent girls. Moreover, the Covid-19 pandemic and socio-economic impacts of this latest influx have increased the strain on the refugee community. As a result, service delivery and critical protection interventions in the refugee camps have been greatly affected.
Due to the congestion in the Cox’s Bazar camps, funding gaps in critical areas lead to increased challenges. For example, disruption in the provision of LPG and food assistance would lead to deforestation and increased protection concerns; without adequate and sustained access to WASH services, public health risks such Acute Watery Diarrhea (AWD) and cholera will continue to rise and deteriorate; the location and congested nature of shelters and facilities in the Cox’s Bazar camps exacerbate the risks of fires, land slides and flooding.
CERF is a mechanism through which donors pool their contributions in advance, allowing humanitarian agencies to provide initial, life-saving assistance wherever crises strike while they await additional funding. For further information, visit the CERF official website. For the latest funding updates, visit the OCHA Financial Tracking Service.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/209192-cerf-allocates-9-million-rohingya-refugee-response-bangladesh




Date: 20 November 2022
Title: UN in Bangladesh and Economic Relations Division, Ministry of Finance highlight implementation of UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF)
Content: 20 November 2022
Dhaka, November 20, 2022: The implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) was discussed at the Joint Steering Committee meeting, co-chaired by the Secretary of the Economic Relations Division of the Bangladesh Ministry of Finance and the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh. Launched in November 2021, the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2022-2026 aims to assist Bangladesh in overcoming the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and accelerating progress towards the sustainable development goals in line with the Eighth Five Year Plan.
At the meeting, the Joint Steering Committee consisting of Government officials from 16 ministries and 15 UN Agencies Focal points  in Bangladesh, approved the 2023 joint work plan of the UNSDCF, detailing the activities that the UN will undertake during the year.
In their opening remarks, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Gwyn Lewis, and the Secretary of the Economic Relations Division of the Bangladesh Ministry of Finance, Sharifa Khan, spoke about the importance of the framework and strengthening of the UN-Bangladesh cooperation to support development that leaves no one behind.
The UN Resident Coordinator Ms. Gwyn Lewis said that “This is a critical time globally, and in Bangladesh’s development trajectory. In face of the triple crises driven by the Covid pandemic, the Ukraine war, and catastrophic climate change, the policy choices we make today will determine the development prospects of the country for years to come. The UN in Bangladesh is committed to support the Government and the people of Bangladesh in ensuring sustainable and inclusive development as the country proceeds to graduate out of least developed countries (LDCs) category.”
Recalling Bangladesh’s five decades of close partnership with the United Nations, Secretary Sharifa Khan stated that “In these difficult global circumstances we have to go the extra mile to make sure that no one is left behind in Bangladesh’s rapid development.” She also emphasized on more expenditure towards implementation than policy intervention and to avoid duplication in development activities.
The meeting took place on 20 November and included discussions on the implementation of strategic priorities of the framework set to reflect Bangladesh’s 8th Five-Year Plan.
The Joint Steering Committee will meet again in the first quarter of 2023.
Further information
The UNSDCF 2022-26 was launched by the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office and the Economic Relations Division of the Bangladesh Ministry of Finance (link to the press release of the launch https://bangladesh.un.org/en/159689-launching-united-nations-sustainable-development-cooperation-framework-unsdcf-2022-2026 ) on  21 November 2021. The framework representsthe UN response to support Bangladesh in overcoming the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and addressing key development priorities and challenges to the achievement of the objectives of the country’s 8th Five Year Plan leading to the achievement of its sustainable development goals and the Perspective Plan for 2041.
To reflect the country’s 8th Five Year Plan, the UN Resident Coordinator Office in cooperation with the government of Bangladesh set out Five Strategic Priorities for UNSDCF that include
The implementation of the UNSDCF is coordinated through the Joint Steering Committee, co-chaired by the UN Resident Coordinator and the Economic Relations Division of the Bangladesh Ministry of Finance, that reviews progress and makes necessary adjustments to achieve the targets set in the framework.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/209193-un-bangladesh-and-economic-relations-division-ministry-finance-highlight-implementation-un




Date: 17 November 2022
Title: Bangladesh: ‘Invisible’ older persons must be recognized and prioritized, says UN expert
Content: 17 November 2022
DHAKA/GENEVA (17 November 2022) – Bangladesh must take concrete action to combat entrenched and pervasive ageism and follow through on its planned measures to ensure human rights protection of older persons, a UN expert said.
Concluding an 11-day visit in the country, Claudia Mahler, the Independent Expert on the enjoyment of all human rights for older persons, welcomed the existence of a dedicated National Policy on Older Persons, as a first commendable step. “However, the lack of a time-bonding action plan to further its implementation remains problematic,” Mahler said. More than nine years after its adoption, most of the priorities remain unattended.
Acknowledging the Government’s ongoing challenges related to climate change and a growing economic and financial crisis, she called on the Government to recognise older persons’ experiences, skills and contributions to their families and society at large.
“Such recognition would enhance support and protection to a growing proportion of the population that remains invisible,” Mahler said in a statement (English / Bangla). “Most of the older persons I met expressed often feeling like a burden to their family and the society, due the rampant structural ageism.”
While Bangladeshi society has a tradition of respecting and providing care for older relatives, their specific needs are easily ignored. “Older persons especially face structural ageist assumptions in the labour market, preventing those living in poverty to sustain themselves and their kin,” the expert said.
Mahler applauded the country’s Old Age Allowance, a non-contributory safety net benefiting almost half the older population, but more funding is needed. “The limited budget allocation for this programme barely covers the cost of medicines older persons need.”
Mahler also urged the Government to implement measures to mitigate the impacts of climate change on older persons and expressed concern that geriatric healthcare is scarce. Specific attention should be given to older persons living in vulnerable situations, including those deprived of liberty, living in slum urban areas, Rohingya camps, or working in shipbreaking yards, as well as those facing multiple forms of discrimination.
During her visit, the Independent Expert met with relevant Government authorities at national and local levels, civil society, stakeholders working on the rights of older persons and more than 200 older persons.
“I remain hopeful that Bangladesh will provide the appropriate political will and budgeting to strengthen the protection of older persons in the country,” she said.
The expert will present a comprehensive report of her findings and recommendations to the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva in September 2023.
ENDS
The expert: Claudia Mahler (Austria) was appointed by the UN Human Rights Council as Independent Expert on the enjoyment of all human rights by older persons in May 2020. She has been working for the German Institute for Human Rights as a senior researcher in the field of economic, social and cultural rights since 2010. She was also a visiting professor at the Alice Salomon Hochschule in 2020-2021. From 2001 to 2009, Ms. Mahler conducted research at the Human Rights Centre of the University of Potsdam where her main fields were in human rights education, minority rights and the law of asylum. In 2000, she received her doctoral degree and was appointed as Vice President of the Human Rights Commission for Tyrol and Vorarlberg.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, country page – Bangladesh
For further information and media requests, please contact: Claire Mathellié (claire.mathellie@un.org; +41 22 917 49 89) or write to hrc-ie-olderpersons@un.org
For media inquiries related to other UN independent experts please contact Renato de Souza (renato.rosariodesouza@un.org) or Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/209199-bangladesh-%E2%80%98invisible%E2%80%99-older-persons-must-be-recognized-and-prioritized-says-un-expert




Date: 17 November 2022
Title: A joint mission of UN, EU, UK and Norway visit CHT
Content: 17 November 2022

Dhaka, November 17, 2022: A high-level delegation of the United Nations in Bangladesh and key Development Partners has just concluded a visit to the Chittagong Hill Tracts to see first-hand the development initiatives in the area. The week-long visit from November 13 to November 17 covered the Hill Districts of Khagrachari and Rangamati.
The delegation included UN Resident Coordinator Gwyn Lewis, EU Ambassador Charles Whiteley, UK High Commissioner Robert Chatterton Dickson and Norway Ambassador Espen Rikter-Svendsen.
UNDP Resident Representative Stefan Liller, UNFPA Country Representative Kristine Blokhus, FAO Country Representative Robert Simpson and UNICEF Country Representative Sheldon Yett were also in the delegation.
“Development work in the Chittagong Hill Tracts has been hugely successful; however, lack of access and remoteness of many communities remains an ongoing challenge. The indigenous communities in the CHT have led impressive efforts to preserve and rehabilitate forests and their natural habitat. Climate change has made their work even more vital,” UN RC Gwyn Lewis said.
The RC also said that the visit provided her with a scope to familiarise herself with the region, listen to the concerns of women and adolescents and visit a range of different programs.
“UN and Partners’ support in CHT must be inclusive and in line with Agenda 2030’s promise of leaving no one behind to achieve a concerted, effective and sustainable development of the Chittagong Hill Tracts,” she added.
EU Ambassador Charles Whiteley said, “The European Union has been a staunch supporter of the UN’s development work in this region.
“We want a peaceful, prosperous future for the people of the Hills while maintaining their dignity and equality and their traditional stewardship of natural resources.”
“This is my third visit to the Hill Tracts. I am always struck by the development challenges in the region and by the opportunities for the government, the UN, development partners, and the communities themselves to work together for a sustainable future. I was particularly impressed by the impact of the Village Common Forests in improving water supplies in remote communities and hope this management of forest resources can be expanded to the benefit of all,” UK envoy Robert Chatterton Dickson said.
“As one of the founding nations of the UN and a major supporter of core support to the UN Agencies, our commitment to peace, equality, and harmony are unquestionable. I wanted to revisit our partnerships in the hills to see just that,” Norway Ambassador Espen Rikter-Svendsen said.
The envoy met with Khagrachari and Rangamati Hill District Councils Chairmen and Deputy Commissioners, Mong and Chakma Circle Chiefs, women leaders, environmental NGOs and the CHT Development Board.
The delegation also listened to diverse community members’ stories, challenges and recommendations while visiting various UN programs.
One of the many highlights was their visit to the solar power-based safe water supply facilities and the provision of safe drinking water during crises at Jurachari Upazila of Rangamati District. The initiative was recently awarded the Local Adaptation Champions Award at the COP27 climate summit in Egypt. Another was listening to the achievements of women entrepreneurs in the region. Greater involvement of women in the development of CHT will strengthen economic growth and build the resilience of families.
“We are addressing the issue of water scarcity by protecting and restoring forests and by using renewable energy to supply clean water in marginalized communities,” said Stefan Liller, Resident Representative of UNDP Bangladesh, after visiting the water supply facility.
“The people of the Hills face many challenges, including access to education, healthcare, livelihoods and water, coupled with increasing impacts of climate change. We have worked extensively in the Hill Tracts since the signing of the Peace Accords, and we will continue to stand by the people here,” he added.
“Children must be at the centre of our work in the Chittagong Hill Tracts. Investing in children’s well-being today and in their future is not just the right thing to do; it will ultimately benefit all of Bangladesh,” said Sheldon Yett, UNICEF Representative to Bangladesh.
UNFPA Representative Kristine Blokhus said, “women in CHT face serious challenges due to remoteness and lack of access to health services. To ensure every pregnancy is wanted and every childbirth is safe, as the lead UN agency for reproductive health and rights, UNFPA provides integrated sexual and reproductive health and gender-based violence support to the government health system. This includes deploying midwives and other specialist personnel to health facilities and connecting them with local communities.”
FAO Representative in Bangladesh Robert D. Simpson stressed the importance of agriculture in the region and its potential to drive development.  He said: "The majority of people living in CHT depend on agriculture for their livelihoods and food and nutrition security. The region has great potential to develop the production of high-value crops such as coffee, mango, and pineapple, which would raise families’ incomes, but development must be managed well in order to deliver equitable economic growth and protection for the environment."
The mission ended on November 17 with a promise to further strengthen the work with the government of Bangladesh to achieve prosperous, inclusive, resilient, and sustainable Chittagong Hill Tracts, leaving no one behind.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/209210-joint-mission-un-eu-uk-and-norway-visit-cht




Date: 30 October 2022
Title: Roundtable Discussion on Human Rights in Climate Change
Content: 30 October 2022
As COP 27 approaches, the urgency of reducing emissions and protecting the most vulnerable against the worst impact of climate change has never been stronger. Following a recent visit by Dr. Ian Fry, the Special Rapporteur for promotion and protection of Human rights in climate change a roundtable was organized by  the UN in Bangladesh and the International Centre for Climate Change and Development (ICCCAD) to facilitate a dialogue on how best to the recommendations can support Bangladesh.
The event was attended by Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA) as the line ministry for implementation of recommendations of human rights instruments, saw over 40 climate experts, civil society organizations working on climate change, UN agencies, development partners and members of the media gathered to discuss not just the Special Rapporteur report, but also propose concrete recommendations for the way forward.
The Special Rapporteur’s country visit to Bangladesh intended to assess how the adverse impacts of climate change affect the human rights of communities in vulnerable situations, to consider the consequences of these impacts on populations and to provide findings to the country and concrete suggestions for action to be considered by stakeholders in Bangladesh. This included such questions as how climate change is affecting the right to food, climate induced displacement, what measures are being taken to address the impact and how impacted population is participating in development of the policy framework on climate, protection of actors working on issues of climate change as well as right to land of displaced communities.
Bangladesh has been a long-term supporter of such a rights-based approach on climate change at the international level as well as having made some attempts to reflect this approach into national level policies. For the upcoming COP27 Climate Summit in Egypt, Bangladesh is already a leading voice when it comes to climate justice, for example through discussions on loss and damage. There is a wide range of policies and programs addressing the climate challenge at national level including the on-going work on SDG’s. However, policies and programs can continue to strengthen the rights-based approach.
The roundtable specifically focused on four broad areas of the Special Rapporteur’s report; the role of international financing & regional negotiations, the possibilities offered by new and existing policy frameworks, climate induced displacement, and strengthening mitigation alongside adaptation measures.
Five interventions preceded the informal discussions: Professor Saleemul Huq touched upon the significance of loss and damage for Bangladesh MP Saber Hossain Chowdhury  referred to the recent increase in the temperature and the impact that what it will do the existence of human race unless addressedBangladesh Environmental Lawyers Association’s Rizwana Hasan emphasized the rights of resilient communities. ‘Resilience with rights and no resilience without rights should be our slogan’. Chakma King Raja Debasish Roy further emphasized that communities adapt but indigenous people must be given an opportunity to do so by being included in policy decisions. Finally the U.S. Ambassador Peter Haas discussed the need for inclusive planning and a vibrant civil society.  He mentioned women and girls are disproportionately impacted by climate change. He also said the U.S. Strategy on Gender Equity and Equality highlights the climate crisis as a key factor affecting our ability to achieve gender policy goals.
A vibrant discussion followed the brief interventions by speakers, including interventions from various Ministries, Mr. Abul Kalam Azad, member of world Biodiversity commission, Ms. Fahmida Khatun from Center for Policy Dialogue, Ambassador of Sweden, among many others. Participants emphasized on government- civil society partnership, regional dimensions of river water distribution.
Gwyn Lewis, UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh concluded by stating that “climate justice and climate change are cross cutting issues and require a multi -sectoral approach in line with leaving no one behind. Inclusion of affected communities in finding solutions is key to sustainable solutions. The UN in Bangladesh is an integral partner of Bangladesh in addressing climate change and finding sustainable solutions”.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/205315-roundtable-discussion-human-rights-climate-change




Date: 24 October 2022
Title: UN Day Celebrated with Clean-up Campaigns in Dhaka and Sylhet
Content: 24 October 2022
The United Nations has been a trusted partner of Bangladesh since 1971. In the last 50 years, Bangladesh to has greatly contributed to the UN as a proactive member state.
The 24th of October marks the 77th anniversary of the UN Charter ratification in 1945 – UN Day. The UN Charter is the foundational document which sets out both the mandate and structure of the United Nations. The occasion was marked in Bangladesh, where the UN has been active since 1971, with a series of clean-up events in Dhaka, and Sylhet. A similar event in Cox’s Bazar was postponed due to the predicted bad weather. UN Staff was joined by members of the Bangladesh Scouts, City Cooperation Cleaners and Government officials.
The Clean-up campaign was launched centrally at the South Plaza of the National Parliament by the honorable Minister Tajul Islam, Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives, in the presence of Dr. Md Mozammel Haque Khan, Chief National Commissioner of Bangladesh Scouts, UN Resident Coordinator Gwyn Lewis,  scouts, rover scouts, city cooperation cleaners and UN Officials. Braving the pouring rain some 200 scouts, city cleaners and UN personnel including the senior-most UN officials in the country joined the event. The spirit of solidarity and celebration was evident despite the sea of umbrellas.
In her brief remarks the UN Resident Coordinator Gwyn Lewis said: “To mark the occasion of UN Day, we are happy to be standing alongside so many local partners and actively working on achieving our shared goals. The clean up events this morning might only make a small dent when it comes to trash management, but person by person, street by street it can be transformative.”
The honorable Minister Tajul Islam noted, “The United Nations has been a trusted partner of Bangladesh since 1971. In the last 50 years, Bangladesh to has greatly contributed to the UN as a proactive member state. I commend the UN and Bangladeshi Scouts for coming together to do the Clean-ups as part of the UN Day celebrations.”
Dr Md Mozammel Haque Khan, Chief National Commissioner of Bangladesh Scouts, was pleased to see the young Scouts joining the clean-up campaign even in such unfavorable weather condition.
Clean up activities took place in five Dhaka North and Dhaka South City Corporation locations with the participation of local scouts, cleaners of the city corporation and UN staff under the leadership of respective Ward Councilors. The specific locations are: North side of Sher-E-Bangla National Cricket Stadium, Around Nagar Bhaban, Gulshan 2, Eden Women's College and College of Home Economics in Azimpur, Fulbaria- adjacent to Nagar Bhaban and Police Headquarters from Rajarbagh intersection to Malibagh intersection.
Simultaneously similar activities were undertaken in Sylhet with the support of local authorities, local scouts, City Corporation cleaners and UN Staff. Dr. Muhammad Mosharrof Hossian, Divisional Commissioner, Sylhet Division led the Sylhet clean up campaign. Dr Hossain mentioned ‘”A cleaner and greener environment is what we need right now. We have gone through COVID-19 crisis, the devastating floods and now Dengue. If we can make the habit of keeping the environment clean as part of our life, we can make a better and greener Bangladesh”.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/204918-un-day-celebrated-clean-campaigns-dhaka-and-sylhet




Date: 24 October 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message  on the United Nations Day
Content: 24 October 2022
The United Nations is the product of hope.
The hope — and resolve — following the Second World War to move beyond global conflict to global cooperation.
Today, our organization is being tested like never before.
But the United Nations was made for moments like this.
Now, more than ever, we need to bring to life the values and principles of the UN Charter in every corner of the world.
By giving peace a chance and ending conflicts that jeopardize lives, futures and global progress.
By working to end extreme poverty, reduce inequalities, and rescue the Sustainable Development Goals.
By safeguarding our planet, including by breaking our addiction to fossil fuels and kickstarting the renewable energy revolution.
And by finally balancing the scales of opportunity and freedom for women and girls and ensure human rights for all.
As we mark UN Day, let us renew our hope and conviction in what humanity can achieve when we work as one, in global solidarity.


Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/204920-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-united-nations-day




Date: 05 October 2022
Title: UN in Bangladesh press statement for Bangladeshi peacekeepers killed in CAR
Content: 05 October 2022
Dhaka, 5 October 2022: United Nations in Bangladesh expresses its profound grief at the untimely death of three Bangladeshi peacekeepers in the Central African Republic. Our heartfelt condolences go out to the families of Jahangir Alam, Jashim Uddin and Sharif Hossain who lost their lives in the line of duty. We wish speedy recovery to Major Ashraful Haque, who is injured and receiving treatment.
United Nations peacekeepers take on considerable risks in the line of duty. Today and every day we stand in solidarity with the women and men who stake their lives and well-being in service of peace, and honour their sacrifice.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/202172-un-bangladesh-press-statement-bangladeshi-peacekeepers-killed-car




Date: 03 October 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the World Habitat Day
Content: 03 October 2022
Each year, World Habitat Day focuses attention on the state of human settlements.
This year’s theme – ‘Mind the Gap. Leave No One and No Place Behind’ – puts the spotlight on widening inequalities in living conditions across the world.
A cascade of challenges – from climate chaos and conflicts to COVID-19 – is hitting the most vulnerable populations the hardest.
Rapid and unplanned urbanization is exacerbating many of these challenges.
Today, over one billion people live in overcrowded settlements with inadequate housing – and that number is rising every day.
We need more urgent action and greater investment to provide affordable housing to all – alongside access to electricity, water, sanitation, transport, and other basic services.
To leave no one behind is the core pledge of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
This means making cities work for women and children and closing existing gaps: between the haves and the have-nots; within and between urban and rural areas; and within and between developed and developing regions.
Inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable cities and human settlements are crucial – and local action is key.
Cities, towns, and communities can spearhead innovative solutions to address inequalities, ensure adequate shelter for all, tackle the climate crisis and drive a green and inclusive pandemic recovery.
This includes pursuing people-centered policies, promoting sustainable patterns of consumption and production, and prioritizing green and resilient infrastructure.
On World Habitat Day, let us pledge to live up to our shared responsibility to one another.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/202212-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-habitat-day




Date: 02 October 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message  on the International Day of Non-violence
Content: 02 October 2022
The International Day of Non-Violence celebrates not only Mahatma Gandhi’s birthday, but the values he embodied that echo across the decades: peace, mutual respect, and the essential dignity shared by every person.
Sadly, our world is not living up to those values.
We see this through growing conflicts and climate chaos. Poverty, hunger and deepening inequalities. Prejudice, racism and rising hate speech. And a morally bankrupt global financial system that entrenches poverty and stymies recovery for developing countries.
We can defeat these challenges by embracing Gandhi’s values and working across cultures and borders to build a better, more peaceful future for all.
By investing in people’s health, education, decent jobs and social protection to prevent people from falling and catch them when they do.
By ensuring access to financing and debt relief for all countries.
By supporting developing countries as they build resilient infrastructure and protect populations from the impacts of climate change, while also accelerating the transition from planet-killing fossil fuels to renewable energy.
By securing and upholding the rights and dignity of all people — especially the most vulnerable, and girls and women who are too often denied their basic rights.
By taking concrete action for inclusion, recognizing multi-cultural, multi-religious and multi-ethnic societies as a richness, not a threat.
Gandhi’s life and example reveal a timeless pathway to a more peaceful and tolerant world.
Let us walk this path together, in solidarity, as one human family.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/202214-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-non-violence




Date: 01 October 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message  on the International Day of Older Persons
Content: 01 October 2022
On this International Day of Older Persons, we focus attention on the resilience of the more than one billion older women and men in a changing world.
The past years have witnessed dramatic upheavals – and older people often found themselves at the epicenter of crises.
They are particularly vulnerable to a range of challenges, including the COVID-19 pandemic, the worsening climate crisis, proliferating conflicts, and growing poverty.
Yet in the face of these threats, older people have inspired us with their remarkable resilience.
By 2030, 1.4 billion people will be at least 60 years old.
Our task as societies and as the global community is to address the challenges of longevity – and unleash its potential.
We must promote the social, economic, and political inclusion of all people at all ages.
This pledge is enshrined in the Sustainable Development Goals.
Lifelong learning, strong social protection, accessible quality long-term health care, bridging the digital divide, intergenerational support, dignity and respect are essential.
Older persons are a tremendous source of knowledge and experience.
We must strive to ensure their active engagement, full participation, and essential contributions.
Together, let us build more inclusive and age-friendly societies and a more resilient world.
Thank you.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/202221-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-older-persons




Date: 29 September 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the World Maritime Day
Content: 29 September 2022
“New Technologies for greener shipping”
Maritime transport represents more than 80% of global trade. The war in Ukraine –and the Black Sea Grain Initiative – have reminded us of the vital role of shipping in feeding the world.
The theme of this year’s World Maritime Day, "New technologies for greener shipping", highlights the need for sustainable shipping solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions, protect the environment and align with the 1.5-degree goal of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The maritime sector must accelerate its voyage to decarbonization.
Without concerted action, emissions from shipping are projected to grow by up to 250 per cent by 2050 over 2008 levels. Governments and private companies need to work together to harness innovative technologies such as digitalization and automation and foster a just transition that includes developing countries and promotes renewable energy and alternative fuels.
The vessels to be deployed in this decade will determine whether the shipping sector achieves net zero emissions by 2050. Smarter and greener zero emission ships must become the default choice and commercially available for all by 2030.
As shipping continues to connect humanity, it must play an essential part in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and building a fair and prosperous future for people and planet.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/202215-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-maritime-day




Date: 27 September 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the World Tourism Day
Content: 27 September 2022
“Rethinking tourism”
World Tourism Day celebrates the power of tourism to foster inclusion, protect nature and promote cultural understanding.
Tourism is a powerful driver for sustainable development. It contributes to the education and empowerment of women and youth and advances the socioeconomic and cultural development of communities. It plays a critical part in the social protection systems that form the foundation for resilience and prosperity.
We must invest in clean and sustainable tourism, lowering the sector’s energy consumption, adopting zero-emission pathways and protecting biodiversity. We must create decent jobs and ensure profits benefit the host country and local communities. Governments, businesses and consumers must align their tourism practices with the Sustainable Development Goals and a 1.5°C future. The very survival of this industry and many tourist destinations, such as Small Island Developing States, depends on it.
This year’s UN Ocean Conference, where the global community and the tourism sector committed to building a legally binding agreement on plastics pollution by 2024, represents an important first step.
There is no time to waste. Let us rethink and reinvent tourism and together, deliver a more sustainable, prosperous and resilient future for all.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/202213-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-tourism-day




Date: 26 September 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons
Content: 26 September 2022
On the International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons, we reject the claim that nuclear disarmament is some impossible utopian dream.
Eliminating these devices of death is not only possible, it is necessary.
At a moment of rising geopolitical division, mistrust and outright aggression, we are in danger of forgetting the terrible lessons of Hiroshima, Nagasaki and the Cold War, and inciting a humanitarian Armageddon.
Last month, at their tenth Review Conference, the parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons came close to consensus on a substantive outcome. While this unique moment failed to result in the outcome we so desperately need, we urge all States to use every avenue of dialogue, diplomacy and negotiation to ease tensions and reduce risk.
More broadly, we need a new vision for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. My proposed New Agenda for Peace calls for meaningful disarmament and developing a common understanding of the multiple threats before us so we can end the nuclear threat, once and for all.
Eliminating nuclear weapons would be the greatest gift we could bestow on future generations. On this important day, let us commit to forging a new consensus around defusing the nuclear threat for good and achieving our shared goal of peace.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/202216-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-total-elimination-nuclear




Date: 25 September 2022
Title: Visit of the UN Resident Coordinator to Dhakeshwari Temple  in commemoration of Peace Day 2022
Content: 25 September 2022
In continuation of UN Bangladesh’s commemoration of International Day of Peace (21st September), Ms. Gwyn Lewis, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, visited today Dhakeshwari Temple in Dhaka. She was joined by UNESCO Officer-in-charge, Dr Susan Vize, and UNDP Deputy Resident Representative, Ms. Van Nguyen. The Durga Puja festival celebrations will begin in October, and the visit was an opportunity to meet with religious groups to better understand the significance of this important celebration. The United Nations in Bangladesh works to promote empathy and inclusion in the spirit of Agenda 2030’s promise to Leave No One Behind. Last year’s Durga Puja was unfortunately marred by violence. The visit aimed to highlight the importance of cultural diversity and harmony, and the hope of peaceful celebrations this year.
After being welcomed and greeted by the temple’s officials, Ms. Lewis had the opportunity to discuss with representatives of Bangladesh Puja Udjapan Parishad (BPUP) and prominent members of the Hindu community before being guided through the Temple and its neighborhood where people from diverse religious and cultural backgrounds cohabit peacefully.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/200807-visit-un-resident-coordinator-dhakeshwari-temple-commemoration-peace-day-2022




Date: 21 September 2022
Title: Statement by UN Resident Coordinator Gwyn Lewis  on International Day of Peace
Content: 21 September 2022
On this International Day of Peace, the UN in Bangladesh would like to echo the universal and still timely message of the Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in his speech in 1974 at the UN General Assembly “Peace is an imperative for the survival of humanity. It represents the deepest aspirations of men and women throughout the world”.
Bangladesh has been a strong advocate for peace nationally and internationally, and the United Nations in Bangladesh is happy to continue to accompany the country in this regard.
Promoting peace and preventing violence, both at the international and national level, are at the core of the United Nations’ mandate. Every year for the past 41 years, the UN has marked the International Day of Peace to uphold the ideal of peace and inspire a day of action for non-violence.
As violence makes headlines daily and socio-economic uncertainty undermines cohesion globally, Peace Day 2022 provides an opportunity for all peoples and governments around the world to commit to peace above differences, divides, and borders. It invites us to pause and think about what peace means and how it can be built and sustained.
This year’s theme ‘End Racism. Build Peace’ reminds us all that peace means more than silencing the guns. Building peace entails celebrating differences and leaving no one behind. It means promoting societies where everyone, regardless of origin, sex, age, religion, opinion, political affiliation, sexual orientation, is treated in an equal manner and given the opportunity to flourish. Peace also requires a social contract and a shared vision between governments and their people and within societies.
Sustainable Development Goal 16 ‘Promote just, peace and inclusive societies for sustainable development’ is the glue of Agenda 2030.  Peace is a prerequisite for sustainable development; and development can help address causes and drivers of conflict and violence in the long run. On the opposite, violence, in all its forms, sets progress towards development back.
Peace should not be taken for granted. Sustaining peace and violence prevention requires intentional efforts and investments. It is the wise thing to do.
Sustaining peace is everyone’s business and everyone has a contribution to make.
What is your contribution to peace in your family, community, country and in the world?
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/200224-statement-un-resident-coordinator-gwyn-lewis-international-day-peace




Date: 21 September 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Day of Peace
Content: 21 September 2022
Peace is a noble and necessary pursuit, and the only practical pathway to a better, fairer world for all people.
Yet in too many places, in too many contexts, we are failing the cause of peace.
The theme of this year’s International Day of Peace — “End Racism, Build Peace” — reminds us of the many ways racism poisons people’s hearts and minds and erodes the peace we all seek.
Racism robs people of their rights and dignity. It inflames inequalities and mistrust. And it pushes people apart, at a time when we should be coming together, as one human family, to repair our fractured world.
Instead of fighting each other, we should be working to defeat our true enemies: racism, poverty, inequality, conflict, the climate crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic.
We should tear down structures that sustain racism, and lift up human rights movements everywhere.
And we should drown out the vicious voices of hate speech with a united and sustained cry for truth, understanding and mutual respect.
On this important day, a time to observe 24 hours of non-violence and cease-fire, we renew our call for all people to do more than lay down their weapons.
We call on them to re-affirm the bonds of solidarity we share as human beings and get down to the business of building a better, more peaceful world.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/202217-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-peace




Date: 15 September 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on International Day of Democracy
Content: 15 September 2022
Today marks the 15th anniversary of the International Day of Democracy.
Yet across the world, democracy is backsliding.
Civic space is shrinking.
Distrust and disinformation are growing.
And polarization is undermining democratic institutions.
­Now is the time to raise the alarm.
Now is the time to reaffirm that democracy, development, and human rights are interdependent and mutually reinforcing.
Now is the time to stand up for the democratic principles of equality, inclusion, and solidarity.
And stand with those who strive to secure the rule of law and promote the full participation in decision-making.
This year, we focus on a cornerstone of democratic societies – free, independent, and pluralistic media.
Attempts to silence journalists are growing more brazen by the day – from verbal assault to online surveillance and legal harassment – especially against women journalists.
Media workers face censorship, detention, physical violence, and even killings – often with impunity.
Such dark paths inevitably lead to instability, injustice and worse.
Without a free press, democracy cannot survive. Without freedom of expression, there is no freedom.
On Democracy Day and every day, let us join forces to secure freedom and protect the rights of all people, everywhere.
Thank you.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/202210-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-democracy




Date: 14 September 2022
Title: Joint UN Mission Visits Intervention Sites in Narayanganj Supporting HIV Response
Content: 14 September 2022
______________________________________________________________________________________
These interventions are part of the whole prevention, treatment, care and support services being provided under the larger response to HIV.
A joint mission of the United Nations (UN) headed by UN Resident Coordinator Gwyn Lewis visited project sites in Naraynganj on Tuesday, September 13, 2022. The mission focused on learning from projects that work to prevent the spread of HIV amongst sex workers, people who inject drugs, transgender people and other key population groups who may be affected by HIV. The Joint Mission consisted of the country directors for UNAIDS Dr Saima Khan and UN Women Gitanjali Singh, along with other representatives from UNFPA, WHO, UNICEF, and UNODC. Representatives from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s AIDS/STD Programme (ASP) and implementing partners were also present during this visit. The implementing partners include Save the Children, icddr,b, Bandhu Social Welfare Society, Care Bangladesh and the Networks and CBOs of sex workers, people who inject drugs, transgender, etc.

The mission spoke with several members of key targeted populations at four DICs. DICs are drop-in centres where socially marginalized groups can access health and support services to prevent HIV and from where individuals are referred to other services that they may need regarding health, social welfare, etc. Some of these centres implement opioid substitution therapy (OST), which involves supporting those suffering from opioid use through various means. Beyond these supports, the centres sometimes also facilitate socio-economic integration to support affected populations in earning a livelihood.
Speaking on the four DIC’s visited Gwyn Lewis remarked how these centres were “Demonstrating what partnerships can do to change lives for the better.” She also highlighted the need to have a holistic approach to the HIV response, focusing on providing choices and socio-economic opportunities to those affected regardless of their sexual identities or professions. Dr Saima Khan of UNAIDS added on the need for a holistic approach that when a sex worker, a person who injects drugs or a transgender person faces violence regularly, remains hungry and/or cannot access basic social, health or legal services – then HIV prevention holds no meaning for them.
The interventions are supported by the AIDS/STD Programme of the Government of Bangladesh, the Global Fund, implementing NGOs, community-based organizations, and UN agencies. Similar interventions are ongoing across Bangladesh; however, the coverage of these prevention interventions have the scope to increase. These interventions are part of the whole prevention, treatment, care and support services being provided under the larger response to HIV. HIV services also embrace human rights and gender-based approaches through local and national advocacy to increase access to services addressing gender-based violence and social welfare. Key populations for HIV interventions often have needs that are unique, and their meaningful participation is critical to a successful HIV response.

** * **
Media contact: Fahmida Sultana, email: fahmida.sultana@un.org

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/199329-joint-un-mission-visits-intervention-sites-narayanganj-supporting-hiv-response




Date: 07 September 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the  International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies - 7 September 2022
Content: 07 September 2022
In July this year, nations recognized the universal right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment.
Clean air is now a human right.
A stable climate is a human right.
Healthy nature is a human right.
Today, air pollution is denying billions of people of their rights.
Dirty air affects 99 per cent of people on the planet.
The poor suffer worst.
Especially women and girls, whose health suffers by cooking and heating with dirty fuels.
The poor also live in areas choked with fumes from traffic and industry.
Air pollutants also cause global warming.
Wildfires are further polluting the air.
When people are exposed to air pollution and extreme heat, their risk of death is some 20 per cent higher.
Climate change and air pollution are a deadly duo.
On this third International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies, I call on all countries to work together to combat air pollution.
We know what to do.
Invest in renewable energy and swiftly transition away from fossil fuels.
Rapidly move to zero-emission vehicles and alternative modes of transport.
Increase access to clean cooking, heating and cooling.
Recycle waste instead of burning it.
These actions would save millions of lives each year, slow climate change and speed up sustainable development.
Air pollution knows no borders.
So, nations must work together.
Let’s monitor air pollution.
Make laws to meet World Health Organization Air Quality Guidelines.
And deliver credible plans to reduce emissions from vehicles, power plants, construction and industries.
Together, we can reduce air pollution and keep people and the planet healthy and safe.



Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/198822-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-clean-air-blue-skies-7




Date: 31 August 2022
Title: UNCDF and UNDP commit to advancing inclusive digital economy, digital financial skills and financing for SDGs in Bangladesh
Content: 31 August 2022
A new Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) will support efforts to build an inclusive digital economy in Bangladesh through interventions in policy and regulation, innovation, infrastructure and skills.
UNCDF and UNDP will focus on supporting the development of digital and financial skills of people excluded from the digital revolution, strengthening the digital financial services ecosystem and leveraging innovative financing to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Bangladesh.
Signed by UNCDF Executive Secretary, Ms Preeti Sinha, and UNDP acting Resident Representative, Ms Nguyen Thi Ngoc Van, the MoU builds on the cooperation between UNCDF and UNDP–a2i programme. The MoU was signed in the presence of Dr Dewan Muhammad Humayun Kabir, a2i Project Director (Joint Secretary), Mr Anir Chowdhury, a2i Policy Advisor and Ms Maria Perdomo, UNCDF Regional Coordinator for Asia.
Under the MoU, the organizations will collaborate and leverage the UNCDF financing instruments such as grants, reimbursable grants, loans and guarantees to provide seed funding to investments for enterprises deemed too small or risky by traditional investors.
Ms Preeti Sinha, UNCDF Executive Secretary said: “We believe UNCDF, a2i and UNDP are catering to a common goal to achieve the inclusive growth of society by strengthening innovative micro-savings, digital access and digital finance. Other countries should learn from Bangladesh’s development experience and knowledge sharing in financial development in the last couple of years. In Bangladesh, we are committed to continuing our work on digital financing to support an inclusive digital economy in the country."
Ms Nguyen Thi Ngoc Van, UNDP acting Resident Representative said: "Bangladesh is a poster child in many areas of development. UNDP sees so much potential in this partnership as sound cooperation is essential to make this happen. We do not want to stop here; we want to replicate our initiatives in several other countries."
Dr Dewan Muhammad Humayun Kabir, a2i Project Director said: "We are moving to Smart Bangladesh after successfully passing the Digital Bangladesh vision. The MoU between UNDP and UNCDF and collaboration with a2i will strengthen our relationship and joint interventions on the rights and access to digital finance of marginalised people, especially women entrepreneurs."
Ms Maria Perdomo, UNCDF Regional Coordinator for Asia, said: “UNCDF is pleased to enter this MoU with UNDP-a2i programme. Together, we are a stronger force to broaden and deepen access to digital financial services in Bangladesh with a focus on those who need it most. Using a market systems development approach, UNCDF is committed to building inclusive digital economies that accelerate sustainable development, leveraging the UNCDF financial offerings.”
Mr Anir Chowdhury, a2i's Policy Adviser said: “The a2i Digital Financial Services team works with UNCDF on mobilising domestic savings to finance SDG infrastructure in Bangladesh and citizen-centric green financing solutions. In partnership with UNCDF, a2i has recently launched the Financial Innovation Lab Bangladesh—FinLab BD—which will provide the necessary support to develop fintech-focused start-ups that can solve the financial challenges of the marginalised people. Moreover, more than 50,000 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) have been provided with online digital financial literacy courses by ekShop with support from UNCDF. To achieve the vision of a high-income country by 2041, we need to focus on skills by reducing the digital divide."
UNCDF and UNDP–a2i programme have been jointly implementing innovative initiatives for expanding financial inclusion in Bangladesh since 2016. These projects include mobilizing domestic micro-savings for SDG-positive green infrastructure investments, leveraging digital finance infrastructure, providing digital financial literacy training for MSMEs and launching FinLab BD.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/197455-uncdf-and-undp-commit-advancing-inclusive-digital-economy-digital-financial-skills-and




Date: 30 August 2022
Title: First visit by UN human rights expert on climate change
Content: 30 August 2022
Bangladesh: First visit by UN human rights expert on climate change
GENEVA (29 August 2022) – UN Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights in the context of climate change, Ian Fry, will visit Bangladesh from 4 to 15 September 2022.
This is the first official visit by the UN expert since he took office on 1 May 2022.
During the visit, the UN expert will assess how the adverse impact of climate change affects human rights of communities in vulnerable situations. The Special Rapporteur will focus on loss and damage incurred due to climate change and extreme weather.
“The impacts of climate change continue to take a huge economic and social toll on the people of Bangladesh. Studies indicate that globally, costs related to loss and damage from climate change impacts will rise to between $290 billion and $580 billion a year by 2030. The people of Bangladesh are suffering from the greenhouse gas pollution caused by the developed world. It is time the international community stepped up and took responsibility for these impacts,” the UN expert said.
“I will also pay special attention and explore how climate change impacts are forcing people to be displaced from their land and what measures are being taken to address these impacts,” he said.
The UN expert will identify good practices, strategies and policies implemented by the Government of Bangladesh, as the country adapts to climate change and builds resilience to its adverse impacts for the full and effective enjoyment of human rights.
Fry will travel to Dhaka, Khulna, and Sylhet to meet with communities affected by climate change. He will also meet central and local district government officials, and representatives from civil society.
A news conference to share the expert’s preliminary findings will be held in Dhaka on 15 September, at 10:00 local time at the InterContinental Hotel (G, 1 Minto Rd, Dhaka 1000). Access is strictly limited to journalists.
The Special Rapporteur will present a comprehensive report on his visit to the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva in June 2023.

ENDS
Mr. Ian Fry is the first Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights in the context of climate change. He was appointed by the Human Rights Council at its 49th session in March 2022 and started his mandate on 1 May 2022. Mr. Fry is an international environmental law and policy expert. His focus has primarily focussed on mitigation policies and loss and damage associated the Paris Agreement, Kyoto Protocol and related instruments. He worked for the Tuvalu government for over 21 years and was appointed as their Ambassador for Climate Change and Environment 2015-2019.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures' experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.

For more information and media requests, please contact Ahreum Lee (Ahreum.lee@un.org)
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Renato de Souza (+41 76 764 2602 / renato.rosariodesouza@un.org) or Dharisha Indraguptha dharisha.indraguptha@un.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org



Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/198814-first-visit-un-human-rights-expert-climate-change




Date: 25 August 2022
Title: MEDIA ADVISORY: UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy Heyzer calls for increased support for Rohingya refugees and host communities during Bangladesh mission
Content: 25 August 2022
UN Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Noeleen Heyzer thanked Her Excellency Prime Minister of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina for her leadership and expressed the United Nations’ deep appreciation to the people and Government of Bangladesh for their immense contribution.
DHAKA, 25 August 2022 – On the five-year mark of the forced mass displacement of Rohingya from Myanmar’s Rakhine State, Bangladesh continues to show great generosity and leadership in hosting refugees, which requires renewed international attention and equitable burden-sharing by countries in the region and abroad, United Nations Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Noeleen Heyzer said today on her four-day mission to Bangladesh.
“As the Secretary-General reiterated on this solemn occasion, following the military takeover in February 2021, the humanitarian, human rights and security situation in Myanmar has deteriorated. It is critical that the international community continue to seek comprehensive, durable and inclusive solutions to the crisis. We cannot let this become a forgotten crisis,” Special Envoy Heyzer said.
In their productive discussions, the Special Envoy thanked Her Excellency Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina for her leadership and expressed the United Nations’ deep appreciation to the people and Government of Bangladesh for their immense contribution. She also highlighted Bangladesh’s pivotal role in working with ASEAN.
“The generosity of Bangladesh and host communities towards Rohingya refugees in their time of need conveys a critical need for greater international and regional commitment to burden share and ensure that the Rohingya do not become forgotten,” Special Envoy Heyzer said. “I will continue to advocate for greater leadership of countries in the region in supporting Bangladesh and leveraging their influence with Myanmar to create conducive conditions for the voluntary, safe and dignified return of refugees.”
The Special Envoy highlighted the major pressures on Bangladesh as host of one of the largest refugee populations in the world, which has been exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic and climate change. About 1 million Rohingya refugees are still living in camps in Bangladesh, with tens of thousands more across the region, and over 140,000 internally displaced persons remaining confined in camps in Rakhine.
Driven by desperate hardship conditions, Rohingya people continue to undertake perilous land and sea journeys that expose them to criminal exploitation including human trafficking and gender-based violence.
The Special Envoy emphasized that it was ultimately Myanmar’s responsibility to establish conducive conditions for the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable return to Myanmar of all refugees and forcibly displaced persons. The rights and security of the Rohingya people must be guaranteed and embedded in Myanmar-led solutions towards a peaceful, democratic and inclusive future guided by the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State. In the context of grave human right violations and unmet protection needs in Myanmar, finding solutions to this crisis and addressing needs and human rights of Rohingya in Rakhine State must include the meaningful participation of those affected, especially Rohingya refugees.
During her visit to the refugee camps in Bangladesh, Special Envoy Heyzer witnessed first-hand the hard work of United Nations agencies among many actors, including civil society organizations, local NGOs and INGOs that provided critical assistance. “In this operationally challenging environment, I saw Rohingya resilience and hope, innovative and empowering activities carried out by UN agencies and partners, as well as Bangladeshi authorities’ leadership, which all come together while the refugees remain inBangladesh and waiting for lasting solutions to their plight. The refugees in the camps shared direct accounts of the horrendous ordeals they endured as they were uprooted from their homes. They repeatedly expressed their desire to return to Myanmar in safety and dignity, and their messages were very clear – to be able to go back to their homes, to have freedom of movement and rights to citizenship.”
The Special Envoy highlighted education and vocational training as powerful tools to prepare Rohingya refugees for their return to Myanmar, enhance lifelong opportunities and equip them to contribute to a more inclusive and peaceful future.
"Generations could be affected if we fail in our obligation to protect the Rohingya and all the people of Myanmar, their fundamental rights and dignity,” Special Envoy Heyzer said. “We need to look at sustainable solutions and think outside the box. This includes working with member states, regionally and internationally, to address root causes of Rohingya vulnerabilities, as compounded by their stateless status, and prepare refugees for sustainable return, as well as immediate attention to lifesaving needs and multi stakeholder approaches to enhancing protection for Rohingya communities across the region.”
Based on community efforts, there have been some positive signs of improved social and economic inclusion for Rohingya people in Rakhine State, although progress is fragile and put at risk by potentially escalating violence.
The current situation requires predictable and consistent support from the international community for refugees and host communities. The 2022 Joint Response Plan for the Rohingya Humanitarian Crisis in Bangladesh, seeking over US$881 million to meet the needs of more than 1 million people, including Rohingya refugees and the most affected host communities, is so far only 49-per-cent funded.
Based on the Special Envoy’s extensive consultations with stakeholders, including Rohingya representatives, there are clear signs of unprecedented solidarity among youth across all communities to reimagine Myanmar’s future democracy, human rights and governance, in which the Rohingya are included. “The Rohingya made it clear they want to be engaged directly and meaningfully. They feel that their exclusion from discussions and decisions about their future has entrenched their marginalization,” the Special Envoy said. Women are at the center of the Special Envoy’s efforts, including through the Women, Peace and Security (WPS) Platform on Myanmar.
In her recent mission to Malaysia and meetings with Their Excellencies Prime Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob and Foreign Minister Saifuddin Abdullah, the Special Envoy emphasized the need to keep the Rohingya high on the ASEAN and international and regional agendas, including education and vocational training opportunities that will help prepare the refugees for return. The Special Envoy has also recently consulted with the Organization of Islamic Cooperation Contact Group on the Rohingya Crisis and briefed the United Nations General Assembly in June regarding the urgency of support for refugees and host communities.

Press contact:
Jeremy Walden-Schertz, Media and Communications Officer, ose-myanmar@un.org

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/196374-media-advisory-un-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-special-envoy-heyzer-calls-increased-support-rohingya




Date: 18 August 2022
Title: UN HOLDS GENDER RESPONSIVE PROCUREMENT WORKSHOP
Content: 18 August 2022
Dhaka; 18 August 2022:
The UN in Bangladesh organized a half day long Gender-Responsive Procurement Workshop on 18th August 2022 to increase participation of women owned and led businesses and entrepreneurs’ in UN supply chain. The workshop held at the Six Seasons Hotel, Gulshan, Dhaka -is the first step towards reducing gender gap in UN supply chains.
Around one hundred-fifty representatives from various women-owned organizations and businesses across the country attended the workshop to learn about gender-responsive procurement processes, the United Nations Global Market, and associated business opportunities.
The procurement leads from UN Agencies introduced the UN Global Marketplace platform to the participants and guided them through the registration process, solicitation stage, and bidding preparations.  Eventually this will help and encourage women vendors and entrepreneurs to get into the UN procurement system pipeline.
On behalf of UN Country Team, Ms. Gitanjali Singh, Country Representative of UN Women, in her opening remarks said, ‘Gender Responsive Procurement is more than just increasing women’s participation. It is to pay attention to socially responsible policies and practices, including in sourcing and buying.  This approach advocates for creating opportunities and outcomes not only for women owned but also for women-led and gender-responsive businesses.’
Appreciating the effort Sonia Shobhan from Soptodha Polli Crafts & Fashion said, “This workshop has been very effective and would benefit women entrepreneurs across the country. It would be very useful if UN can organize these resourceful workshops at the divisional level.”
The workshop also provided a platform for the women-led organizations to network and discuss how gender-responsive procurement can contribute to the growth and prosperity of their businesses.
The UN is committed to leverage gender-responsive procurement (GRP) as part of its Business Operations Strategy and to create equal opportunities and outcomes for women. The workshop was led and conducted by the UN OMT (Operational Management Team) procurement team of Bangladesh.



** * **
For more information and Media Contacts:
Shararat Islam (Communications Analyst) shararat.islam@unwomen.org; 01313475774
UN Women, Bangladesh Country Office

About UN in Bangladesh
The UN System has been engaged to support national development priorities under a new generation framework called the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF), in line with the SDGs and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The UN agencies in Bangladesh have been working together in a new, coherent way to support the government to implement the SDGs and to enhance the development impact in priority areas. Find out more https://bangladesh.un.org/en/about/about-the-un
Notes to Editor:
Gender-responsive procurement is the selection of services, goods and civil works that considers their impact on gender equality and women’s empowerment. UN Women has implemented tools that will increase women vendors’ business share in UN Women’s procurement spending. Find out more https://www.unwomen.org/en/about-us/procurement/gender-responsive-procurement



Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/196907-un-holds-gender-responsive-procurement-workshop




Date: 17 August 2022
Title: UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet concludes her official visit to Bangladesh Dhaka, 17 August 2022
Content: 17 August 2022
Press Statement
Good evening and thank you all for coming.
I would like to begin by warmly thanking the Government of Bangladesh for its invitation, the first time a High Commissioner for Human Rights has visited the country. I hope my visit will build on the Government’s engagement with the UN’s human rights mechanisms and help deepen cooperation with us, furthering the promotion and protection of human rights in Bangladesh.
My visit coincided with an important day of national mourning, commemorating the assassination of the first Prime Minister of independent Bangladesh, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, on 15 August 1975. It was a day which naturally lent itself to reflections on the history of Bangladesh – its painful past, a people’s struggle for independence and for their human rights, millions of whom had been forced to flee in 1971.
In my discussions with civil society members and Government officials, the sense of pride at this history of resistance and resilience of the Bangladeshi people came across strongly.
Bangladesh has made remarkable economic and social progress and is aiming to graduate from Least Developed Country (LDC) status in a few years. Starting from a low baseline, Bangladesh has made strides in socio-economic development, poverty eradication, access to education and health, women’s and children’s mortality, access to food, water and sanitation.
Bangladesh has been a leader in international fora on key human rights issues such as migration and climate change. It has also stepped up to provide refuge to more than 1 million Rohingya refugees who were forced to flee persecution and serious international crimes being committed against them across the border in Myanmar. Bangladesh also continues to face challenges on the human rights front, and I have been able to discuss many of these extensively with the Government and civil society members.
In Dhaka, I met with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wazed and the Ministers for foreign affairs, home affairs, law, and education and other State officials. I met with the National Human Rights Commission and representatives of civil society, as well as members of the diplomatic community and academics. I was able to interact with students at the Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies on climate change and human rights. The delegation from my Office was also able to represent me in meetings with other stakeholders, including trade unions and political parties.
My discussions came against the backdrop of increased economic strains due in part to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the globally reverberating consequences of the war in Ukraine. Rising food and fuel prices mean that the cost of living is increasing, and in such circumstances, of course the most marginalized and vulnerable are hit the hardest. The country’s extreme vulnerability to the adverse effects of climate change is a persistent challenge. Bangladesh is also entering an election cycle, with general elections due next year, which tends to be a time of increased polarisation and tension.
In such circumstances, what is key is that people from various sectors of society are heard and that they feel heard. Civil society members are important resources that governments need to tap into. Critical voices can help to identify the problems, to acknowledge them, to dive deep into the causes and discuss solutions.
Acknowledging the challenges is always the first step to overcoming them.
My exchanges with civil society representatives were rich and insightful – this was not surprising as Bangladesh has historically had a wealth of civil society expertise in various fields. But successive UN human rights reports have  documented a narrowing of civic space, increased surveillance, intimidation and reprisals often leading to self-censorship. Laws and policies over-regulating NGOs and broadly restricting the freedom of expression make it difficult – and sometimes risky – for them to function effectively.
Democratic and civic space, as well as effective checks and balances and accountability are essential as Bangladesh aims for the next levels of development. It also contributes to decrease the risk of corruption and other hurdles to sustainable economic development and sound fiscal management.
The election period will be an important time for Bangladesh to maximize civic and political space, including freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly of political activists, human rights defenders, opposition parties and journalists. It is also important to ensure that law enforcement forces have the necessary training to manage protests without resorting to the excessive use of force.
There needs to be space for more dialogue among political parties and with a wide range of civil society actors to prevent grievances from building and erupting in social unrest.  The voices of women, religious minorities and indigenous peoples, and especially young people need to be heard.
Women's formal participation in political decision-making processes at local levels has improved in recent years. I also called on the Government to take proactive measures to increase the number of women in decision-making positions at all levels. There has been much progress – more and more women have entered the labour force in some sectors, and the country has witnessed improvements in girls education, with gender parity reached in primary schools.
But despite the adoption of a number of important national policy frameworks, challenges to gender equality remain.  Violence against women, including sexual violence, remains high and access to justice and accountability for the victims remains difficult.
I welcomed the Government’s legal recognition of hijras and I hope it will take further steps to respect, protect and fulfil the fundamental human rights of LGBTIQ+ persons.
I stressed the importance of protecting minority groups, such as Hindus and indigenous peoples from violence or land encroachments. The peace accord in the Chittagong Hill Tracts 25 years ago was an important achievement. But given the continued allegations of human rights violations, linked with land disputes and the need for demilitarization, I called for full implementation of the peace accord and unrestricted access for independent actors to visit the area.
Bangladesh has a solid framework in its constitution, laws and international commitments to draw from in facing human rights challenges. It is party to all the core UN human rights treaties, except for the International Convention for the Protection of all Persons from Enforced Disappearance – which I have called on the Government to ratify. The Committees reviewing States’ compliance with these treaties have made important recommendations, along with recommendations made through the UN Human Rights Council’s Universal Periodic Review process and by various UN human rights independent experts. It is important to focus on implementation and an institutionalized system for follow up. These recommendations are important benchmarks, and help strengthen linkages between human rights and the Sustainable Development Goals.
Various UN human rights mechanisms – including the UN Committee Against Torture, have been raising concerns for several years about allegations of enforced disappearances, extrajudicial killing, torture, many of which have been attributed to the Rapid Action Battalion, and the lack of accountability for such violations. I raised my deep concern about these serious allegations with Government ministers and highlighted the need for an impartial, independent and transparent investigation into these allegations accompanied by security sector reform.
There are continued, alarming allegations of both short-term and long-term enforced disappearances, and concerns about the lack of due process and judicial safeguards. Particularly given the long-standing frustrations at the lack of progress in investigations and other obstacles to justice, I encouraged the Government to create an independent, specialised mechanism that works closely with victims, families and civil society to investigate allegations of enforced disappearances and extrajudicial killings. My Office is ready to provide advice on how such a body could be designed in line with international standards.
Inviting the UN Working Group on Enforced Disappearances to visit Bangladesh would also show a commitment to decisively address this issue. As the biggest contributor of uniformed personnel to UN peacekeeping missions, Bangladesh should ensure it has a robust system in place to ensure the careful human rights screening of security personnel.
I also discussed law reforms, to bring domestic legislation in line with international human rights laws.
My Office and the Government have engaged in dialogue on review of the Digital Security Act. I acknowledge the need to regulate the online space, addressing online hate speech, disinformation and combating cybercrime. Addressing these concerns is not simple, as regulating communications always creates risks for the protection of freedom of expression. We have submitted our recommendations for repeal and revision of certain provisions of the Act, with a view to ensuring their compliance with international human rights laws and standards and preventing arbitrary application or misuse. We look forward to the Government’s feedback and timeline to expedite the review. We also discussed the importance of working closely with civil society and the UN to ensure that the new draft Data Protection Law and the OTT (Over The Top Platforms) regulations meet international human rights standards.
The UN is firmly against imposition of the death penalty in any and all circumstances and I also encouraged steps to reduce its scope and move towards a moratorium.
During my time in Bangladesh, I also visited Cox’s Bazar, where an impressive effort has been made by the Government, the UN and other partners in the Rohingya refugee camps. The importance of Bangladesh’s humanitarian contribution – and its historical significance – cannot be overstated. The international community must sustain its support to Bangladesh in its response, and press Myanmar to create conditions for return, address the root causes and pursue accountability.
These are people who fled extreme violence and systematic discrimination five years ago, in one of the largest movements of people in recent history. What I heard in my conversations with women, young people, religious leaders and other Rohingya refugees in the camps was a resounding hope that they will be able to return to their villages and homes in Myanmar – but only when the conditions are right.
Unfortunately the current situation across the border means that the conditions are not right for returns. Repatriation must always be conducted in a voluntary and dignified manner, only when safe and sustainable conditions exist in Myanmar.
In the camps, I was heartened to see young girls and boys at learning centres and attended lively maths and Burmese classes taught by community members. The younger children were energized and spoke of their aspirations for their future. In my meeting with older children, however, there was more frustration at the passage of time. One boy spoke of the years lost that he will never get back, and expressed a strong desire to contribute to his community, and to eventually his home country, Myanmar. Expanding these education and livelihood opportunities for girls and boys will be the best way to prevent social problems and criminality and to fully prepare refugees for sustainable reintegration in Myanmar society.
The refugees I spoke to in Cox’s Bazar, and indeed refugees and internally displaced people I’ve met in various parts of the world, stressed that they do not want to be dependent on aid. They want to be productive, to earn a living, to contribute to society and improve their conditions of life.
I encourage the Government to give space to community-led initiatives in the camps in Bhashan Char and Cox’s Bazar, so that those with such aspirations are able to support and contribute to serving the needs of fellow refugees. Many I spoke to were fearful of the security situation both in terms of the activity of armed groups and criminal gangs, but also the vulnerability of women and girls. The security and freedom of expression of Rohingya civil society and human rights defenders also needs to be protected.
I am very worried about increasing anti-Rohingya rhetoric in Bangladesh, stereotyping and scapegoating Rohingyas as the source of crime and other problems. I am particularly concerned that a pre-electoral context, combined with economic difficulties and uncertainties, will mean more hate speech against these vulnerable communities.
I call on the Government and all Bangladeshis to be vigilant against such harmful rhetoric, to actively counter misinformation with facts, and to foster understanding with the host communities.
As Bangladesh continues to grow economically, effective, accountable and inclusive institutions – in line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 16 – are essential for achieving the next level of development. This means inclusivity, participation and accountability. Strengthening the independence of institutions, including the national human rights commission, the elections commission and the judiciary, will be key. The UN Country Team stands by to support implementation of all SDGs.
I hope my visit will further boost Bangladesh’s engagement – government and non-governmental – with the UN Human Rights Office and mechanisms. Bangladesh will also undertake its fourth Universal Periodic Review in the Human Rights Council next year, which will be an important moment to take stock of progress.
It is encouraging that the new Special Rapporteur on climate change and human rights will visit the country soon. I call on the international community to support Bangladesh and other vulnerable States in their demand for effective climate action.
For all the significant human rights challenges ahead – economic, climate-related, political, social and humanitarian – I am convinced that if the powerful resources within the whole society are harnessed, and policies and responses are crafted with the participation of many diverse voices, Bangladesh will continue to shine brighter in its remarkable development journey.

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/196906-un-high-commissioner-human-rights-michelle-bachelet-concludes-her-official-visit-bangladesh




Date: 30 July 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s message on World Day Against Trafficking in Persons - 30 July 2022
Content: 30 July 2022
___________________________________________________________________

Human trafficking is a horrific crime and an all-out assault on people’s rights, safety and dignity.
Tragically, it is also a problem that is growing worse — especially for women and girls, who represent the majority of detected trafficked persons globally.
Conflicts, forced displacement, climate change, inequality and poverty have left tens of millions of people around the world destitute, isolated and vulnerable.
The COVID-19 pandemic has separated children and young people from their friends and peers, causing them to spend more time alone and online.
Human traffickers are taking advantage of these vulnerabilities, using sophisticated technology to identify, track, control and exploit victims.
Online platforms allow them to deceive and recruit people with false promises. The dark web lets them conceal their identities while spreading their vile materials, including those that sexually exploit children. And technology gives consumers the ability to anonymously demand increasingly dangerous and degrading content that fuels human trafficking.
But as the theme of this year’s World Day Against Trafficking in Persons — “Use and Abuse of Technology” — reminds us, while technology can enable human trafficking, it can also be a critical tool in fighting it.
We need governments, regulators, businesses and civil society joining forces to invest in policies, laws and technology-based solutions that can identify and support victims, locate and punish perpetrators, and ensure a safe, open and secure internet for all.
As part of 2023’s Summit of the Future, I have proposed a Global Digital Compact to rally the world around the need to bring good governance to the digital space.
On this important day, I call on the world to give this issue the attention and action it deserves and work to end the scourge of human trafficking once and for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/196915-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-day-against-trafficking-persons-30




Date: 15 July 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on World Youth Skills Day  15 July 2022
Content: 15 July 2022
Together, let us build a more just and thriving workforce, rescue the Sustainable Development Goals and leave no one behind.
Today, we highlight the importance of transforming youth skills for the future of work.
Young people are disproportionately impacted by interlinked global crises, from climate change to conflicts to persistent poverty. The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated these fragilities. In 2020 alone, youth employment fell by 39 million. Today, 24 million young people remain at risk of not returning to school.
The pandemic also accelerated the transformation of the labour market, adding uncertainty and widening the digital divide. We must ensure the right of young people to effective and inclusive education, training, and lifelong learning. That requires ramping up youth skills development, while investing in Technical Vocational Education and Training, broadband connectivity, and digital skills.
That is why I will convene a Transforming Education Summit in September that will bring together world leaders, youth and other education actors. Young people are drivers of change and must be fully engaged in decisions affecting their future. Guided by the United Nations Youth 2030 strategy, I urge everyone to act for youth skills development as a priority, at the Summit and beyond.
Together, let us build a more just and thriving workforce, rescue the Sustainable Development Goals and leave no one behind.
I wish you a happy World Youth Skills Day.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/190685-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-youth-skills-day-15-july-2022




Date: 14 July 2022
Title: Further USD 5 Million Flash Flood Relief for Bangladesh announced by UN
Content: 14 July 2022
After a coordinated appeal by the UN country team in Bangladesh, Martin Griffiths, Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, announced the allocation of USD 5 Million for Flash Flood Relief.
Over 7.2 million people have been affected by recent floods in the North East of the country and over half of those affected need humanitarian assistance.
The funding comes from the UN Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF), which aims to kick-start relief efforts in a coordinated and prioritized manner when a new crisis emerges. The focus of the CERF rapid response request is the provision high-impact immediate life-saving assistance to those most impacted and most vulnerable households.
The UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh Gwyn Lewis, spoke of how sobering her recent visit to the flood affected areas had been: “The scale of the floods in the region are more dramatic than any that have been experienced in recent memory. Many families have literally lost everything they own. Many are still living in shelters: the floods waters are receding very slowly and their homes are completely destroyed. There is an urgent need to scale up our support to the Government’s emergency response.”
This brings the current funding of the Humanitarian Response Plan to USD 12 Million (112 crore), which is approximatively 20% of the necessary USD 58.4 million that were identified.
The Humanitarian Response Plan prioritizes life-saving assistance including  emergency food security assistance water and sanitation interventions and protection interventions targeting women and girls.
The UN is supporting the Government and delivering food assistance, drinking water, cash, emergency drugs, water purification tablets, dignity and hygiene kits to the affected families and education support.
The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has provided aid — including water, nutrition and protection services — to nearly 1 million people. WFP has distributed 85 metric tons of fortified biscuits to 34,000 households, while the World Health Organization (WHO) has provided 250,000 water purification tablets. For its part, the UN Population Fund (UNFPA) has helped pregnant women to access hospitals and positioned midwives to provide emergency obstetric support. The WHO provided 250,000 water purification tablets to the affected people. 13.5 million Aquatabs and some 220,000 medical items were donated by UNHCR. IOM  also provided 6 million Aquatabs and 6000 jerrycans, and provided a 8,233 sets of tarpaulin sheets and ropes. Key national and international NGOs are providing vital emergency response in the most-affected areas, including provision of critical cash assistance, safe drinking water, shelter, and emergency sanitation under the Government’s leadership.
___________________________________
For media query, please contact:
Mohammad Moniruzzaman (PhD
National Information Officer, UN Information Centre
Mobile: 01716302568, Email: moniruzzamanm@un.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/190137-further-usd-5-million-flash-flood-relief-bangladesh-announced-un




Date: 06 July 2022
Title: Joint Press Statement on Flash Flood - July 2022
Content: 06 July 2022
An estimated 7.2 million people have been severely affected following devastating flash floods which began in May 2022 with a second wave starting around the 15 June 2022 in nine northeastern districts of Bangladesh: Sylhet, Sunamganj, Moulvibazar, Habiganj, Kishorganj, Netrakona, Brahmanbaria, Mymensing and Sherpur. Among the nine districts, the five districts that are most heavily impacted are Sylhet, Sunamganj, Moulivazar, Habiganj and Netrakona.
On 2-3 July 2022 a joint mission of the United Nations, humanitarian donors (European Union, United Kingdom) and NGO partners visited the flood-affected districts of Sylhet and Sunamganj. The mission aimed to see the impact of and response to the floods, express its solidarity with those affected and offer condolences.
The mission was able to see the extent of the flooding, to hear from some of the people affected, speak with key local authorities delivering the Government’s response, and get a glimpse into the scale and scope of the response provided by the Government and complemented by UN agencies and NGOs. There is a large-scale coordinated response operation ongoing under the Government’s strong leadership. The Government has moved over 472,000 people to some 1,605 shelter centres. Many of the most vulnerable people within the communities that we spoke to have received vital food assistance.
The UN and NGO partners are supporting these efforts by delivering food assistance, drinking water, cash, emergency drugs, water purification tablets, dignity and hygiene kits and education support to the affected families.
UNICEF is on the ground to protect children and to deliver safe water, nutrition and health services and supplies. UNICEF re-allocated $2.8 million of internal resources to meet the emergency needs and has provided life-saving support to nearly one million people. WFP distributed 85 tons of fortified biscuits to 34,000 households in three districts. UNFPA has provided referral support for pregnant women to access hospitals and positioned midwives to provide 24/7 emergency obstetric support. UNFPA is also operating maternity waiting homes for pregnant women while they wait for institutional delivery. The WHO provided 250,000 water purification tablets to the affected people. Key national and international NGOs are providing vital emergency response in the most-affected areas, including provision of critical cash assistance, safe drinking water, shelter, and emergency sanitation under the Government’s leadership. The Government has announced welcome additional support.
Despite these efforts, and due to the scale of the floods, there are areas that are still inaccessible – cut off from rescue or relief. Many of the elders in the communities described this flood as worse than any that they have seen in their lifetimes. Those that have made it to the shelters as the flood waters rose, often had to pay exorbitant amounts to private boat owners, depleting savings that are now badly needed to meet basic needs. The shelters themselves remain overcrowded given the inability of most people to return home because the flood waters are receding so slowly and damage to homes is so widespread. This has resulted in a lack of space and privacy which leaves women, girls and children particularly vulnerable. In addition, some 60,000 women in the affected areas are pregnant. Of them, some 6,500 will give birth in the next month. With primary healthcare centres submerged and non-functional, most of these women have limited or no access to healthcare.
Where water has receded somewhat, more families will return to damaged homes, other will have to rebuild from scratch. Damaged latrines and water sources will also need to be repaired. Children have lost three weeks of schooling already and their books have gotten washed away. This comes on top of the loss of schooling due to the COVID-related school closures in 2020-2021.
The mission had the opportunity to discuss the visit with the Honorable Secretary of the Bangladesh Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief, Mr. Md. Kamrul Hasan on Wednesday 6 July. It welcomes the Government of Bangladesh’s strong leadership on this issue and its plans to prepare and respond, should further flooding take place.
In the face of ongoing needs and to complement the Government of Bangladesh’s ongoing efforts, the European Union allocated €1.2 million (over BDT 11.7 crore) to humanitarian NGOs and €200,000 (over BDT 1.9 crore) through the Bangladesh Red Crescent Society, the UK Government released £636,548 (over BDT 7 crore), Sweden committed 13 million SEK (over BDT 12 crore), and the United States Government through the U.S. Agency for International Development allocated $250,000 (over BDT 2.3 crore) in emergency funding.
The Humanitarian Response Plan appeals for USD58.4 million to provide essential needs for over 1.5 million targeted people in five heavily impacted districts of Sunamganj, Netrokona, Sylhet, Habiganj and Moulvibazar. As this is the beginning of the rainy season, there is an urgent need to scale up support to complement the Government’s lead role.
Gwyn Lewis                                 
UN Resident Coordinator
Matt Cannell
Development Director, British High Commission
Isabelle D’Haudt
Acting Head of EU Humanitarian Aid Office in Bangladesh
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/189312-joint-press-statement-flash-flood-july-2022




Date: 01 July 2022
Title: Executive Board of UNDP, UNFPA & UNOPS visits Bangladesh
Content: 01 July 2022
“UN has a strong relationship with the Government of Bangladesh, and we want to further build on that to facilitate the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. We are here to see how we can work together more efficiently to that end, especially as the country is poised for LDC graduation,” said Brandt.
A high-level delegation of the Executive Board of UNDP, UNFPA and UNOPS visited Bangladesh on a week-long mission to see the projects implemented by the UN and met the government.
Led by the board’s president, Ambassador and Permanent Representative of the Kingdom of The Netherlands to the UN (Head of Delegation), H.E. Ms. Yoka Brandt, the mission arrived in Dhaka on June 25 and left on 01 July.
Brandt was accompanied by Ambassadors and Permanent Representatives of Guatemala, Sweden, and Bulgaria to the UN, respectively H.E. Mr. Luis Antonio Lam Padilla, H.E. Ms. Anna Karin Eneström and H.E. Ms. Lachezara Stoeva; Ambassador and Deputy Permanent Representative of Kenya to the UN H.E. Ms. Njambi Kinyungu; International Aid Researcher at Qatar Fund for Development (QFFD) Mashael Muftah; Deputy Secretary of the Executive Board, Dalita Balassanian, Chief of the UNFPA Executive Board Branch, Samuel Choritz; and the Head of the UNOPS New York Board and External Relations Office, William Axelsson.
The mission kicked off with a meeting with the UN Bangladesh Country Team headed by the UN Resident Coordinator, Gwyn Lewis.
They also visited the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the second day before flying off to Cox’s Bazar to see project activities.
“UN has a strong relationship with the Government of Bangladesh, and we want to further build on that to facilitate the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. We are here to see how we can work together more efficiently to that end, especially as the country is poised for LDC graduation,” said Brandt.
“The UN has been a strong development partner for Bangladesh, and this mission is giving us the scope to review and evaluate areas that need to be focused,” Foreign Secretary, Masud Bin Momen, said during the visit.
“It is a very timely visit. The UN has been a partner of the Government and the people of Bangladesh since 1971, and this mission will allow us to take stock of where we stand and guide our future interventions,” UN Resident Coordinator Gwyn Lewis added.
The mission visited UNDP’s Solid Waste Management and Disaster Risk Management activities, UNFPA Women Friendly Space/Women-led Community Centers, and a Health Clinic implemented by UNOPS in the Rohingya camp; learned about a joint UN inter-agency initiative on Sustainable Development Goal localisation; and met with district representatives and Refugee, Relief and Repatriation Commissioner (RRRC).
They also observed the UNDP’s District Development Plan initiative and Climate Displaced Communities; and the Health and Gender Support joint programme of UNFPA and other agencies in Cox’s Bazar.
Following their return to Dhaka, the delegation visited the Directorate General of Drug Administration to see UNOPS activities and attended several meetings with the Economic Relations Division (ERD) of the Ministry of Finance, the Local Government Division, Ministry of Disaster Management & Relief, Forest, Environment and Climate Change, and Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They also learned about UNDP’s Aspire to Innovate (A2I) programme and how it’s supporting the country to make Bangladesh more digital. The delegation also visited the National Resilience Programme (NRP), a partnership with the Government of Bangladesh and UNDP, UNOPS and UN Women and visited urban slums, which demonstrated a UNFPA-WFP joint programme on menstrual health and hygiene support for adolescent girls and the joint UNDP and UNV National Urban Poverty Reduction Programme.
###  ###  ###
UNDP is the leading United Nations organisation fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality, and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and the planet.
For more information and media interviews, contact:

Md Abdul Quayyum, Head of Communications, UNDP Bangladesh: md.quayyum@undp.org, +8801715025551
Dalita Balassanian, Deputy Secretary of the Executive Board, UNDP NY,  dalita.balassanian@undp.org, +12129066564

Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/188714-executive-board-undp-unfpa-unops-visits-bangladesh




Date: 26 June 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking
Content: 26 June 2022
On this important day, let us commit to lifting this shadow once and for all, and giving this issue the attention and action it deserves.
This year’s International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking shines a spotlight on the impact of drug challenges in health and humanitarian crises.
Conflicts, climate disasters, forced displacement and grinding poverty create fertile ground for drug abuse — with COVID-19 making a bad situation even worse. At the same time, people living through humanitarian emergencies are far less likely to have access to the care and treatment they need and deserve.
Meanwhile, criminals are profiting from people’s misery, with cocaine production at record highs, and a five-fold increase in seizures of methamphetamines and a near-quadrupling of amphetamine seizures over the last decade.
On this International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, we renew our commitment to ending this scourge and supporting those who fall victim to it.
This includes non-discriminatory policy solutions centred around people, health and human rights, underpinned by strengthened international cooperation to curb the illicit drug trade and hold accountable those who profit from human misery.
We must also strengthen science-based treatment and support services for drug users, and treat them as victims who need treatment rather than punishment, discrimination and stigma — including treatment for those living with infectious diseases like HIV/AIDS and hepatitis.
We cannot allow the world’s drug problem to further shadow the lives of the tens of millions of people living through humanitarian crises.
On this important day, let us commit to lifting this shadow once and for all, and giving this issue the attention and action it deserves.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/187748-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-against-drug-abuse-and




Date: 20 June 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on World Refugee Day
Content: 20 June 2022
This year’s World Refugee Day affirms a fundamental tenet of our common humanity: everyone has the right to seek safety – whoever they are, wherever they come from, and whenever they are forced to flee.
On World Refugee Day, we reflect on the courage and resilience of those fleeing war, violence, and persecution – and we recognize the compassion of those who welcome them.
Today, the global refugee population is at a record high.
The war in Ukraine has triggered the largest and fastest displacement in Europe since World War II.
Together with the women, children, and men fleeing conflict elsewhere in the world, the total number of forcibly displaced people has reached 100 million – a grim indictment of our times.
This year’s World Refugee Day affirms a fundamental tenet of our common humanity: everyone has the right to seek safety – whoever they are, wherever they come from, and whenever they are forced to flee.
International law is clear:
The right to seek asylum is a fundamental human right.
People escaping violence or persecution must be able to cross borders safely.
They must not face discrimination at borders or be unfairly denied refugee status or asylum due to their race, religion, gender, or country of origin.
They cannot be forced to return if their lives or freedom would be at risk.
And like every human being, they should be treated with respect.
But safety is just the first step.
Once out of harm’s way, refugees need opportunities.
Opportunities to heal, to learn, to work, and to thrive.
Opportunities to return home if they so choose, or to rebuild their lives elsewhere, in safety and dignity.
Across the world, refugees have brought new life, prosperity, and rich cultural diversity to their host communities.
Protecting refugees is a responsibility we all share.
Today, let us pledge to do more for refugees everywhere – and for the countries that host them while themselves facing a cascade of challenges.
Let us stand together in solidarity.
Let us defend the integrity of the international protection regime.
And let us never lose sight of our common humanity.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/186875-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-refugee-day




Date: 18 June 2022
Title: Statement By UN Resident Coordinator on 1st International Day for Countering Hate Speech
Content: 18 June 2022
We need to create a culture where we live with difference that characterizes tolerance and coexistence. And it starts with YOU and ME.
Hate speech is on the rise worldwide. It is a menace to democratic values, social stability and peace. As a matter of principle, hate speech must be confronted at every turn and be tackled in order to prevent armed conflict, atrocity crimes and terrorism, end violence against women and other serious violations of human rights, and promote peaceful, inclusive and just societies.
While the digital transformation, new technologies and communication has brought us together and connected us as global citizens, it has also amplified the scale and impact of hate speech.
Hate speech is entering the mainstream, spreading like wildfire through social media.
June 18, 2022 is the International Day for Countering Hate Speech. The first ever commemoration following the passage of UN General Assembly Resolution 75/309 in July 2021. The resolution recognized the need to counter discrimination, xenophobia and hate speech and called on all relevant actors, including States, to increase their efforts to address this phenomenon, in line with international human rights law.
Today as we mark the 1st International Day for Countering Hate Speech, I urge you to pause and think how each one of us can contribute making the day a success.
Bangladesh is a pioneer of two “Culture of Peace” resolutions at the United Nations and a strong advocate of “Friendship to all, malice to none.” Countering Hate Speech contributes to continued peace and builds bridges across ethnic, religious and geographic divides in Bangladesh and across the region. Let’s think about Hate Speech and how it can affect each of us, our communities or societies and how we can each play a role in preventing and countering it.
Hate speech undermines our shared values and it is crucial for all of us to join hands, stand up and defend the principles of equality and human dignity. Hate stops with each of us.
You, I, we, and all of us need to work towards establishing a culture where we respect diversity, difference of opinion, and stop spreading divisive narratives.
We need to create a culture where we live with difference that characterizes tolerance and coexistence. And it starts with YOU and ME.
So, I call for flexibility and a willingness to meet the views of others. Progress can only be made when there is mutual respect.  Stopping hate and spreading love is the way to go and the UN in Bangladesh is pleased to be supporting the Government and People of Bangladesh to address the menace of hate speech.

__________________________________
For further information please contact:
Mohammad Moniruzzaman (PhD), National Information Officer
UN Information Centre, mobile: 01716302568, email: moniruzzamanm@un.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/186706-statement-un-resident-coordinator-1st-international-day-countering-hate-speech




Date: 09 June 2022
Title: UNRC visited Learning Centers in the Kamrangirchar slum area, Dhaka
Content: 09 June 2022
Dhaka, 9 June 2022
The UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh Gwyn Lewis visited two Ability Based Accelerated Learning (ABAL) Centers for 8-14 year-olds. The learning centers provide flexible learning opportunities for out of school children in the Kamrangirchar slum area, zone 3 of Dhaka South City Corporation (DSCC). The purpose of her visit was to learn about the special education programmes which are being supported with funds and technical assistance by UNICEF.
The project implementing partner is the CSO SUROVI, which runs 67 such learning centers in DSCC educating over 2,000 children. Each learning center supports 30 learners (girls and boys) from amongst the most disadvantaged children in the community.
The learning centers provide flexible learning opportunities for 8 to 14 year-old out-of-school children to assist them in learning according to their level, interest, and pace in a flexible environment. ABAL follows an adapted version of the National Primary Curriculum, and consists of six subjects – Bangla, Mathematics, English, Bangladesh Studies, Primary Science, and Religion. Life skills relevant to the situation of the learners are also imparted.
This UNICEF-supported project addresses multiple Sustainable Development Goals (4, 5, 10) ensuring quality education, promoting gender equality and reducing inequalities. It contributes to the UN’s joint strategic priority of equitable human development and well-being as articulated in the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2022-2026
Having interacted with children in two learning centres Gwyn Lewis praised the remarkable eagerness of the children to learn, their optimism, and the dedication of the teaching staff. “The children we met were a joy- so bright and engaging. I can see the incredible importance of your work you are doing. It is deeply impressive” she said to the staff and team at the learning centres.

________________________________________
For further information please contact:
Mohammad Moniruzzaman (PhD), National Information Officer
UN Information Centre, mobile: 01716302568, email: moniruzzamanm@un.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/185827-unrc-visited-learning-centers-kamrangirchar-slum-area-dhaka




Date: 05 June 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on World Environment Day
Content: 05 June 2022
More than 3 billion people are affected by degraded ecosystems.  Pollution is responsible for some 9 million premature deaths each year. More than 1 million plant and animal species risk extinction, many within decades.
The theme of this year’s World Environment Day, “Only One Earth”, is a simple statement of fact.  This planet is our only home.  It is vital we safeguard the health of its atmosphere, the richness and diversity of life on Earth, its ecosystems and its finite resources.  But we are failing to do so.  We are asking too much of our planet to maintain ways life that are unsustainable.  Earth’s natural systems cannot keep up with our demands.
This not only hurts the Earth, but us too.  A healthy environment is essential for all people and all 17 Sustainable Development Goals.  It provides food, clean water, medicines, climate regulation and protection from extreme weather events.  It is essential that we wisely manage nature and ensure equitable access to its services, especially for the most vulnerable people and communities.
More than 3 billion people are affected by degraded ecosystems.  Pollution is responsible for some 9 million premature deaths each year. More than 1 million plant and animal species risk extinction, many within decades.
Close to half of humanity is already in the climate danger zone – 15 times more likely to die from climate impacts such as extreme heat, floods and drought.  There is a 50:50 chance that annual average global temperatures will breach the Paris Agreement limit of 1.5 degrees Celsius in the next five years.  More than 200 million people each year could be displaced by climate disruption by 2050.
Fifty years ago, the world’s leaders came together at the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment and committed to protecting the planet.  But we are far from succeeding.  We can no longer ignore the alarm bells that ring louder every day.
The recent Stockholm+50 environment meeting reiterated that all 17 Sustainable Development Goals rely on a healthy planet.  We must all take responsibility to avert the catastrophe being wrought by the triple crises of climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss.
Governments need urgently to prioritize climate action and environmental protection through policy decisions that promote sustainable progress.  To that end, I have proposed five concrete recommendations to dramatically speed up the deployment of renewable energy everywhere, including making renewable technologies and raw materials available to all, cutting red tape, shifting subsidies and tripling investment.
Businesses need to put sustainability at the heart of their decision-making for the sake of humanity and their own bottom line.  A healthy planet is the backbone of nearly every industry on Earth.
And as voters and consumers we must make our actions count: from the policies we support, to the food we eat, to the transport we choose, to the companies we support.  We can all make environmentally friendly choices that will add up to the change we need.
Women and girls, in particular, can be forceful agents of change.  They must be empowered and included in decision-making at all levels.  Likewise, indigenous and traditional knowledge must also be respected and harnessed to help protect our fragile ecosystems.
History has shown what can be achieved when we work together and put the planet first. In the 1980s, when scientists warned about a deadly continent-sized hole in the ozone layer, every country committed to the Montreal Protocol to phase out ozone-depleting chemicals.
In the 1990s, the Basel Convention outlawed the dumping of toxic waste in developing countries.  And, last year, a multilateral effort ended the production of leaded petrol – a move that will promote better health and prevent more than 1.2 million premature deaths each year.
This year and the next will present more opportunities for the global community to demonstrate the power of multilateralism to tackle our intertwined environmental crises, from negotiations on a new global biodiversity framework to reverse nature loss by 2030 to the establishment of a treaty to tackle plastics pollution.
The United Nations is committed to leading these cooperative global efforts, because the only way forward is to work with nature, not against it.  Together we can ensure that our planet not only survives, but thrives, because we have Only One Earth.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/184910-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-environment-day




Date: 29 May 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message for the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers
Content: 29 May 2022
This year, we focus on the Power of Partnerships.
Today, we honour the more than one million women and men who have served as United Nations peacekeepers since 1948.
We pay tribute to the nearly 4,200 heroes and heroines who sacrificed their lives in the cause of peace.
And we are reminded of an age-old truth: peace can never be taken for granted.
Peace is the prize.
We are deeply grateful to the 87,000 civilian, police and military personnel now serving under the UN flag who are helping to realize the prize of peace worldwide.
They face enormous challenges.  Rising violence against peacekeepers has made their work even more dangerous. Restrictions due to the pandemic have made it more difficult.  But United Nations peacekeepers continue to serve with distinction as partners for peace.
This year, we focus on the Power of Partnerships.
We know that peace is won when governments and societies join forces to resolve differences through dialogue, build a culture of nonviolence, and protect the most vulnerable.
Around the globe, UN peacekeepers work with Member States, civil society, humanitarians, the media, the communities they serve and many others, to foster peace, protect civilians, promote human rights and the rule of law and improve the lives of millions of people.
Today and every day, we salute their dedication in helping societies turn away from conflict, towards a more peaceful and prosperous future for all.
We are forever in their debt.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/183941-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-united-nations




Date: 24 May 2022
Title: Newly appointed UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh Ms Gwyn Lewis presents credential to Hon’ble Foreign Minister
Content: 24 May 2022
The newly appointed UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Ms. Gwyn Lewis presented her credentials today to the Foreign Minister Dr. A. K. Abdul Momen, MP at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
During the meeting Ms. Lewis emphasized her commitment, and that of the UN Country Team, to harness the resources of the UN system to support the country’s development priorities as articulated in the 8th Five Year Plan and towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda. She lauded Bangladesh’s strong commitment to the SDGs, its international leadership on multilateralism, its advocacy for climate-vulnerable countries and the continued generosity of the Bangladeshi government’s support to the Rohingya refugees.
Ms. Lewis is honoured to be welcomed in the country and looks forward to continuing the UN’s strong partnership with the Government, civil society and development partners.
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres appointed Gwyn Lewis of Ireland as the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh in May 2022.
Prior to her assignment in Bangladesh, Ms. Lewis served as Director of United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) Affairs in the West Bank from 2019; leading a 4,000 strong team in providing essential services and humanitarian aid to more than 850,000 Palestine refugees in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem.
Ms. Lewis succeeds former UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Mia Seppo.

________________________________________
For further information please contact:
Mohammad Moniruzzaman (PhD), National Information Officer
UN Information Centre, mobile: 01716302568, email: moniruzzamanm@un.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/183251-newly-appointed-un-resident-coordinator-bangladesh-ms-gwyn-lewis-presents-credential-hon%E2%80%99ble




Date: 22 May 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Day for Biological Diversity
Content: 22 May 2022
As we accomplish these goals and implement the 2050 Vision for “living in harmony with nature”, we must act with respect for equity and human rights, particularly with regard to the many indigenous populations whose territories harbour so much biological diversity.
To achieve a sustainable future for all, we need to act urgently to protect biodiversity, the web of life that connects and supports us all.  We must end our senseless and destructive war against nature.  The rate of species loss is tens to hundreds of times higher than the average of the past 10 million years – and accelerating.
Biodiversity is essential for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, ending the existential threat of climate change, halting land degradation, building food security and supporting advances in human health.  And biodiversity offers ready solutions for green and inclusive growth.
This year governments will meet to agree on a post-2020 global biodiversity framework, with clear and measurable targets and robust means of implementation that can put biodiversity on the path to recovery by 2030.
The framework must tackle the drivers of biodiversity loss and enable the ambitious and transformative change needed for living in harmony with nature by effectively protecting more of the world’s land, freshwater and oceans, encouraging sustainable consumption and production, employing nature-based solutions to address climate change and ending harmful subsidies that damage the environment.  It should mobilize action and financial resources to drive concrete nature-positive investments, ensuring that we all benefit from the dividends of biological diversity.
As we accomplish these goals and implement the 2050 Vision for “living in harmony with nature”, we must act with respect for equity and human rights, particularly with regard to the many indigenous populations whose territories harbour so much biological diversity.
To save our planet’s indispensable and fragile natural wealth, everyone needs to be engaged, including youth and vulnerable populations who rely the most on nature for their livelihoods.  Today, I call on all to act to build a shared future for all life.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/183017-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-biological-diversity




Date: 16 May 2022
Title: Call for Proposals in Bangladesh under the Women Peace and Humanitarian Fund
Content: 16 May 2022
Call Opens: 17ᵗʰ May 2022
Deadline for Submissions: 19ᵗʰ July 2022
Send Application package to: WPHFapplications@unwomen.org
Women’s Peace & Humanitarian Fund Call for Proposal
The United Nations Women’s Peace & Humanitarian Fund and UN Women Bangladesh are excited to announce the Call for Proposals in Bangladesh to promote the socio-economic recovery, participation and leadership of women and young women in forced displacement.
WPHF seeks to fund qualifying local organizations and innovative, impact-driven projects led by and implemented alongside forcibly displaced women and girls in Cox’s Bazar (Teknaf, Ukhiya and Cox’s Bazar Sadar sub-districts) through the following funding streams:
·         Institutional funding from 2,500 USD to 30,000 USD
To reinforce the institutional capacity of local civil society organizations that have a specific focus on women and young women in forced displacement in their mission, that have project activities that are led by women and young women who are forcibly displaced and/or that have displaced women and young women as staff members.
·         Programmatic funding from 30,000 USD to 200,000 USD
To finance programmatic activities of civil society organizations that contribute to socio-economic recovery, participation and leadership of women and young women in forced displacement.
This WPHF Call for Proposals is linked to the Action Network on Forced Displacement – Women as Agents of Change led by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ). Grantees will be invited to participate in related activities of the Action Network.
An information session on this Call for Proposals will be held in English. To register, please email nusrat.jahir@unwomen.org by 13 June 2022.
Complete applications should be emailed to WPHFapplications@unwomen.org with the subject line “WPHF CALL FOR PROPOSALS BANGLADESH”.
Application Deadline is 19 July 2022.

Share widely with your networks and apply today!
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/181954-call-proposals-bangladesh-under-women-peace-and-humanitarian-fund




Date: 07 April 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on International Day of Reflection on the 1994 Genocide Against the Tutsi in Rwanda 28th anniversary
Content: 07 April 2022
Today of all days, we must recognize the dangers of intolerance, irrationality, and bigotry in every society.
Together, we pay tribute to the one million people who were murdered in just 100 days in 1994 – the overwhelming majority Tutsi, but moderate Hutu and others who opposed the genocide too.
We honour their memory.
We stand in awe of the resilience of the survivors.
And we reflect on our failures as an international community.
The genocide was neither an accident nor unavoidable.
It was deliberate, systematic – and carried out in broad daylight.
No one who followed world affairs or watched the news could deny the sickening violence taking place.
Yet too few spoke out – and fewer still tried to intervene.
Much more could have – and should have – been done.
A generation after the events, the stain of shame endures.
As we remember the bloodshed 28 years ago, we recognize that we always have a choice.
To choose humanity over hatred; compassion over cruelty; courage over complacency; and reconciliation over rage.
The principle of the Responsibility to Protect entails that we can no longer stand idle in the face of atrocity crimes.
Through my Call to Action and other initiatives, human rights stand firmly at the heart of everything we do.
My Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide is monitoring developments worldwide for risks of genocide and other atrocity crimes.
And I have placed the agenda of prevention at the centre of our work.
Today, international criminal justice – though far from perfect – has shown how perpetrators can no longer assume impunity.
The remarkable work of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda – the first court in history to convict an individual of genocide – was instrumental in this effort.
And it has demonstrated how justice is indispensable for sustainable peace.
Rwanda today stands as a powerful testament of the human spirit’s ability to heal even the deepest wounds and emerge from the darkest depths to rebuild a stronger society.
After having suffered unspeakable gender-based violence, women today hold 60 percent of parliamentary seats.
And Rwanda is the fourth largest contributor to UN peacekeeping operations – risking their own soldiers to spare others the pain they themselves have known.
The genocide against the Tutsi raised questions that affect all humankind – fundamental questions about the role of the Security Council, the effectiveness of peacekeeping, the need to end impunity for international crimes, the need to address the roots of violence, and the fragility of civility.
We have great tests before us.
Today, Ukraine is in flames and old and new conflicts fester in the Middle East, Africa and beyond.
The Security Council agrees mostly to disagree – contributing to an environment of perceived impunity for state and non-state actors.
Wars are raging, inequalities widening, and poverty growing – and all are breeding grounds of resentment, anxiety, and anger.
Meanwhile, we see hate speech – including dehumanizing disinformation, racist tropes, and genocide denial and distortion – proliferating both on- and offline.
Today of all days, we must recognize the dangers of intolerance, irrationality, and bigotry in every society.
As we look back with remorse – let us look ahead with resolve.
Let us commit to be ever vigilant and to never forget.
And let us pay meaningful tribute to the Rwandans who perished by building a future of dignity, tolerance, and human rights for all.

Thank you.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/177385-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-reflection-1994-genocide




Date: 04 April 2022
Title: UNSG’s Message on the International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action
Content: 04 April 2022
On this International Day, let us build on past progress and rid the world of the scourge of landmines once and for all.
The International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action reminds us how far we have come in clearing the world of explosive remnants of war – and how far we still have to go.
Exactly thirty years ago, civil society activists came together to launch the International Campaign to Ban Landmines. Within five years, the Mine Ban Convention was opened for signature.
Today, more than 160 states have signed the Convention and landmines have become almost universally unacceptable.
Over 55 million mines have been destroyed, more than 30 countries across the world have been declared mine-free, and casualties have dramatically decreased.
But the world is still rife with millions of stockpiled landmines and over 50 countries remain contaminated with these abhorrent weapons.
Mines, explosive remnants of war and improvised explosive devices continue to kill or injure thousands of people every year – many of whom are children.
We must do more to protect people living under the shadow of explosive ordnance, from Syria, Somalia and Afghanistan to Myanmar, Cambodia, and beyond.
In Ukraine, the legacy of a single month of war – in the form of unexploded ordnance, landmines, and cluster munitions – will take decades to tackle, threatening lives long after the guns fall silent.
Already today, they restrict emergency humanitarian aid delivery and prevent people fleeing to safety.
I call on all states to accede to the Convention without delay. Permanent members of the Security Council in particular have a special responsibility.
Mine action is an investment in humanity. It is a prerequisite for humanitarian relief efforts and the foundation of lasting peace and sustainable development.
On this International Day, let us build on past progress and rid the world of the scourge of landmines once and for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/176703-unsg%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-mine-awareness-and-assistance-mine-action




Date: 03 April 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the Occasion of the Beginning of Ramadan 2022
Content: 03 April 2022
The Holy Quran teaches us that God created nations and tribes “so that we might know one another”.
I send my warmest wishes as millions of Muslims around the world begin the holy month of Ramadan.
This is a period of compassion and empathy… a time for reflection and learning… an opportunity to come together and uplift each other.
As High Commissioner for Refugees, I began a practice that I proudly pursued as Secretary-General.
Every Ramadan, I had the honor of visiting Muslim countries, fasting in solidarity and breaking bread with people.
Unfortunately, the COVID-19 pandemic made that impossible, but I am happy to resume this tradition this year.
In these times of tragedy and suffering, my thoughts and heart are with everyone facing conflict, displacement and fear.
The Holy Quran teaches us that God created nations and tribes “so that we might know one another”.
In this holy month and every day, let us take inspiration by working hand in hand for the safety, dignity and prosperity of all women and men.
Let us learn from each other and, together, build a peaceful world.
Ramadan Kareem.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/176624-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-occasion-beginning-ramadan-2022




Date: 02 April 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on World Autism Awareness Day
Content: 02 April 2022
On this World Autism Awareness Day, let us reaffirm our commitment to an inclusive, equitable and sustainable world for persons with autism.
The United Nations supports the rights of persons with autism to fully participate in society, in line with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
In its pledge to leave no one behind, the 2030 Agenda represents a commitment to reducing inequality through social, economic and political inclusion for all people, including persons with disabilities.  Yet many persons with autism still live in isolation, discriminated against and disconnected from their communities, in institutions or even in their own homes.
The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated many of these inequalities through the loss or reduction of services at school, in homes and in the community.  We need to ensure that the rights, perspectives and well-being of persons with disabilities, including those with autism, are an integral part of building forward better from the pandemic.
The solution lies in more community-based support systems for persons with autism.  We must also establish inclusive education systems and training programmes that enable students with autism to access the educational path of their choice.  And we must make technology solutions available for persons with autism to live independently in their communities.  Active consultation with persons with disabilities and their representative organizations should be at the centre of these efforts.
On this World Autism Awareness Day, let us reaffirm our commitment to an inclusive, equitable and sustainable world for persons with autism.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/176623-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-autism-awareness-day




Date: 22 March 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on World Water Day
Content: 22 March 2022
We need to improve our exploration, monitoring and analysis of groundwater resources to protect and better manage them and help achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
Humanity’s demand for water is growing. Pressure on water resources is increasing due to overuse, pollution and climate change.  Droughts and heatwaves are becoming more intense and more frequent. Sea-level rise is driving salt-water intrusion into coastal aquifers. Groundwater aquifers are being depleted.
Water can be a source of conflict but also of cooperation. It is essential that we work together to provide better stewardship of all water sources, including the world’s supply of groundwater. Groundwater is out of sight, but we cannot afford for it to be out of mind. Stored in rocks and soil, groundwater is our biggest source of liquid freshwater. It sustains drinking water supplies, sanitation systems, farming, industry and ecosystems. Yet, some 20 per cent of the world’s aquifers are being overexploited.
In many places, we simply do not know how much of this precious resource might exist. We need to improve our exploration, monitoring and analysis of groundwater resources to protect and better manage them and help achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
Next year’s United Nations Water Conference provides a decisive opportunity to galvanize action on water for sustainable development. On this World Water Day, let us commit to intensifying collaboration among sectors and across borders so we can sustainably balance the needs of people and nature and harness groundwater for current and future generations.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/175403-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-water-day




Date: 22 March 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s remarks to press on the war in Ukraine
Content: 22 March 2022
How many Ukrainians and Russians will be killed before everyone realizes that this war has no winners — only losers?
One month ago, the Russian Federation launched a massive invasion of the sovereign territory of Ukraine in violation of the UN Charter.
It was done after months of building up a military force of overwhelming proportion along the Ukrainian border.
Since then, we have seen appalling human suffering and destruction in cities, towns and villages.
Systematic bombardments that terrorise civilians.
The shelling of hospitals, schools, apartment buildings and shelters.
And all of it is intensifying -- getting more destructive and more unpredictable by the hour.
Ten million Ukrainians have been forced from their homes and are on the move.
But the war is going nowhere, fast.
For more than two weeks, Mariupol has been encircled by the Russian army and relentlessly bombed, shelled and attacked.
For what?
Even if Mariupol falls, Ukraine cannot be conquered city by city, street by street, house by house.
The only outcome to all this is more suffering, more destruction, and more horror as far as the eye can see.
The Ukrainian people are enduring a living hell – and the reverberations are being felt worldwide with skyrocketing food, energy and fertilizer prices threatening to spiral into a global hunger crisis.
Developing countries were already suffocating under the burden of COVID and lack of access to adequate financing.
Now they are also paying a heavy price as a result of this war.
At the same time, we cannot lose hope.
From my outreach with various actors, elements of diplomatic progress are coming into view on several key issues.
There is enough on the table to cease hostilities – now … and seriously negotiate -- now.
This war is unwinnable. Sooner or later, it will have to move from the battlefield to the peace table.
That is inevitable.
The only question is:
How many more lives must be lost?
How many more bombs must fall?
How many Mariupols must be destroyed?
How many Ukrainians and Russians will be killed before everyone realizes that this war has no winners — only losers?
How many more people will have to die in Ukraine, and how many people around the world will have to face hunger for this to stop?
Continuing the war in Ukraine is morally unacceptable, politically indefensible and militarily nonsensical.
What I said from this podium almost one month ago should be even more evident today.
By any measure – by even the shrewdest calculation -- it is time to stop the fighting now and give peace a chance.
It is time to end this absurd war.
Thank you.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/175616-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-remarks-press-war-ukraine




Date: 21 March 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination
Content: 21 March 2022
This year’s theme – “Voices for Action against Racism” – calls on us to speak out loudly, listen closely, and act decisively.
The International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination is both a day of recognition and an urgent call to action.
Racism continues to poison institutions, social structures, and everyday life in every society.
It continues to be a driver of persistent inequality.
No country is immune to intolerance, nor free of hate.
Africans and people of African descent, Asians and people of Asian descent, minority communities, indigenous peoples, migrants, refugees, and so many others – all continue to confront stigmatization, scapegoating, discrimination, and violence.
This year’s theme – “Voices for Action against Racism” – calls on us to speak out loudly, listen closely, and act decisively.
We all have a responsibility to engage in solidarity with movements for equality and human rights everywhere. We must listen to those experiencing injustice and ensure their concerns and demands are at the centre of efforts to dismantle discriminatory structures.
Reparatory justice is also crucial to realize racial equality and atone for the enduring legacy of centuries of enslavement and colonialism.
Building a future of justice requires mending an unjust past.
We have the blueprints for determined action: the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the Four-Point Agenda Towards Transformative Change for Racial Justice and Equality. We at the United Nations have also launched our own internal Strategic Action Plan on Addressing Racism.
Realizing the vision of a world free of racism and racial discrimination demands action every day, at every level, in every society.
Let us unite around our common humanity and speak as one for equality, justice and dignity for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/175371-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-elimination-racial




Date: 21 March 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on International Day of Forest
Content: 21 March 2022
On this International Day of Forests, let us recommit to healthy forests for healthier livelihoods.
Healthy forests are essential for people and the planet. They act as natural filters, providing clean air and water, and they are havens of biological diversity. They help to regulate our climate by influencing rainfall patterns, cooling urban areas and absorbing one-third of greenhouse gas emissions. They provide many communities and indigenous peoples with livelihoods, medicines, sustenance and refuge.
The commitments to halt deforestation have been loud and clear, and in some regions deforestation is slowing. Yet each year we still degrade and destroy some 10 million hectares of forest. It is essential that the world implements the recent Glasgow Leaders’ Declaration on Forests and Land Use and other instruments designed to protect our forests.
It is time we see tangible and credible action on the ground. This means ending the unsustainable consumption and production patterns that jeopardize our forests. And it means providing support for the sustainable management of forests to the countries and peoples who need it.
On this International Day of Forests, let us recommit to healthy forests for healthier livelihoods.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/175372-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-forest




Date: 07 March 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on International Women’s Day
Content: 07 March 2022
We need more women environment ministers, business leaders and presidents and prime ministers. They can push countries to address the climate crisis, develop green jobs and build a more just and sustainable world.
On International Women’s Day, we celebrate women and girls everywhere.
We celebrate their contributions to ending the COVID-19 pandemic.
Their ideas, innovations and activism that are changing our world for the better.
And their leadership across all walks of life.
But we also recognize that in too many areas, the clock on women’s rights is moving backwards.
The pandemic has kept girls and women out of schools and workplaces.
They face rising poverty and rising violence.
They do the vast majority of the world’s unpaid but essential care work.
They’re targets of violence and abuse, just because of their gender.
In all countries, women are scandalously under-represented in the halls of power and the boardrooms of business.
And as this year’s theme reminds us, they bear the brunt of climate change and environmental degradation.
Starting now, on International Women’s Day, it’s time to turn the clock forward for every woman and girl.
Through guaranteeing quality education for every girl, so they can build the lives they want and help make the world a better place for us all.
Through massive investments in women’s training and decent work.
Through effective action to end gender-based violence.
Through bold action to protect our planet.
Through universal care that is fully integrated into social protection systems.
And through targeted measures like gender quotas so we can all benefit from women’s ideas, experience and leadership everywhere decisions are made.
Gender inequality is essentially a question of power, in a male-dominated world and a male-dominated culture. Power relations must be reversed.
At the United Nations, we’ve achieved gender parity in senior management at headquarters and around the world — improving our work and better representing the communities we serve.
We need more women environment ministers, business leaders and presidents and prime ministers. They can push countries to address the climate crisis, develop green jobs and build a more just and sustainable world.
We cannot emerge from the pandemic with the clock spinning backwards on gender equality.
We need to turn the clock forward on women’s rights.
The time is now.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/174009-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-women%E2%80%99s-day




Date: 11 February 2022
Title: UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres’s Message on International Day of Women and Girls in Science
Content: 11 February 2022
On this International Day of Women and Girls in Science, I call on everyone to create an environment where women can realize their true potential and today’s girls become tomorrow’s leading scientists and innovators, shaping a fair and sustainable future for all.
Today, only one in three science and engineering researchers in the world is a woman.
Structural and societal barriers prevent women and girls from entering and advancing in science.
The COVID-19 pandemic has further increased gender inequalities, from school closures to a rise in violence and a greater burden of care in the home.
This inequality is depriving our world of enormous untapped talent and innovation. We need women’s perspectives to make sure science and technology work for everyone.
We can – and must – take action.
With policies that fill classrooms with girls studying technology, physics, engineering, math.
With targeted measures to ensure opportunities for women to grow and lead at laboratories, research institutions and universities.
With determination to end discrimination and stereotypes about women in science.
And with more rigorous efforts to expand opportunities for women members of minority communities.
All of this is especially important in the crucial field of artificial intelligence.
There is a direct connection between low levels of women working in AI, and absurd gender biased algorithms that treat men as standard and women as an exception.
We need more women developing artificial intelligence that serves everyone and works for gender equality.
We also need to reverse trends that keep young women scientists from pursuing careers that help us address the climate and environmental crises.
I taught engineering. I know from personal experience that young women and men are equally capable and equally fascinated by science, brimming with ideas, and ready to carry our world forward.
We must ensure that they have access to the same learning and work opportunities on a level playing field.
On this International Day of Women and Girls in Science, I call on everyone to create an environment where women can realize their true potential and today’s girls become tomorrow’s leading scientists and innovators, shaping a fair and sustainable future for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/171874-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-women-and-girls-science




Date: 27 January 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres's Message for the International Day of Commemoration in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust
Content: 27 January 2022
We must never forget that the Holocaust could have been prevented.
Today we remember the six million Jewish men, women and children who perished in the Holocaust, the Roma and Sinti, and the countless other victims of its unprecedented horror and calculated cruelty.
The Holocaust defined the United Nations.
Our very name was coined to describe the alliance fighting the Nazi regime and its allies.
Our Charter was drafted in San Francisco as the Dachau concentration camp was liberated.
The United Nations must always be on the frontline of the fight against antisemitism and all other forms of religious bigotry and racism.
Today, we witness an alarming resurgence of xenophobia and hate.
Antisemitism – the oldest and most persistent form of prejudice – is rising yet again.
Attempts to downplay or downright deny the Holocaust are proliferating.
No society is immune to irrationality or intolerance.
We must never forget that the Holocaust could have been prevented. The desperate pleas of the victims fell on deaf ears. Too few spoke out, too few listened – fewer still stood up in solidarity.
Remembering the past is crucial to safeguarding the future.
Silence in the face of hatred is complicity.
Today, let us commit to never be indifferent to the suffering of others, and never forget what happened or let it be forgotten by others.
Let us pledge to always be vigilant and uphold human rights and dignity for all.
Thank you.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/170091-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterress-message-international-day-commemoration-memory




Date: 01 January 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s New Year Message for 2022
Content: 01 January 2022
Together, let’s make recovery our resolution for 2022.
For people, planet and prosperity.
The world welcomes 2022 with our hopes for the future being tested.
By deepening poverty and worsening inequality.
By an unequal distribution of COVID vaccines.
By climate commitments that fall short.
And by ongoing conflict, division, and misinformation.
These are not just policy tests.
These are moral and real-life tests.
And they are tests that humanity can pass — if we commit to making 2022 a year of recovery for everyone.
Recovery from the pandemic — with a bold plan to vaccinate every person, everywhere.
Recovery for our economies — with wealthier countries supporting the developing world with financing, investment and debt relief.
Recovery from mistrust and division — with a new emphasis on science, facts and reason.
Recovery from conflicts — with a renewed spirit of dialogue, compromise and reconciliation.
And recovery for our planet — with climate commitments that match the scale and urgency of the crisis.
Moments of great difficulty are also moments of great opportunity.
To come together in solidarity.
To unite behind solutions that can benefit all people.
And to move forward — together — with hope in what our human family can accomplish.
Together, let’s make recovery our resolution for 2022.
For people, planet and prosperity.
I wish you all a happy and peaceful New Year.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/167379-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-new-year-message-2022




Date: 18 December 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Migrants Day
Content: 18 December 2021
On International Migrants Day, let us reaffirm our commitment to safe and dignified migration.
On this International Migrants Day, we recognize the contributions of migrants across the world in the face of many struggles including the COVID-19 pandemic.
Migrants continue to face widespread stigmatization, inequalities, xenophobia, and racism. Migrant women and girls face heightened risk of gender-based violence and have fewer options to seek support. With borders closed, many migrants are stranded without income or shelter, unable to return home, separated from their families, and with uncertain futures.
Yet throughout the pandemic, migrants have enriched societies everywhere and are often on the frontlines of the pandemic response as scientists, health care professionals and essential workers.
The International Migration Review Forum next year will take stock of progress in implementing the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration. It is an opportunity to advance efforts to ensure the full inclusion of migrants as we seek to build more resilient, just and sustainable societies. I welcome the pledging campaign launched by the United Nations Migration Network to strengthen the Compact and encourage Member States and others to get involved.
Solidarity with migrants has never been more urgent.
We need more effective international cooperation and a more compassionate approach to migration. This means managing borders humanely, fully respecting the human rights and humanitarian needs of everyone, and ensuring that migrants are included in national COVID-19 vaccination plans. It means recognizing the value of pathways for regular entry for both migrants and host countries. And it means addressing the underlying drivers behind migration, including deep inequalities, and combatting human smuggling and trafficking in people.
On International Migrants Day, let us reaffirm our commitment to safe and dignified migration.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/167381-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-migrants-day




Date: 12 December 2021
Title: UNSG's Message on Universal Health Coverage Day
Content: 12 December 2021
The pandemic will not end for any country until it ends for every country.
As we enter the third year of the COVID-19 pandemic, we must urgently strengthen our health systems to ensure they are equitable, resilient and capable of meeting everyone’s needs, including for their mental health.
COVID-19 has reached nearly every part of the world, but health coverage still has not.  The shockwaves of this health emergency are hitting hardest those countries that lack health systems capable of providing quality, affordable care for all.
If we are to reach our goal of achieving universal health coverage by 2030, we must commit to investing in and scaling up proven solutions.  This means making more and smarter investments in the foundations of health systems, with an emphasis on primary health care, essential services and marginalized populations.
The best insurance for resilient economies and communities, as well as pandemic preparedness for the future is strengthening health systems before a crisis arrives.
The unequal distribution of COVID-19 vaccines in the past year has been a global moral failure.  We must learn from this experience.  The pandemic will not end for any country until it ends for every country.
On this Universal Health Coverage Day, let us join the commitment to end the COVID-19 pandemic and build a healthier, safer future for all by investing in health systems that leave no one behind.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/167382-unsgs-message-universal-health-coverage-day




Date: 01 December 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on World AIDS Day
Content: 01 December 2021
To beat AIDS – and build resilience against the pandemics of tomorrow – we need collective action.
On this World AIDS Day, we focus attention on the inequalities that drive HIV and AIDS.
It is still possible to end the epidemic by 2030.  But that will require stepped up action and greater solidarity.
The United Nations General Assembly recently adopted a bold new plan to accelerate progress, including new targets for 2025.
To beat AIDS – and build resilience against the pandemics of tomorrow – we need collective action.
That includes harnessing the leadership of communities to drive change, combatting stigma, and eliminating discriminatory and punitive laws, policies and practices.
We must also dismantle financial barriers to health care and increase investment in vital public services to achieve Universal Health Coverage for everyone, everywhere.
This will ensure equal access to HIV prevention, testing, treatment and care, including COVID-19 vaccinations and services.
Together, let us recommit to end inequalities and end AIDS.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/167380-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-aids-day




Date: 25 November 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women and Girls
Content: 25 November 2021
Change is possible. Now is the time to redouble our efforts so that together, we can eliminate violence against women and girls by 2030.
Violence against women and girls continues to be the most pervasive and pressing human rights issue in the world today.
It is both an abhorrent crime and a public health emergency, with far-reaching consequences for millions of women and girls in every corner of the globe.
The latest figures from UN Women confirm that during the COVID-19 pandemic, levels of violence against women and girls have increased.
Across 13 countries, almost half of all women reported that they or a woman they know began to experience gender-based violence during the pandemic.
Almost a quarter of women reported that household conflicts had become more frequent. A similar proportion said they felt less safe at home.
Violence in any part of society affects us all. From the scars on the next generation to the weakening of the social fabric.
We can draw a straight line between violence against women, civil oppression and violent conflict. From rape and sexual slavery used as tools of war, to the thread of misogyny that runs through violent extremism.
But violence against women is not inevitable. The right policies and programmes bring results.
That means comprehensive, long-term strategies that tackle the root causes of violence, protect the rights of women and girls, and promote strong and autonomous women’s rights movements.
This is the model that the United Nations has built through its partnership with the European Union, the Spotlight Initiative.
Last year, in partner countries, we saw a 22 percent increase in prosecution of perpetrators. Eighty-four laws and policies were passed or strengthened. And more than 650,000 women and girls were able to access gender-based violence services, despite restrictions related to the pandemic.
Change is possible.
Now is the time to redouble our efforts so that together, we can eliminate violence against women and girls by 2030.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/160131-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-elimination-violence




Date: 21 November 2021
Title: Launching of The United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2022-2026
Content: 21 November 2021
The United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2022-2026 was launched today by the Economic Relations Division of the Bangladesh Ministry of Finance and the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office.
The United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2022-2026 was launched today at the NEC-2 Conference room, by the Economic Relations Division of the Bangladesh Ministry of Finance and the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office. In light of public health measures for the COVID-19 pandemic, the launch was a virtual one.
The Honorable Minister of Finance A.H.M Mustafa Kamal, and Honorable Minister of Planning M.A. Mannan attended launch and offered remarks. Opening statements were delivered by Ms. Fatima Yasmin, Secretary, ERD, Ministry of Finance, the Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh and Ms. Mia Seppo, the UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh.
In her opening remarks the ERD Secretary Ms. Fatima Yasmin expressed her hope that this Cooperation Framework will create the ground for joint work between the Government and the UN Country Team in Bangladesh to accelerate implementation of the 8th Five Year Plan. She said “This is a very important Framework that will guide our cooperation with the UN on a broad range of areas from LDC graduation, to pandemic recovery and achieving the SDGs.”
In her comments, the UN Resident Coordinator thanked the Government and partners for their contribution to the formulation of the Cooperation Framework. She reiterated commitment of the UN family in Bangladesh to stand strongly with the Government in key priorities like tackling climate change, ensuring that every child gets a quality education and a safe childhood, enabling every woman and man to be able to participate in decision-making.
Addressing participants, the Minister of Finance said “The UN has been Bangladesh’s longstanding and trusted partner from the onset of our independence and significantly contributed to our overall development achievements. This Cooperation Framework will also contribute to a more resilient recovery from the pandemic and to the acceleration towards achieving the 2030 Agenda.”
Referring to the imminent LDC graduation, the Minister of Planning said “We are about to graduate from LDC status. Achieving a developed country status by It is our responsibility to ensure that At the threshold of graduation, as a developing country, and one that is aiming to become a developed country by 2041, and ensuring that the benefits of development are shared equitably is our responsibility. This Cooperation Framework will contribute to real, and sustainable difference to the lives of Bangladesh’s most vulnerable groups.”
At the event Bangladesh’s Permanent Representative to the UN (New York) Ambassador Rabab Fatima, and the Assistant Secretary-General of the UN Development Coordination Office in New York Mr. Robert Piper also offered pre-recorded messages.
On behalf of Bangladesh, the ERD Secretary Ms. Fatima Yasmin and on behalf of the UN in Bangladesh the Resident Coordinator Ms. Mia Seppo unveiled the Cooperation Framework.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/159689-launching-united-nations-sustainable-development-cooperation-framework-unsdcf-2022-2026




Date: 11 October 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Day of the Girl Child
Content: 11 October 2021
UN Secretary-General emphasized on our responsibility to join with girls in all their diversity, amplify their power and solutions as digital change-makers, and address the obstacles they face in the digital space
The strength, health and empowerment of the world’s girls is a matter for every single day of the year. The International Day of the Girl is an opportunity to recommit to this global imperative.
Today’s girls are part of a digital generation. It is our responsibility to join with them in all their diversity, amplify their power and solutions as digital change-makers, and address the obstacles they face in the digital space.
The path to girls’ digital equality is steep. A massive gap in internet use spanning geographies and generations has grown from 11 per cent in 2013 to 17 per cent six years later. In more than two thirds of all countries, girls make up only 15 percent of graduates in STEM subjects – science, technology, engineering and math.
Girls have equal ability and immense potential in these fields, and when we empower them, everyone benefits. I saw this long before I began my political career, when I was a teacher in Lisbon and witnessed the power of education to uplift individuals and communities. That experience has guided my vision for gender equality in education ever since.
Investments in closing the digital gender divide yield huge dividends for all. The United Nations is committed to working with girls so that this generation, whoever they are and whatever their circumstances, can fulfil their potential. The Generation Equality Action Coalition on Technology and Innovation is our new platform, where governments, civil society, the private sector and young leaders are coming together around collective initiatives and investments to support girls’ digital access, skills and creativity.
Together, let us ensure that girls play their full part in the digital generation to design and secure our common future.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/150893-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-girl-child




Date: 10 October 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on World Mental Health
Content: 10 October 2021
On World Mental Health Day and every day, UN Secretary-General urges to everyone to commit to work together to ensure quality mental health care for all people, everywhere.
Around the world, the COVID-19 pandemic is taking a terrible toll on people’s mental health.
Millions of people face grief over lost family members and friends. Many more are anxious over unemployment and fearful of the future. Older people may experience isolation and loneliness, while children and adolescents may feel alienated and distressed.
Without determined action, the mental health impact may last far longer than the pandemic itself.
We must act to redress the glaring inequalities exposed by the pandemic – including the inequality in access to mental health services.
In high-income countries, over 75 percent of people with depression report that they do not receive adequate care.
And in low- and middle-income countries, over 75 percent of people with mental health conditions receive no treatment at all.
This is the direct consequence of chronic under-investment, as governments spend an average of just over 2 percent of their health budgets on mental health.
This is unacceptable.
At long last, we are beginning to see recognition that there can be no health without mental health.
Member States have endorsed the World Health Organization’s updated Comprehensive Mental Health Action Plan.
The United Nations family, together with partners across the global mental health community, are introducing new guidelines and developing new tools to improve mental health.
These are positive steps – but we have a long way to go.
On World Mental Health Day and every day, let us commit to work together with urgency and purpose to ensure quality mental health care for all people, everywhere.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/150822-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-mental-health




Date: 09 October 2021
Title: UN and Government of Bangladesh sign Memorandum of Understanding for Rohingya humanitarian response on Bhasan Char
Content: 09 October 2021
The MoU is a further expression of the Government and people of Bangladesh’s generosity and support toward the Rohingya population until they can return safely and sustainably to Myanmar.
The Government of Bangladesh and the United Nations (UN) have today agreed on a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) relating to Bhasan Char. The MoU – signed by UNHCR on behalf of UN agencies working on the Rohingya response in Bangladesh – establishes a common protection and policy framework for the Rohingya humanitarian response on the island.
The MoU is a further expression of the Government and people of Bangladesh’s generosity and support toward the Rohingya population until they can return safely and sustainably to Myanmar, as well as a reconfirmation of the UN’s commitment to continue supporting Bangladesh in leading the humanitarian programme for almost 900,000 Rohingya refugees in the country.
The agreement relating to Bhasan Char allows for close cooperation between the Government and the UN on services and activities to the benefit of the increasing numbers of Rohingya refugees living on the island. These cover key areas of protection, education, skills-training, livelihoods and health, which will help support the refugees to lead decent lives on the island and better prepare them for sustainable return to Myanmar in the future.  The UN response will build upon and complement the humanitarian assistance so far provided by Bangladeshi NGOs on the island.
Prior to signing the MoU, the UN has held discussions with the Rohingya refugee community in Cox’s Bazar, as well as those already on the island, including during the UN visit to Bhasan Char in March 2021, to better understand their needs and views. These discussions, as well as those with Government counterparts and Bangladeshi NGOs working on the island are expected to continue on a regular basis and further inform any humanitarian and protection responses on Bhasan Char.
The UN encourages the international community to increase its generous support to the humanitarian response in Bangladesh, recognising that the Joint Response Plan for the Rohingya Humanitarian Response in Cox’s Bazar is currently less than half funded for this year.
This support should continue until refugees are able to return to Myanmar in a safe, voluntary, dignified and sustainable manner, which remains a shared priority of the UN and Government of Bangladesh, as well as the desire of the Rohingya refugees in the country.
Dhaka, 9 October 2021

For further information please contact:
Ms. Regina de la Portilla, Communications Officer, UNHCR
+880 184 732 7279; DELAPORT@unhcr.org;
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/150722-un-and-government-bangladesh-sign-memorandum-understanding-rohingya-humanitarian-response




Date: 21 September 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s message on International Day of Peace
Content: 21 September 2021
UN Secretary-General highlighted that we need to make peace with nature — to heal our planet, build a green economy, and achieve our net-zero targets.
This year’s International Day of Peace comes at a crisis point for humanity.
COVID-19 has turned our world upside-down.
Conflicts are spinning out of control.
The climate emergency is worsening.
Inequality and poverty are deepening.
And mistrust and division are driving people apart at a time when solidarity and collaboration are needed more than ever.
As a human family, we face a stark choice —
Peace or perpetual peril.
We must choose peace.
That is why I call for a 24-hour ceasefire today.
And by working in solidarity for a lasting, sustainable peace every day, we can tackle the issues facing us.
We need peace to urgently deliver lifesaving vaccines and treatment for COVID-19.
We need peace to recover from the pandemic and re-build shattered systems and shattered lives.
We need peace to level the playing field and reduce inequalities.
We need peace to renew trust in one another — and faith in facts and science.
And we need to make peace with nature — to heal our planet, build a green economy, and achieve our net-zero targets.
Peace is not a naïve dream.
It’s a light in the darkness.
Guiding us to the only pathway to a better future for humanity.
Let’s walk the pathway of peace as if our lives depended on it.
Because they do.
Thank you.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/145225-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-peace




Date: 15 September 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Day of Democracy
Content: 15 September 2021
let us commit to a future in which we recognize human rights and the rule of law as fundamental to democracy.
As the world struggles to emerge from the COVID-19 pandemic and its devastating consequences, we must learn from the lessons of the past 18 months to strengthen democratic resilience in the face of future crises.  This means identifying and developing good governance practices in situations of emergency – whether public health, environmental or financial.
It means addressing the egregious global injustices laid bare by the crisis, from pervasive gender inequalities and inadequate health systems to unequal access to vaccines, education, the internet and online services.  Along with the profound human toll borne by those most deprived, these persistent historical inequalities are themselves threats to democracy.
Strengthening democracy also means embracing genuine participation in decision-making -- including peaceful protests -- giving a real voice to people and communities that have traditionally been excluded.  The silencing of women, religious and ethnic minorities, indigenous communities, people with disabilities, human rights defenders and journalists is an impediment to creating healthy societies.  Democracy simply cannot survive, let alone flourish, in the absence of civic space.
Finally, safeguarding democracy means phasing out emergency powers and laws as the worst of the pandemic subsides.  Some States and security sector institutions rely on emergency powers because they offer shortcuts.  With time, such powers can seep into legal frameworks and become permanent, undermining the rule of law and consuming the fundamental freedoms and human rights that serve as a bedrock for democracy.
As I stressed at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, every crisis poses a threat to democracy, because the rights of the people, in particular those most vulnerable, are all too quickly ignored.  For this reason, protection of rights in times of crisis is a key element of my Call to Action for Human Rights.
On this International Day of Democracy, as we look beyond the COVID-19 pandemic, let us commit to a future in which we recognize human rights and the rule of law as fundamental to democracy.  Let us commit to safeguarding the principles of equality, participation and solidarity, so that we can better weather the storm of future crises.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/144485-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-democracy




Date: 19 August 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on World Humanitarian Day 2021
Content: 19 August 2021
On World Humanitarian Day, we pay tribute to aid workers everywhere, and commit to doing everything possible to protect them and their vital work.
Humanitarian workers are here to help the world’s most vulnerable people when disaster strikes.
But around the world, aid workers face growing threats. In the past 20 years, shootings, kidnappings, and other attacks on humanitarian organizations have increased tenfold. This year alone, at least 72 humanitarian workers have been killed in conflict zones.
On World Humanitarian Day, we pay tribute to aid workers everywhere, and commit to doing everything possible to protect them and their vital work.
This year's campaign for World Humanitarian Day focuses on the climate crisis, which threatens the homes, livelihoods and lives of some of the world’s poorest people.
By signing up to #[hashtag] TheHumanRace, your daily exercise will help send a message to global leaders that climate action can leave no one behind.
The climate emergency is a race we are losing. But it's a race we can and must win.
Let’s lace up our running shoes, join TheHumanRace campaign, and together, make sure everyone reaches the finish line.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/140761-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-humanitarian-day-2021




Date: 12 August 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on International Youth Day
Content: 12 August 2021
UN Secretary-General urges everyone to guarantee young people a seat at the table as we build a world based on inclusive, fair, and sustainable development for all.
Young people are on the frontlines of the struggle to build a better future for all.
The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the dire need for the kind of transformational change they seek – and young people must be full partners in that effort.
This year’s International Youth Day highlights solutions developed by young innovators to address challenges to our food systems. They are tackling inequities in food security, biodiversity loss, threats to our environment and much more.
We see that same drive, creativity, and commitment in many other areas – from gender equality to education and skills development.
But young people cannot do it on their own.  They need allies to make sure they are engaged, included and understood.
Guided by the United Nations system-wide Youth Strategy, Youth2030, the UN is strengthening its work for and with young people worldwide.
I urge everyone to guarantee young people a seat at the table as we build a world based on inclusive, fair, and sustainable development for all.
Thank you.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/139879-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-youth-day




Date: 09 August 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples
Content: 09 August 2021
On this International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples, let us show true solidarity by working to end the grievous  inequalities of indigenous peoples worldwide, to fully recognize the abuse they have endured, and to celebrate their knowledge and wisdom.
Indigenous peoples around the world continue to face overwhelming marginalization, discrimination and exclusion.  Rooted in colonialism and patriarchy, these profound disparities are sustained by a deeply held resistance to recognizing and respecting the rights, dignity, and freedoms of indigenous peoples.
Throughout modern history, indigenous peoples have been robbed of their lands and territories, of their political and economic autonomy, and even of their own children.  Their cultures and languages have been denigrated and extinguished.
In recent months, the world has again been exposed to just some of the horror faced by indigenous communities at the hands of colonizers.  Some nations have begun to address this heinous legacy through apologies, truth and reconciliation efforts, and legislative and constitutional reforms.  But much more needs to be done.
We need a new social contract – one that restores and honours the rights, dignity and freedoms of those who have been deprived of so much for so long.  Central to this must be genuine dialogue, interaction and willingness to listen.  We already have the tools we need to this, including the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the outcome document of the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples.
There is no excuse for denying the world’s 476 million indigenous peoples self-determination and meaningful participation in all decision-making.  Free, prior and informed consent is central for indigenous peoples to exercise their own vision of development.
And while recognition of the importance of indigenous knowledge grows, in particular in solving the climate and biodiversity crises and preventing the emergence of contagious diseases, we must ensure that indigenous knowledge is owned and shared by indigenous communities themselves.
The United Nations system has a key role to play.  On this International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples, let us show true solidarity by working to end the grievous  inequalities of indigenous peoples worldwide, to fully recognize the abuse they have endured, and to celebrate their knowledge and wisdom.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/139273-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-world%E2%80%99s-indigenous-peoples




Date: 27 July 2021
Title: UN SECRETARY-GENERAL MESSAGE ON WORLD DAY AGAINST TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS
Content: 27 July 2021
“Victims’ Voices Lead the Way”
In the midst of a global pandemic, accompanied by rising inequalities and economic devastation, the voices of human trafficking survivors and victims risk being drowned out.
But listening to their stories is more crucial than ever as the COVID-19 crisis increases fragilities and drives up desperation.
As many as 124 million more people have been pushed into extreme poverty by the pandemic, leaving many millions vulnerable to trafficking.
Children are at great and growing risk: they represent one-third of victims globally — a share that has tripled in the last 15 years. Half of victims in low-income countries are children, most of whom are trafficked for forced labour. Criminals everywhere are using technology to identify, control and exploit vulnerable people. Children are increasingly targeted through online platforms for sexual exploitation, forced marriage and other forms of abuse.
Trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation continues to be one of the most widespread and abhorrent forms of human trafficking. Migrants account for more than half of those trafficked in most regions.
Governments must take urgent steps to strengthen prevention, support victims and bring perpetrators to justice. This includes implementation of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons.
Our efforts must be guided by survivors of trafficking. Their contribution is essential to address risk factors and patterns, and to identify and protect victims and ensure their access to justice and recovery, while holding their exploiters accountable.
The United Nations is committed to listening and responding to the voices of victims and survivors of human trafficking, ensuring their rights and dignity, amplifying their stories and learning from them in our fight to prevent and put an end to this terrible crime.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/137541-un-secretary-general-message-world-day-against-trafficking-persons




Date: 18 July 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General António Guterres Message on Nelson Mandela International Day
Content: 18 July 2021
Nelson Mandela International Day is an opportunity to reflect on the life and legacy of a legendary global advocate for dignity, equality, justice and human rights.
Each year, on this day, Nelson’s Mandela’s birthday, we pay tribute to this extraordinary man who embodied the highest aspirations of the United Nations and the human family.
Madiba’s calls for solidarity and an end to racism are particularly relevant today, as social cohesion around the world is threatened by division.
Societies are becoming more polarized, with hate speech on the rise and misinformation blurring the truth, questioning science and undermining democratic institutions.
The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has made these ills more acute and rolled back years of progress in the global fight against poverty.
As always in times of crises, it is the marginalized and discriminated against who suffer the most, often while being blamed for problems they did not cause.
The pandemic has shown the vital importance of human solidarity and unity, values championed and exemplified by Nelson Mandela in his lifelong fight for justice.
No one is safe until all are safe.  And each of us has a part to play.
Let us be inspired by Madiba’s message that each of us can make a difference in promoting peace, human rights, harmony with nature and dignity for all.
Let us all honour Madiba’s call to action and be empowered by his legacy.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/136592-un-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%C2%A0message-nelson-mandela-international-day




Date: 10 July 2021
Title: ILO statement on factory fire in Rupganj
Content: 10 July 2021
ILO has issued a press release on the factory fire incident in Rupganj area of Naranyanganj.
DHAKA (ILO News) – The ILO is deeply saddened by the tragic loss of life of at least 52 workers from a fire in the Hashem Food and Beverage factory in Rupganj area of Naranyanganj, and to see reports of underage workers among the victims. We extend our heartfelt condolences and solidarity with the families of the victims and others injured at this factory.

This incident illustrates the urgent need in Bangladesh for authorities and building owners to ensure that buildings in which thousands of workers spend the better part of their day, are built and operated in compliance with national code requirements. If the fire safety measures required by the regulations were properly implemented, it would provide for safe evacuation of occupants in this type of emergency.
The ILO has worked closely with the Government of Bangladesh, employers’ and worker’ organisations and development partners to improve working conditions in the ready-made garment (RMG) industry.

The ILO is working with the government’s labour inspectorate to enhance the effectiveness of safety inspections, and is helping with the development and implementation of an industrial safety framework that would extend the good practices applied over the past eight year in the RMG sector to all other industries.

This latest incident illustrates the urgency of that endeavour. The ILO will continue to work with the Government of Bangladesh and the employers’ and workers’ organisations on these efforts.

We hope that this tragic accident will drive all parties involved to apply renewed vigour in addressing the safety deficits in workplaces across the country.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/135469-ilo-statement-factory-fire-rupganj




Date: 20 June 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on World Refugee Day
Content: 20 June 2021
On World Refugee Day, I commend the countries that have welcomed refugees. But we need more support – from States, the private sector, communities and individuals – if we are to move together towards a more inclusive future, free of discrimination.
War, violence and persecution have forced more than 80 million people around the world to flee their homes, leaving everything behind to save themselves and their families.
Refugees must begin their lives anew.
But for so many, the pandemic has wiped out their livelihoods, led to stigmatization and vilification and exposed them disproportionately to the virus.
At the same time, refugees once again demonstrated their invaluable contribution to their adoptive societies as essential and frontline workers.
We have a duty to help refugees rebuild their lives.
COVID-19 has shown us that we can only succeed if we stand together.
On World Refugee Day, I call on communities and governments to include refugees – in health care, education, and sport.
We heal together when we all get the care we need.
We learn together when we are all given the chance to study.
We shine together when we play as a team and respect everyone.
On World Refugee Day, I commend the countries that have welcomed refugees. But we need more support – from States, the private sector, communities and individuals – if we are to move together towards a more inclusive future, free of discrimination.
The refugees I have met have shown me what it means to rebuild your own life while summoning the strength to enrich the lives of others.
As High Commissioner for Refugees for 10 years, I was inspired by their courage, resilience and determination.
I thank refugees and displaced persons across the world and reiterate my personal admiration for what they have taught us all about the power of hope and healing.
This World Refugee Day and every day, we stand together with refugees.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/132325-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-refugee-day




Date: 05 June 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on World Environment Day
Content: 05 June 2021
By restoring ecosystems, we can drive a transformation that will contribute to the achievement of all the Sustainable Development Goals.
We are rapidly reaching the point of no return for the planet.
We face a triple environmental emergency –biodiversity loss, climate disruption and escalating pollution.
For too long, humanity has cut down the Earth's forests, polluted its rivers and oceans, and ploughed its grasslands into oblivion.
We are ravaging the very ecosystems that underpin our societies.
And, in doing so, we risk depriving ourselves of the food, water and resources we need to survive.
The degradation of the natural world is already undermining the well-being of 3.2 billion people – or 40 per cent of humanity.
Luckily, the Earth is resilient.
But she needs our help.
We still have time to reverse the damage we have done.
That is why, on this World Environment Day, we are launching the United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration.
This global movement will bring together governments, businesses, civil society and private citizens in an unprecedented effort to heal the Earth.
By restoring ecosystems, we can drive a transformation that will contribute to the achievement of all the Sustainable Development Goals.
The task is monumental.
We need to replant and protect our forests.
We need to clean up our rivers and seas.
And we need to green our cities.
Accomplishing these things will not only safeguard the planet’s resources.
It will create millions of new jobs by 2030, generate returns of over $7 trillion dollars every year and help eliminate poverty and hunger.
The United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration is a global call to action.
It will draw together political support, scientific research and financial muscle to massively scale up restoration.
Everyone can contribute.
Science tells us these next 10 years are our final chance to avert a climate catastrophe, turn back the deadly tide of pollution and end species loss.
So, let today be the start of a new decade – one in which we finally make peace with nature and secure a better future for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/130258-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-environment-day




Date: 29 May 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers
Content: 29 May 2021
United Nations peacekeeping helps nurture peace in some of the world’s most dangerous places. Today and every day, we salute the dedication and bravery of our peacekeepers in helping societies turn away from war and towards a safer, more stable future.
The International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers honors the more than one million women and men who have served on the frontlines of conflict and the more than 4,000 who have lost their lives in the line of duty. Their service and sacrifices will never be forgotten.
I express my deep gratitude to the 85,000 civilian, police and military personnel currently deployed in some of the world’s most challenging hotspots to protect the vulnerable and help to build peace. Despite the restrictions imposed by the pandemic, as well as the risk of infection, these men and women have pursued their mission while also supporting local authorities in the fight against COVID-19. I offer sincere condolences to the families of peacekeepers who have fallen victim to this terrible disease.
This year’s observance focuses on the central question of youth, peace and security. In every country where our peacekeepers work, peace can only be achieved with the active participation of young people. The world needs to do far more to address their needs, amplify their voices and ensure their presence at decision-making tables.
Our Missions play an important role in protecting and supporting young people, in particular young women and girls, to reduce violence and sustain peace. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, MONUSCO is working with youth who are vulnerable to recruitment by armed groups, to provide viable and sustainable alternatives to violence. In South Sudan, the inclusion of youth groups in peace processes has helped strengthen relations between subnational and national actors. In the Central African Republic and in Mali, MINUSCA and MINUSMA have worked closely with youth representatives to increase voter turnout in recent elections.
One of our greatest strengths is our own young peacekeepers, in particular young women peacekeepers who contribute every day to debunking deeply entrenched gendered stereotypes and inspire young women and girls to seek non-traditional paths and opportunities.
United Nations peacekeeping helps nurture peace in some of the world’s most dangerous places. Today and every day, we salute the dedication and bravery of our peacekeepers in helping societies turn away from war and towards a safer, more stable future.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/129268-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-united-nations




Date: 29 May 2021
Title: UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh Mia Seppo’s Message on International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers
Content: 29 May 2021
As top troop and police contributing country, Bangladesh has rapidly earned a strong reputation for bravery, competency, dependability, leadership and professionalism over the last 33 years. A total of 1,75,316 Bangladesh peacekeepers have served in peacekeeping and currently 6,874 peacekeepers are deployed in ten missions including some difficult stations such as Mali, South Sudan, Central African Republic and DR Congo.
UN Peacekeeping remains one of the most effective tools to respond to difficult global peace and security challenges. The International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers has been observed on 29 May since 2002 after the General Assembly adopted resolution 57/129 (2002). The day commemorates the contributions of all the brave and professional men and women who have served and serve in UN peacekeeping operations, and honour the memory of those who have lost their lives in the service of peace.
The theme of the day  “The Road to Lasting Peace: Leveraging the Power of Youth for Lasting Peace and Security" is a reminder of the importance of the UN Youth, Peace and Security agenda (YPS). UN peacekeepers under 30 are often better able to connect with youth and to serve as role models for young people in the local populations. This contributes to encouraging communities to engage young people and achieve more sustainable peace.
Bangladesh began its noble journey with UN peacekeeping in 1988 with United Nations Iran-Iraq Military Observer Group (UNIMOG) by sending 15 military observers. In 1989 Bangladesh sent its first military contingent to the United Nations Transition Assistance Group (UNTAG) in Namibia to monitor the peace process and elections.
As top troop and police contributing country, Bangladesh has rapidly earned a strong reputation for bravery, competency, dependability, leadership and professionalism over the last 33 years. A total of 1,75,316 Bangladesh peacekeepers have served in peacekeeping and currently 6,874 peacekeepers are deployed in ten missions including some difficult stations such as Mali, South Sudan, Central African Republic and DR Congo.
The Women, Peace and Security (WPS) agenda was formally initiated by the landmark UN Security Council Resolution 1325 and Bangladesh showing the way to SG’s Agenda for Peacekeeping including the call to increase the number of female peacekeepers. A total of 1974 female peacekeepers served till today while currently deployed 319.
Today we pay tribute to 4,065 fallen heroes from different contributing countries in all UN peace operations since 1948.  Among the fallen heroes, 159 are Bangladeshis. In the line of duty, 240 peacekeepers from Bangladesh sustained injuries as well.
In the past one year, Bangladesh lost eight dedicated peacekeepers. Eleven were injured in services for the cause of a more peaceful future.
The fallen peacekeepers are:
Sergeant Mohammad Ibrahim; Lance Corporal Md Saiful Islam; Lance Corporal Md Abdullah Al Mamun; Lance Corporal Md Robiul Molla;  Senior Warrant Officer Abdul Halim; Warrant Officer Md Saiful Imam Bhuiyan; Sergeant Md Ziaur Rahman; Sergeant Md Mobarak Hossain.
The UN will always remember their sacrifice in the service of peace and pays the highest respect to these heroes and sends its deepest condolences to their grief-stricken families. The contributions of these eight deceased peacekeepers will be remembered by the global community. The injured peacekeepers have also demonstrated their commitment to the global peace.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/129269-un-resident-coordinator-bangladesh-mia-seppo%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-united-nations




Date: 27 May 2021
Title: GENERAL ASSEMBLY PRESIDENT WRAPS UP HIS VISIT TO BANGLADESH
Content: 27 May 2021

The President of the 75th session of the United Nations General Assembly, H.E. Mr. Volkan Bozkır, paid an official visit to Bangladesh on 25-26 May 2021, upon invitation of the government.
On 25 May, President Bozkır was received in Dhaka by H.E. Ms. Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of the Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh. They discussed the plight of the Rohingya people, the situation in Myanmar, the impact of climate change, the importance of human-centred development, gender equality and women’s empowerment, culture of peace and peacekeeping.
Subsequently President visited Bangabandhu Memorial Museum on the occasion of the 100th birth year of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.
The President also met separately with H.E. Mr. AK Abdul Momen, Minister for Foreign Affairs. The topics of discussion included the situation of the Rohingya, climate change, the COVID-19 response, LDC graduation, South-South Cooperation, and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Following this bilateral meeting, the President engaged in a joint press briefing together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
While in Dhaka, President Bozkır also delivered the sixth lecture of the Bangabandhu Lecture Series at the Foreign Service Academy of Bangladesh, which was focused on Bangladesh and the United Nations. This event was hosted by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh.
To round off the day, the President met with the UN Country Team in Bangladesh, led by Resident Coordinator Mia Seppo. Here he received a brief from the representatives of the UN agencies on the crucial work of the United Nations in Bangladesh.
On 26 May, the President travelled to Cox’s Bazar, where he met with the representatives of the Rohingya people. He was joined there by Mr. Shah Rezwan Hayat, Refugee Relief and Repatriation Commissioner, Ms. Mia Seppo, UN Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, and camp authorities.
In his interactive interaction with the Rohingya representatives, the President emphasized that the world has not forgotten the plight of the Rohingya people and that the United Nations General Assembly is determined to ensure a better future for them.
Thereafter he received a briefing on camp management from the Refugee Relief and Repatriation Commissioner and camp authorities.
Following this, the President surveyed the camp from an aerial position at the watch tower of Camp-8W.
Thereafter President Bozkır visited Camp 9 which was impacted by recent fires, met with healthcare workers and inspected facilities at the Turkish Field Hospital there.
The President of the General Assembly then returned to Dhaka before departing for Islamabad.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/128790-general-assembly-president-wraps-his-visit-bangladesh




Date: 03 May 2021
Title: “Journalism as a Public Good: 30 Years of the Windhoek Declaration”: UN Secretary-General's Message on World Press Freedom Day 2021
Content: 03 May 2021
I urge all governments to do everything in their power to support a free, independent and diverse media.
The global challenges we have faced during the COVID-19 pandemic underline the critical role of reliable, verified and universally accessible information in saving lives and building strong, resilient societies.
During the pandemic, and in other crises including the climate emergency, journalists and media workers help us navigate a fast-changing and often overwhelming landscape of information, while addressing dangerous inaccuracies and falsehoods.
In too many countries, they run great personal risks, including new restrictions, censorship, abuse, harassment, detention and even death, simply for doing their jobs. The situation continues to worsen.
The economic impact of the pandemic has hit many media outlets hard, threatening their very survival.
As budgets tighten, so too does access to reliable information. Rumours, falsehoods and extreme or divisive opinions surge in to fill the gap.
I urge all governments to do everything in their power to support a free, independent and diverse media.
Free and independent journalism is our greatest ally in combatting misinformation and disinformation.
The United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists aims to create a safe environment for media workers across the globe – because information is a public good.
Today, we commemorate the 30th anniversary of the Windhoek Declaration for the Development of a Free, Independent and Pluralistic African Press. Despite dramatic changes in the media over the past three decades, the Declaration’s urgent call for press freedom and free access to information is as relevant as ever.
Let’s reflect on its message, and renew our efforts to protect media freedom – so that information remains a lifesaving public good for all.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/126093-%E2%80%9Cjournalism-public-good-30-years-windhoek-declaration%E2%80%9D-un-secretary-generals-message-world




Date: 22 April 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on the International Mother Earth Day
Content: 22 April 2021
On International Mother Earth Day, let us all commit to the hard work of restoring our planet and making peace with nature.
As we mark International Mother Earth Day, our planet is at a tipping point.
Humanity continues to abuse the natural world.
We heedlessly plunder the Earth’s resources, deplete its wildlife and treat air, land and seas as dumping grounds.
Crucial ecosystems and food chains are being pushed to the brink of collapse.
This is suicidal.
We must end our war on nature and nurse it back to health.
That means bold climate action to limit global temperature rise to 1.5 degree Celsius and adapt to the changes to come.
It means stronger steps to protect biodiversity.
And it means reducing pollution by building circular economies that drive down waste.
These steps will safeguard our only home and create millions of new jobs.
Recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic is a chance to set the world on a cleaner, greener, more sustainable path.
On International Mother Earth Day, let us all commit to the hard work of restoring our planet and making peace with nature.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/176702-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-mother-earth-day




Date: 07 April 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on World Health Day
Content: 07 April 2021
On this World Health Day, let us commit to work together for a healthy, equitable world.
On this World Health Day, we highlight the inequalities and injustices of our health systems.
The COVID-19 crisis has revealed how unequal our societies are.
Within countries, illness and death from COVID-19 has been higher among people and communities that contend with poverty, unfavourable living and working conditions, discrimination and social exclusion.
Globally, the vast majority of vaccine doses administered have been in a few wealthy countries or those producing vaccines.
Thanks to the COVAX initiative, more nations are now beginning to receive vaccine supplies, but most people in low- and middle-income countries still must watch and wait.
Such inequities are immoral, and they are dangerous for our health, our economies and our societies.
As we recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, we must implement policies and allocate resources so all can enjoy the same health outcomes.
That means achieving the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.
And it means delivering universal health coverage so everyone, everywhere, can thrive.
On this World Health Day, let us commit to work together for a healthy, equitable world.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/124176-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-world-health-day




Date: 02 April 2021
Title: বিশ্ব অটিজম সচেনতা দিবস উপলক্ষ্যে জাতিসংঘ মহাসচিব এন্তোনিও গুতেরেস-এর বাণী
Content: 02 April 2021
জাতিসংঘ মহাসচিব এন্তোনিও গুতেরেস বিশ্ব অটিজম সচেনতা দিবস উপলক্ষ্যে প্রদত্ত বার্তায় একটি অন্তর্ভুক্তিমূলক ও সহজপ্রাপ্য বিশ্ব গড়ে তোলার আহবান জানিয়েছেন যেখানে প্রতিবন্ধী ব্যক্তিসহ সকল মানুষের অবদানকে স্বীকৃতি দেয়া হবে।
কোভিড-১৯ মহামারী থেকে পুনরুদ্ধারের জন্য আমরা একসাথে কাজ করার সাথে সাথে একটি মূল লক্ষ্য অবশ্যই অর্জন করতে হবে আর তা হলো একটি অন্তর্ভুক্তিমূলক ও সহজপ্রাপ্য বিশ্ব গড়ে তোলা যেখানে প্রতিবন্ধী ব্যক্তি সহ সকল মানুষের অবদানকে স্বীকৃতি দেয়া হবে।
সংকটটি নতুন বাধা ও বিপত্তি তৈরি করেছে। তবে বৈশ্বিক অর্থনীতিকে পুনর্জীবিত করার প্রচেষ্টাগুলোর মধ্য দিয়ে কর্মক্ষেত্রসমূহে বৈচিত্র্য, সর্বব্যাপীতা এবং সাম্যকে বাস্তবে পরিণত করার সুযোগ তৈরী হয়েছে।
মহামারী সংকট থেকে উত্তরণের এই প্রক্রিয়ার মধ্যে আমাদের শিক্ষা ও প্রশিক্ষণ ব্যবস্থায় অটিজমে আক্রান্ত ব্যক্তিগণ তাদের তৈরি সুবিধাগুলোর সম্ভাব্যতা উপলব্ধি করতে পারছেন কিনা তা পুনর্বিবেচনা করার সুযোগ সৃষ্টি হয়েছে।
পুরাতন পদ্ধতি ভেঙ্গে ফেলা অত্যন্ত গুরুত্বপুর্ণ। অটিজম আক্রান্ত ব্যক্তিদের জন্য সাম্যের ভিত্তিতে উপযুক্ত কাজের জন্য একটি পরিবেশ তৈরির পাশাপাশি গ্রহণযোগ্য আবাসনের সংস্থান করা প্রয়োজন।
সত্যিকার অর্থে কাউকে পেছনে না ফেলে টেকসই উন্নয়নের ২০৩০ এজেন্ডা বাস্তবায়ন করতে আমাদের অবশ্যই সামাজিক, সাংস্কৃতিক এবং অর্থনৈতিক জীবনে অটিজম আক্রান্ত ব্যক্তিদের সম্পূর্ণ অংশগ্রহণ নিশ্চিত করা সহ সকল প্রতিবন্ধী ব্যক্তিদের অধিকার উপলব্ধি করতে হবে।
আসুন আমরা সকল প্রতিবন্ধী ব্যক্তি এবং তাদের প্রতিনিধিত্বকারী সংস্থাগুলির সাথে আরও দৃঢ়ভাবে কাজ করি, যাতে বিভিন্ন উদ্ভাবনী সমাধানের মাধ্যমে শ্রেয়তরভাবে পুনরুদ্ধার এবং সকলের জন্য আরো সুন্দর একটি পৃথিবী গড়ে তোলা যায়।
ধন্যবাদ।
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/123846-%E0%A6%AC%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%B6%E0%A7%8D%E0%A6%AC-%E0%A6%85%E0%A6%9F%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%9C%E0%A6%AE-%E0%A6%B8%E0%A6%9A%E0%A7%87%E0%A6%A8%E0%A6%A4%E0%A6%BE-%E0%A6%A6%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AC%E0%A6%B8-%E0%A6%89%E0%A6%AA%E0%A6%B2%E0%A6%95%E0%A7%8D%E0%A6%B7%E0%A7%8D%E0%A6%AF%E0%A7%87-%E0%A6%9C%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%A4%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%B8%E0%A6%82%E0%A6%98-%E0%A6%AE%E0%A6%B9%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%B8%E0%A6%9A%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AC-%E0%A6%8F%E0%A6%A8%E0%A7%8D%E0%A6%A4%E0%A7%8B%E0%A6%A8%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%93-%E0%A6%97%E0%A7%81%E0%A6%A4%E0%A7%87%E0%A6%B0%E0%A7%87%E0%A6%B8-%E0%A6%8F%E0%A6%B0-%E0%A6%AC%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%A3%E0%A7%80




Date: 29 March 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General António Guterres’s Message on the Occasion of Bangladesh’s 50th Anniversary of Independence
Content: 29 March 2021
Watch the full video here: https://tinyurl.com/bds443td
I send warm greetings and congratulations to the government and people of Bangladesh on the fiftieth anniversary of their independence.
The people of Bangladesh have made tremendous strides over the past five decades, particularly on issues of social development and disaster preparedness. I congratulate you on this progress, including your forthcoming graduation from the category of Least Developed Countries.
Bangladesh is playing a valuable role on the world stage as the largest troop contributor to United Nations peacekeeping operations; Chair of the Climate Vulnerable Forum; and host to hundreds of thousands of Rohingya refugees from Myanmar.
The United Nations is your steadfast partner in all these areas. We will continue to stand with Bangladesh in tackling the climate crisis and working for the Sustainable Development Goals.
I send you my best wishes on your Golden Jubilee.
Thank you.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/123460-un-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-occasion-bangladesh%E2%80%99s-50th-anniversary




Date: 08 March 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s Message on International Women’s Day
Content: 08 March 2021
It is time to build an equal future. This is a job for everyone – and for the benefit of everyone.
The COVID-19 pandemic has erased decades of progress towards gender equality.
From high job losses to exploding burdens of unpaid care, from disrupted schooling to an escalating crisis of domestic violence and exploitation, women’s lives have been upended and their rights eroded.
Mothers – especially single mothers – have faced acute anxiety and adversity.
The consequences will far outlast the pandemic.
But women have also been on the frontlines of pandemic response.
They are the essential workers keeping people alive and holding economies, communities and families together.
They are among the leaders who have kept prevalence rates lower, and countries on track for recovery.
This year’s International Women’s Day highlights the transformative power of women’s equal participation.
We are seeing it ourselves at the United Nations, where I am proud that we have achieved gender parity in UN leadership posts for the first time in history.
The evidence is clear.
When women lead in government, we see bigger investments in social protection and greater inroads against poverty.
When women are in parliament, countries adopt more stringent climate change policies.
When women are at the peace table, agreements are more enduring.
And with women now serving in equal numbers at the top leadership posts at the United Nations, we are seeing even more concerted action to secure peace, sustainable development and human rights.
In a male-dominated world with a male-dominated culture, gender equality is essentially a question of power.
Males are an essential part of the solution.
I call on countries, companies and institutions to adopt special measures and quotas to advance women’s equal participation and achieve rapid change.
As we recover from the pandemic, support and stimulus packages must target women and girls specifically, including through investments in women-owned businesses and the care economy.
Pandemic recovery is our chance to leave behind generations of exclusion and inequalities.
Whether running a country, a business or a popular movement, women are making contributions that are delivering for all and driving progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals.
It is time to build an equal future. This is a job for everyone – and for the benefit of everyone.
Thank you.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/115240-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres%E2%80%99s-message-international-women%E2%80%99s-day




Date: 03 January 2021
Title: SDG Impact Accelerator is accepting financial inclusion application
Content: 03 January 2021
The SDG Impact Accelerator (SDGia) is Turkey’s first global impact accelerator built by a public-private partnership platform to empower innovative entrepreneurs who are providing impact at scale.
SDGia Financial Inclusion call is open now for teams from all around the world. The program aims an urgent transformation of the current #financial system in Bangladesh with innovative solutions for #financialinclusion from global and local entrepreneurs.
Financial Inclusion call is led by the @Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, @UNDP Turkey, and @United Nations Technology Bank for LDCs with the support of government institutions of Bangladesh and Startup Bangladesh.
SDGia Financial Inclusion call is open now for teams from all around the world. The program aims an urgent transformation of the current #financial system in Bangladesh with innovative solutions for #financialinclusion from global and local entrepreneurs.
SDG Impact Accelerator is accepting financial inclusion application this year:
Are you ready to implement or test your solution with the support of local institutions and additional investment?
Receive up to $15K equity free cash, access SDGia’s global network, implement your solution with local support
SDGia is looking for entrepreneurs who are working on solutions related to financial inclusion in Bangladesh and the accelerator is offering $15,000 and access to networks and mentoring to help scale up solutions.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: JANUARY 22TH, 2021 23:59 (GMT+3)
Here is the website with further information: https://www.sdgia.org/
FINANCIAL INCLUSION FOR BANGLADESH
Financial inclusion is a critical enabler of 8 SDGs focusing on eradicating poverty (SDG 1); ending hunger, achieving food security and promoting sustainable agriculture (SDG 2); profiting health and well-being (SDG 3); achieving gender equality and economic empowerment of women (SDG 5); promoting economic growth and jobs (SDG 8); supporting industry, innovation, and infrastructure (SDG 9); reducing inequality (SDG 10) ; and strengthening the means of implementation (SDG 17). The program aims an urgent transformation of the current financial system with innovative solutions after COVID-19 from global and local entrepreneurs.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/106795-sdg-impact-accelerator-accepting-financial-inclusion-application




Date: 02 December 2020
Title: Press Statement
Content: 02 December 2020
United Nations Statement on the Relocation of Rohingya Refugees to Bhasan Char
Dhaka, 02 December 2020: The United Nations is aware of reports that the Government of Bangladesh may begin the initial movements of Rohingya refugees from Cox’s Bazar to Bhasan Char in the Bay of Bengal in the coming days. The United Nations has not been involved in preparations for this movement or the identification of refugees and has limited information on the overall relocation exercise.
The United Nations takes this opportunity to highlight its longstanding position that Rohingya refugees must be able to make a free and informed decision about relocating to Bhasan Char based upon relevant, accurate and updated information. The Government has indicated that movements to the island will be voluntary, and the United Nations calls on the Government to respect this important commitment.
The United Nations has also emphasised that refugees who choose to move to Bhasan Char should have basic rights and services on the island, which would include effective freedom of movement to and from the mainland, as well as  access to education, health care, and livelihood opportunities. This would help to lay the foundations for a productive and secure community on Bhasan Char.
Since the Government announced the Bhasan Char project, the United Nations has offered to engage in constructive consultations aimed at better understanding the plan and considering with the Government the most critical policy, process and operational issues. The United Nations remains willing to continue this dialogue.
The United Nations has also consistently maintained that any relocations to Bhasan Char should be preceded by comprehensive technical protection assessments. These independent United Nations assessments would review the safety, feasibility and sustainability of Bhasan Char as a place for refugees to live, as well as the framework for protection and the assistance and services they would be able to access on the island.
The United Nations is prepared to proceed with the technical and protection assessments, if permitted by the Government. These assessments would be the concrete next step in determining whether the United Nations can engage operationally with the Government’s Bhasan Char project. If so, further work would then need to follow in order to develop plans and budgets, in consultation with the Government and national and international NGO partners, as well as with the international donors whose support makes the Rohingya humanitarian response possible in Bangladesh.
The United Nations remains focused on supporting the Government’s leading role in delivering an effective and efficient humanitarian programme for the nearly 900,000 Rohingya refugees living in the Cox’s Bazar settlements, while also intensively working toward solutions for them, including through their safe, voluntary, dignified and sustainable return to Myanmar.
The United Nations appreciates the generosity and humanitarian spirit of the Government and People of Bangladesh in offering safety and shelter to the Rohingya refugees and remains committed to our partnership in a humanitarian response that has saved many thousands of lives and supported many more.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/103285-press-statement




Date: 19 October 2020
Title: Joint Statement on Field visit in flood-impacted districts
Content: 19 October 2020
International Community in Bangladesh visits districts affected by the severe floods combined with the impact of COVID-19 and urges all partners to step-up their support to ensure the quick recovery of affected communities
Representatives of the international community in Bangladesh including the Head of the European Commission's Directorate-General for European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations (ECHO), the Senior Humanitarian Advisor of the British High Commission Dhaka, the Head of Country Office of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), the UN Women Representative, the Programme Advisor to the World Food Programme (WFP) and the United Nations Resident Coordinator – today concluded a three-day visit to the Northern districts.
“This year’s prolonged monsoon floods were a stark reminder that Bangladesh is truly at the forefront of the climate emergency. With over 5.4 million people directly affected, the impact of the 2020 monsoon floods on lives and livelihoods calls for an urgent enhancement of climate adaptation programmes for upgrading the resilience of communities and infrastructures in view of tomorrow’s more extreme and more frequent climate-related events” said Mia Seppo, United Nations Resident Coordinator.
“Early action ahead of these climate disasters is more important than ever to support the livelihoods of some of the most resilient people in the world. Across the country, thousands of Bangladesh Red Crescent volunteers are playing a critical role, working in their communities alongside Government, the UN and along with national and international organisations as climate disasters deepen the impacts of the COVID-19 crisis on women, older people and those most vulnerable,” said Azmat Ulla, IFRC’s Head of Bangladesh Office.
“Anticipatory early actions, shock-responsiveness and adaptations to multiple hazards are essential to contain the impact of shocks and support early recovery.” said Jo Jacobsen, WFP Programme Advisor.
“Our visit to several flood-affected districts highlighted the remaining humanitarian and recovery needs for which urgent funding is still required, notably to support children, women, elderly and people with disabilities. Unattended, the impact of the floods -combined with those of COVID-19 - on the most vulnerable populations will have long-lasting consequences on the resilience of these communities. Humanitarian needs cannot wait, nor can recovery with ever shorter time between shocks. Development partners need to step up to ensure the most vulnerable people can cope and prosper, as well as fully participate in the recovery process” highlighted Nick Harvey of the United Kingdom’s Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office.
“We saw the difference that focusing on women’s empowerment and gender equality makes when addressing life-saving and development needs of a community. Women have distinctive needs and our interventions should promote women’s meaningful participation in consultations, decision-making and planning processes of disaster management and response” emphasised Shoko Ishikawa, UN Women Representative.
During the visit, we have met with several local disaster management committees and civil society organisations engaged in the response. Daniela D'UrsoECHO’s Head of Office stressed on “the importance of inclusive and resourced disaster management structures at the local level in line with the Standing Orders on Disaster (SOD)”.
The UN, IFRC, ECHO and UK acknowledge that the Government of Bangladesh has strong disaster management systems in place and appreciate the opportunity of working with the Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief and other Government agencies and partners to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the packages of support provided to the affected populations.

19 October 2020
Rangpur
END

Background:The humanitarian community is supporting Bangladesh’s national authorities in delivering assistance to the most vulnerable communities as per their responsibilities reflected in the 2019 Standing Orders on Disaster (SoD). In anticipation of the flood and in close coordination with the working group on Forecast-based Financing led by the Bangladesh Red Crescent Society (BDRCS) and with the support of the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF), partners innovated with the implementation of a set of anticipatory actions. Considering the exceptional nature of this year’s floods, the Humanitarian Coordination Task Team (HCTT) led by the Government of Bangladesh and the United Nations activated its Humanitarian Preparedness and Response Plan in line with its contingency plan for climate-related disasters during the COVID-19 pandemic. On 4 August 2020, the HCTT launched a 9-month Humanitarian Response Plan which is currently 25% funded.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/96317-joint-statement-field-visit-flood-impacted-districts




Date: 13 October 2020
Title: Disaster risk governance in Cox’s Bazar makes communities in and around Rohingya refugee camps more resilient
Content: 13 October 2020
Every year on 13 October, International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction places a spotlight on how people and communities around the world are reducing their exposure to disasters.
This year’s historic monsoon floods were a stark reminder that Bangladesh is truly at the forefront of the climate emergency. The floods were the second highest since 1989 and the second longest since the 1998. With over 5.4 million people directly affected, the impact of the 2020 monsoon floods on lives and livelihoods certainly call for an urgent enhancement of climate adaptation programmes for upgrading the resilience of infrastructures and communities in view of tomorrow’s more extreme and more frequent climate-related events. Given the fast-evolving context, all partners should strengthen their collaboration on risks assessment and risk analysis processes to reduce and to mitigate risks associated with infrastructure development and climate-related events in line with the HumanitarianDevelopment Nexus.
In Cox’s Bazar District, Bangladesh, the Inter Sector Coordination Group (ISCG) partners – national and international NGOs and UN agencies –work intensively throughout the year with Rohingya refugee and Bangladeshi volunteers to mitigate impacts on communities from heavy rains and strong winds during the monsoon and cyclone seasons. Volunteers are at the centre of the disaster risk reduction response in Cox’s Bazar and are engaged in a wide range of mitigation activities in the camps and surrounding host communities.
From providing early warning and rescuing persons from drowning to stabilizing slopes on the hilly terrain to constructing safe pathways, Rohingya and Bangladeshi volunteers are working together to protect communities and save lives while also safeguarding the environment. Humanitarian partners ensure that volunteers are able to maintain COVID-19 infection prevention and control measures. “We trained together with the Rohingya so that they could learn the ways our people have dealt with natural disasters. We shared and discussed with them our experiences,” explained Mahmud, a Bangladeshi Cyclone Preparedness Programme Volunteer.
The humanitarian community has in place a 72-hour response plan for an extreme weather events, such as cyclones. The plan was developed in 2018 in cooperation the Government of Bangladesh, and in line with the Government’s Standing Orders on Disaster. “The humanitarian community has collaborated closely with authorities in Cox’s Bazar, building on years of local experience with natural disasters and established disaster risk governance. This has led to fewer injuries, less displacements and more resilient communities in and around the camps,” said Peter Kern, ISCG Acting Senior Coordinator.
Host communities and nearly 860,000 Rohingya refugees face extreme weather events throughout the year, impacting their lives. The region is also impacted by climate change, which has affected the annual monsoon and cyclone season. Under the leadership of the Government of Bangladesh, the humanitarian partners and the Rohingya refugee and neighboring Bangladeshi communities are better prepared for disasters this year compared to previous years. Generous contributions from the international community to the 2020 Joint Response Plan (JRP) for Rohingya Humanitarian Crisis make this possible. The 2020 Joint Response plan, which is so far 48.2 percent funded, remains vital to sustain life-saving preparedness and response efforts for extreme weather events, which have become more challenging during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Bangladesh has an excellent track record in disaster management and, the country is a striking example of effective adaptation to climate change. With the support of the United Nations and the humanitarian community, the 2010 Standing Orders on Disaster (SOD) were revised last year and, the English translation of the 2019 SOD has now been released. The cluster approach is embedded into the disaster management protocols in line with international best practices.
A handbookon humanitarian coordination and collaboration in Bangladesh for climate-related disasters was published by the Office of the Resident Coordinator in collaboration with UKAid to mark the International Disaster Reduction Day. The handbook is a tool for any organization willing to support Bangladesh’s authorities and communities to prepare for, to respond to and to bounce back from shocks.

END

Media contact:
Mohammad Moniruzzaman, National Information Officer, UN Information Centre, Dhaka,
moniruzzamanm@un.orgCell: +880 1716-302568

International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction History (13 October):
The International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction was started in 1989, after a call by the United Nations General Assembly for a day to promote a global culture of risk-awareness and disaster reduction. Held every 13 October, the day celebrates how people and communities around the world are reducing their exposure to disasters and raising awareness about the importance of reining in the risks that they face.

For more info: https://www.un.org/en/observances/disaster-reduction-day
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/95634-disaster-risk-governance-cox%E2%80%99s-bazar-makes-communities-and-around-rohingya-refugee-camps-more




Date: 24 September 2020
Title: International Community in Bangladesh Visit Cox’s Bazar, Reiterate Support for Bangladesh and Commitment to Rohingya Response
Content: 24 September 2020
Representatives of the international community in Bangladesh, concluded a two-day visit to Cox’s Bazar and the Rohingya refugee camps.
Representatives of the international community in Bangladesh – including  Ambassadors of the United States and the European Union, the British High Commissioner, the Head of Humanitarian Aid of the Canadian High Commission,  the Country Director of the World Bank, and the United Nations Resident Coordinator – today concluded a two-day visit to Cox’s Bazar and the Rohingya refugee camps.
“After months of necessary COVID-19 restrictions, we are here with our partners to reaffirm our solidarity with Bangladesh and support for the Rohingya refugees and the communities generously hosting them.  We have seen how the decisive action taken by the authorities has slowed the spread of COVID-19, and with the support of the international community, an effective and life-saving response continues,” said Mia Seppo, United Nations Resident Coordinator.
The U.S Ambassador, Earl Miller, added“The Rohingya crisis remains an important priority for the United States just as it is for Bangladesh and our other international partners, and even more so in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. Since 2017, the United States has contributed nearly $800 million to support the humanitarian efforts including specific funding to support Bangladesh host communities in Cox’s Bazar District.  Some two thirds of the total global funding to the Rohingya response has been provided by the donor countries on this visit. At the same time, we continue working toward solutions and the safe, voluntary, and dignified repatriation of refugees to Myanmar.”

During discussions with the delegation, refugees shared how the COVID-19 situation is impacting their daily lives and how they see the future. “Refugees have continued to play a critical role in helping their own communities protect themselves against COVID-19.  They are the backbone of the response and their contributions should be fully recognised,” highlighted Canada’s Head of Humanitarian Aid,Phedra Moon Morris.
In the course of their field visits, the delegation visited Severe Acute Respiratory Isolation and Treatment Centres – of which there are now 14 with nearly 1,000 treatment beds –set up to treat COVID-19 patients, both Bangladeshis and Rohingya, as well as COVID-19 testing centres.

The delegation also visited temporary learning centres, which have been temporarily closed due to COVID-19, leading to a reported increase in hopelessness among refugees, violence against children, and increased rates of child marriage and labour. The delegation discussed with the authorities the importance of the safe reopening of these and other facilities in a phased manner.
The delegation also discussed and observed efforts to keep the camps and surrounding areas safe and secure in Cox’s Bazar.  “The authorities continue to play an absolutely critical role in ensuring the safety and security of the Rohingya settlements and the host communities.  With any additional and necessary measures, we encourage full humanitarian access be maintained to the camps and that consultations with affected communities continue to take place,” said British High Commissioner, Robert Chatterton Dickson.
The delegation also spoke with Government officials about the Bhasan Char project.  “While the first recent “go and see” visit was a welcome step, it would also be important that the proposed UN technical and protection assessments are also able to proceed, as well as the separate humanitarian and protection visits to assess the situation for the 306 refugees already relocated there,” said E.U. Ambassador, RensjeTeerink.
In all their discussions, the members of the delegation assured the authorities of their unwavering commitment to support the Rohingya refugee response and affected Bangladeshis communities.  “We have been with Bangladesh since the early days of this crisis and will continue to scale up development assistance to Cox’s Bazar, having already provided more than half a billion dollars in grants. This crisis cannot and will not be forgotten,” said World Bank Country Director, Mercy Tembon.

In closing, the delegation commended Bangladesh’s generosity in hosting the Rohingya population and agreed that returns must be voluntary, safe and dignified. The delegation reiterated that the solution to this crisis lay in Myanmar and that required for the root causes of the crisis to be addressed. Holding perpetrators of the atrocities committed against the Rohingya people in Rakhine state to account would contribute to giving the refugees the confidence to return home, they highlighted.
24 September 2020
Cox’s Bazar
END

For further information please contact:
+880 1847-327276,ext.rel@iscgcxb.org,

+880 1716-302568, moniruzzamanm@un.org
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/92397-international-community-bangladesh-visit-cox%E2%80%99s-bazar-reiterate-support-bangladesh-and




Date: 22 September 2020
Title: Humanitarian community in Bangladesh welcomes the Government’s decision to expand access to education for Rohingya refugee children
Content: 22 September 2020
Dhaka, 28 January 2020: The United Nations and humanitarian community welcomes the decision of the Government of Bangladesh at its recent National Task Force meeting on the Rohingya situation, chaired by the Foreign Secretary, Mr. Masud Bin Momen, to expand access to education for Rohingya children and adolescents living in the settlements in Cox’s Bazar.

We believe this is a positive step and a clear indication of the commitment by the Government of Bangladesh to ensure access to learning for Rohingya children and adolescents, as well as to equip them with the right skills and capacities for their future and return to Myanmar when the conditions allow.

In line with the Government’s decision, the Education Sector for the humanitarian response in Cox’s Bazar now plans to pilot the introduction of the Myanmar curriculum in the Rohingya refugee camps starting in April, initially targeting 10,000 Rohingya students in grades 6 to 9. The use of the Myanmar curriculum will be expanded to other grades in a phased manner.

These efforts will help to accelerate an expansion of education particularly to older children, make the content of education more relevant for refugees and allow us to more comprehensively meet the educational wishes of the Rohingya people. When conditions become conducive and refugees are able to return to Myanmar in a safe, dignified and sustainable way, these efforts will also help children reintegrate into the Myanmar education system and society. In Myanmar’s Rakhine State, the UN and partners will also, to the extent possible, continue to provide educational support and assistance to Rohingya and other affected communities.

To date, the Education Sector in Cox’s Bazar has provided informal education opportunities to 324,000 Rohingya children aged 4 to 14 years based on the Learning Competency Framework and Approach (LCFA). In addition, over 10,000 Rohingya adolescents aged 15 to 18 years have received literacy, numeracy, life-skills and vocational skills training.

Save the Children
Athena Rayburn
Tel: +8801311105974 Email: athena.rayburn@savethechildren.org

UNHCR
Mostafa Mohammad Sazzad Hossain

Education plays a key role in every child’s development, but it is even more critical in the current situation of displacement for Rohingya children, adolescents and youths. Without adequate opportunities for learning and hope for the future, they will be more exposed to risks of trafficking, child marriage, exploitation and abuse.

In the host communities, skills training has been provided for out-of-school Bangladeshi adolescents from among the poorest families. Bangladeshi adolescents have also been enrolled in vocational training programmes, learning different practical and technical skills. Further to the Government’s decision, the humanitarian actors in Cox’s Bazar will now reinforce learning opportunities to children and youths in both the host communities and the camps.

The United Nations and humanitarian community are able to provide education for Rohingya children thanks to support from Development Partners.

For further information please contact:
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/91997-humanitarian-community-bangladesh-welcomes-government%E2%80%99s-decision-expand-access-education




Date: 28 March 2020
Title: Press Statement on COVID -19
Content: 28 March 2020
Press Statement on COVID-19  issued by UN in Bangladesh
Dhaka, 28 March 2020 - The Country Preparedness and Response Plan is a planning document prepared jointly by the United Nations in Bangladesh and concerned government counterparts with participation of a number of civil society partners and other actors. In line with WHO global guidance, the purpose of the document is to mobilize the United Nations agencies and partners in support of the Government’s response to the global COVID-19 pandemic.
The Government of Bangladesh, in partnership with the United Nations, civil society and the private sector, has rapidly operationalized many interventions including enforced quarantine and isolation; intensified risk communication; social distancing; social protection; and the closure of schools and public spaces. The globally accepted modeling techniques guiding this document use an assumption of no interventions to stem to spread of the virus in order to portray the possible magnitude of the outbreak. The United Nations is fully supportive of the measures the Government of Bangladesh has been taking to slow the spread of COVID-19.
The virus can spread rapidly if preventative measures are not put in place quickly. We therefore urge everyone to comply with these measures. This will allow extra time for the Government and its partners, including the United Nations agencies, civil society and the private sector, to strengthen medical capacity across the country and support the Government of Bangladesh in suppressing the pandemic.



Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/41895-press-statement-covid-19




Date: 06 January 2020
Title: Statement to the press by Secretary-General António Guterres
Content: 06 January 2020
The New Year has begun with our world in turmoil.
We are living in dangerous times.
Geopolitical tensions are at their highest level this century.
And this turbulence is escalating.
Even nuclear non-proliferation can no longer be taken for granted.
This cauldron of tensions is leading more and more countries to take unpredicted decisions with unpredictable consequences and a profound risk of miscalculation.
At the same time, we see trade and technological conflicts that fracture world markets, undermine growth and widen inequalities.
And all the while, our planet is on fire.  The climate crisis rages on.
In many parts of the world, we see many people frustrated and angry.  We see increased social unrest and growing extremism, nationalism and radicalization, with a dangerous advance of terrorism, notably in Africa.
This situation cannot go on.
I have been following the recent rise in global tensions with great concern.
I am in constant contact with leading officials around the world.
My message is simple and clear:
Stop escalation.
Exercise maximum restraint.
Re-start dialogue.
Renew international cooperation.
Let us not forget the terrible human suffering caused by war.  As always, ordinary people pay the highest price.  It is our common duty to avoid it.
Thank you.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/30805-statement-press-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres




Date: 02 January 2020
Title: Press Release: UN75 Launch
Content: 02 January 2020
January 1, 2020 saw the launch of the UN75 initiative - the largest, most inclusive conversation on the role of global cooperation in building a better future for all. The initiative will see the UN spark dialogues throughout 2020 in diverse settings across the world.
In a ‘global reality check’, four innovative data streams will build the first ever repository of crowd-sourced solutions to major global challenges.
The UN75 dialogues together with a ‘One-minute Survey’ that anyone can take, opinion polling in 50 countries and artificial intelligence sentiment analysis of traditional and social media in 70 countries, will generate compelling data to inform national and international policies and debate.
In calling for participation, the Secretary-General said: “No country, no community, is able to solve the complex problems of our world alone. We need to come together, not only to talk, but to listen. It is absolutely essential that you all join the conversation. We need your opinion, your strategies and your ideas for us to be able to deliver better for the people of the world that we must serve.”
Intended to engage constituencies across borders, sectors and generations, the UN75 team is collaborating with a wide multi-sector network, including the UN Resident Coordinators, for a diverse and global reach, and for dialogues to be convened in every country of the world.
In a global listening exercise, with an emphasis on youth and groups not already engaged with the UN, the UN75 initiative aims to better understand expectations of international cooperation in light of pressing global challenges.
The views and ideas that are generated will be presented, by the Secretary-General, to world leaders and senior UN officials on September 21, 2020, at a high-level event to mark the 75th anniversary.
To inspire and inform the dialogues the UN is also partnering with Vox Media’s brand studio, Vox Creative to create a video informed by interviews with 38 people from around the world, sharing their experiences and opinions related to important global issues, to be launched January 6, 2020.
Those who want to be a part of the conversation - physically or online – can see how to join through the website: www.un.org/UN75.
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/30806-press-release-un75-launch




Date: 29 August 2019
Title: UN’s Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) allocates five million USD to assist Female-Headed Households affected by the floods
Content: 29 August 2019
Dhaka - Following the severe flooding caused by monsoon rains in July, the UN’s Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) has allocated five million US dollars (US$ 5 million) to complement the Government’s response to the people in need. The CERF allocation will provide assistance to 43,000 Female-Headed Households in Jamalpur district in Mymensingh division and, in Gaibandha and Kurigram districts in Rangpur division.
Following a Joint Needs Assessment undertaken in partnership with the Government of Bangladesh, international and national NGOs, IFRC and UN Agencies, the humanitarian community developed a response and recovery plan to supplement the on-going national response. The plan seeks US$ 27 million to assist 736,000 people in Bandarban, Bogura, Gaibandha, Jamalpur, Kurigram, Sirajganj, Sunamganj, Sylhet and Tangail.
As is often the case during natural disasters, women and girls are the hardest hit. Therefore, the CERF-funded projects have a strong focus on women and girls and they are expected to strengthen their resilience through the rebuilding of livelihoods destroyed by the floods said United Nations Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh, Ms. Mia Seppo. The CERF funding is provided to six UN agencies: FAO, UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women and WFP under the leadership of the UN Resident Coordinator. The targeted Female-Headed Households will benefit from emergency WASH interventions, Health and Protection interventions as well as food and livelihood assistance. Those displaced will benefit from a complementary life-saving intervention in the form of emergency shelter assistance in order to rebuild their houses.
Many national and international NGOs including members of the Start Fund Bangladesh are supporting the national response notably: CRS, GBF, GUK, APUS, MJSKS, MMS, ERA, SRAC, PUS, BRAC, TDH, Friendship, SKS, Solidarites, ASOD, NDP, CARE, Concern Worldwide, Christian Aid, Islamic Relief, Muslim Aid, Aid Comilla, HelpAge, ActionAid, Caritas Bangladesh, World Vision, United Purpose, Save the Children, Habitat for Humanity, Plan Bangladesh, Oxfam, DAM and BNKS. The UN welcomes the contributions from partners to complement the government’s response and to facilitate a quick and smooth recovery process for all the persons affected before the next monsoon season
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
House no. 08, Road no. 54/A
Gulshan 2,  Dhaka-1212
URL: https://bangladesh.un.org/en/30808-un%E2%80%99s-central-emergency-response-fund-cerf-allocates-five-million-usd-assist-female-headed




