Date: 26 July 2023
Title: United Nations in Belarus hosts a meeting of the UN Resident Coordinator a.i in Belarus with the National SDG Coordinator
Content: 26 July 2023
During the meeting the UN Resident Coordinator a.i and the National SDG Coordinator discussed preparations for the next meeting of the Council of Sustainable Development in August, where the UN will be presenting results of its work in 2022, as well as for the forthcoming 2023 SDG Summit in New York.
The UN in Belarus values Belarus’ commitment to SDGs and for incorporating SDGs in its national programme documents and the meeting of the SDG Council is a good opportunity to have an open discussion with national partners, which also helps to have a better understanding of the national needs and priorities.
“The Council of Sustainable Development has potential to be even more collaborative, if multi-stakeholder engagement is expanded, including civil society organizations, which will be also in line with SDG implementation”, said Erol Arduç.
The SDG Summit which will take place on 18-19 September in New York is aimed to serve as a wake-up call to all countries, and to remind that it is vital to keep the promise of SDGs and that acceleration is needed.
The UN Secretary-General encourages Member States to put forward commitments on national and global levels. On a national level Member States are encouraged to outline a forward-looking National Commitment to SDG Transformation at the SDG Summit.
In accordance with the SDG Index, Belarus is well-positioned, ranked 34 out of 166 countries, with almost 78 per cent progress to SDGs completed. At the same time, Belarus should be even more ambitious in its commitments to SDGs.
“The UN in Belarus is willing to support Belarus in the process of re-assessing its SDG ambitions to identify evidence based and concrete areas, where additional acceleration is needed and increased commitments are possible. This work can be interlinked with the ongoing preparation of the National Strategy for Sustainable Development until 2040”, stressed the UN Resident Coordinator a.i in Belarus during the meeting.
Joint work of the national partners and UN can highly contribute to the preparation of the National Strategy for Sustainable Development until 2040, while at the SDG Summit in September 2023, Belarus might indicate its evolving work with UN regarding SDG Transformation with the aim to present its results during the Summit of the Future (September 2024) and potential incorporation of increased SDG targets in the National Strategy for Sustainable Development until 2040.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/240360-united-nations-belarus-hosts-meeting-un-resident-coordinator-ai-belarus-national-sdg




Date: 22 February 2023
Title: New research suggests solutions to improve food security and support sustainable agriculture
Content: 22 February 2023
A new UNDP study offers concrete solutions to improve agriculture and food security.nt.
Creating a world free of hunger by 2030 is at the core of the Global Agenda 2030. The SDG’s Goal 17 "End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture" is one of the world's most pressing targets to meet.
In 2021, the UN Secretary-General António Guterres convened a global Food Systems Summit and launched bold new actions to deliver progress on all 17 SDGs, each of which touches upon on healthier, more sustainable and equitable food systems.
With the onset of the war in Ukraine, the situation continues to deteriorate, and the 2022 State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World report warned that “the world is moving in the wrong direction” on the SDG targets to end hunger, food insecurity, and all forms of malnutrition”.
Belarus occupies 55th place on the 2022 Global Food Security Index, indicating the country’s high level of food security.
To sustain the level of food security, the country needs to anticipate risks and build resilience to external economic pressures by continuously improving the sector of agriculture and food production.
The new study undertaken by UNDP in cooperation with Ministry of Agriculture and Food looks at the risks to food security and sustainable agriculture and identifies key areas for the food and agriculture industries’ enhancement. The experts come up with practical recommendations in the areas of state support, taxes, food distribution, supply chains and logistics.
On state support, the study recommends optimizing the state support and regulation in the field of agro-industrial complex, establishing clear rules for subsidizing agricultural production and applying actively the so-called green box measures for food production.
Regarding taxes, experts advocate for a tax burden reduction in agriculture.
On support to agricultural producers and SMEs the report recommends using budgetary funds on a competitive basis for partial reimbursement of the costs of agricultural organizations; financial support for SMEs; and diversify implementation of investment projects.
Experts make also recommendations on food distribution, arguing to ensure wage growth in the sector and prioritize the food needs of the vulnerable groups.
All findings of the research can contribute to improvement of the national programs of sustainable rural development for 2011–2015, agricultural business development for 2016–2020 and the Agricultural Business program for 2021–2025 - bit.ly/3xJxNDX.
The study is part of the joint UN analytical effort by United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), UN Women and the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus with funding by the Joint Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Fund.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/220276-new-research-suggests-solutions-improve-food-security-and-support-sustainable-agriculture




Date: 17 December 2022
Title: Head of Belarusian Helsinki Committee Aleh Hulak dies
Content: 17 December 2022
Sad news about the passing of Oleg Hulak reached us unexpectedly last night. It is hard to believe and process what happened.
Oleg was one of the leading human rights experts in Belarus, specializing in the UN human rights system, treaty bodies and special procedures. For many years he cooperated closely with this Office, helping to integrate HR principles in various aspects of development cooperation. He played an active role in preparation of the national HR Action Plan, also worked with us in promoting human rights-based programming.  Under his leadership, in 2022 the Belarus Helsinki Committee was granted observer status at the UN Economic and Social Council.

One could always count on his wisdom, knowledge, openness, and humor. Not everything we discussed was possible, much has changed.
His life was cut way too short, but his gentle legacy will last and inspire us for long.
Rest in peace, Oleg.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/212390-head-belarusian-helsinki-committee-aleh-hulak-dies




Date: 18 November 2022
Title: UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus took part in the National Council for Sustainable Development meeting
Content: 18 November 2022
National Council for Sustainable Development meeting took place in Minsk.
On 18 November the UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus addressed the meeting of the National Council for Sustainable Development. “We see that the situation in the region continues to worsen,” Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki said.
She added that last year Belarus ranked 24th in the global expert index rank of countries’ progress towards achieving the SDGs but now ranks 34th.
She added that the UN Country Team is ready to complement these efforts not only through UN agencies, funds and programmes represented in Belarus, but also through its 13 non-resident agencies such as UN Women, UNODC, ITU, FAO and others that are implementing the important initiatives in the country for sustainable development.
The UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus highlighted the work of the Joint Programme on SDG Financing, implemented by UNDP, UNICEF, UNFPA and UN-Women and financed by the global Joint SDG Fund, the first results of which were presented during the meeting.  According to UNDP research, Belarus continues to closely align its national programmes with the SDG targets.  Monitoring and reporting of national programs’ implementation can be further enhanced, for example by systematic use of national SDG indicators developed by Belstat.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/208181-un-resident-coordinator-belarus-took-part-national-council-sustainable-development-meeting




Date: 21 October 2022
Title: The UN agencies in Belarus join forces for crisis response
Content: 21 October 2022
The Joint Programme of UN agencies in Belarus has got a new component addressing vulnerable populations.
The Joint Programme of UN agencies in Belarus, focusing on promotion of new tools for sustainable development budgeting, has got a new component with particular attention to vulnerable populations.
The new component aims at identifying the specific impact that the current crisis in the region has on vulnerable groups and will contribute the development of recommendations for targeted responses.
In addition to the fields of education, healthcare and climate change that are already covered by the Joint Programme, the new component will focus on the food security and agriculture which are especially important today in the region. Moreover, the component will cover the impact of the crisis on families with children and reproductive health.
Participating UN agencies will contribute to the implementation of the Joint Programme across various thematic areas.
UNDP, in partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Belarus and with expert support from FAO, will conduct a complex assessment in the areas of food security and agriculture. The results of it will allow to suggest new opportunities for supply chains between farmers and major retailers. The assessment will contribute to the identification of the ways to advance certification of organic products. UNDP, in cooperation with the financial sector organizations, will organize educational workshops for Belarusian farmers to familiarize them with regulatory actions when planning new types of entrepreneurial activities.
UNDP will also contribute to the development of recommendations for individual farmers and local business communities, line ministries, focused on the aspects of support to the agricultural production, including processing and supply to the retail chains. All these measures will contribute to the improvement of national food security programmes and practices.
UNICEF activities within the new Joint Programme component will analyze the impact of various evolving internal and external factors and challenges, including the rapid growth of global food prices, on income redistribution and child poverty. Based on the research study findings, UNICEF and national partners will develop recommendations to strengthen social assistance tools, statistics methodology, and tax and budgetary policy focused on families with children.
UNFPA, in partnership with the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Belarus, will conduct a study on the potential impact of the financial crisis on the healthcare system, with particular focus on reproductive health, including further forecast of demographic data, with recommendations on cost effective measures addressing reproductive health and infertility. It is planned to identify and describe ways to reform in-patient care, as well as to analyze the possibilities of some elements of digitalization to maintain the financial sustainability of the healthcare system in a crisis context and to achieve SDGs in public health. These studies will also include an investment case – a special tool that can be used to demonstrate the cost/value ratio of the health programmes and identify financial gaps – as well as the necessary resources and commitments required.
UN Women will partner with the participating UN agencies to ensure the needs of women and men are addressed in the analyses and recommendations for targeted measures in response to the crisis in the region in food security and agriculture sector, as well as social protection (with focus on families with children). It will work with national stakeholders to identify entry points for integrating gender analysis and the perspective of equality of women and men in the policy/programme planning and budgeting.
After the Joint Programme is finalized, Belarus will be equipped with technical capacity and tools to continue its transition to performance-based budgeting in the context of the ongoing crisis in the region. These tools will be applied in the areas of healthcare, social services, natural resources, as well as food security and agriculture.
The new component is part of the Joint Programme implemented since 2021 by the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), UN Women and UN RC Office in Belarus and funded by the Joint SGD Fund.

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/210248-un-agencies-belarus-join-forces-crisis-response




Date: 30 September 2022
Title: Republican Association of Wheelchair Users" ("RAIK") marks its 25th anniversary
Content: 30 September 2022
30 September 2022
The UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus, on behalf of all UN agencies, funds and programs working in Belarus, congratulated activists, instructors, volunteers and leadership of regional organisations of the public association "Republican Association of Wheelchair Users" ("RAIK") on the occasion of its 25th anniversary.
In her welcoming speech, Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki noted the importance of joint efforts with government institutions and all partners in providing assistance to people with disabilities with a focus on the issues of inclusion, barrier-free environment, access to services, the specifics of the issues of women with disabilities and integration of children on wheelchairs in schools. She highlighted the commitment of the country to the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by the Republic of Belarus in 2016, and confirmed readiness of the UN to work on new joint innovative and ambitious projects.
The contribution of RAIK to the system of social support and rehabilitation of people with disabilities in Belarus was highly appreciated by the leadership of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, the Minsk City Executive Committee, the Paralympic Committee, the Republican Olympic Training Center for Paralympic and Deaflympic sports, the public association "Belarusian Society of the Disabled", the Republican Unitary Enterprise  "Belarusian Prosthetic and Orthopedic Rehabilitation Center" and other partners.  It is noteworthy that all members of RAIK, according to its Charter, are the wheelchair users.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/201720-republican-association-wheelchair-users-raik-marks-its-25th-anniversary




Date: 22 September 2022
Title: UN donates a batch of oxygen concentrators to Minsk Regional Hospital to fight COVID-19
Content: 22 September 2022
22 September 2020
Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Yury Ambrazevich on behalf of the SDG National Coordinator, UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki, UNDP Resident Representative in Belarus Alexandra Solovieva, UNICEF Deputy Representative Gabrielle Yvonne Akimova and Head of UNFPA Office in Belarus Olga Atroshchanka carried out a ceremonial delivery of a batch of double-flow 8 LPM oxygen concentrators to the Minsk District Hospital as part of measures taken in response to coronavirus spread. The assistance provided is especially important today in the context of the outbreak of coronavirus infection.
Oxygen concentrator has a beneficial effect on human body, helps relieve hypoxic symptom, increase blood oxygen level, improve the immune system and improve the functioning of blood vessels and heart, which is vital for patients in critical condition caused by COVID-19.
Oxygen concentrators have been purchased as part of the joint international technical assistance project “Supporting Functioning of Architecture for Managing Sustainable Development Goals Achievement in the Republic of Belarus - 3” financed by UNDP, UNICEF and UNFPA in the Republic of Belarus, coordinated by SDG National Coordinator and implemented in partnership with the Foreign Ministry of Belarus. The project serves the Sustainable Development Goals 3, 5, 10 and other SDGs.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/200305-un-donates-batch-oxygen-concentrators-minsk-regional-hospital-fight-covid-19




Date: 14 September 2022
Title: Belarus hosts international study tour of experts from Kazakhstan and Tajikistan to learn about treatment of drug dependencies
Content: 14 September 2022
The study tour was requested by the governments of the countries and is supported by UNODC in close cooperation with WHO.
The aim of the visit is to learn about how Belarus is developing the multisectoral approach and interagency cooperation (health, law enforcement, community) in support of evidence-based drug treatment, particularly Opioid Maintenance Therapy (OMT) and HIV prevention and care services.
Drug demand reduction, prevention of HIV/AIDS, harm reduction and rehabilitation of people using drugs have been an ongoing joint priority of the United Nations in Belarus for many years. In 2021, for the first time in about 10 years, an Assessment of National Drug Policy of Belarus was completed as a joint exercise of the national and international experts.
The purpose of the comprehensive study was to examine the criminological and social and medical factors that influence the drug situation and drug use and to suggest effective, human rights-based adaptation of drug policy.  Conclusions and recommendations of the study call to proportionate response in the national drug policy, to differentiate the approaches to individual possession of small amounts of drugs, versus punishment of criminal large scale drug trafficking.
Drug dependency and other related to drug use disorders are not a crime and opioid substitution treatment is one of the range of tools that allow people to live a more healthy and productive life.
The Assessment of the National Drug Policy of Belarus in Russian is available at the UN in Belarus website.
Moving forward, focusing on the problem of juvenile justice, in October, UNODC will organize an interagency technical meeting on alternative measures of punishment for people who use drugs.  Also, OMT advocacy round tables with Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Health and NGOs will be held in Mogilev, Brest, Minsk, Gomel and Grodno in September and October this year.

For more information contact Dr. Yahor Volkau, UNODC National Consultant yahor.volkau@un.org.



United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/199032-belarus-hosts-international-study-tour-experts-kazakhstan-and-tajikistan-learn-about




Date: 28 July 2022
Title: UN expert praises generosity towards Ukrainian refugees by Poland and urges Belarus and Poland to end pushbacks
Content: 28 July 2022
GENEVA
Poland has offered a warm welcome for Ukrainian refugees but the reality for asylum seekers and migrants from other countries is starkly different, the UN Special Rapporteur on the human rights of migrants, Felipe González Morales said today at the end of an official visit.
The Special Rapporteur conducted an official visit to Poland and Belarus from 12 to 25 July 2022. The visit to Belarus concerned the situation at the border between the two countries.
“I am impressed by the Government of Poland for providing significant support to a huge number of refugees fleeing Ukraine in such an intense period. At the same time, we must pay tribute to Polish citizens who have shown solidarity and generosity to Ukrainian refugees. Over 2 million refugees currently stay in Poland and most of them are hosted as guests in private homes by Polish people,” González Morales said in an end of mission statement.
“This explains why I do not see refugee camps in Poland,” he said.
However, the Special Rapporteur noted that while Ukrainian refugees are generally well-supported, the realities for migrants, asylum seekers and refugees from other countries of origin seemed very different.
“Even for those that have fled the same war, although all were accepted for entry into Poland and have received assistance from the State, third country nationals are not protected under the same legal framework,” González Morales said. “Those with specific vulnerabilities including the ones with irregular migratory status face heightened difficulties in obtaining residence permits and proper shelter,” he said.
“I note with concern that this double standard approach has led to feelings of being discriminated among third country nationals,” the UN expert said.
Since the outbreak of war in Ukraine, Polish authorities and hundreds and thousands of ordinary Polish citizens have taken immediate actions to protect, assist and integrate Ukrainian refugees. Parliament adopted a special law granting Ukrainian citizens and their spouses, equal access to the Polish labour market, health care, right to education and other social benefits. Third country nationals are protected in line with goals set out in the EU Temporary Protection Directive.
National and local authorities, in close collaboration with the Polish Border Guard and other relevant public services, facilitated speedy border crossing, provided free transportation, humanitarian assistance and medical aid for Ukrainian refugees fleeing the war.
“The Polish government has demonstrated strong commitment not to leave any Ukrainian refugee without a roof over their heads,” González Morales said. However, the Special Rapporteur warned that since the current housing model for these refugees depended heavily on the generosity of individuals and private donors, it was crucial to conduct an assessment on its sustainability.
“During winter, the housing situation could be affected by multifaceted challenges, including energy shortages, inflation, exhaustion or frustration of private hosts who have already sacrificed their private space for months,” González Morales warned.
“Realistic plans should be made to ensure a concrete delivery of the Polish Government’s commitment to Ukrainian refugees,” the expert said. “Poland should also identify assistance needed from the international community, especially the European Union,” González Morales said.
The Special Rapporteur also assessed the situation of migrants at the Polish and Belarusian border. González Morales said that although the area is relatively calm compared to last winter, some migrants, including new arrivals, remain stranded between the two borders and subject to violence and pushbacks from both sides.
On the Belarusian side, migrants were subject to de facto detention at the already closed Temporary Logistical Centre, where they were sheltered. On the Polish side, migrant children and those with their families, and pregnant women remain detained in closed immigration facilities, the expert said.
“Children and other vulnerable individuals should not be locked up merely due to their migration status. Alternative reception and care options exist in Poland,” González Morales said. “I urge relevant authorities to immediately release unaccompanied children, children with their families, pregnant women and individuals with mental conditions into open facilities,” he said.
The Special Rapporteur urged Belarus, Poland and the EU to establish communication and conduct dialogue on the situation at their common border. “Most importantly, they must avoid any further loss of life, stop pushbacks, and protect the human rights of migrants,” González Morales said.
The Special Rapporteur will present his reports to the Human Rights Council in June 2023.
Mr. Felipe González Morales (Chile) was appointed Special Rapporteur on the human rights of migrants in June 2017 by the UN Human Rights Council, for an initial period of three years. His mandate was renewed for three additional years in June 2020. As a Special Rapporteur, he is independent from any government or organization and serves in his individual capacity. He is Professor of International Law at the Diego Portales University, in Santiago, Chile, where he is also the Director of a Master’s programme in International Human Rights Law.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights country pages – Poland and Belarus
For more information and media requests, please contact: Ms. Yiyao Zhang (+41 079 874 7790 yiyao.zhang@un.org) and Ms. Clara Burriel Pérez (consultant.burrielperez@un.org)
For media inquiries related to other UN independent experts please contact Renato de Souza (+41 22 928 9855 / (renato.rosariodesouza@un.org) or Dharisha Indraguptha (+41 79 506 1088 / dharisha.indraguptha@un.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone's rights today. #Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/192321-un-expert-praises-generosity-towards-ukrainian-refugees-poland-and-urges-belarus-and-poland




Date: 31 May 2022
Title: Carcinogenic waste and disappearing forests: tobacco is contaminating life on our planet
Content: 31 May 2022
World No Tobacco Day 2022
Tobacco threatens the health of every living being on Earth. The full cycle of tobacco cultivation, growth, production, consumption and waste poisons the air, the water, and the entire ecosystem. On World No Tobacco Day 2022, WHO highlights the latest facts on the environmental harm of tobacco life cycle and exposes the tobacco industry’s effort to greenwash its reputation by marketing its products as environmentally friendly.
Overall tobacco cycle: 25 million metric tons of waste every year
Globally, tobacco kills over 8 million people every year and fuels the prevalence of dangerous noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) such as cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory diseases, cancer, diabetes, and more.
“We know that tobacco kills its users, but the harm goes far beyond the smoke of a cigarette. Every year, 4.5 trillion cigarette butts are discarded in the environment releasing over 7,000 chemicals – 70 of which are known carcinogens that pollute pavements, parks, and eventually waterways where they poison marine life”, said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe.
The environmental impact of tobacco use moves it from an individual issue to a global problem. Tobacco not only harms the individuals who use it and those around them but is a threat to sustainabledevelopment. Therefore, tobacco control requires a holistic approach and a whole of government and society engagement.
“In Belarus, 42% men and 11% women are active smokers. In accordance with STEPS survey almost one third of people using tobacco tried to quit smoking in the past 12 months and could benefit from professional advise from health care worker on how better to stop smoking. In the framework of EU funded BELMED project Ministry of health of Belarus with support from WHO adopted new clinical guidelines for primary health workers on patient’s motivational counselling on smoking cessation. The good news is that by reducing the rates of tobacco consumption, the country can create a healthier environment for all, giving a positive effect on the economy as well”  says Valiantsin Rusovich, Public Health Officer, WHO Country Office in Belarus.
Beyond the smoke of a cigarette: how tobacco industry harms the environment
The harm tobacco production and waste causes is a hidden environmental hazard:
Talking trash: behind the tobacco industry's 'green' public relations
To greenwash its reputation and portray itself as eco-friendly, the tobacco industry uses deceitful tactics. The industry’s self-reported data and marketing activities tend to mislead the public into minimizing the effects of tobacco growing on the environment and believing that tobacco production is not harmful.
“The truth is that from start to finish, the tobacco life cycle is an overwhelmingly polluting and damaging process, which puts already fragile ecosystems at risk and threatens the development of current and future generations around the world. It is our moral imperative to enable children to grow up free from the dangers of tobacco exposure and provide them with clean, safe and secure environments”, said Dr Nino Berdzuli, Director of the Division of Country Health Programmes at WHO/Europe.
On this WNTD WHO calls on general public, policy-makes, civil society, academia and other partners to:
It’s time to say NO to tobacco for a healthier planet and healthier people.
Links:
World No Tobacco Day 2022: Tobacco’s threat to our environment
WHO factsheets on Tobacco Control in the WHO European Region
WHO webinar - Talking trash: Behind the tobacco industry's 'green' public relations
For further information, please contact: Valiantsin Rusovich, Public Health Officer, WHO Country office in Belarus, rusovichv@who.int
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/184097-carcinogenic-waste-and-disappearing-forests-tobacco-contaminating-life-our-planet




Date: 25 May 2022
Title: Annual Report 2021 presented by UN in Belarus at a briefing session at the SDG Council
Content: 25 May 2022
19 May 2022, Minsk
The UN Resident Coordinator drew the attention of the audience to the impact of the global COVID-19 pandemic and war in Ukraine. She raised awareness of the meeting participants of the efforts applied by UN Secretary-General to unblock certain routes of trade in food products and agricultural fertilizers as the key to overcoming the global food security crisis.
Ms. Kazana-Wisniowiecki also urged the Council for Sustainable Development to enhance cooperation in addressing the triple planetary crisis and other important problems faced by the humanity. .
“We are facing a slow onset of the triple planetary crisis: climate change, rising sea levels, massive loss of biodiversity and the drastically increasing waste and pollution problem. Addressing these challenges requires unity, cooperation and a new ambition which will go beyond the agreed global goals,” said Ms. Kazana-Wisniowiecki.
Speaking about the priorities of the United Nations in Belarus in the area of sustainable development UN Resident Coordinator highlighted the agreed long-term areas for cooperation such as green transition, opportunities for young people and future generations, supporting digital transformation and social innovations and gender equitable society with equal opportunities for women and men.
She also focused on the importance of partnerships and the role of civil society organizations, many of whom were liquidated in 2021, for sustainable development in Belarus.
“In this context, we need to understand that Leaving Noone Behind is not some abstract principle. Giving people voice and participation, engaging in a dialogue and promoting respect for diversity of views and experiences can be a driving force for progress in a modern society,” marked Ms. Kazana-Wisniowiecki.
As part of the meeting of the Council for Sustainable Development a briefing session and interactive discussion involving heads of the UN agencies and experts on responding to COVID-19 and its influencing the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals was conducted as well as the discussion of the results of UN agencies’ work in Belarus in 2021 and priorities for 2022.  The UN Belarus Annual Report for 2021 is available at the Publications section of the UN  Belarus web site.
The National Council for Sustainable Development is a consultative advisory body and a part of the institutional mechanism for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals in the Republic of Belarus.

On 19 May, the Annual Report 2021 has been presented by UN in Belarus at a briefing session at the SDG Council with participation of representatives of ministries, the Parliament, regional executive committees, educational institutions and nongovernmental organizations as well as UN agencies took place in Minsk.
Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Belarus Yury Ambrazevich and UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki welcomed the meeting participants.
As Mr. Ambrazevich said in his speech, the goal of the meeting was to present the 2nd voluntary national review of the 2030 Agenda, which Belarus prepared and would represent in July 2022 at the High Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development at the UN Headquarters in New York.
In her speech Ms. Kazana-Wisniowiecki highlighted the role of the Council for Sustainable Development as a key national mechanism of coordination of long-term development policies aimed at achievement of the SDGs. She also welcomed the opportunity to present the UN Belarus Annual Report for 2021.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/183334-annual-report-2021-presented-un-belarus-briefing-session-sdg-council




Date: 17 May 2022
Title: Young Voices for Sustainable Development
Content: 17 May 2022
The Festival was co-organized by the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Belarus, Maxim Tank Belarusian State Pedagogical University and High School no. 19 and supported by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus.
“Sustainable Development Goals, their implementation and working with the youth are the major priorities of the Belarusian State Pedagogical University. Achievement of any SDG wouldn’t be possible without adequate training and educational process. It isn’t only the level of knowledge or competence that determines the key factors of SDG achievement but also the formation of the personality in general. The personality with its moral principles and relevant values of sustainable development,” said Sergey Vasilets, BSPU vice-rector for academic affairs, who also stressed that BSPU was actively promoting the principles of education for sustainable development and supporting implementation of a wide range of international and national forums initiated by UN.
Speaking to the event participants, Ariel Ivanier, a Development Coordination Economist of the UN Resident Coordinator's Office in Belarus, said that innovative tools are a pillar that can contribute to spreading UN values and Agenda for Sustainable Development
2030.
In his speech he also emphasized the important role of partnerships that make UN work successful, including cooperation with the Belarusian Government, civil society organizations, business, academia, all mass media partners and the international donor community, of which educational institutions of all levels are also a crucial pillar in transmitting knowledge and raising awareness about sustainable development.
“I am certain that education, broadly understood as lifelong learning and self-realization process, is a transformational force, which is enhanced by the use of new technologies. Today’s agenda, by showcasing youth media products including video, posters, and information graphics will be a great contribution to your communities, and help them adopt sustainable lifestyles and, in the end, to create a more just, peaceful, tolerant , inclusive, secure and sustainable Belarus,” emphasized Mr. Ivanier.
In 2022, over 70 media projects such as video, posters, infographics prepared by young people from all regions of Belarus in six nominations, which represented the themes of sustainable development, climate change, inclusiveness and culture of remembrance, were submitted.
The undoubted favourite of the Festival and the winner of the audience choice award was the video entitled, “A Story of a Lonely Plastic Bag” created by Green Office team of BSPU students (Daria Danilchik, Elizaveta Rutskaya).

The Youth Media Festival is an annual meeting of students from educational institutions of all levels and NGO representatives, who develop media projects to promote 17 Sustainable Development Goals among various groups of population.

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/182223-young-voices-sustainable-development




Date: 05 May 2022
Title: New WHO report: Europe can reverse its obesity “epidemic”
Content: 05 May 2022
New data on obesity and overweight
The new WHO European Regional Obesity Report 2022, published on 3 May by the WHO Regional Office for Europe, reveals that overweight and obesity rates have reached epidemic proportions across the Region and are still escalating, with none of the 53 Member States of the Region currently on track to meet the WHO Global Noncommunicable Disease (NCD) target of halting the rise of obesity by 2025.
New data on obesity and overweight
The report, launched at a press event on 3 May and presented at the European Congress on Obesity, reveals that in the European Region, 59% of adults and almost 1 in 3 children (29% of boys and 27% of girls) are overweight or living with obesity. Obesity prevalence for adults in the European Region is higher than in any other WHO region except for the Americas.
Overweight and obesity are among the leading causes of death and disability in the European Region, with recent estimates suggesting they cause more than 1.2 million deaths annually, corresponding to more than 13% of total mortality in the Region.
Obesity increases the risk for many NCDs, including cancers, cardiovascular diseases, type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic respiratory diseases. For example, obesity is considered a cause of at least 13 different types of cancer, and is likely to be directly responsible for at least 200 000 new cancer cases annually across the Region, with this figure set to rise further in the coming years. Overweight and obesity are also the leading risk factor for disability, causing 7% of total years lived with disability in the Region.
Overweight people and those living with obesity have been disproportionately affected by the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. There have been unfavourable shifts in food consumption and physical activity patterns during the pandemic that will have effects on population health in the years ahead, and will need significant effort to reverse.
Obesity in Europe: an ongoing “epidemic”
To address the growing epidemic, the report recommends a suite of interventions and policy options that Member States can consider to prevent and tackle obesity in the Region, with an emphasis on building back better after the COVID-19 pandemic.
“Obesity knows no borders. In the Europe and Central Asia, no single country is going to meet the WHO Global NCD target of halting the rise of obesity,” said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe. “The countries in our Region are incredibly diverse, but every one is challenged to some degree. By creating environments that are more enabling, promoting investment and innovation in health, and developing strong and resilient health systems, we can change the trajectory of obesity in the Region.”
Obesity is a disease – not only a risk factor
Obesity is a complex disease that presents a risk to health. Its causes are much more complex than the mere combination of unhealthy diet and physical inactivity. This report presents the latest evidence, highlighting how vulnerability to unhealthy body weight in early life can affect a person’s tendency to develop obesity.
Environmental factors unique to living in modern Europe’s highly digitalized societies are also drivers of obesity. The report explores, for example, how the digital marketing of unhealthy food products to children, and the proliferation of sedentary online gaming, contribute to the rising tide of overweight and obesity in the European Region. However, it also looks at how digital platforms might also provide opportunities for the promotion and discussion of health and well-being.
Policy measures: what can countries do?
Addressing obesity is critical to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and is a priority echoed in WHO’s European Programme of Work 2020–2025.
The new WHO report outlines how policy interventions that target environmental and commercial determinants of poor diet at the entire population level are likely to be most effective at reversing the obesity epidemic, addressing dietary inequalities and achieving environmentally sustainable food systems.
Obesity is complex, with multifaceted determinants and health consequences, which means that no single intervention can halt the rise of the growing epidemic.
Any national policies aiming to address the issues of overweight and obesity must have high-level political commitment behind them. They should also be comprehensive, reaching individuals across the life course and targeting inequalities. Efforts to prevent obesity need to consider the wider determinants of the disease, and policy options should move away from approaches that focus on individuals and address the structural drivers of obesity.
The WHO report highlights a few specific policies that show promise in reducing levels of obesity and overweight:
Link to report on WHO/Europe website:
WHO Regional European Obesity Report 2022
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/180469-new-who-report-europe-can-reverse-its-obesity-%E2%80%9Cepidemic%E2%80%9D




Date: 22 April 2022
Title: ILO Director-General calls for the release of Belarusian trade union leaders
Content: 22 April 2022
ILO Director-General Guy Ryder has expressed deep concern over reports of the arrests of trade union leaders in Belarus and has called for a halt to the intimidation of those peacefully exercising their freedom of association rights in the country.

The arrests are reported to have been made as officials of the State Security Committee of the Republic of Belarus searched trade union offices and their leaders’ homes, seizing computers, personal documents, passports, union flags, leaflets and other items.

Those arrested include Alexander Yaroshuk, President of the Belarusian Congress of Democratic Trade Unions (BKDP), who is also vice-president of the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC) and a member of the ILO Governing Body; Siarhei Antusevich, BKDP Vice-President; Oleg Podolinski, BKDP International Secretary, and Elena Yeskova the Unions’ lawyer. Mikola Sharakh, Chairperson of the Belarusian Free Trade Union, was also arrested on his way to a court hearing. There are reports that more than a dozen other trade union leaders have also been arrested.

The arrest, even briefly, of trade union leaders for exercising their legitimate right to freedom of association constitutes a grave violation of the principles of freedom of association. Trade union rights lose all meaning in the absence of full and meaningful respect for those civil liberties enunciated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, in particular the right to freedom and security of the individual, freedom from arbitrary arrest and detention, freedom of opinion and expression, freedom of assembly, the right to a fair trial and the right to protection of trade union property.

The Director-General calls on the responsible Belarusian authorities to immediately release the trade union leaders and any others still detained, and to take all necessary measures to ensure that they can carry out their trade union activities in a climate free from violence, intimidation, or threat of any kind.

Belarus has ratified all eight ILO Fundamental Conventions, including the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) , and Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98) .
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/178925-ilo-director-general-calls-release-belarusian-trade-union-leaders




Date: 25 March 2022
Title: Meeting of the UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Belarus
Content: 25 March 2022
On 24 March 2022, Ms. Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki, UN Resident Coordinator on Belarus held a working meeting with Mr. Yury Ambrazevich, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Belarus.
At the meeting, both sides reviewed the current cooperation between the UN and Belarus in the area of sustainable development, UN support to the national SDG architecture, response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the current humanitarian situation with regards to migrants and refugees in the country.
Ms. Kazana-Wisniowiecki and Mr. Ambrazevich also exchanged views on regional developments, including the tragic situation in Ukraine, expressing hope for a speedy restoration of peace.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/175882-meeting-un-resident-coordinator-belarus-deputy-minister-foreign-affairs-belarus




Date: 14 March 2022
Title: Statement: Stop Attacks on Health Care in Ukraine
Content: 14 March 2022
Today, we call for an immediate cessation of all attacks on health care in Ukraine.
These horrific attacks are killing and causing serious injuries to patients and health workers, destroying vital health infrastructure and forcing thousands to forgo accessing health services despite catastrophic needs.
"To attack the most vulnerable – babies, children, pregnant women, and those already suffering from illness and disease, and health workers risking their own lives to save lives – is an act of unconscionable cruelty.
“In Ukraine, since the start of the war, 31 attacks on health care have been documented via the WHO’s Surveillance System for Attacks on Health Care (SSA). According to these reports, in 24 incidents health care facilities were damaged or destroyed, while in five cases ambulances were damaged or destroyed. These attacks have led to at least 12 deaths and 34 injuries, and affected access to and availability of essential health services. WHO is verifying further reports, as attacks continue to be reported despite the calls for protection of health care.
“Attacks on health care and health workers directly impact people’s ability to access essential health services – especially women, children and other vulnerable groups. We have already seen that the health care needs of pregnant women, new mothers, younger children and older people inside Ukraine are rising, while access to services is being severely limited by the violence.
“For example, more than 4,300 births have occurred in Ukraine since the start of war and 80,000 Ukrainian women are expected to give birth in next three months. Oxygen and medical supplies, including for the management of pregnancy complications, are running dangerously low.
“The health care system in Ukraine is clearly under significant strain, and its collapse would be a catastrophe. Every effort must be made to prevent this from happening.
“International humanitarian and human rights law must be upheld, and the protection of civilians must be our top priority.
“Humanitarian partners and health care workers must be able to safely maintain and strengthen essential health service delivery, including immunization against COVID-19 and polio, and the supply of life-saving medicines for civilians across Ukraine as well as to refugees crossing into neighbouring countries. Health services should be systematically available at border crossings, including rapid care and referral processes for children and pregnant women.
“It is critical that humanitarian actors have safe and unimpeded access to reach ALL civilians in need wherever they may be. UNICEF, UNFPA and WHO are working with partners to scale up life-saving services and support to meet urgent health needs. We must be able to safely deliver emergency medical supplies – including those required for obstetric and neonatal care – to health centers, temporary facilities and underground shelters.
“Health care and services should be protected from all acts of violence and obstruction. Amidst the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, which has already put health systems and health care workers under enormous strain, such attacks have the potential to be even more devastating for the civilian population. For the sake of health workers, and for all people in Ukraine who need access to the lifesaving services they provide, attacks on all health care and other civilian infrastructure must stop.
“Finally, we call for an immediate ceasefire, which includes unhindered access so that people in need can access humanitarian assistance. A peaceful resolution to end the war in Ukraine is possible.”
Signatures:
UNICEF Catherine Russell, Executive Director
UNFPA Dr. Natalia Kanem, Executive Director
WHO Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director-General
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/174882-statement-stop-attacks-health-care-ukraine




Date: 05 March 2022
Title: Readout of the Secretary-General's call with H.E. Mr. Dmytro Kuleba, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine
Content: 05 March 2022
5 March 2002
The Secretary-General spoke this morning to H.E. Mr. Dmytro Kuleba, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. The Secretary-General expressed the commitment of the United Nations to scale up our humanitarian operations, both inside and outside Ukraine.
They also discussed the conditions for the safe evacuation of civilians, including foreigners, from combat zones.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/173997-readout-secretary-generals-call-he-mr-dmytro-kuleba-minister-foreign-affairs-ukraine




Date: 09 February 2022
Title: A study focused on the development of recommendations intended to improve the national drug policy of Belarus and its implication from medical and legal perspectives was presented in Belarus
Content: 09 February 2022
The purpose of the comprehensive evaluation was to assess the criminological and socio-medical factors that influence the drug situation at the national level, to formulate effective approaches to forecasting and planning of the most efficient responses to the problems related to drug trafficking.
The prepared forecast of the drug situation development in Belarus will determine the perspectives for formulation and implementation of the state policy to counter spread of drugs and drug trafficking.
The team of national and international experts reviewed national and international drug laws and drug enforcement practices, national criminal justice statistics, open sources and grey literature concerning drug control, drug enforcement, crime investigation, crime prevention, and human rights.
Certain recommendations of the study:
The study was implemented with the support of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Belarus, the UN Office on Drugs and Crime and the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/171468-study-focused-development-recommendations-intended-improve-national-drug-policy-belarus-and




Date: 31 January 2022
Title: New journalists join UNESCO/Guillermo Cano World Press Freedom Prize
Content: 31 January 2022
Four leading investigative journalists join the 2022 Jury of the UNESCO/Guillermo Cano World Press Freedom Prize
Prominent journalists Margo Smit (The Netherlands), Mauricio Weibel (Chile), Yasuomi Sawa (Japan) and Mae Azango (Liberia) have been appointed as members of the international independent jury of the UNESCO/Guillermo Cano World Press Freedom Prize.
The Jury is composed of six media professionals from around the world, recognized for their leading investigative work and defence for freedom of expression. They are appointed in their individual capacity for a period of three years, renewable once. The jurors will be in charge of reviewing nominations and choosing the 2022 laureate, announced ahead of World Press Freedom Day on 3 May.
Last year’s laureate was Maria Ressa, investigative journalist and media executive from the Philippines. Maria Ressa was also awarded the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize. Previous UNESCO/Guillermo Cano Prize laureates include many of the world’s leading investigative journalists from all regions.
The UNESCO/Guillermo Cano Prize
Awarded annually, on the occasion of World Press Freedom Day (3 May) which will this year take place in Punta del Este, Uruguay, from 2 to 5 May 2022, the Prize is marked by a ceremony and the winner is presented with the sum of US$ 25,000.
Nominations, submitted by UNESCO Member States and international and regional NGOs active in the field of press freedom, should be submitted by filling out the form in English or French and sent, before 15 February 2022, to the UNESCO Secretariat g.godoi@unesco.org and f.romer@unesco.org).
This Prize was established by UNESCO’s Executive Board, in 1997, in honor of Guillermo Cano, a Colombian journalist who died in the exercise of his profession. Its purpose is to reward each year a person, organization or institution that has made a notable contribution to the defence and/or promotion of press freedom anywhere in the world, especially if risks have been involved.
More information on the Prize is available here.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/170113-new-journalists-join-unescoguillermo-cano-world-press-freedom-prize




Date: 28 January 2022
Title: ITU Forum “Smart Sustainable Cities: social, economic and governance perspectives”
Content: 28 January 2022
The Forum is jointly organized by the International Telecommunication Union and OJSC "Giprosvjaz" with the support of the Ministry of Communication and Informatization of the Republic of Belarus.
Venue: International switching center, Beltelecom, Zakharova 55
The Forum will be held in a hybrid format (physical + online) in the Russian language only.
Date: 15-17 February 2022
About the event
This Forum is addressed to representatives of ministries, regulators, municipalities, telecom operators, universities and general education institutions, telecommunication equipment manufacturers, research and development institutes, software developers, and other interested stakeholders.
The participants of the event will be able to discuss the most pressing issues of developing smart sustainable cities, perspective infocommunication technologies for the development of smart cities, and learn successful stories of introducing smart technologies into urban infrastructure.
In particular, the forum will address issues:
Please register here to participate in the event.
Forum organizers will be glad to answer your questions: Mr. Yauheni Salauyou (email: solovyov@giprosvjaz.by, phone: +375 17 293 81 38) and Mr. Farid Nakhli (e-mail: farid.nakhli@itu.int; phone: +7 495 926 60 70).
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/169832-itu-forum-%E2%80%9Csmart-sustainable-cities-social-economic-and-governance-perspectives%E2%80%9D




Date: 13 December 2021
Title: UN Resident Coordinator on Belarus meets Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Belarus
Content: 13 December 2021
On 13 December 2021, Ms. Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki, UN Resident Coordinator on Belarus held a working meeting with Mr. Sergei Aleinik, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Belarus.
At the meeting, both sides exchanged reviewed cooperation in 2021 between the UN and Belarus in the area of sustainable development, response to the COVID-19 pandemic and the current humanitarian situation with regards to migrants staying in the country.
Mr. Aleinik expressed his appreciation of UN assistance in addressing the existing challenges.  He also stressed Belarus’s strong interest in sustaining the good practice of cooperation on cross-border issues.
Ms. Kazana-Wisniowiecki and Mr. Aleinik discussed the importance of continuing the work of the National SDG Council and the position of the National SDG Coordinator, including in coordination of international technical assistance and cooperation with the UN Country Team.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/164950-un-resident-coordinator-belarus-meets-deputy-minister-foreign-affairs-belarus




Date: 26 November 2021
Title: The European Region could hit over two million COVID-19 deaths by March 2022
Content: 26 November 2021
We can stop reaching this grim milestone by taking action now, urges WHO/Europe
The European Region remains in the firm grip of the COVID-19 pandemic. Last week, reported deaths due to COVID-19 increased to nearly 4,200 a day, doubling from 2,100 deaths a day during the end of September. Meanwhile, cumulative reported deaths from the virus passed the 1.5 million mark for the 53 countries in this Region. Today, COVID-19 is the number one cause of death across Europe and Central Asia, as reported by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, who carry out modelling for WHO/Europe.
We can expect that there will be high or extreme stress on hospital beds in 25 countries, and high or extreme stress in intensive care units (ICUs) in 49 out of 53 countries between now and 1 March 2022. Cumulative reported deaths are projected to reach over 2.2 million by spring next year, based on current trends.
“In order to live with this virus and continue our daily lives, we need to take a “vaccine plus” approach. This means getting the standard doses of vaccine, taking a booster if offered, as well as incorporating preventive measures into our normal routines. Taken together, wearing a mask, washing hands, ventilating indoor spaces, keeping physical distance, and sneezing into your elbow are simple, effective ways of gaining control over the virus and keeping societies going. All of us have the opportunity and responsibility to help avert unnecessary tragedy and loss of life, and limit further disruption to society and businesses over this winter season,” said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe.
Factors driving increasing SARS-CoV-2 transmission
The three main factors driving the current high transmission of COVID-19 are:
1.  The European Region is “Delta dominant” – the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 is highly-transmissible, with no country reporting more than 1% of any other variant.
2.  In recent months many countries have indicated to their populations that COVID-19 no longer represents an emergency threat and have eased measures such as mask wearing and physical distancing in crowded or confined spaces. Now, the weather has turned colder, and people are gathering indoors.
3.  With a large number of people who are still not vaccinated, and reduced vaccine-induced protection against infection and mild disease, many people are left vulnerable to the virus.
Steps to reduce transmission and stabilize the pandemic in Europe and Central Asia
“As we approach the end of 2021, let’s do everything we can by getting vaccinated and taking personal protective measures, to avoid the last resort of lockdowns and school closures.  We know through bitter experience that these have extensive economic consequences and a pervasive negative impact on mental health, facilitate interpersonal violence and are detrimental to children’s well-being and learning,” Dr Kluge commented.
Increase vaccine uptake
The COVID-19 vaccines are a vital tool to prevent severe disease and death and have remained effective despite the emergence of several variants of concern. Vaccination has saved hundreds of thousands of lives, prevented countless hospitalizations, and lessened the strain on health care systems since being introduced less than one year ago. WHO/Europe and ECDC will be releasing further data on this later this week.
Over one billion doses have been given in the WHO European Region, with 53.5% of people having completed their vaccine dose series.  However, this hides wide differences between countries, where the range in completed vaccine dose series spans from under 10% to over 80% of the total population.
It is essential that we drive up vaccination rates amongst all those eligible, acknowledging and addressing the reasons why people have not received the vaccine so far, working more closely with behavioral and cultural scientists to understand whether these are systemic barriers to access, or individual and community concerns. The COVID passport, for example, is a collective tool to enable societies and people to continue with regular activities.
Evidence is growing that vaccine-induced protection against infection and mild disease is declining.
It is in this context that a booster dose should be given to protect the most vulnerable, including the immunocompromised, as a priority. Based on the national context of vaccine dose availability and COVID-19 epidemiology, countries should also consider giving a booster dose to those aged over 60 and heath care workers, as a precautionary measure.  Specific guidance will be released by the European Technical Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization later this week.
Take personal protective measures
Regular hand cleaning; maintaining physical distance from others; mask wearing; coughing or sneezing into a bent elbow or tissue; avoiding closed, confined, and crowded spaces; and ensuring good ventilation indoors have proven to be effective when used together to prevent COVID-19 infection.
Currently, 48% of people in the Region wear a mask when leaving home, according to self-reported data. A study published last week on the effectiveness of public health measures, suggested that mask wearing reduces COVID-19 incidence by 53%. If from today universal mask coverage of 95% was achieved, it is estimated that over 160,000 deaths could be prevented by 1 March 2022.
As we spend more time indoors this winter, and take part in seasonal gatherings, people should remain vigilant, manage their risk, and take precautions, following effective protective measures. Integrating these measures with public health interventions such as self-isolation and testing, contact tracing and quarantine, maximizes community protection from the virus.
“Today, the COVID-19 situation across Europe and Central Asia is very serious. We face a challenging winter ahead, but we should not be without hope, because all of us – governments, health authorities, individuals – can take decisive action to stabilize the pandemic,” concluded Dr Kluge.
For further information:
Bhanu Bhatnagar, Press and Media Relations Officer: bbhatnagar@who.int
WHO/Europe Press Office: eupress@who.int


United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/160420-european-region-could-hit-over-two-million-covid-19-deaths-march-2022




Date: 13 October 2021
Title: Statement of the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Belarus
Content: 13 October 2021
Minsk, 13 October 2021
The United Nations Office of the Resident Coordinator in Belarus is aware of reports and existing concerns of the Government of Belarus in connection with a legal aid programme benefiting certain vulnerable groups of persons.  The UN is in communication with the Government of Belarus on this issue.
The UN Resident Coordinator and the UN Country Team, including all UN agencies, funds and programmes working in Belarus are focused on continuing our work with and for Belarus and we look forward to further collaboration with Belarusian authorities and civil society partners, including in the area of sustainable development and human rights.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/151371-statement-united-nations-resident-coordinator-belarus




Date: 09 September 2021
Title: National Council for Sustainable Development Takes Stock and Identifies Prospects for Achieving SDG in Belarus
Content: 09 September 2021

On 9 September 2021, representatives of legislative bodies, ministries and departments, regional executive committees, educational and some nongovernmental organizations, UN agencies in Belarus took part in the fifth annual meeting of the National Council for Sustainable Development in Minsk.
The meeting participants were welcomed by the National Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Coordinator Anatoli Isachenko and the UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki.
In her speech Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki noted that global development challenges including the climate crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic, social, political and economic inequalities create dangerous conditions in which development gains of the last decades can be easily wasted and destroyed forever.
The crisis and recovery is also a moment of global competition – some countries are recovering faster than others and using the crisis as an opportunity to invest in human development by increasing their own spending in areas of critical importance to the wellbeing of the people and planet.
Speaking to the meeting participants the UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus underlined that Belarus cannot stand-by or stay behind such global change  and the National Council for Sustainable Development can play an important role in coordinating the cross-sectoral implementation of the National Sustainable Development Strategy and the accompanying 5- years national plans and programmes.
“Partnerships between different segments of the society are key. Creating and protecting a free and enabling environment for civil society, also working with civil society organisations, developing capacity and using their expertise and knowledge while maintaining an open and inclusive dialogue on all issues - -this can be a powerful and winning strategy for sustainable development in the country,” the UN Resident Coordinator said while emphasizing that development that is not human-centered and respectful of the rights of all stakeholders cannot be sustainable.
With the upcoming COP26 meeting in Glasgow, the SDG Council can play an important role in reviewing the progress in the area of climate action in Belarus, highlighting the contribution of Belarus to the global effort of cutting down emissions and also in making sure that climate action is a priority.
The UN Country Team in Belarus is ready to support the implementation of the national priorities in the area of sustainable development, including the the National strategy of dignified longevity, State programme on health of the  population and demographic security, also programmes on SME development, National action plan on gender equality, National Programme on Green Economic Development, and others.
Regional development is essential for successful achievement of SDG in Belarus based on human capital, national partners, budget resources and public-private partnerships.
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) together with the National Coordinator for SDG achievement proposed the Chernobyl Investment Platform as a tool for the development of recovering districts. This new tool will help the districts to develop local economic initiatives, attract investment for economically viable project and embrace new technologies.
“In our work aimed at SDG achievement we focus on the regional development of Belarus in order not to leave anyone behind,” - said Alexandra Solovieva, UNDP Resident Representative in Belarus. – “We hope that the Chernobyl Investment Platform with its digital and financial solutions will contribute to the development of public-private partnerships and innovation in the regions of Belarus.  The role of UNDP is to draw on the international expertise and practices through the long-term project cooperation of its results.”
The National Council for Sustainable Development is a consultative advisory body and a part of the institutional mechanism for the Sustainable Development Goals achievement in the Republic of Belarus.


United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/143628-national-council-sustainable-development-takes-stock-and-identifies-prospects-achieving-sdg




Date: 16 July 2021
Title: UN agencies in Belarus join efforts to promote new budgeting tools for sustainable development
Content: 16 July 2021
The Sustainable Development Goals are a call to action for all countries to improve the well-being of all people without exception and to preserve the planet. The 17 goals build on the results of the Millennium Development Goals and include emerging topics such as climate change, economic inequality, innovation, sustainable consumption, peace, and justice. Belarus is one of sixty countries implementing programmes of such kind.
In the Sustainable Development Report 2021, IMF estimates that the global need for additional spending on the SDGs is about 14 percent of global GDP a year by 2030. The program implemented by UNDP, UNICEF, UNFPA, UN Women and the Resident Coordinator Office in Belarus will allow to find new approaches to solving this challenge in Belarus. The goal of the program is to promote new financing tools for sustainable development with a focus on vulnerable populations. The UN agencies will implement their parts across various thematic areas with UNDP playing the coordinating role and working with other UN agencies on specific components to ensure continuity across SDGs.
UNDP is also partnering with the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection to conduct a finance assessment in the area of environmental protection and sustainable use of natural resources (SDGs 12-15). A team of international and national experts will work together to analyze the existing costs and future financial needs to address environmental challenges in Belarus. Using the BioFin methodology, UNDP will analyze the financial resources allocated for issues related to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, develop optimal options for reallocating existing and attracting new sources of funding. Based on the findings of the assessment, it will be possible to introduce innovative methods of budgeting in the management of natural resources and environmental protection in Belarus and thereby contribute to the improvement of national environmental programs and practices.
Within this programme UNFPA will support the healthcare system to improve efficiency of budget planning and spending. The agency will facilitate analysis, with special focus on reproductive health, and explore needs for services depending on gender. New approach will be based on emerging data and up-to-date scientific evidence. As a result, innovative cost-effective practices in the area of cervical cancer prevention, maternal health and gender-oriented budgeting will be introduced and piloted to track expenditures of budget resources in relation to the achieved outcome.
Furthermore, UNFPA and UNICEF in Belarus have initiated joint consultations with the Ministry of Health on strengthening capacities of public authorities and healthcare managers. The aim is to discuss normative cost-based budget planning methods per consumer and opportunities for aligning budgeting with SDGs. Apart from that, these UN agencies are talking with the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection on initiating dialogue for performance-based budgeting and capacity building for adolescents’ and assessment of the total volume and composition of budget allocations for children, adolescents, vulnerable families, and other vulnerable groups.
Apart from that, UNICEF in Belarus is focusing on measuring the impact of public expenditures contributing to achieving child-related SDGs and conducting a quarterly survey of the needs of families with children to advance the methodology for measuring multidimensional child poverty (MDCP). Additionally, UNICEF in Belarus is planning to assess the performance of social assistance to families with children through the lens of MDCP and carrying out a study on measuring public expenditure targeting children (child budget) in three cities (Minsk, Borisov, Molodechno) by the end of 2021.
Another agency, partaking in the joint efforts, is UN Women which works closely with the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection. Their goal is to strengthen the capacities of state employees to use gender-responsive budgeting tools in planning and budgeting. The agency plans to perform trainings and mentoring on gender analysis, promote the principle of equal rights and opportunities in development of state programmes. Besides UN Women will contribute to assessment of SDG indicators, disaggregated by sex, and work out specific recommendations in line with the National Action Plan on Gender Equality.
In total, after the programme is finalized, Belarus will be equipped with technical capacity and tools to continue its transition to performance-based budgeting in the areas of health care, social services and natural resources, with a focus on the development of gender-sensitive and child-focused normative budgeting methodology. In addition, the Programme envisages testing the methodology of normative budgeting. Its implementation is expected to help increase the efficiency of public services provision by improving budget planning and spending. In addition, the proposed tools will have several positive effects – promoting economic growth, expanding social inclusion, improving environmental performance and management methods. Similar programmes have already demonstrated their effectiveness in a number of countries. For example, UN agencies and the government of Uzbekistan have published a report assessing financial flows for Sustainable Development Goals and identified opportunities for financing the SDGs so that funding, mostly private, reaches those regions and people who need it most.
Belarus remains in the group of “very high human development countries” and ranks 24 in the SDG Development Index. Over the past year, the COVID-19 pandemic has had a major impact on human development and, in particular, on achievement of SDG 1 (poverty eradication). After several years of successive reductions, extreme poverty increased in 2020. The slowdown in economic activity and global recession caused by the pandemic led to an increase in unemployment, affecting SDG 8 (decent work and economic growth). Under such circumstances, the introduction of innovative tools for financing the SDGs, as well as new approaches to the planning and use of budgetary funds focused on sustainable development are particularly relevant. The new Programme will assess the effectiveness of budget planning and spending and prepare recommendations for effective financing aimed at achieving the SDGs in Belarus.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/136304-un-agencies-belarus-join-efforts-promote-new-budgeting-tools-sustainable-development




Date: 14 July 2021
Title: The United Nations Country Team in Belarus statement on detentions of Belarusian civil society representatives
Content: 14 July 2021
As recently noted by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in a statement at the 47th session of the Human Rights Council, the situation in Belarus “continues to deteriorate, with severe restrictions on civic space, including the rights to freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly and association; raids against civil society and independent media; and the judicial persecution of human rights activists and journalists”.
The UNCT calls on the Belarusian authorities to safeguard legal rights of organizations and individuals under investigation and to enable civil society organizations and individual activists to conduct their activities free from harassment and intimidation, in line with the obligations of Belarus under human rights law.
Some organizations searched today are members of the national Sustainable Development Council and its Partnership Group for Sustainable Development, playing an important role in provision of essential services and assistance to vulnerable populations. The UNCT is concerned that such actions negatively affect cooperation and the spirit of equal partnership between the state and civil society, which is necessary for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Agenda 2030.
The UNCT believes that partnerships between different segments of society are key to achieving the SDGs. Creating and protecting a free and enabling environment for civil society, working with civil society organizations, developing their capacity and using their expertise and knowledge while maintaining open and respectful dialogue on all issues is the basis for national progress in the area of sustainable development. Only development that is human-centered and respectful of the rights of all stakeholders, organizations and individuals alike, can be sustainable.
The UN stands ready to facilitate dialogue between all partners with the view of continuing the engagement and restoring cooperation on key development priorities of Belarus.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/136076-united-nations-country-team-belarus-statement-detentions-belarusian-civil-society




Date: 06 July 2021
Title: Belarus: Massive human rights violations unprecedented in scope and gravity, says UN expert
Content: 06 July 2021
In her annual report to the Human Rights Council, Anaïs Marin said she had been informed about massive police violence against protesters, cases of enforced disappearance, allegations of torture and ill-treatment and the continuous intimidation and harassment of civil society actors.
“The Belarusian authorities have launched a full-scale assault against civil society, curtailing a broad spectrum of rights and freedoms, targeting people from all walks of life, while systematically persecuting human rights defenders, journalists, media workers and lawyers in particular,” Marin told the Council.
“The crackdown is such that thousands of Belarusians have been forced or otherwise compelled to leave their homeland and seek safety abroad; yet the downing of a civilian plane in Minsk on 23 May, for the apparent sole purpose of arresting a dissident who was on board, signaled that no opponent to the current Government is safe anywhere.”, the expert added.
The significant deterioration of the human rights situation in Belarus started in late spring 2020 and climaxed in the aftermath of the presidential election of 9 August, the results of which were widely contested. Malpractices were reported during the election campaign, as most opposition candidates were forced out of the race, whereas vote-count was marred by allegations of fraud.
“Distrust in the legitimacy of the electoral outcome triggered spontaneous and largely peaceful popular protests to which the authorities responded with unjustified, disproportionate and often arbitrary force,” said Marin, who reminded that over 35,000 people have been detained since then for trying to exert their right to freedom of peaceful assembly, including women and children arrested for peacefully demonstrating solidarity with victims of police violence.
“Since August 2020 I received innumerable allegations of beatings and ill-treatment, including torture in detention, but also allegations of rapes, enforced disappearances and even killings – all remain to be investigated.”
Whereas according to available information impunity seems to prevail to this date for the massive human rights violations that occurred during the reporting period, the expert said she was equally alarmed by the hundreds of cases of criminal prosecution of human rights defenders and lawyers, journalists and medical staff simply for doing their job.
“As the legal and judicial systems in Belarus protect the perpetrators of grave human rights violations, continuing impunity means that there is no guarantee of non-reoccurrence,” Marin said. “Hence the international community should keep on demanding the release and rehabilitation of all those still detained on political grounds, and support initiatives aiming at bringing perpetrators of the most serious crimes to account”.
The UN expert also expressed concerns about the impact the ongoing crackdown has had on the right to education, pointing to discriminatory measures that persist in Belarus against people with disabilities, ethno-linguistic minorities, people living in rural areas and those deprived of liberty. She added that students and teachers have faced considerable pressure and intimidation for their social activism, and criminal charges have been pressed against dozens of them, with a restrictive impact on the right to freedom of opinion and expression, including academic freedoms.
“I call on the Belarusian authorities to put an end to their policy of repression, to immediately and unconditionally release those arbitrarily detained, and to ensure full respect for the human rights and legitimate democratic aspirations of people in Belarus,” the UN expert said, warning that a further aggravation of the human rights crisis and international self-isolation could have disastrous consequences for the whole country.
Ms Anaïs Marin (France) was designated as Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Belarus by the UN Human Rights Council in 2018. She is a researcher with the University of Warsaw, Poland. A political scientist specialising in international relations and Russian studies, she holds a Ph D from Sciences Po, where she studied international public law and comparative politics with a focus on post-communist transformations in Central and Eastern Europe. She has also taken part in OSCE/ODIHR election observation missions, including in Belarus. She has published extensively on Belarusian domestic and foreign policies.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, country page – Belarus
For more information and media requests please contact Vrej Atabekian (+41 22 928 98 08 /vatabekian@ohchr.org) or write to sr-belarus@ohchr.org.
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Renato de Souza (+41 22 928 9855 / rrosariodesouza@ohchr.org)
Follow news related to the UN's independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone's rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/134876-belarus-massive-human-rights-violations-unprecedented-scope-and-gravity-says-un-expert




Date: 25 June 2021
Title: Statement by Michelle Bachelet, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
Content: 25 June 2021
Distinguished President of the Council,
Excellencies,
Colleagues and friends,
It is an honour to address this Council on the occasion of its 15th anniversary – sadly, a time of grave setbacks in human rights.
Extreme poverty, inequalities and injustice are rising. Democratic and civic space is being eroded. Navigating a clear way out of the complex COVID-19 crisis, and towards an inclusive, green, sustainable and resilient future, will be the work of this generation of world leaders – or their downfall.
The Secretary-General's  Call to Action on Human Rights is a blueprint that  connects, more closely than ever before, the UN pillars of development, peace and security, and human rights.
It places support for the full spectrum of all human rights at the heart of every society's capacity to recover from the pandemic emergency – and at the core of the work of all UN bodies and teams.
The Secretary-General has also outlined the need for a  New Social Contract, underpinned by a  New Global Deal of solidarity, which more fairly shares power, resources and opportunities. In September he will deliver to the General Assembly a plan for a UN-wide Common Agenda.
These are bold steps that place unprecedented emphasis on the power of human rights to ensure sound and inclusive development, sustainable peace, and societies grounded in trust.
I take this opportunity to update the Council on the analysis and work of my Office to give effect to these initiatives, and to ensure that they work together to deliver strong impact for people around the world.
In doing so, I want to emphasise two themes:
Firstly, the Call to Action creates unprecedented leverage to deploy the force of partnerships across the United Nations. I am committed to ensuring that this leads to broader, better integrated and firmly evidence-based country analysis; unified advocacy; and field-based programming that is better targeted, and more effective, because of its strong grounding in human rights.
Secondly, the Call to Action underscores the need to approach civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights as a compelling and mutually reinforcing synergy. Economic and social rights, and the right to development, are universal rights. They are not ordinary services with a market-set price-tag, but essential factors in building more peaceful and equal societies. And civil and political rights are equally crucial to building inclusive, participative societies. Together – regardless of the country's wealth or stage of development – steps to uphold these rights create a powerful movement of public trust.

As I pointed out at this Council earlier in my mandate, policies that build social justice also help to develop stronger economies. They drive more inclusive political systems. They deepen trust. They build hope. Policies which support the rights of every individual to make their own choices advance the 2030 Agenda; they are good for communities and nations. Space for civil society and independent media to critique and debate promotes transparency and innovation.  Systems that deliver justice for victims mean that grievances are recognised, and make it easier to build or rebuild security and peace.
The Call to Action asks us to advance that vision of the entire United Nations working to uphold all human rights.
It will be challenging – and absolutely vital.

Madam President,
I am convinced that the Call to Action will be an unprecedentedly powerful human rights mainstreaming instrument, creating momentum and leverage for much stronger human rights integration across the work of the entire UN – particularly at country level.
Already, in a number of countries we are seeing better analysis of the impacts of national laws and policies on people facing multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination, including women and girls; more targeted UN programming; and stronger and more unified advocacy, with leadership that is empowered to speak out about rights.
In Cambodia, for instance, poverty has doubled during the pandemic, and now affects an estimated 17.6 per cent of the population. Two years ago, the poverty rate was 10%. Our human rights staff, in tandem with the entire United Nations system in Cambodia, have jointly advocated for a well-designed and human rights-based social protection system; and the prioritisation of healthcare budgets; and a broader civic space. A new Country Team Human Rights Strategy will ensure support for rights-based development and pandemic-recovery work.
In Serbia, as the pandemic gathered pace, our human rights advisor partnered with UN colleagues, Government agencies and civil society to undertake urgent outreach to the mainly Roma residents of sub-standard informal settlements across the country. An unprecedented effort to map the most urgent needs ultimately reached more than 700 settlements. It indicated key areas where inadequate access to safe water, electricity, sanitation and basic income pointed to both long-standing neglect, and an imminent threat to public health. The exercise – which could only have been achieved with work from the entire Country Team – led to immediate targeted responses by the authorities, with follow-up planning to overcome systemic neglect and social exclusion.
In Argentina, the UN Country Team was quickly mobilised to respond to critical human rights concerns in north-eastern Formosa province as the pandemic took hold. The UN Resident Coordinator led a virtual assessment mission with participation by UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO/PAHO and OHCHR. He then initiated consultations with the authorities on a potential UN joint strategic programme to respond to the health emergency in the province in line with international human rights standards, including tackling a number of structural problems, with special focus on indigenous peoples and vulnerable populations.
The Call to Action has been instrumental in unlocking significant shifts. It will be of critical assistance as we work to meet the ambition of the new generation of Common Country Analysis and Sustainable Development Cooperation Frameworks. We need to ensure that all UN actors understand who are the most marginalized and why; that we jointly identify human rights setbacks; and that we act together where the UN's collective support can help States to address key human rights challenges, including structural inequalities.
Excellencies,
Our Surge Initiative, set up in September 2019, played a key role in upgrading the economic expertise of our field teams at a crucial moment. As the pandemic progressed, we have been able to count on a team of field-facing economists to work with UN economic and development personnel on advice for country recovery strategies and the use of appropriate fiscal policies to maximise the resources available to States.
This work very much builds on the targeted expert recommendations issued by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, other Treaty Bodies, and numerous Special Procedures mandate-holders.
In Guinea, for example, this technical and financial support meant our field presence was able to undertake an assessment of the impact of the mining sector on human rights, particularly economic and social rights. Mining is among Guinea's main sources of revenue – and therefore a key potential accelerator for sustainable development and better fulfilment of economic and social rights. But wildcat or artisanal mining, in particular, is associated with serious human rights abuses, including forced displacement and environmental degradation.
Our assessment met with strong cooperation from the UN Country Team in Guinea and very positive work by key Government officials, the national human rights institution and mining companies themselves, as well as affected communities and civil society groups. This has led to ongoing policy reforms, including legislative changes and governance reforms in the mining sector and management of natural resources. Capacity-building, and work to strengthen legal frameworks, are planned, and a joint pilot project on the right to development between OHCHR and the Government is also underway.
No recovery programme in any country can hope to be fully effective if discrimination continues to hold back half the population. Across ten countries in West and Central Africa – Benin, Central African Republic, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone and Togo – we have partnered with UNICEF and UN Women to set up surveys on the specific impacts of the pandemic on women and girls. This work, which will run through to the end of July, is guided by CEDAW recommendations on collecting accurate age- and sex-disaggregated data. By addressing the very widespread lack of primary data on gender, it is likely to provide new insights into intersecting forms of discrimination faced by women – and may suggest new ways to solve them. It is also in line with the need that has been expressed by a number of Governments for support for evidence-based responses to the pandemic. And it will  contribute key information to the UN's programmatic responses to COVID-19.
The Call to Action provides a key framework for stronger work to address the interlocking impacts of climate change, pollution and nature loss on rights. Together with UNEP and UNDP, we are leading interagency efforts to advance the human right to a healthy environment by developing UN-wide guidance on protection of environmental human rights defenders; emphasising participation by children and youth in environmental decision-making; and supporting Country Teams and national human rights institutions' work in these areas.
In the Pacific, our Regional Office and UNEP have provided capacity-building training for environmental human rights defenders. They are also jointly advocating broader enabling environments that empower human rights networks and other agents of positive change.
Excellencies,
Establishing a New Social Contract is about rebuilding public trust through stronger support for fundamental rights. It is vital to establishing societies in which policy-makers place a priority on combatting inequalities and promoting rights to social protection, to health, education, and more. Those public investments in the legal commitments made by every State can be underpinned by macroeconomic policies that seek to maximize available resources, including through progressive taxation and curtailing illicit financial flows.  A human rights economy requires transparency, accountability and a broad space for social dialogue, scrutiny and participation.
According to the World Bank, between January and September 2020, more than 200 countries put in place over 1,000 social protection measures involving an average expenditure of $243 per capita. Cash transfer programs alone reached 1.3 billion people, or 17 percent of the world population. While it may not always be possible or desirable to sustain exactly the same programmes over the longer term, this unprecedented recognition of the role that social protections play in supporting a functioning economy, and sustaining society, does create a window for realization of the universal right to social protection – to reduce exclusion, prevent vulnerability, and strengthen resilience. The evidence is conclusive: countries that had invested in social protection have been better able to weather the crisis.
In Ukraine, the Human Rights Monitoring Mission developed detailed recommendations for the Government to remedy weak access to social protections – particularly for the poorest and socially excluded – and it liaised with the UN Country Team to better integrate social protection in COVID response and recovery. A Country Team-wide policy paper, which was launched at a high-level event in April, aims to contribute to the Government's ongoing reforms of the pension system by ensuring a human rights and gender-based approach. Our staff are currently implementing a human rights-based budgeting project that focuses specifically on social protection at the local level in ten localities. They also contributed to the Country Team's advocacy with both the IMF and the World Bank regarding measures that could place disproportionate burden on vulnerable people.
In Madagascar, with the national Mining Code and related mining taxation processes undergoing revision in Parliament, our Human Rights Advisor produced policy recommendations to raise additional revenues from mining companies to combat extreme poverty and contribute to sustainable development, including of local communities. A number of other proposed measures aimed to advance the rights of affected communities, including mandatory human rights impact assessments when mining permits are requested or renewed. The project's findings have contributed to the Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework, which integrated a dedicated pillar on sustainable, inclusive and resilient management of the environment.
Last month, a workshop we organised with ILO, the UN Development Coordination Office and UN Women looked at how we can jointly work to help countries expand their fiscal space in order to scale up social spending. As a former Government official, I am very aware that many countries are facing the simultaneous impacts of collapsing global trade, falling remittances, turmoil in commodities prices and debt burdens. This undermines their ability to deliver on economic and social rights. Reallocating public expenditure, using proven techniques to combat corruption and illicit financial flows, deploying progressive fiscal policies and increasing budget transparency, participation and accountability can assist to free up fiscal space. Again, our internal discussions placed emphasis on practical work in countries, and on partnerships across all UN entities, to embed human rights assessments and human rights-based approaches into development work.
It is essential that the entire UN Country Team work with the international financial institutions to ensure that they fully uphold human rights in their financing and conditionalities. We need the support and advocacy of strong global partnerships, in the true spirit of SDG 17. We need to make sure development financing aligns with international norms; addresses discrimination and other root causes of inequalities; and integrates both participation and accountability. I appreciate my exchanges with the IMF Director Kristalina Georgieva and the World Bank's President David Malpass, and I look forward to seeing their human rights convictions reflected throughout the operations of their organizations.
In Lebanon, our Office has worked closely with the Country Team and national partners to raise concern about the impact of the economic crisis, pandemic and Beirut Port explosion on people's ability to meet basic needs. Skyrocketing prices, including for food, are reaching critical levels, with lives and a fragile social stability hanging in the balance. In cooperation with  partners, our field team  prepared a UN Country Team Position to the IMF which proposed reform proposals through a strong human rights lens, insisting on the rights and needs of people in situations of vulnerability.
Madam President,
To recover from the most wide-reaching and severe cascade of human rights setbacks in our lifetimes, we need a life-changing vision – and concerted action to follow up. We need a human rights economy; human rights-based development; and societies that, in all their diversity, share bedrock commitments to reduce inequalities and advance all human rights. We need to anchor our States in the sound foundation of justice – knowing that this effort will build the resilience and deep public trust all Governments seek to inspire.
The Call to Action is a collective and substantive endeavour, and support from all States, as well as civil society and other stakeholders, is crucial. Your voices and support for human rights – national, regionally and globally – will be key to the success of this effort.
At OHCHR, and across many of our partners in the UN family, work is underway – and with better funding, and greater support from Member States, we aspire to take it much further. I trust that this Council will also follow through with efforts that can bring to life the vision of the Call to Action for Human Rights across the world.
Madam President,
In my global update to the Council in February this year, I outlined aspects of the human rights situation in Algeria; Brazil  and other countries of the Amazon and Pantanal regions; Cambodia; Chile; China; Comoros; Ecuador; Egypt; Ethiopia; Guinea; Haiti; India; Indonesia; Iran; Iraq; Jordan; Kashmir on both sides of the Line of Control; Kazakhstan; Lao PDR;  Libya; Malawi; Mali; the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict zone; Pakistan; Peru; the Philippines; the Russian Federation; Saudi Arabia; Somalia; Sudan; Syria; Tanzania; Thailand; Turkey; Uganda; the United States of America; Vietnam;  and Yemen, as well as my concerns on action taken against organisations that protect migrants' rights in several European countries, notably Hungary and Croatia.
In the interactive dialogue, I will be glad to respond to any queries in follow-up to my February statement. In addition, I would like to further update the Council on a few recent issues of significant concern, noting also that the situations in Georgia, Iran, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Ukraine and Venezuela will be further addressed during this session, and that the situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory was recently discussed in a special session.
In Afghanistan, I am alarmed by the sharp increase in violence and civilian harm. The recent attack on a school in a Hazara area of Kabul – which killed 85 children, most of them girls – was especially shocking, even after so many decades of horrific attacks against Afghan families.  In the six months since talks began between the Government and the Taliban, civilian casualties increased by 41 per cent compared to the same period one year previously. The withdrawal of international forces, which is expected to be completed by September, is creating fear for the future – particularly among women, minority communities, human rights defenders and journalists – with deep concern about the risks of losing gains hard-won over the last twenty years. I urge all parties to resume the stalled peace talks and to urgently implement a ceasefire to protect civilians. The independent role of the courageous Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission must be protected. Given the rapid deterioration of this situation, I encourage the Council to increase its monitoring and to consider mechanisms for an effective prevention response.
The situation in Belarus also continues to deteriorate, with severe restrictions on civic space, including the rights to freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly and association; raids against civil society and independent media; and the judicial persecution of human rights activists and journalists. We continue to receive numerous allegations of arbitrary arrests and detentions, torture and ill-treatment.  Our examination of the situation in Belarus, pursuant to Resolution 46/20, is underway. I regret that, for its part, the Government has chosen to discontinue the presence of our Senior Human Rights Adviser in Minsk, a position which provided a significant point of engagement and a window for cooperation.
In both Chad and Mali, I have been deeply concerned by recent non-democratic and unconstitutional changes in government, which inevitably represent a significant challenge to human rights, and which have weakened the institutional protection of democratic freedoms. However, I note that transitional governments in both countries have affirmed their continued commitments to upholding international legal obligations, including with regard to human rights. I join other international actors in calling for strengthened work to fight impunity; fully participatory and inclusive democratic transition processes, including the holding of free and fair elections; and a swift and full return to constitutional order in both Chad and Mali.
Regarding China, it has now been a year since adoption of the National Security Law in Hong Kong SAR, on which my Office has expressed serious concerns. We have been closely monitoring its application and the chilling impact it has had on the civic and democratic space, as well as independent media.  Since 1 July 2020, 107 people have been arrested under the National Security Law and 57 have been formally charged, with the first case coming to trial later this week. This will be an important test of independence for Hong Kong’s judiciary in its willingness to uphold Hong Kong’s obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, in accordance with the Basic Law. Separately, I continue to discuss with China modalities for a visit, including meaningful access, to the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, and hope this can be achieved this year, particularly as reports of serious human rights violations continue to emerge.
In Colombia, nationwide protests have been ongoing since 28 April, against a background of a pre-existing economic crisis and deep social inequalities aggravated by the COVID-19 pandemic. My Office has expressed deep concern at allegations of serious human rights violations by State security forces.  While most demonstrations have been peaceful, several instances of violence have been recorded. My Office condemns all forms of violence, calls for full respect for the right to peaceful assembly, and encourages dialogue to resolve the crisis. From 28 April to 16 June we registered allegations of 56 deaths, including 54 civilians and two police officers, in the context of the protests – mainly in the city of Cali – as well as 49 alleged victims of sexual violence. My Office is also documenting human rights abuses by non-State actors and the effects of sustained roadblocks on human rights. I welcome the President’s announcement of a zero tolerance policy for abuses by security forces and urge the authorities to ensure prompt, effective and independent investigations into all allegations of human rights violations and abuses committed since 28 April – and that those responsible are held accountable. The full implementation of the Peace Agreement, including support for the historical transitional justice process, remains key in response to the current unrest. Fulfilling these vital promises to the people of Colombia will contribute to addressing root causes and increasing public trust in the authorities.
In the Tigray region of Ethiopia, I am deeply disturbed by continued reports of serious violations of international humanitarian law and gross human rights violations and abuses against civilians by all parties to the conflict, including extrajudicial executions; arbitrary arrests and detentions; sexual violence against children as well as adults; and forced displacement. Credible reports indicate that Eritrean soldiers are still operating in Tigray and continue to perpetrate violations of human rights and humanitarian law. The humanitarian situation is dire, with reports of denial of humanitarian access in some localities, and looting of aid supplies by soldiers. An estimated 350,000 people are threatened by famine. The investigation we are jointly conducting in Tigray with the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission is underway, with teams on the ground since 16 May. We expect this work to conclude in August, and the findings and recommendations will be made public. In many other parts of Ethiopia, alarming incidents of deadly ethnic and inter-communal violence and displacement are linked to increasing polarization about longstanding grievances. The ongoing deployment of military forces is not a durable solution, and I encourage comprehensive and multidimensional dialogue throughout the country to address the real grievances held.
In Haiti, political turmoil continues, linked in part to disagreement about the organization of a referendum on a new Constitution, and the organization of elections in September. The authorities should guarantee the right to vote under secure conditions. In this context I am acutely concerned about high levels of insecurity and the Government's apparent difficulties in tackling this trend. The police reportedly did not intervene during a number of recent clashes between criminal groups in Port-au-Prince. Such incidents have led to at least 50 deaths, the displacement of more than 13,000* people, and have aggravated already very limited access to basic services. I strongly condemn violent attacks against the Haitian National Police, with the deaths of 26*police officers since January.* I urge the authorities to take all possible efforts to ensure the protection of all Haitians and tackle the root causes of violence.
Mexico held its largest ever elections earlier this month amid numerous challenges.  I was alarmed by the high level of political violence in the electoral context.  At least 91 politicians and members of political parties – among them 36 election candidates – were killed during the electoral period which began in September 2020. There were also a number of other life-threatening attacks and threats against politicians, their supporters, and civil servants engaged in election work.  Political parties across the spectrum were affected, and women faced gender-based violence including sexual violence and smear campaigns. It is vital to ensure accountability for these acts and to guarantee their non-repetition. Moving forward, I also encourage authorities to refrain from using language that undermines those expressing dissenting opinions, or which in any way puts in question the independence of autonomous bodies, including electoral institutions. I welcome the recent judgment of the Supreme Court of Mexico accepting urgent action recommendations of the Committee on Enforced Disappearances as legally binding on the authorities.
In Mozambique, I am alarmed by the growing conflict in the North, with grave abuses of human rights by armed groups including the brutal killing of civilians, sexual and gender-based violence, trafficking, child abductions and exploitation. Women and girls are reportedly particularly targeted. I note also reports of serious human rights violations by State security forces, supported by private security companies. Almost 800,000 people, including 364,000 children, have been forced to flee their homes by the violence, and face growing food insecurity. I am concerned about the lack of effective mechanisms for oversight and accountability. It is important that all alleged violations, whether by private or public actors, be investigated, prosecuted, and that measures be adopted to put an end to such acts. Restrictions on the rights to freedom of information, expression and press freedoms are a serious issue, together with killings and harassment of human rights defenders, and discrimination against women and girls. I am encouraged that the President of Mozambique has recently welcomed the opportunity to strengthen our collaboration and engagement and has pledged to address the human rights situation.
In the Russian Federation, I am dismayed by recent measures that further undermine people's right to express critical views, and their ability to take part in the parliamentary elections scheduled in September. Earlier this month, following closed hearings, a court in Moscow ruled that the Anti-Corruption Foundation led by the imprisoned opposition figure Aleksei Navalny was an "extremist organization". It also ruled that the associated Citizens’ Rights Protection Foundation, and Navalny’s nation-wide network of political offices, are "extremist", based on vaguely defined allegations of attempting to change the foundations of constitutional order. Earlier, a law was passed prohibiting people involved in the activities of outlawed “extremist organizations” from running in any election.
I call on Russia to uphold civil and political rights. Legislation restricting the freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly and association should be brought in line with international human rights norms and standards. I further urge the authorities to end the arbitrary practice of labelling ordinary individuals, journalists, and non-governmental organizations as “extremists”, “foreign agents” or “undesirable organizations”.
In Sri Lanka, I am concerned by further Government measures perceived as targeting Muslims, and by the harassment of Tamils, including in the context of commemoration events for those who died at the end of the war. I am concerned that recent appointments to the Office of Missing Persons and Office for Reparations, and steps to discourage investigations into past crimes, are further undermining victims' trust. Recent counter-terrorism regulations – which include the listing and/or prohibition of more than 300 Tamil and Muslim groups and individuals for alleged support of terrorism – will also not advance reconciliation. Regulations now permit the arbitrary administrative detention of people for up to two years, without trial for the purposes of de-radicalisation. I also note a continuing series of deaths in police custody and in the context of police encounters with alleged criminal gangs. A thorough, prompt and independent investigation should be conducted. We will continue to engage with the Government, and I will update the Council further at the September session, including on progress in implementing the new accountability mandate.
I am also pleased to report that we are close to finalising the UN Joint Programme on human rights with the Government of the Philippines. I note steps taken by the Government in its internal review of alleged police killings. It is important that re-investigation of cases produces meaningful results, as accountability for human rights violations remains a long-standing concern in the Philippines. I again emphasise the importance of protecting and ensuring the full participation of civil society and the independent national human rights institution. I will update the Council further on this situation in September.
Thank you Madam President.
* Corrected from the version delivered orally which, due to a technical issue, contained out-of-date numbers.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/133185-statement-michelle-bachelet-un-high-commissioner-human-rights




Date: 24 May 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on the diversion of a passenger aircraft over Belarus
Content: 24 May 2021
The Secretary-General is deeply concerned over the apparent forced landing of a passenger aircraft over Belarus on 23 May and the subsequent detention of Mr. Roman Protasevich, a Belarusian journalist on board. The Secretary-General supports calls for a full, transparent and independent investigation into this disturbing incident and urges all relevant actors to cooperate with such an inquiry.
The Secretary-General also remains greatly concerned by the deteriorating human rights situation in Belarus in the aftermath of last August’s presidential elections. He urges the Belarusian authorities to fully respect all its international human rights obligations, including in relation to the freedoms of expression, assembly and association.
For its part, ICAO tweeted on Sunday that it was “seriously concerned” over the incident, which could be in contravention of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, known as the Chicago Convention, signed in 1944, which governs the principles and rules of the airline industry.
On Monday, the agency said ICAO’s Council President, Salvatore Sciacchitano, had called an urgent meeting of the 36 diplomatic representatives that make up the ruling body, on the Ryanair incident, for this coming Wednesday.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/127479-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-diversion-passenger-aircraft-over




Date: 19 May 2021
Title: Belarus: Bachelet appoints OHCHR fact-finding mission experts
Content: 19 May 2021
The experts are Karinna Moskalenko (Russian Federation) who will serve as Chair, Susan Bazilli (Canada) and Marko Milanović (Serbia).
“The past year has seen the longstanding and chronic pattern of systemic violations in Belarus brought into sharp relief, intensifying in the context of the presidential election and beyond, with fundamental freedoms routinely denied,” said Bachelet. “The work of the fact-finding mission will play an important part in ensuring the accountability for the violations that have fuelled the crisis.”
In its resolution 46/20, adopted on 29 March 2021, the UN Human Rights Council condemned the ongoing grave violations of human rights in Belarus in connection with the 2020 presidential election. It requested  the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to monitor and report on the situation of human rights in the country, and to collect, consolidate, preserve and analyse information and evidence with a view to contributing to accountability for perpetrators and justice for victims and, where possible, to identify those responsible.
The resolution requests the High Commissioner to present an interim oral update to the Human Rights Council at its forty-eighth session in September 2021, and a comprehensive written report at its forty-ninth session in March 2022.
Experts’ biographies:  

Ms. Karinna Moskalenko (Russian Federation) 
Karinna Moskalenko is a human rights lawyer who in 2001 became the first Russian lawyer to successfully plead a case at the European Court of Human Rights. Since 2017, she has been Director of Centre de la protection internationale in Strasbourg. From 1999 to 2007, she was a member of the Expert Council for the Plenipotentiary on Human Rights for the Russian Federation. Since 1999, she has been a member of Moscow Helsinki Group. She works as a legal expert for the Centre of Assistance to International Protection in Moscow, which she founded in 1994. The Centre has filed and won more than 500 hundreds cases before the European Court of Human Rights. Ms. Moskalenko is an honourable member of the International Commission of Jurists, where she was a Commissioner from 2003 to 2018.
Mr. Marko Milanović (Serbia)
Marko Milanović is Professor of Public International Law at the University of Nottingham School of Law and an Associate of the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights. He is a member of the Editorial Board of the European Journal of International Law. He has held visiting professorships at Michigan Law School, Columbia Law School, Deakin Law School, the University of the Philippines College of Law, and the Geneva Academy of International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights. He has a strong record of publication in human rights law, public international law, international criminal law and international humanitarian law. His work has been cited, inter alia, by judges of the European Court of Human Rights, the UK Supreme Court, and the High Court of England and Wales.
Ms. Susan Bazilli (Canada)
Susan Bazilli, Director of International Women’s Rights Project (IWRP), is a lawyer, researcher, educator, and advocate who has worked globally on issues of women’s rights and human rights for the past 30 years. She is the author of numerous publications on women’s rights, including the ground-breaking text "Putting Women on the Agenda: Women, Law and the Constitution in Southern Africa". From 1998 to the present, Ms. Bazilli has been associated with the IWRP in Canada and at the international level. Her work has included women’s human rights training in the Balkans, the Baltic region and East Africa, as well as missions for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan and various missions for the UN in South East Asia, Central Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa.
ENDS
For more information and media requests, please contact: 
Rupert Colville + 41 22 917 9767 / rcolville@ohchr.org or
Ravina Shamdasani - + 41 22 917 9169 / rshamdasani@ohchr.orgor
Liz Throssell + 41 22 917 9296 / ethrossell@ohchr.org or
Marta Hurtado - + 41 22 917 9466 / mhurtado@ohchr.org
Tag and share
Twitter   @UNHumanRights 
Facebook   unitednationshumanrights 
Instagram   @unitednationshumanrights


United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/127207-belarus-bachelet-appoints-ohchr-fact-finding-mission-experts




Date: 17 May 2021
Title: Statement by human rights experts on the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia
Content: 17 May 2021
Geneva/Washington D.C./Strasbourg, 14 May 2021
On the eve of the International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia (IDAHOBIT), which will be held on 17 May 2021, a group of United Nations and international human rights experts* calls on States, faith-based institutions, religious leaders and other stakeholders to consider the negative impact of exclusionary or stigmatizing narratives on violence and discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and gender diverse (LGBT) persons. LGBT and gender diverse persons are and have always been part of all faith traditions around the world and, as all human beings, must be recognized as worthy of love and belonging.
Freedom in general, and freedom of thought, conscience and religion or belief in particular, are cornerstones of the international human rights framework, and the right to freedom of religion or belief of all human beings during their life course, including that of LGBT persons, must be recognized. Religious authorities have a responsibility to ensure that religion and tradition are not utilized to promote discrimination of persons based on their sexual orientation and gender identity.
However, imputations of sin to the conduct and choices of LGBT individuals in the name of religion are often used as the justification for criminalization and other punitive measures in legal systems that, in many cases, derive from colonial structures that were superimposed on cultural views that were more accepting of diversity. Currently, 69 countries continue to criminalize same-sex relationships or forms of gender expression, with some even prescribing the death penalty for same-sex relationships. Several of them in the Middle East and North Africa, South and South-East Asia, and sub-Saharan Africa justify the maintenance of legal prohibitions of homosexuality, introduced in most cases by colonial authorities, on the grounds that they uphold the tenets of Islam or Christianity, and therefore are necessary to maintain public morals.
Further, incitement to violence and discrimination on the basis of personal characteristics by faith-based leaders has been documented in many instances. Such incitement constitutes hate speech and is protected neither by freedom of expression nor by freedom of religion or belief. Religious institutions are entitled to autonomy in the administration of their affairs and may have varying opinions about sexual orientation and gender identity related matters, but under no circumstances should their authorities incite violence or hatred. In this context, the right to freedom of religion or belief of some cannot be at the expense of the right for all humans, regardless of one’s ethnicity, race, status, sexual orientation and gender identity, to lead a life free of violence and discrimination. Any action that infringes the latter breaks the logic of indivisibility and interdependence that forms the cornerstone of the international human rights framework, and, in fact undermines the core tenets of almost all religious traditions, which regard every human being as valuable and possessed of equal dignity. The human rights system and religions are intrinsically linked by this one core objective: “recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family [which constitutes] the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world.”[1]
These principles are at the core of the defense of human rights of LGBT persons, and LGBT rights defenders should be free to defend and promote the rights and freedoms of their community in a safe and enabling environment, particularly when relating to persons, communities and populations that live in the intersection of identities that create particular risk of violence and discrimination. For example, the right to freedom of religion or belief and the right to live free from violence and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity should also be ensured by States in all places in which persons are under the custody of the State, such as places of deprivation of liberty, and in places where the State maintains regulatory attributions, such as education and health-care settings.
Over time, robust international and national laws have developed in the area of freedom of religion or belief, cementing the right of peoples to practice their religion or belief, or even to change or renounce them, which plays a central role in how individuals create bonds with their communities and participate in social life. Certain narratives, coupled with false affirmations presented as science-backed fact, feed the fake notion that there is an inherent conflict between these rights of religious freedom and the basic human rights of LGBT individuals. This manufactured contradiction then becomes another tool that perpetuates and aggravates their sociocultural exclusion.
Most human beings look for a sense of purpose in their lives, and spirituality is a fundamental part of this quest for a very large proportion of humanity. As part of this quest for spirituality, embracing a particular faith is a common experience for many, and it can be especially meaningful to a person who discovers an orientation or identity that clashes with the expectations of the outside world. Therefore, like everyone else, LGBT persons have spiritual needs and may also choose to find comfort in faith when they need support or guidance. Many LGBT individuals persist in pushing for acceptance within their faith and belief systems even when confronted with a sturdy wall of opposition. Over time, the evidence shows that denominations and religious leaders with inclusive views of people of diverse sexual orientation and gender identity are becoming more visible.
Faith traditions teach the need to listen to those who are silenced and uplift those who are oppressed. They ask us to find the common ground in the human experience. They urge to embrace others, especially those who are different. Faith motivates many to work tirelessly for the common good by finding life purpose and making unique contributions to the world. They inspire many to make the choices that will allow reaching their fullest potential and be their most authentic selves so that they can lead with love, courage and kindness. In that sense, an inclusive faith perspective on sexuality and gender can create a profoundly meaningful space of hospitality and acceptance, where people can thrive together, express themselves authentically and feel closer to each other.
We believe that the international human rights framework and the humanistic principles at the core of every religion have an interdependent role: to safeguard and promote the inherent and equal dignity of every human being, to guide people and societies in their quest for happiness, and to build a world where everyone can live free and equal. This is why today we urge all people of faiths and beliefs and religious leaders to adopt and embrace public discourse that is respectful and compassionate - and refrain from reproducing narratives that perpetuate stigma, justify discrimination, and promote violence. Similarly, we call on all States and other stakeholders, including businesses, to reject laws, policies and practices that discriminate or fuel prejudice against LGBT persons and to actively foster the institutional and societal conditions that will enable them to exercise and enjoy all their human rights and contribute to society on an equal footing with everyone.
(*) The experts:
Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR)
Council of Europe: Ms. Dunja Mijatović, Commissioner for Human Rights
UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities;
UN Committee on the Rights of the Child;
UN Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment;
Mr. Renato Zerbini Ribeiro Leão, Chair of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights;
Mr. Claude Heller, Chair of the Committee Against Torture
UN independent experts: Victor Madrigal-Borloz, Independent Expert on protection against violence and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity; Ahmed Shaheed, Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief; Thomas Andrews, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar; Jelena Aparac (Chairpersons), Lilian Bobea, Ravindran Daniel, Chris Kwaja, Sorcha MacLeod, Working Group on the use of mercenaries as a means of violating human rights and impeding the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination; Pedro Arrojo-Agudo, Special Rapporteur on the human rights to safe drinking  water and sanitation; Karima Bennoune, Special Rapporteur in the field of cultural rights; Koumbou Boly Barry, Special Rapporteur on the right to education; David R. Boyd, Special Rapporteur on Human Rights and Environment; Francisco Calí Tzay, Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples, Alice Cruz, Special Rapporteur on the elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members; Fernand de Varennes, Special Rapporteur on minority issues; Isha Dyfan, Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in Somalia; Michael Fakhri, Special Rapporteur on the right to food; Diego García-Sayán, Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers; Cecilia Jimenez-Damary, Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons; Irene Khan, Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression; Mary Lawlor, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders; Michael Lynk, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian Territory occupied since 1967; Claudia Mahler, Independent Expert on the enjoyment of all human rights by older persons; Nils Melzer, Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; Siobhán Mullally, Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children; Tlaleng Mofokeng, Special Rapporteur on the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health; Fionnuala Ní Aoláin, Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism; Tomoya Obokata, Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery; Obiora Okafor, Independent Expert on human rights and international solidarity; Dante Pesce (Chairpersons), Surya Deva (Vice-chairperson), Elżbieta Karska, Githu Muigai, Anita Ramasastry, Working Group on the issue of human rights and transnational corporations and other business enterprises; Gerard Quinn, Special Rapporteur on the rights of person with disabilities; Javaid Rehman, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran; Fabian Salvioli, Special Rapporteur on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-recurrence; Livingstone Sewanyana, Independent Expert on the promotion of a democratic and equitable international order; Dubravka Šimonovic, Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences; Morris Tidball-Binz, Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions; Leigh Toomey (Chair-Rapporteur), Elina Steinerte (Vice-chairperson), Mumba Malila, Miriam Estrada-Castillo, Priya Gopalan, Working Group on arbitrary detention; Clément Nyaletsossi Voule, Special Rapporteur on the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association.
[1] UDHR, Preamble.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/126953-statement-human-rights-experts-international-day-against-homophobia-transphobia-and-biphobia




Date: 06 May 2021
Title: Meeting of the UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Belarus
Content: 06 May 2021
Issues discussed included cooperation on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and mobilization of donor resources for SDG implementation in Belarus.  SDGs remain the central theme of the new UN Belarus Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for the period of 2021-2025.
The meeting was an opportunity to reflect on cooperation in 2020; the UN Resident Coordinator presented the UN Belarus annual report to the Deputy Minister.
One of the areas acknowledged as priority by both sides was the UN support to the response to COVID-19 pandemic in Belarus.  Detailed priorities of cooperation in this area were laid out in the UN Socio-Economic Response Plan to COVID-19 in Belarus (SERP), presented officially in the first quarter of 2021.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs acknowledged constructive engagement with key donors providing assistance to COVID-19 response in Belarus, including through the EU-funded WHO programme and other activities financed on a bilateral basis.
The UN and MFA also discussed the cooperation on human rights in follow-up to the recent meeting in Geneva between the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Belarus.


United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/126379-meeting-un-resident-coordinator-belarus-and-deputy-minister-foreign-affairs-belarus




Date: 27 April 2021
Title: With the support of the European Union, WHO has supplied oxygen masks, high-flow nasal oxygen therapy devices and rapid tests to Belarus to tackle COVID-19
Content: 27 April 2021
The equipment meeting all WHO requirements and totaling to 850,000 USD, was purchased and delivered as part of the Solidarity for Health Initiative project funded by the European Union.
5,482 reservoir oxygen masks for respiratory support of oxygen-dependent patients with coronavirus pneumonia have been supplied.
160 High-flow Nasal Cannula Oxygen Therapy Devices will be used for severe COVID-19 patients who require noninvasive respiratory support.
20,000 rapid tests for COVID-19 diagnosis are planned to be distributed to district hospitals that have encountered problems diagnosing COVID-19 because of long time test confirmation or long distance to regional PCR laboratory.
The Head of the European Union Delegation to Belarus, Ambassador Dirk Schuebel, and the WHO Representative to Belarus, Dr. Masoud Dara, presented medical supplies to Boris Androsyuk, he Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Belarus, as a part of a broader package of the assistance aimed to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the country.
Dirk Schuebel, the European Union Ambassador: “The European Union and its Member States stand by the people of the Republic of Belarus in their fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Today's delivery is yet another example of our support and determination to respond to the immediate needs of the health system. The number of people infected with COVID-19 continues to grow and so is the need for essential equipment. We will continue to provide the necessary assistance in partnership with the WHO and other International Organisations in the context of the European Union's Solidarity for Health Initiative.”
Dr Masoud Dara, Special Representative of the WHO Regional Director for Belarus/Head of the WHO Country Office in Belarus: “The tests and equipment obtained thanks to the European Union will help to control the spread of the coronavirus infection and provide the necessary assistance to the patients suffering from COVID-19. WHO will continue to work with the Republic of Belarus to deliver the necessary supplies, protect medical staff and patients, and save lives during the COVID-19 pandemic. We are grateful to the EU for funding this latest delivery of tests and medical supplies."
Boris Androsyuk, the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Belarus: “On behalf of the Ministry of Health, I express gratitude to the EU and WHO for financial support, humanitarian aid and additional supplies of personal protective equipment. This aid will be distributed and delivered to the regions in the next day or two. A week ago we announced the beginning of the so-called third wave of coronavirus, so this aid is very timely indeed”.
About the project
The Solidarity for Health Initiative is funded by the European Union in six countries of the Eastern European region: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine. It aims to ensure an effective response to the COVID-19 pandemic and to strengthen the capacity of national health systems to prevent, prepare for, detect and respond to public health emergencies. The project is implemented by the WHO Regional Office for Europe and WHO country offices in close coordination with EU Delegations, national authorities and development partners, including those in the United Nations system. The project has a duration of 2 years, from March 27, 2020 to March 26, 2022.
Source of information for journalists:
● Updated information on the latest statistics on COVID-19 from WHO Headquarters (WHO HQ), WHO Regional Office for Europe (WHO/Europe).
The detailed status information is provided through a real-time interactive dashboard system.
● More information and advice on COVID-19 for the public is available on the WHO website COVID-19 advice for public
● Information from the Delegation of the European Union to Belarus at eeas.europa.eu/belarus
● Information about the European Union-funded projects in Belarus at www.euprojects.by
For more information please contact:
Tatsiana Aliakseyeva
EU Press and Information Coordinator, Cooperation Programmes Unit, Delegation of the European Union to Belarus
Phone: +375 (17) 328-66-13, E-mail: Tatsiana.ALIAKSEYEVA@eeas.europa.eu
Sviatlana Stakhouskaya
Communications Officer, WHO Country Office in Belarus
Phone: 8 (017) 222-04-19 (office), E-mail: stakhouskayas@who.int

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/125802-support-european-union-who-has-supplied-oxygen-masks-high-flow-nasal-oxygen-therapy-devices




Date: 23 April 2021
Title: The United Nations Country Network on Migration (UNCNM) in Belarus held the 2nd extended meeting
Content: 23 April 2021
During the meeting, co-chaired by United Nations Resident Coordinator Mrs. Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki and the IOM Chief of Mission in Belarus Mrs. Mahym Orazmuhammedova, the progress on the GCM implementation in Belarus has been presented from the government, non-government, and UN perspectives as well as GCM link with National Concept on Migration Policy and SDGs have been discussed.
The important contributions have been done by the government of Belarus as proving inputs to the “UN SG Biennial Report on the implementation of the Global Compact on Migration 2020” and submission of the national Voluntary Report of the Implementation of the Global Compact with the UN Network’s support in Belarus was underlined by UN Resident Coordinator. Mrs. Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki noted that the UN Belarus Network on Migration would like to both support national policy discussions and formulation of the national migration policy and action plan in Belarus.
The national concept of migration policy of the Republic of Belarus and the national plan for its implementation will play a key role in the implementation of the GCM, as well as the 2030 Agenda.
“At the national level, one of the main tasks of the UN Country Network on Migration will be to provide a forum and platform for multilateral discussion and consultation on migration issues, as well as support in the implementation, follow-up and review of the GCM”- said Mrs. Mahym Orazmuhammedova – IOM Chief of Mission in Belarus.
The Network’s functioning was also reviewed from the perspective of the impact of COVID-19. While the pandemic is not a crisis of migration, it nevertheless has fundamentally impacted mobility and migrants’ human rights and raised unexpected policy challenges for governments everywhere. The UN Country Team in Belarus has contributed to these efforts by providing assistance to different vulnerable groups, including victims of trafficking, asylum-seekers, persons granted refugee status and complementary protection in Belarus, stateless persons, including those who lost their jobs due to COVID-19 or had related medical issues.
Furthermore, at the conclusion of the 2nd extended meeting of the United Nations County Network on Migration in Belarus, partners and stakeholders have agreed to utilize the UNCNM as a platform for further discussion of migration issues, promote capacity building on migration themes for members and partners of the network as well as jointly contribute to the implementation of GCM through the development and engagement on national implementation plan of migration policy for Belarus.

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/130280-united-nations-country-network-migration-uncnm-belarus-held-2nd-extended-meeting




Date: 22 April 2021
Title: The development and implementation of the national migration policy was discussed at the meeting of the UN Country Network on Migration
Content: 22 April 2021
During the meeting, co-chaired by United Nations Resident Coordinator Mrs. Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki. and the IOM Chief of Mission in Belarus, Mrs. Mahym Orazmuhammedova, the progress on the GCM implementation in Belarus have been presented from the government, non-government, and UN perspectives as well as GCM link with National Concept on Migration Policy and SDGs have been discussed.
The important contributions have done by the government of Belarus as proving inputs to the “UN SG Biennial Report on the implementation of the Global Compact on Migration 2020” and submission of the national Voluntary Report of the Implementation of the Global Compact with the UN Network’s support in Belarus was underlined by UNRC. Mrs. Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki UNRC, noted that the UN Belarus Network on Migration would like to both support national policy discussions and formulation of the national migration policy and action plan in Belarus.
"Migration is an issue where not only Government plays the role, but where civil society, international organisations and development experts add a critical contribution.
We would like the UN Belarus Network on Migration to both support national policy discussions and formulation of the national migration policy and action plan.
We also would like this Network to be a forum for partnerships at the country level to formulate the cross-sectoral and inclusive input of Belarus to the global debate and cooperation on migration", said Mrs. Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki.
The national concept of migration policy of the Republic of Belarus and the national plan for its implementation will play a key role in the implementation of the GCM, as well as the 2030 Agenda.
"At the national level, one of the main tasks of the UN Country Network on Migration will be to provide a forum and platform for multilateral discussion and consultation on migration issues, as well as support in the implementation, follow-up and review of the GCM”- said Mrs.Mahym Orazmuhammedova – IOM Chief of Mission in Belarus.
The Network’s functioning was also reviewed from the perspective of the impact of COVID-19. While the pandemic is not a crisis of migration, it nevertheless has fundamentally impacted mobility and migrants’ human rights and raised unexpected policy challenges for governments everywhere. The UN Country Team in Belarus has contributed to these efforts by providing assistance to different vulnerable groups, including victims of trafficking, asylum-seekers, persons granted refugee status and complementary protection in Belarus, stateless persons, including those who lost their jobs due to COVID-19 or had related medical issues.
Furthermore, at the conclusion of the 2nd extended meeting of the United Nations County Network on Migration in Belarus, partners and stakeholders have agreed to utilize the UNCNM as a platform for further discussion of migration issues, promote capacity building on migration themes for members and partners of the network as well as jointly contribute to the implementation of GCM through the development and engagement on national implementation plan of migration policy for Belarus.

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/125752-development-and-implementation-national-migration-policy-was-discussed-meeting-un-country




Date: 07 April 2021
Title: WHO recommends action on key social policies to make the world fairer and healthier
Content: 07 April 2021
COVID-19 has affected us all, but some have fared worse than others simply because of the jobs they do and the insecurity of their living conditions and livelihoods.
For instance, the effects of COVID-19 containment measures were felt unequally, with people from lower income groups at higher risk of losing their jobs. Estimates suggest that in the first month of the pandemic alone, informal workers, including those working in warehouses and call centres, domestic workers, seasonal workers and low-paid contract workers in the health and care sectors in Europe and Central Asia lost 70% of their income.
This World Health Day, marked each year on 7 April, WHO is calling on leaders to put inclusiveness and equity at the heart of all recovery responses to create a fairer, healthier world.
“Why is it that some people have felt the effects of COVID-19 more sharply?” said Dr Hans Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe. “Quite simply, the cards have been stacked against them in terms of jobs, housing, community, social support and health care. It’s time that everyone is dealt a fair hand, and we rebuild from the pandemic, setting our sights higher than surviving, to thriving.”
Action is urgently needed by the health sector and across government to remove the barriers to a fairer and healthier life for all.
80% of Europeans believe that reducing inequities should be top of their government’s agenda.
When governments implement the right policies, gaps in health can be reduced in as little as 4 years.
A WHO health equity policy tool has shown that policies in the following areas have the highest potential to close health gaps and positively impact health and well-being, especially if they are implemented together:
“Our world was already an unequal one when COVID-19 hit, and the pandemic has brought these inequities into sharp focus,” said Dr Masoud Dara, WHO Country Representative to Belarus. “Inequities in health are not only unfair, they are preventable. Governments and communities now need to work together to secure living and working conditions for everyone to live a healthy life and to thrive.”

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/124193-who-recommends-action-key-social-policies-make-world-fairer-and-healthier




Date: 02 April 2021
Title: Belarus must end pattern of police brutality and impunity: UN experts
Content: 02 April 2021
On 25 March 2021, 176 people reportedly were detained during peaceful protests commemorating Freedom Day, and two days later, seven journalists were among 247 people detained.
In the lead-up to Freedom Day the Investigative Committee of Belarus, an oversight body of the state, had warned and threatened protesters planning to participate in “unauthorised mass events” with criminal liability.
“We are alarmed at the high numbers of alleged arbitrary arrest and detention that took place last week which demonstrate a continued pattern of police brutality against demonstrators. We are concerned that, so far, security forces have not been held accountable for excessive use of force both in the pre-electoral period and after the presidential elections on 9 August 2020,” the experts said.
“We are deeply concerned that, instead of bringing perpetrators to justice, the authorities are arbitrarily seeking to silence all forms of dissent, through unjustified violence, intimidation and growingly by bringing criminal charges against those who exercise their fundamental rights, or defend victims of human rights violations.”
In 2020, many journalists and human rights defenders were reportedly harassed and detained while monitoring assemblies, on the grounds of allegedly “participating in, organizing or financing unauthorised events” simply for exercising their legitimate functions. This criminalisation is a worrying trend that must stop immediately.
The experts stressed that, “the prohibition of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment is not confined to acts carried out against persons deprived of their liberty, but also covers excessive police violence, such as during arrest and the policing of assemblies”.
Reports indicate that the Investigative Committee has dismissed the use of violence and anti-riot equipment by law enforcement officers as justified and proportionate and no criminal cases have been opened in courts against security forces in relation to allegations of torture and ill-treatment committed last year.
“Ensuring institutional and personal accountability for human rights violations is an obligation for states under international law. Failure to do so not only perpetuates the prevailing culture of impunity but may even amount to criminal complicity in serious crimes,” the experts said.
“We have raised our concerns directly with the Government and stressed the need for prompt, effective, thorough and impartial investigations with a view to ensuring accountability in cases of arbitrary detention and torture and ill-treatment.”
The experts will continue to engage with the authorities of Belarus and closely monitor the situation.
The experts: Mr. Nils Melzer, Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; Working Group on Arbitrary Detention: Leigh Toomey (Chair-Rapporteur), Elina Steinerte (Vice-Chair), Miriam Estrada-Castillo, Mumba Malila, Seong-Phil Hong; Ms. Anaïs Marin, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Belarus; Ms. Irene Khan, Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression; Mr. Clement Nyaletsossi Voule, Special Rapporteur on the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association; Mr. Victor Madrigal-Borloz, Independent Expert on protection against violence and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity
The Special Rapporteurs, Independent Experts and Working Groups are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, Country Page – Belarus
For more information and media requests, please contact: Koat Aleer (+41 22 917 9194 / kaleer@ohchr.org or sr-torture@ohchr.org)
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Renato de Souza (+41 22 928 9855 / rrosariodesouza@ohchr.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/123791-belarus-must-end-pattern-police-brutality-and-impunity-un-experts




Date: 29 March 2021
Title: COVID recovery, an opportunity to build back better
Content: 29 March 2021
The COVID-19 Socioeconomic Response Plan (SERP), the UN in Belarus system's comprehensive offer and menu of programmatic interventions seeks to minimize the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the short, medium- and long-term perspectives. The main areas of the UN response are health, social protection and cohesion as well as economic and macroeconomic response.
The document was developed in consultation with national experts and was well received by the Government of Belarus. The UN was provided with a range of comments and specific suggestions, in particular by Ministries of Labour and Social Protection and Ministry of Economy, on how to further align the Programme with national priorities.
“The recovery from COVID-19 requires a long-term approach and investments in the socio-economic sphere. In macro-terms, Belarus hasn't been severely affected by COVID-19 pandemic, so relatively small investments and innovations would give Belarus an advantage and opportunity to become more competitive. The UN looks at the recovery from Covid-19 pandemic from the sustainability perspective. The crisis is at the same time an opportunity to accelerate modernization. Looking at examples of other countries and regions which allocate unprecedented resources to invest, over time, in innovative development solutions, build new infrastructure and decisively expand digital, green and inclusive economies and solutions for people, the UN’s Socio-Economic Response to Covid-19 offers a menu of options and programmes that can be very useful in Belarus,” said Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki, United Nations Resident Coordinator in Belarus.
Substantive work and presentations on behalf of all UN agencies were delivered by Representatives and experts of WHO, UNDP, UNICEF, UNFPA and UN in Belarus Presenters and Government and CSO speakers focused on five pillars of the socio-economic response: of health and basic social services, economic recovery, macroeconomic response, multilateral collaboration, social cohesion and community resilience.
Speakers from the Ministry of Health provided an update of the epidemiological aspects with COVID-19 in the country. Representatives of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection and the Ministry of Economy presented measures in such priority areas as employment policy, social support and small and medium enterprise development. The ministries’ representatives highlighted the areas of complementarity with UN efforts and priorities for future collaboration.
Participating civil society partners and private sector firms presented their initiatives and underlined the need for partnerships, cooperation and coordination of Covid-19 recovery efforts. Representatives of the international community acknowledged the need to focus on socio-economic response to Covid-19 and invest in the needs of communities that may be left behind.
In March 2020, the UN in Belarus, with support of its international partners, reacted quickly to complement the national response to COVID-19. In the first months of the pandemic, the UN system in Belarus in cooperation with international donors provided some $7.5 million to support the health system through the procurement of medicines and protective equipment, which helped the country weather the first wave of the pandemic. Soon after that, a number of inter-agency UN Task Forces were set up to address the broader socioeconomic impact of the pandemic. Their work resulted in the elaboration of the Socio-Economic Response Plan (SERP) to COVID-19.
In the second half of the year 2020, the UN in Belarus worked to expand partnerships and mobilize additional funds to implement the SERP. Civil society organizations like the Belarusian Red Cross Society, Social Changes, MamaPro Help, among others, were involved in the delivery of UN projects on the ground in such areas as providing services for the elderly, migrants, pregnant women, and other vulnerable groups. Private companies especially from the ICT industry, such as SoftTeco, Rakuten Viber, Oyper and others, partnered with the UN and CSOs to develop digital solutions and provide fundamental infrastructure that was needed to provide services remotely and help organize the work of volunteers.
The UN in Belarus also worked on mobilizing additional funds to implement the SERP. The implementation of the Plan will require about 64 million USD, of which 14 million have already been identified by UN agencies and international donors, including the European Union, Global Environment Facility, Global Fund, Germany, Norway, Poland, Republic of Korea, Russia, Sweden, UK, USA.  Funds were made available through ongoing and new programmes of resident and non-resident UN agencies. The UN in Belarus continues its collaboration with IFIs, including the World Bank, IFC, EBRD, to complement their work on supporting SMEs and improving the business environment.
The Plan covers deliverables from March 2020 until January 2022. Some of the activities have been or are in the process of being implemented, while most activities will continue during 2021 and beyond.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/123472-covid-recovery-opportunity-build-back-better




Date: 17 March 2021
Title: Human Rights Council Adopted Universal Periodic Review Outcomes of Belarus
Content: 17 March 2021
Speaking at the session on adoption of Universal Periodic Review outcome of Belarus were Ethiopia, Germany, India, Iran, Lithuania, Nepal, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Sri Lanka, Syria, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom and Venezuela.
The following civil society organizations also took part in the discussions: Right Livelihood Award Foundation, Human Rights House Foundation, International Bar Association, Amnesty International, Advocates for Human Rights, and United Nations Watch.
Yury Ambrazevich, Permanent Representative of Belarus to the United Nations Office and other international organizations in Geneva, spoke at the session on behalf of the Republic of Belarus.
He noted that Belarus had accepted 266 recommendations for consideration, which related to just over 100 thematic issues.  Belarus had accepted most of them - 155 recommendations - which was 58 per cent of the total.  Of these, 18 recommendations were partially adopted, another 33 were considered as implemented or being implemented.
According to Ambrazevich, Belarus always cited the Universal Periodic Review as an example of an instrument of the Human Rights Council that was based on constructive dialogue and cooperation with States. Unfortunately, not everyone shared this view, as some countries politicised the process: their counterproductive, factually incorrect recommendations were rejected.
Other speakers, who took the floor at the session on discussion of Universal Periodic Review, regretted that recommendations related to the ongoing and unprecedented human rights crisis had not been accepted.  They stated that impunity only served as a breeding ground for further violence and violations of human rights.
Some speakers congratulated Belarus for its efforts to combat human trafficking.  The adoption of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities by Belarus and the decision to name a national coordinator for the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals were commendable. It was also noted that interagency cooperation in the area of the prevention of child abuse and domestic violence should be increased.
Regretting the Government’s refusal to engage with the UN Special Rapporteur on the Situation of Human Rights for Belarus, speakers expressed concerns about the freedom of expression and assembly; the climate of fear and impunity; the Government’s disregard for due process and fair trial; arbitrary arrests; and allegations of torture.
In his concluding remarks, Permanent Representative of Belarus to the United Nations Office and other international organizations in Geneva said that Belarus disagreed with most of the assessments made by non-governmental organizations.
Mr. Ambrazevich underlined that Belarus had areas for further improvement of the human rights situation, and it was consistently working on this.  There was political pressure being exerted on Belarus, including at the Human Rights Council.
The webcast of the Human Rights Council meetings can be found here. All meeting summaries can be found here. Documents and reports related to the Human Rights Council’s forty-sixth regular session can be found here.
The Report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review on Belarus can be found here (A/HRC/46/5).



United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/122245-human-rights-council-adopted-universal-periodic-review-outcomes-belarus




Date: 25 January 2021
Title: COVID-19 & Media: WHO Regulations and Current Developments
Content: 25 January 2021

With recent rapid change in epidemiological situation of Belarus, different measures already in place, influenza season approaching, it becomes increasingly important to raise awareness of media on the current situation so that they, in turn, can inform the public.
This online webinar will include several sessions conducted by the WHO Regional Office for Europe, the WHO Country Office in Belarus.
The event takes place within the framework of the Solidarity for Health project, which is being implemented with the financial support of the European Union.
The webinar for Belarusian media will be held on January 29, 2021 from 10.00 to 12.30 at ZOOM.
Format:
Language:
Trainers & Speakers:

Key themes:

Participants:
Handouts
Meeting URL:    https://who.zoom.us/j/97186284494
Meeting ID:        971 8628 4494
Passcode:           3v*3b#fc
Please confirm your participation in the webinar by January 28 by e-mail stakhouskayas@who.int or +375 29 606-48-36
How to join a video conference at ZOOM?
https://support.zoom.us/hc/ru/articles/201362193-Joining-a-Meeting
The seminar program is here.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/109080-covid-19-media-who-regulations-and-current-developments




Date: 18 December 2020
Title: Belarusian young people are encouraged to reimagine human mobility.
Content: 18 December 2020
As part of the Global Migration Film Festival (GMFF), IOM Belarus, together with resident UN Agencies and IFIs, organized an online event for young people dedicated to International Migrants Day.
Attended by students of the Faculty of International Relations of the Belarusian State University – a leading school for nurturing young leaders in the international relations field, the meeting featured a screening of the film “Women’s Country” directed by Şirin Bahar Demirel, followed by a moderated discussion. In total 63 participants joined the event, among whom there were 50 students.
After the movie, the students got first-hands knowledge on the multi-faceted phenomenon of migration through the prism of sustainable development, gender, public health, HIV/AIDS, etc.  The panelists represented by UN Heads of Agencies and staff were engaged in active discussion with young people on migration issues.
Statistically speaking, 11% of international migrants are young people aged from 19 to 24. In turn, IOM prioritizes building innovative alliances, including those with the academia and young people. The latter is in fact well placed to produce creative out-of-the-box solutions the migrants and society at large need. With this in mind, the event was specifically targeted at the youth.
“The main theme of this year's Migrants’ Day is reimagining human mobility. And I'm talking about "reimagining" for a reason. Indeed, in 2020, many migrants are at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic. They work in the healthcare, transportation, food service industries and help us overcome the challenges we all face in isolation. However, like many vulnerable groups, migrants are heavily affected by COVID-19 because of job losses, pay cuts, instances of stigma and discrimination, when people on the move are even blamed for spreading the virus. During this difficult period, migrants are particularly vulnerable to human trafficking and exploitation”, - said Mahym Orazmuhammedova, Chief of Mission at IOM Belarus.
The meeting closed with a hope for a better future. “At the end, migration shouldn't be a forced step. Every person should have a choice. On International Migrants Day, let us reaffirm our commitment to safe and dignified migration for all. Happy International Migrants Day to everyone!”, stressed Mahym Orazmuhammedova, Chief of Mission at IOM Belarus.
For more information, please contact Alena Sarkisava at asarkisava@iom.int
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/105786-belarusian-young-people-are-encouraged-reimagine-human-mobility




Date: 03 December 2020
Title: Building back better: People with disabilities have vital role
Content: 03 December 2020
Danlami Basharu, Chair of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities:
“The COVID-19 pandemic has demonstrated the precarious nature of the gains made in the past two decades by and for persons with disabilities. States must work to mitigate its immediate and short-term effects and also plan better for future crises to make sure that no one is left behind in reality.
One obvious learning from the past few months is the conspicuous lack of consultation with people with disabilities, their representative organisations and human rights defenders with disabilities, in shaping the response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Problems that were wholly predictable were missed and this negatively affected both the legitimacy of immediate responses and their effectiveness.”
Gerard Quinn, Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities:
“The COVID-19 pandemic highlights that protection, response and recovery efforts will not be effective unless everyone is equally valued and included. Only through the adoption of a human rights approach will we achieve equitable, sustainable and resilient societies. This includes, among others, the recognition of education as an essential element to empower persons with disabilities and to integrate them into their communities socially and politically.
Innovation is needed to replace fragile support systems with an assurance of continuity during crises. The future cannot be like the past, and that is what ‘building back better’ should be all about.”
María Soledad Cisternas Reyes, Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Disability and Accessibility:
“Another obvious learning has to do with improving the accessibility and availability of relevant information and communications to those most at risk. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we also experienced the extreme fragility of support systems for persons with disabilities, as well as other community support services. The multidimensional poverty and marginalization caused was obvious: extreme isolation, lack of access to basic services, including food and medicine, an enhanced risk of violence against women and girls with disabilities in the home, and even homelessness. It had a disproportionate impact on women and girls with disabilities and on older persons with disabilities.”
These remarks are endorsed by: Saad Alfarargi, Special Rapporteur on the right to development; Thomas Andrews, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar;  Pedro Arrojo-Agudo, Special Rapporteur on the human rights to safe drinking water and sanitation; Karima Bennoune, Special Rapporteur in the field of cultural rights; Koumbou Boly Barry, Special Rapporteur on the right to education; David R. Boyd, Special Rapporteur on Human Rights and the Environment; Elizabeth Broderick (Chair), Dorothy Estrada-Tanck, Meskerem Geset Techane, Ivana RadačIć, Melissa Upreti (Vice Chair), Working Group on discrimination against women and girls;  Alice Cruz, Special Rapporteur on the elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members; Olivier De Schutter, Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights; Fernand de Varennes, Special Rapporteur on minority issues; Isha Dyfan, Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in Somalia; Ikponwosa Ero, Independent Expert on the enjoyment of human rights by persons with albinism; Michael Fakhri, Special Rapporteur on the right to food; Diego García-Sayán, Special Rapporteur on the Independence of Judges and Lawyers; Felipe González Morales, Special Rapporteur on the human rights of migrants; Mary Lawlor, Special Rapporteur on the situation of Human Rights Defenders; Michael Lynk, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian territory occupied since 1967; Fionnuala Ní Aoláin, Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights while countering terrorism; Claudia Mahler, Independent Expert on the enjoyment of all human rights by older persons; Nils Melzer, Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; Tlaleng Mofokeng, Special Rapporteur on the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health; Siobhán Mullally, Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children; Tomoya Obokata, Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery, including its causes and consequences; Tomás Ojea Quintana, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; Marcos Orellana, Special Rapporteur on toxics and human rights; Balakrishnan Rajagopal, Special Rapporteur on adequate housing as a component of the right to an adequate standard of living, and on the right to non-discrimination in this context; Livingstone Sewanyana, Independent Expert on the promotion of a democratic and equitable international order; Dubravka Šimonovic, Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences; Mama Fatima Singhateh, Special Rapporteur on the sale and sexual exploitation of children; Alioune Tine, Independent Expert on the situation of Human Rights in Mali.
Mr. Gerard Quinn, UN Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities, is part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.

The Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities monitors States parties’ adherence to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities which to date has 182 States parties. The Committee is made up of 18 members who are independent human rights experts drawn from around the world, who serve in their personal capacity and not as representatives of States parties. The Committee’s concluding observations are an independent assessment of States’ compliance with their human rights obligations under the treaty.
Ms. María Soledad Cisternas Reyes is the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Disability and Accessibility. The role of the Special Envoy is to promote the rights of persons with disabilities and universal accessibility.
For more information and media requests, please contact Veronica Forcignanò (vforcignano@ohchr.org), or write to sr.disability@ohchr.org.
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Renato de Souza (+41 22 928 9855, rrosariodesouza@ohchr.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/103501-building-back-better-people-disabilities-have-vital-role




Date: 01 December 2020
Title: Meeting of the UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus with the National Sustainable Development Goals Coordinator
Content: 01 December 2020
The UN Resident Coordinator briefed the National SDG Coordinator about the work of the UN System agencies in 2020, focusing on the response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The Resident Coordinator informed the SDG Coordinator about the new COVID-19 Social and Economic Response Plan for Belarus prepared by the UN agencies under the leadership of UNDP and UNICEF.  The Resident Coordinator also informed the National SDG Coordinator about resource mobilization efforts and discussions with key donors, including the EU, about funding for COVID-19 related work in communities.
The Resident Coordinator underscored the indispensable role of partnerships in work on the SDGs and conveyed to the National SDG Coordinator the concerns of members of the Partnership Group of the SDG Council about undue pressure on civil society organizations in recent months.  Civil society organizations working in the areas of the environment, women’s rights and children’s rights and those providing support to the elderly or people with disabilities represent an important sector of professional partners who are leading innovation and piloting solutions for SDG acceleration, the Resident Coordinator said. The United Nations acknowledges the important voice of civil society in the spirit of the SDGs and the principles of partnership and ‘leaving no one behind’.  The Resident Coordinator and the National SDG Coordinator agreed that the SDGs should not be politicized.  The Resident Coordinator added that human rights which underpin the SDG agenda should not be politicized either. Development without respect for human rights cannot be truly sustainable.
The UN Resident Coordinator referred also to the national strategic plans and programmes, many of which are being prepared by sectoral ministries and recalled that the UN agencies and experts offered a range of comments and concrete recommendations to the National Strategy 2035, the National Programme on Gender and the National Programme on the Health of the Nation and Demographic Security.  In view of Belarus’s global commitments to climate change mitigation and adaptation, the UN is ready to contribute to designing a truly cross-sectoral and inclusive Green Economy action plan.
The Resident Coordinator and the National SDG Coordinator also discussed cooperation in popularizing knowledge about SDGs and localizing SDGs as well as implementing innovative sustainable development strategies regionally.  They also exchanged views on the importance of joint projects, attracting donor resources and registration of technical assistance.  The UN Resident Coordinator noted that less complicated and faster official registration for technical assistance would make it easier to attract donor funding and ensure programmes are relevant, effective and timely.
The Resident Coordinator and the National SDG Coordinator agreed to continue their constructive dialogue and support for SDG projects and to meet again soon.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/103145-meeting-un-resident-coordinator-belarus-national-sustainable-development-goals-coordinator




Date: 19 November 2020
Title: Belarus: UN experts call for probe into violence against protesters
Content: 19 November 2020
"I strongly condemn large scale violations of the rights of peaceful assembly, freedom of opinion and expression, and right to participate in public affairs by the Belarusian Government," Anaïs Marin, UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Belarus, said. "The rights of peaceful protesters, human rights defenders, members of civil society, and journalists remain unprotected from disproportionately violent and apparently unlawful actions of security forces." The experts added that "arrest or detention as punishment for the legitimate exercise of these fundamental freedoms is arbitrary, and the prohibition of arbitrary detention is absolute."
On 15 November, at least 1,200 peaceful protesters were reportedly detained in Minsk and throughout the country. In the capital, security forces used stun grenades and tear gas against peaceful protesters in what has been dubbed "Ploshad Peremen" (“Square of Change”).
The experts said torture and ill-treatment against participants in peaceful protests have become commonplace since the contested 9 August presidential election. “These violations are coupled with impunity, stemming from the authorities’ unwillingness to conduct proper criminal investigations into allegations of torture, while some lawyers say they have been denied full access to their clients,” the experts said, noting with concern that the authorities were instead quick to open criminal investigations against peaceful protesters and human rights defenders.
Among those detained on 15-16 November, at least 25 were journalists. Twenty-one remain in detention under administrative arrest or awaiting trial. “Journalists and other monitors play a crucial role in promoting accountability, and their detention sends a dangerous signal of impunity,” the experts said. “And in response to their efforts to denounce these well-documented violations, human rights defenders continue to be targeted, intimidated and detained.
"The authorities should conduct a prompt, thorough, independent and impartial investigation of the legality of the actions of police officers,” the experts said, adding that "any violation of the absolute and non-derogable prohibition of torture and other ill-treatment should be prosecuted and punished. The prohibition of torture cannot be suspended or limited under any circumstances.”
The Special Rapporteurs called on the Belarusian authorities to ensure that all peaceful protesters, members of civil society, as well as journalists, detained for legitimately exercising their human rights, are promptly released and allowed to challenge the charges brought against them.
"Belarus must ensure the rule of law in its judicial system, and promptly stop repressing its own people", Anaïs Marin said, while reiterating her 13 August and 1 September statements calling upon the authorities to fully comply with fundamental human rights safeguards.
*The experts: Ms Anaïs Marin, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Belarus; Mr Nils Melzer, Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; Ms Irene Khan, Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression; Ms Agnès Callamard, Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions; Ms Mary Lawlor, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders; Leigh Toomey (Chair-Rapporteur), Elina Steinerte (Vice-Chair), Miriam Estrada-Castillo, Mumba Malila, Seong-Phil Hong, Working Group on Arbitrary Detention.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, country page – Belarus
For more information and media requests please contact Vrej Atabekian (+41 22 928 98 08 /vatabekian@ohchr.org) or write to sr-belarus@ohchr.org.
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Renato de Souza (+41 22 928 9855 / rrosariodesouza@ohchr.org)
Follow news related to the UN's independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone's rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/101389-belarus-un-experts-call-probe-violence-against-protesters




Date: 13 November 2020
Title: Press briefing notes on Belarus by Spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Rupert Colville
Content: 13 November 2020
Since the 9 August presidential election, Belarusians have taken to the streets across the country in peaceful mass demonstrations to voice their grievances. In response, they have frequently been met by unnecessary or excessive use of force by law enforcement officials.
Arbitrary mass detentions continue – to date, it is estimated more than 25,000 people have been detained, including more than 1,000 who took part in solidarity protests in the capital, Minsk, and throughout Belarus on 8 November.
Many of those detained have faced administrative charges, in some cases being held for up to 15 days, but the Belarusian authorities are increasingly bringing criminal charges against people.
For example, some 231 individuals, including three journalists, were reportedly detained on 1 November as suspects in a criminal case concerning the organization and active participation in actions that “grossly violate public order” – a charge that potentially carries a prison term of three years.
In recent weeks, the authorities have broadened the scope of those being targeted, with students and medical workers in particular now facing undue restrictions and pressure.
Students, who have rallied in support of people on strike, have been threatened with expulsion from their educational institutions, and since 26 October, at least 127 have reportedly been expelled from their courses, jeopardizing their right to education and prospects for employment.
Medical workers and doctors who have taken part in solidarity chains and professional marches to denounce the violence and ill-treatment perpetrated against protesters have also been detained.  During a peaceful protest in Minsk on 7 November, at least 57 medical workers were reportedly detained within five minutes of the demonstration beginning.
And this week reports have surfaced that some 60 victims of violence and torture who had received financial assistance from a charity fund had had their bank accounts frozen on the orders of the authorities.
The Belarusian Government has to date provided no information regarding the process and outcomes of investigations into allegations of torture and other ill-treatment against protesters, both during arrests and in detention.
In August we voiced our concerns that no action seemed to have been taken to investigate such reports and bring those responsible to justice.
The latest developments only strengthen the sense that impunity for apparently widespread human rights violations committed during the protests and in detention continues unchecked in Belarus.
We remind the Belarusian authorities of the absolute prohibition of torture and the need for thorough, independent and impartial investigations into all allegations of human rights violations, with a view to ensuring accountability, ensuring access to an effective remedy for victims and preventing a further deterioration of the situation. All those detained for voicing their dissent or for taking part in protests, strikes and other peaceful actions should be freed immediately and the charges against them dropped.
We have also just received disturbing reports about the tragic death of a 31-year old man, Roman Bondarenko, who died on Thursday after allegedly being ill-treated by a member of the security forces.
Reportedly, Bondarenko was among a group of people confronted by some masked men on Wednesday in Minsk, and was struck on the head by one of them. He was apparently then taken to a police station before being transferred to hospital with serious brain injuries, where he died.
His death has led to increased tension and further protests. The authorities have said that they are investigating the incident, but deny that those who attacked Bondarenko belonged to the security services. We call on the Belarusian authorities to conduct a thorough, transparent and independent investigation into this incident and to publicly share its results. If indeed, a crime has been committed, whoever is responsible for the death of Roman Bondarenko should be brought to justice.
For more information and media requests, please contact: Rupert Colville - + 41 22 917 9767 / rcolville@ohchr.org or Marta Hurtado - + 41 22 917 9466 / mhurtado@ohchr.org
Tag and share - Twitter: @UNHumanRights and Facebook: unitednationshumanrights
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/100610-press-briefing-notes-belarus-spokesperson-un-high-commissioner-human-rights-rupert-colville




Date: 03 November 2020
Title: Belarus: UN experts decry threats against women human rights defenders
Content: 03 November 2020
Belarus has effectively criminalised human rights work at a time when the work of human rights defenders is more essential than ever," Mary Lawlor, the UN special rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, said in remarks endorsed by four other mandates under the Special Procedures framework of the Council.
"In Belarus, as in many other countries, it takes special courage for women to stand up for human rights," Lawlor said. "Women human rights defenders are being particularly targeted in the crackdown against ongoing protests."
Between 6 September and 6 October, at least three women have been targeted for defending human rights as the government continues to crack down on protests against the August presidential election.
Lawlor expressed concerns about the arrest in September of Maria Rabkova, a volunteer coordinator at the Human Rights Centre Viasna which has been documenting respect for freedom of assembly and other human rights. She faces between six months and three years in prison on a charge under Article 293(3) of the Criminal Code of Belarus alleging that she was educating or preparing people to participate in mass riots.
"The charge against Maria Rabkova is tantamount to the criminalisation of human rights work," she said. "Belarusian authorities must release her immediately and drop all charges against her."
The rapporteur also expressed concern about the prosecution of two other women human rights defenders, Irina Sukhiy and Marina Dubina, members of the environmental NGO Ecohome and the irregularities in the administrative process against them.
The two women were detained on charges of violating the procedure for holding a protest, but as the case progressed, authorities changed the dates of the protests in question. One date was specified when they were arrested, but another date was alleged when the two women were sentenced in court. Both women received short sentences of administrative detention.
"These apparent irregularities are extremely concerning," said Lawlor. "Inconsistencies in the formal accusations brought against these two brave women raise serious questions as to the legal basis for their initial detention and subsequent sentencing."
The work of human rights defenders is more essential than ever in times of unrest, said Lawlor. "When the risk of human rights violations increases, the documentation work carried out by defenders becomes crucial. They must not be punished for pursuing it."
Lawlor's call was endorsed by Ms. Anaïs Marin, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Belarus; Leigh Toomey (Chair-Rapporteur), Elina Steinerte (Vice-Chair), José Guevara Bermúdez, Sètondji Roland Adjovi, and Seong-Phil Hong, the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention; Mr. Clément Nyaletsossi Voule, Special Rapporteur on the rights of peaceful assembly and association and Elizabeth Broderick (Chair), Meskerem Geset Techane, Ivana RadačIć, Elena Dorothy Estrada Tanck, Melissa Upreti (Vice Chair), Working Group on discrimination against women and girls.
Ms Mary Lawlor, (Ireland) is the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders. She is currently an Adjunct Professor of Business and Human Rights in Trinity College Dublin. She was the founder of Front Line Defenders - the International Foundation for the Protection of Human Rights Defenders. As Executive Director from 2001-2016, she represented Front Line Defenders and had a key role in its development. Ms. Lawlor was the Director of the Irish Section of Amnesty International from 1988 to 2000, became a Board member in 1975 and was elected Chair from 1983 to 1987.
Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures' experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
For more information and media requests please contact Adriana Zarraluqui (+41 22 917 9965 /azarraluqui@ohchr.org) or write to defenders@ohchr.org
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Renato de Souza (+41 22 928 9855 / rrosariodesouza@ohchr.org), Jeremy Laurence (+ 41 22 917 7578 / jlaurence@ohchr.org) and Kitty McKinsey (kmckinsey@ohchr.org)
Follow news related to the UN's independent human rights experts on Twitter@UN_SPExperts.

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/99018-belarus-un-experts-decry-threats-against-women-human-rights-defenders




Date: 30 October 2020
Title: Belarus’ human rights record to be examined by Universal Periodic Review
Content: 30 October 2020
Belarus is one of the 14 States to be reviewed by the UPR Working Group during its upcoming session taking place from 2 to 13 November *.  Belarus’ first and second UPR reviews took place in May 2010 and May 2015, respectively.
The documents on which the reviews are based are: 1) national report - information provided by the State under review; 2) information contained in the reports of independent human rights experts and groups, known as the Special Procedures, human rights treaty bodies, and other UN entities; 3) information provided by other stakeholders including national human rights institutions, regional organizations and civil society groups.
The three reports serving as the basis for the review of Belarus on 2 November can be found here.
Location: Assembly Hall, Palais des Nations, Geneva [NB: Due to COVID-19 restrictions, the meeting will be held using a combination of in-person and remote participation, and media is encouraged to follow the proceedings on webcast]
Time and date: 09.00 – 12.30, Monday, 2 November (Geneva time, GMT +1 hour)
The UPR is a unique process which involves a periodic review of the human rights records of all 193 UN Member States.  Since its first meeting was held in April 2008, all 193 UN member States have been reviewed twice within the first and second UPR cycles.  During the third UPR cycle, States are again expected to spell out steps they have taken to implement recommendations posed during their previous reviews which they committed to follow-up on, as well as to highlight recent human rights developments in the country.
The delegation of Belarus will be headed by Ambassador Yury Ambrazevich, Permanent Representative of Belarus to the UN Office at Geneva.
The three country representatives serving as rapporteurs (“troika”) for the review of Belarus are: Afghanistan, Mexico and Sudan.
The webcast of the session will be at http://webtv.un.org
The list of speakers and all available statements to be delivered during the review of Belarus will be posted on the UPR Extranet [username:  hrc extranet (with space); password: 1session].
The UPR Working Group is scheduled to adopt the recommendations made to Belarus at 15.00 on 6 November.  The State under review may wish to express its positions on recommendations posed to it during their review.
* The UPR 36th session was originally scheduled to be held from 4 to 15 May 2020, although was postponed due to COVID-19 measures.
For more information and media requests, please contact Rolando Gómez at +41 (0) 22 917 9711, rgomez@ohchr.org
To learn more about the Universal Periodic Review, visit: www.ohchr.org/hrc/upr
UN Human Rights Council, follow us on social media:  Facebook  Twitter  YouTube Instagram
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/98413-belarus%E2%80%99-human-rights-record-be-examined-universal-periodic-review




Date: 24 October 2020
Title: Three Thousand Trees Planted in Belarus to Commemorate 75 Years of the UN
Content: 24 October 2020
That was a personal contribution made by the representatives of the United Nations Organization to biodiversity conservation and climate action in the Republic of Belarus.
“Planting a tree is a symbol and, at the same time, it is a tiny but a specific gesture, which demonstrates the devotion and will to fight against climate change. Ecosystems of the Earth are getting more and more fragile. Biodiversity is narrowing at an unprecedented pace, which increasingly affects people and the planet.
The progress in global goals achievement in the area of biodiversity, including sustainable development goals, must be stepped out,” said the UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki.
The United Nations Organization believes that without biodiversity conservation it is not possible to achieve the sustainable development goals and implement the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
It is noteworthy that answering the questions of the online survey, dedicated to the UN 75th anniversary, the citizens of Belarus, most of whom were young people, stressed that climate change, ecology problems, and health risks would have the major effect on the future of our planet.
All the solutions based upon the principles of environmental protection will be especially relevant during the period of recovery after COVID-19 and when elaborating the long-term plans of economic development. Biodiversity conservation and green economy will help create new jobs and stimulate country’s economic growth.
The United Nations Development Program in Belarus makes its own contribution to biodiversity conservation and environmental protection in Belarus.
Such projects as "Wetlands" aimed at introduction of ecological and financially sustainable approaches to forest and peatlands management to conserve biodiversity, climate and improve land management, and “Ecomonitoring” contributing to inclusive environmental management through involvement of the public in environmental quality improvement help implement the National Strategy for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity.
The green approach to inclusive and sustainable growth is one of focuses of the UN-Belarus Development Assistance Framework for 2021-2025.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/97260-three-thousand-trees-planted-belarus-commemorate-75-years-un




Date: 23 October 2020
Title: UN75: Common future by joint efforts
Content: 23 October 2020
Dialogue for a Better Future for All
UN is commemorating its 75th anniversary amidst huge upheaval affecting the whole world, which is aggravated by an unprecedented global health crisis fraught with serious economic and social consequences.
Are we able to overcome this upheaval? Are we ready to work together? Or lack of faith in each other and inability to get together will not let us do this?
In this anniversary year, we have also run into an unprecedented pandemic of COVID-19, which has become another reminder of the need to cooperate closer.
How fast we manage to overcome the crisis, to achieve Sustainable Development Goals, and whether we can cope with a number of already existing challenges, such as the climate crisis, inequality, new forms of violence, rapid change in technology and demographic sphere, will depend on our interaction and joint response.
San-Francisco Conference Lessons
A perfect example of cooperation and joining efforts applied by so different countries for a stable and just world was the work on the UN Charter done by representatives of 50 countries, when the organization was created in San-Francisco in 1945.

The goals and principles of the United Nations Organization aimed at adoption of collective measures to prevent and remove threats to peace and security, development of friendly relations between nations, strengthening of international cooperation and trust, respect to human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, which UN founders set for themselves 75 years ago, do not only remain relevant today, but require further development.
Though the world's community is facing serious natural, political, social and economic problems, at present there is no better mechanism or forums, which would help address the global challenes, than the United Nations Organization.
An exhibition of the unique historic photos opened in the National History Museum of Belarus in April, was dedicated to the 75th anniversary of San-Francisco Conference in 1945.
UN Charter Relevance
The Charter of the United Nations Organization was signed in San-Francisco on June 26, 1945 at the end of the Conference on this international organization creation.
The very first lines of this wonderful document reveal its universal character and relevance.  The Charter contains calls for the future without wars, full respect to fundamental human rights and equal rights for men and women.
All these values are still relevant today. And this is why we have decided to publish the UN Charter in Belarusian.
On June 26, 2020 Loshitsa manor museum hosted its presentation attended by Belarusian Foreign Minister, UN Resident Coordinator, Minsk History Museum Director, National Library Director General, as well as the UN country team and ambassadors of Great Britain, US, France, Russia, and China - the countries whose representatives were the first signatories of the UN Charter on June 26, 1945 in San-Francisco.
A film dedicated to the 75th anniversary of the signing of the UN Charter.

“Conflict prevention, struggle for fundamental human rights, equality of men and women, economic and social progress in larger freedom - all of these closely interlinked human priorities and aspirations in the UN Charter are still valid today.
One cannot be achieved without another. No true social progress can be achieved without respect for human rights, real equality, and without giving space to a diversity of voices and opinions. We hear the call for respect of these universal values globally and in Belarus. We hear the call of the planet that desperately needs our attention,” stated UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki during the solemn event.
During the ceremony the UN Charter, first-ever published in the Republic of Belarus in Belarusian language, was handed over to the National Library collection.
Video: The Preamble to the UN Charter is read by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Belarus Vladimir Makei and students of the Belarusian State Pedagogical University named after Maxim Tank.
How do the Humans of the Planet See the Future?
United Nations Organization marks its 75th anniversary during the hard times. COVID-19 pandemic once again reminded the humanity about the necessity of cooperation both between the states and within the countries, between sectors and generations.

“Everything we do during and after this crisis must focus strongly on building more equal, inclusive and sustainable economies and societies that are more resilient in the face of pandemics, climate change, and many other global challenges we face,” emphasized Secretary-General António Guterres.

Will the current hardship lead to closer cooperation or even worse disruption and mistrust?
United Nations tried to find an answer to the question having conducted an unprecedented survey in its anniversary year.
Over a million of people from different social class backgrounds, from poor or rich countries, women and men, young people and the elderly took part in the survey.
It turned out that people from all over the world have a lot in common including their optimism and faith in better future.
The majority of Belarusians, of whom 77.2% were young people aged 16 to 30 years (70.8% - women, 87.7% - people with secondary and higher education) chose strengthening of solidarity between people and nations and rethinking of mechanisms of the global economy as the absolute priority of recovery from the crisis caused by the pandemic. They also believe that support of the most seriously affected countries and communities is necessary and human rights are to become the key element of the recovery plans.
Video: UN75 in Belarus: a common future together
Having noted that climate change and ecological problems and health risks will have the biggest effect on the future of our planet the Belarusians state that after 25 years of joint efforts countries will reduce the number of conflicts and achieve healthcare and ecology improvement. They also hope to see more respect for and observance of human rights and improvement of access to education.
Among the answers to the question on global trends, which will affect the future of our planet the most, ecological problems and climate change were listed by the Belarusians far ahead of other challenges as well as the health risks, armed conflicts and politically motivated violence.
The survey demonstrated that cooperation with other states to manage the above trends is considered as very important by the Belarusians. Finally, citizens of our country are optimists as the majority of them are sure that in 2045 they will live better or, at least, not worse than today.
Focus on the Youth
The number of young people has never been so big before in all of human history - between now and 2030 half of the world population will be younger than 30 years. This is why the youth is at the cutting edge of UN efforts.  The future we are working on today belong to them. How do they see it?
The Republic of Belarus strongly supported UN initiative when decided to bring the youth to the table for the nation-wide discussions of the  issues crucial for Belarus and UN.
The most important participants of youth discussions  titled, “Towards the Future We Want,” in Belarus were teacher training students and pupils of teacher training classes. The Association of Education for Sustainable Development provided an integrated support in organization of regional discussions.
The key events of the Youth Campaign in Belarus were open discussions,  which took place in Brest, Gomel, Vitebsk, Mogilev, Grodno, Minsk region and the city of Minsk.
Over 500 students and teachers of Belarusian educational establishments discussed the issues of local socio-economic development, climate change adaptation, employment of the youth, restorative justice for children and minors in conflict with the law, fight against HIV/AIDS and human trafficking, replacement and stateless status, sexual and reproductive health, gender equality and healthy lifestyle with the experts of United Nations Development Program (UNDP), UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Joint UN Program on HIV/AIDS in Belarus (UNAIDS), International Organization for Migration (IOM), Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), World Health Organisation (WHO), and United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)
One of the events that allowed to hear the opinions of the young was the Youth Festival entitled, “Young Voices for Sustainable Development,” whose final part was organized in Maxim Tank Belarusian State Pedagogical University (BSPU).
Young people from all the regions of the country in terms of video tried to answer the questions of concern, i.e. what sustainable development means, how I can make my school inclusive, how to get free from plastic, what to do with changing climate and what future they want to see.
“The good news is we can respond to the global challenges and take local decisions. The progress of modern technology and society allows us to work in our local communities both online and in real life. In order to achieve global goals and help our world, our planet, we can do something here, at our own place. And this is exactly what you are doing,” said Head of the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus Jahor Novikau addressing the Media Festival winners.
Presented by teams from schools, high schools, lyceums, colleges and higher education establishments of Mogilev, Brest, Minsk, Vitebsk and Grodno regions the works, which were finalized subject to comments made by the experts, would be displayed as part of the thematic forum “Towards the Future We Want: the Position of the Youth” in December 2020.
Empowerment of young people, proactive approach to life and implementation of initiatives at local and national levels are the key factors of sustainable development achievement in Belarus and implementation of 2030 Agenda.
UN marks its 75th anniversary during hard times. The jubilee has not become a cause for celebration but has been dedicated to the dialogue and exchange of opinions with people worldwide, in particular, with the youth, who inspire us all to continue our work and our mission.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/97268-un75-common-future-joint-efforts




Date: 20 October 2020
Title: World Day against the Death Penalty is celebrated worldwide today
Content: 20 October 2020
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 says that “Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.”
What does it mean in practical terms?
☑ The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to which Belarus is a signing party, underlines that no one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his life.  The covenant specifies that in countries which have not abolished the death penalty, sentence of death may be imposed only for the most serious crimes in accordance with the law in force and this penalty can only be carried out pursuant to a final judgement rendered by a competent court (Article 6).
☑ The right to life is interpreted in the Constitution of the Republic of Belarus including from the point of view of protection by the state of an individual from any unlawful assaults. The death penalty is only possible in Belarus as an exceptional measure of punishment for the exceptionally aggravated criminal offence and only pursuant to the court verdict (Article 24).
☑ Belarus remains the only country in Europe, where the death penalty is applied. From 2015 to 2019, 14 death sentences were imposed, which is much less than in late 90s.  Nevertheless in 2018, the United Nations Human Rights Committee pointed out to Belarus that the death penalty is incompatible with the full respect for the right to life and that abolition of the death penalty is desirable and a necessary a prerequisite to human dignity and progressive development of human rights.
Approaches to abolition of death penalty in the world
☑ XXI century determined the global trend towards abolition of the death penalty and the growing recognition that death sentencing is inconsistent with the states’ obligations in the field of human rights including the right not to be tortured or treated in an inhuman or degrading way.  In 2018, the Resolution adopted by the UN General Assembly urged the states to establish a moratorium on the use of the death penalty with a view to abolishing this punishment.
☑ Hence about 170 member states out of 193 with various legal frameworks, cultural and religious traditions have either abolished the death penalty or do not apply it as of today.
☑ It should be noted that the statistics on the countries, where the death penalty has been abolished by law, consistently confirms the absence of any correlation between executions and crime level. The research carried out by UN in 1996 established the lack of proof that “executions have a greater deterrent effect than life imprisonment.”
📄 Here you can learn more about the Concluding observations by the UN Human Rights Committee on the fifth periodic report of Belarus (2018) including with regard to the death penalty.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/96433-world-day-against-death-penalty-celebrated-worldwide-today




Date: 13 October 2020
Title: UN in Belarus Joined WHO Flu Awareness Campaign
Content: 13 October 2020
Why is it important to be vaccinated against flu this year? The answer is obvious. According to the WHO experts, from 5 to 15% of the world population get infected with influenza annually.  The global mortality from respiratory diseases caused by seasonal flu may be extremely high.  The 2017 research showed that the annual number of deaths caused by the influenza in the WHO European region may amount to 72,000.
It is obvious that COVID-19 virus will also circulate during the flu season of 2020-2021, which will be an additional burden on health systems worldwide.

This is why it is important now to make every effort to help both population and medical profession to avoid the influenza outbreak.
The World Health Organization confirms that vaccination is the most effective means of severe infection prevention.  The awareness campaign has been conducted for eight years in a row and serves to promote vaccination against seasonal flu among those groups who need it most.
The excess risk of infection threatens health workers who need protection too. First of all, vaccination of older people should be promoted, as this autumn and winter they will face a double risk of COVID-19 and influenza.
The most vulnerable groups are pregnant women, individuals with chronic health conditions and children under five years of age. The campaign will also ensure wider performance of other preventive practices such as hand and respiratory hygiene.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/96432-un-belarus-joined-who-flu-awareness-campaign




Date: 01 October 2020
Title: Annual report: Pandemic recovery must be measured in ‘human rather than economic terms’
Content: 01 October 2020

In the Introduction, Secretary-General António Guterres said the international community should reflect on “our shared progress as well as…our vision and values”.
He highlighted some of the Organization’s accomplishments, such as putting in place vital agreements that codify and protect human rights, setting ambitious goals for sustainable development, and charting a path towards a more balanced relationship with the natural world, among many others.
However, he also outlined some challenges ahead, saying more remains to be done to “hold back the tides of fear, hatred, inequality, poverty and injustice.”
The COVID-19 pandemic has demonstrated the world’s fragility, laying bare “risks ignored for decades”, namely, inadequate health systems; gaps in social protection; structural inequalities; environmental degradation; and the climate crisis, flagged the UN chief.
In response, he noted that the UN family “mobilized quickly and comprehensively”, explaining that it led on the global health response, continued to expand life-saving humanitarian assistance, established rapid response instruments for the socioeconomic impact and laid out a broad policy agenda to support the most vulnerable communities and regions.
“But the setback to the fundamental Charter goals of peace, justice, human rights and development has been deep and may be long-lasting”, Mr. Guterres acknowledged.
A global effort
The UN chief also conceded that even before the pandemic, “the world was not on track to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the target date of 2030”.
And although the UN called for massive global support for the most vulnerable people and countries – amounting to least 10 per cent of the global economy – a rescue package has yet to fully materialize.
In emerging from the COVID-19 crisis, the Secretary-General stressed the importance of multilateralism for a world based on fair globalization, the rights and dignity of everyone, and for “success measured in human rather than economic terms”.

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/97630-annual-report-pandemic-recovery-must-be-measured-%E2%80%98human-rather-economic-terms%E2%80%99




Date: 01 October 2020
Title: Listen to older people’s ‘suggestions and ideas’ for more inclusive societies, urges UN chief
Content: 01 October 2020
“Older people must be a priority in our efforts to overcome COVID 19”, Secretary-General António Guterres said in his message for the 30th anniversary of the International Day of Older Persons, celebrated annually on 1 October.
He shone a light on the need to examine how the pandemic might change how we address age and ageing in our societies, stressing that more opportunities and increased access to health, pensions and social protection for older persons were “crucial”.
In releasing his policy guidance on making the lives of older persons better, back in May, the top UN official pointed out the overall coronavirus fatality rate is higher for them. Because of this greater impact, he maintained that policy interventions must be targeted towards raising more awareness of their special needs.
Caring for others
This year’s observance falls as the world is also marking the International Year of the Nurse and Midwife, which Mr. Guterres pointed out, “highlights the vital role of health and social workers, such as nurses and midwives”, responding to the pandemic.
Against the backdrop that women constitute the majority of these professionals – many of whom are older persons – he upheld that “the people who devote their lives to our care, and to the care of older persons, mothers and children…deserve far greater support”.
Elderly potential
He said it was important to make concerted efforts across the designated Decade of Healthy Ageing 2020-2030, to improve the lives of older persons, their families and communities.
“The potential of older persons is a powerful basis for sustainable development”, he flagged.  “More than ever, we must listen to their voices, suggestions and ideas to build more inclusive and age friendly societies”.
‘Invisible’ people
Meanwhile, Claudia Mahler, the UN independent expert on the enjoyment of all human rights by older persons, flagged that the COVID-19 pandemic has magnified existing violations of elderly rights.
“Existing inequalities that older persons face in terms of access to health, employment and livelihood are exacerbated”, she said, and yet, “they are chronically invisible”.
Ms. Mahler said that information about older persons is “at best fragmented, at worst, non-existent” in most countries, which is why it’s imperative to shed light on structural and systematic ways in which they are being left behind.
“Data is a prerequisite for informed and successful public policy making” to close  existing gaps, highlight older persons’ contributions to society, illustrate their diversity and change perceptions of later life – “especially for it to be more than an inevitable stage of deficit and decline”, she said.
Prioritize older people
The independent UN expert also called for older persons to be prioritized throughout the recovery phase of COVID-19 and beyond.
“It is essential to ensure the income security of older persons, in particular older women”, she said, highlighting that “universal old age pensions and adequate entitlement levels” are necessary for “inclusive long-term recovery”.
Moreover, socioeconomic relief measures and safety nets must be adopted immediately.
In the absence of a dedicated internationally-agreed legal framework, Ms. Mahler spelled out: “We must ensure that responses to this crisis specifically identify and prioritize older persons…during the pandemic response and recovery phases”.

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/97632-listen-older-people%E2%80%99s-%E2%80%98suggestions-and-ideas%E2%80%99-more-inclusive-societies-urges-un-chief




Date: 30 September 2020
Title: UN Report: Pandemic Aggravated Threat of Human Trafficking Especially for Women and Girls
Content: 30 September 2020
The pandemic has aggravated this threat, which is particularly serious for women from the vulnerable groups.  This was stated in the report by the UN Secretary General published on Tuesday.
According to the research of the International Labour Organization, in 2016, 28.7 million women and girls worldwide became victims of forced labour, debt bondage, forced marriages, modern slavery and trade in human beings. The majority of human traffickers are men as usual.
“Trafficking in human beings continued because this type of criminal activities brings huge income and is not fraught with high risk,” the report states. Traffickers make profit and easily get away with it while the victims of their crime pay for it with their freedom, dignity and health.  It is estimated that yearly profit of traffickers amount to 150 billion dollars making trafficking the biggest source of illegal profit.
Criminals thrive on people’s calamity. In particular, the main factors, which allow smugglers to ensnare women and girls, are poverty and inequality, according to experts’ opinion. Women are more often than men do low-paid jobs including in the informal sector.  Migration, status of refugees, ethnicity, disabilities and HIV status are the factors that aggravate danger of exploitation.
Pandemic only makes the situation worse.  When it comes to quarantine enforced in many countries, traffickers use digital technology and other modern means for recruiting and exploitation of victims. Women and girls, who suffered more than others as a result of the economic crisis, again get in the most vulnerable position as they are out of jobs and means of survival.
COVID-19 pandemic will entail the rise in modern slavery victims
As is well-known, demand creates its own supply.  Customers play one of the key roles in the trafficking economic structure and exploitation, as the report says.   Some may fail to understand that they use services of those who are enslaved; however many know about it but opt for silence because they can pay less for slave labour: private households, who hire domestic servants through traffickers, save about 8 billion dollars yearly.
Previous crises’ experience in the field of healthcare proved that women and girls in extreme conditions are exposed to increased risk of violence, first of all, from their sexual partners, sexual exploitation and become human trafficking victims. The experts believe that it happens amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. Hence they become even less protected from traffickers in human beings.
“Deepening inequalities and the rise of all forms of violence against women and girls, including trafficking, in the context of COVID-19, has the potential to significantly slow down progress on achieving the Goals, while also jeopardizing the limited progress made so far,” warned UN Secretary-General.
United Nations system entities help the countries to support human trafficking victims.  For example, the International Organization for Migration in Azerbaijan, Belarus, Republic of Moldova and Ukraine offers means of protection to public and private asylums, where the victims may hide. The report contains the detailed recommendations on the fight against human trafficking.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/97636-un-report-pandemic-aggravated-threat-human-trafficking-especially-women-and-girls




Date: 30 September 2020
Title: United Nations Biodiversity Summit: UN Chief urged international community to stop destroying planet
Content: 30 September 2020
Secretary General reminded that over a million species of animals and plants are at risk of extinction. By destroying nature humanity is getting even less protected from new biological threats such as coronavirus pandemic.
“Sixty per cent of all known diseases and 75 per cent of new infectious diseases are zoonotic, passing from animals to humans, demonstrating the intimate interconnection between the health of our planet and our own,” said Guterres.
Seventy five per cent of new infectious diseases are zoonotic, passing from animals to humans.
He stressed that biodiversity and planet ecosystem conservation are essential for further human progress. Prosperity and health of future generations depend on it.
UN General Assembly President Volkan Bozkir reminded the summit participants that it is nature that offers humanity the remedy for many diseases.
“Four billion people depend upon natural medicines for their health.  Seventy per cent of drugs used for cancer treatments are drawn from nature,” said Bozkir. He also emphasized that more than half the world’s GDP, which is US$44 trillion, is dependent on nature.
António Guterres stressed that without biodiversity conservation the international community would not be able to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and implement the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
UN Chief spoke about the necessity to live in harmony with nature and highlighted several priorities in the activities aimed at the planet’s biodiversity conservation.
Seventy per cent of drugs used for cancer treatments are drawn from nature
First, nature-based solutions must be embedded in COVID-19 pandemic recovery and wider development plans. Preserving the world’s biodiversity can yield the jobs and economic growth that we urgently need today,” said Guterres.
According to the World Economic Forum data, as Guterres said, humanity has all possibilities to create 191 million green jobs by 2030.
Secretary General also reminded about the necessity to invest in biodiversity conservation and stressed that the volumes of such investments are much less than current levels of subsidies constantly invested in the production harmful to the environment.
Third, UN Chief stated that the countries must secure the most ambitious policies on biodiversity conservation and set new goals in this field. The majority of the goals for the period from 2011 to 2020 have not been met, as Secretary General marked.
How to conserve the biodiversity of the planet? Eight priorities of work
UN Chief reminded that Kunming, China will host the UN Biodiversity Conference (COP 15) in May 2021.  It is expected that the post-2020 global biodiversity framework will be adopted there.
“China is ready to share opinion on elaboration of a new global development strategy in this field,” said president of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping in his previously recorded video message presented at the summit.
“We all have to act together in order to create beautiful and harmonious environment on the planet for all species,” he added.
The minister said that it is planned to create at least 24 new protected areas with the overall area of five million hectares in Russia by 2024.
Besides, as Kobylkin said, the Russian authorities do a lot to conserve the rare species.  For example, over a hundred species have been excluded from the Red Data Book of Russia so far as they are not endangered any more.
“Over the last years, we have managed to achieve the growth of the population of Siberian tigers, Persian leopards and Amur leopards, snow leopards, polar bears, bison and falcons. The number of Siberian tigers on the territory of the Far East of Russia amounts to 540 units and there are 118 cats of Persian leopards,” said Kobylkin.
The Minister of Natural Resources also said that Russia lays special emphasis on sustainable forest and water resources management and measures of adaptation to the negative implications of climate change.
Protection of biodiversity in the Republic of Belarus
Belarus is a party to the Convention on Biological Diversity, strives to achieve its goals and takes part in its implementation.
The mechanisms to achieve the Convention goals in Belarus include maintenance of the Red Data Book of Belarus, transfer for protection to land users of land plots and (or) water objects, which are habitats of species of wild animals and plants included in the Red Data Book, as well as typical and rare landscapes and biotopes, support and development of a system of protected natural areas and fight against the spread of invasive plant species.
In Belarus there is the Interagency Council on Implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity, which facilitates decision taking and discussion of biodiversity challenges involving state bodies, scientific organizations and the wide public.
The National Strategy for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity aims to prevent reduction of the number and diversity of species of wild animals, plants, ecosystems, ensure restoration of rare and endangered species of wild animals and plants, and maintain biodiversity to the extent necessary for its stable existence.
UN assistance in biological diversity conservation in Belarus
UN Development Program (UNDP) in Belarus together with the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection implements the projects aimed at biological diversity conservation in Belarus.
Due to the Wetlands Project, ecological and financially sustainable approaches to forest and peatlands management were integrated to conserve biodiversity, climate and improve land management.
Under the project a unique law “On protection and use of peatlands” was adopted, habitat conditions for the European bison micro population in the Naliboksky Zakaznik improved, over 12,000 hectares of degraded and inefficiently drained peatlands restored, habitats of globally threatened species of Aquatic warbler, Greater spotted eagle, Great snipe, Black-tailed godwit restored.  Partner programs are being implemented to restore habitats and exchange rare species of animals with Lithuania, Germany and Poland.
The project entitled, “Ecomonitoring” is aimed at stimulation of effective and inclusive environmental management through involvement of the wide public in environmental quality improvement and monitoring of environmental risks.
Due to the project, a network of green school resource centres (over 200 educational establishments included) was enlarged; they were also integrated in the kindergarten system. Over 280 ecology teachers raised their qualification in the field of environmental education, three Aarhus resource centres and seven clubs of ecological monitoring were established.
Aarhus Convention (Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters) was adopted by the UN Economic Commission for Europe.and signed by 38 countries including Belarus in 1998.
The republic-wide green schools network unites educational establishments with a special green curriculum covering such topics as biodiversity, energy development, water supply, wastes and public activities.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/97633-united-nations-biodiversity-summit-un-chief-urged-international-community-stop-destroying




Date: 30 September 2020
Title: Options for delivering risk capital to innovative enterprises in Belarus
Content: 30 September 2020
Insufficient or inappropriate means of external finance often compound the risk inherent in innovation and constrains the broad experimentation with new ideas that is essential for Belarus to reach the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).
These questions were the main agenda for the webinar today organized by UNECE and State Committee for Science and Technology (SCST).
In her opening speech UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki highlighted that private sector innovation and SME development are key to any economy, especially at the time of recession.
“Venture capital which is the main topic of today’s seminar organized by UN Economic Commission for Europe and the State Committee on Science and Technology, plays an important role in supporting private sector development.  Government, though regulation and proper investment policy, should maximize availability of venture capital to fund private sector projects.  At the time of global challenges of COVID-19 and global climate emergency, governments and private sector must prioritize investments and direct them in sectors and innovations that have positive economic, social and environmental impact. This is the new quality that should be regulated and delivered as a minimum standard of responsible business.   Investors – both government and private sector, need to prioritize green solutions and innovation that will help curb climate change”, - noted Joanna Kazana.
The UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus emphasized that in Belarus, innovation and venture capital for private sector development is incipient.  Financing options for startups are limited and many institutional and regulatory barriers continue to constrain the development of proper “ecosystem” for business innovation that should be in place in an advanced industrial economy.
The UN, together with international partners, in particular the EU and Sweden who funds the UNECE project which organized our today’s webinar, are supporting development of private sector and small and medium sized enterprises in Belarus.   Government and other innovation stakeholders in Belarus should be working together to deliver innovation to all people – through smart cities and villages, online administrative services not only for businesses, but for regular people, also meaningful engagement between the citizen and state as service provider through e-platforms for discussion and feedback.  Investments in intelligent and low carbon transport systems, innovation in construction sector and modernization of waste management and recycling – these are just a few examples of growth areas which, with the right mix of regulation, state support and private sector investment, also through venture capital, could flourish and make the economic model more sustainable and more competitive in the global market.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/97635-options-delivering-risk-capital-innovative-enterprises-belarus




Date: 29 September 2020
Title: Redouble efforts against ‘global scourge’ of gender-based violence, intensified by pandemic: Guterres
Content: 29 September 2020
From domestic violence to sexual abuse, online harassment and increased child marriage, gender-based violence (GBV) is “a global scourge” that is being exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, the UN chief said on Tuesday.
“Millions of women are living in fear, with long-term consequences for families and communities, and for all our efforts for peace and security, human rights and sustainable development”, Secretary-General António Guterres said in a video message to a virtual high-level GBV event in the context of COVID-19.
Against the backdrop of his global call for a ceasefire and an end to all violence – from war zones to people’s homes – he acknowledged that some 146 Member States had increased resources and acted to protect women and girls but flagged that those measures were not enough.
“We urgently need new thinking and momentum on this critical issue”, Mr. Guterres upheld, underscoring the need to increase accountability, question attitudes that enable violence and provide resources for front-line women’s civil society organizations.
On the horizon
In the coming months, the UN chief said that he would launch a new push for progress, including by building the Spotlight Initiative and European Union (EU) partnership, to help end all forms of violence against women and girls.
“Together, let us redouble our efforts to end gender-based violence during COVID-19 and beyond”, he advocated.
Putting words into action
UN Women Executive Director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka maintained that everyone has a role to play in ending GBV in the context of COVID19.
“The pandemic has forced us to think differently and rebuild better, and that is what we need to spell out in much more detail…in the context of violence against women”, she stressed.
Ms. Mlambo-Ngcuka noted that the Generation Equality Action Coalition on Gender-Based Violence - the first ever multi-participant, inter-generational platform to create political consensus and drive long-term change - brings together a range of interested parties, from UN agencies to Member States and the private sector.
“In 28 countries, for instance, we worked with Governments to integrate gender-based violence measures into their COVID-19 responses and fiscal stimulus packages”, she elaborated, adding, “we supported 44 countries to continue legal and policy reforms on violence against women and harmful practices”.
Ms. Mlambo-Ngcuka also highlighted that their offices around the world have partnered with tech giants such as Google, Twitter, and Facebook, to address GBV.
Turning to the UN Trust Fund to End Violence against Women, she announced it has rapidly been supporting its network of 144 civil society organizations – 59 per cent of which are women’s organizations – across 69 countries.
“They are made up of women from all walks of life, who are female phenomena”, she elaborated.
While acknowledging “many significant actions”, she said, she also noted “just as many challenges”, which is why the UN Women chief maintained that everyone needs “to contribute, to collaborate and to expand our work”.
Coronavirus Portal & News Updates
Readers can find information and guidance on the outbreak of the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) from the UN, World Health Organization and UN agencies here. For daily news updates from UN News, click here.
“UN Women is here to work together through the long haul”, she assured.
Stop reversal of progress
In their joint statement, leaders of the Action Coalition called upon all actors to immediately respond with targeted and effective actions to multiple forms of gender-based violence, saying they will “work to stop any reversal of the hard-won progress on advancing gender equality…due to the COVID-19 pandemic”.
Meanwhile Zahra Al Hilaly of the Youth Affairs Council, and a member of UN Women’s Beijing+25 Youth Task Force, underscored that women and girls “must challenge the power structure”, saying, “we live within a world that has never within history, truly benefited young women and girls”.
Nor resting on laurels
Diene Keita, Assistant Secretary-General and Deputy Executive Director of the UN Population Fund (UNFPA) said that “data and evidence form the backbone of global and national response to COVID-19 in general and gender-based violence in particular”.
"We need to act as one, together in a coherent and evidence driven manner", she asserted.
Baroness Liz Sugg, Minister for Foreign and Development Affairs and Special Envoy for Girls’ Education of the United Kingdom emphasized that “violence is preventable”.
“We all need to collectively challenge ourselves to do more. This needs to stop. Now”, she spelled out.
Agência Brasil/Elza Fiuza
The COVID-19 pandemic has created even more obstacles on the path to gender equality and exacerbated pre-existing inequalities, according to UN Women.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/97637-redouble-efforts-against-%E2%80%98global-scourge%E2%80%99-gender-based-violence-intensified-pandemic-guterres




Date: 25 September 2020
Title: Young Voices for Sustainable Development
Content: 25 September 2020
The event is a part of the event plan designed for the Towards the Future We Want youth campaign implemented to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the United Nations Organization.
For the final event of the Festival, the experts selected videos in the nominations: “We are Sustainable Changes Agents”, “Towards the New Ethics of the Earth,” “The Future We Want: UN75,” “The Climate Changes.  What about You?” “Speak about Sustainable Development Goals,” and “Inclusive Belarus.” Nineteen videos presented by the teams from schools, high schools, lyceums, colleges and higher education establishments of Mogilev, Brest, Minsk, Vitebsk and Grodno regions were chosen as the winners.
Delivering welcoming remarks to the visitors of the opening event Jahor Novikau, Head of the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus, highlighted a number of global challenges, which the world community is facing today, that are the climate change, migration and difficult economic situation.
“The good news is we can respond to the global challenges and take local decisions. The progress of modern technology and society allows us to work in our local communities both online and in real life. In order to achieve these global goals and help our world, our planet, we can do something here, at our own place. And this is exactly what you are doing,” said Jahor Novikau addressing the Media Festival winners.
The event participants could also listen to the Association of Education for Sustainable Development members - Inessa Zubrilina, head of BSPU Coordination Centre of Education for Sustainable Development, Sofia Savelova, deputy chairperson of the Coordination Centre and coordinator of interregional cooperation, Anatoly Muraviev, principal of high school 19, Tatsiana Minchenko, deputy head of the Office for Youth Affairs of the Ministry of Education of Belarus, and Sergey Vasilets, BSPU vice-rector for academic affairs.
The works selected by experts under the nominations were reviewed, the teams of authors made presentations of their videos, and the active discussion of the works by authors and experts followed. As a result of the online poll the video «Miracle is …» made by the team of Zhemchuzhnenskaya school of Baranovichi district of Brest region, which covered the topic of inclusion and leaving no one behind principle, received the audience award.
The works by the winners of the Young Voices for Sustainable Development media festival, which were then finalized subject to comments made by the experts, will be demonstrated as part of the thematic forum “Towards the Future We Want: the Position of the Youth” in December 2020.
As part of the UN75 campaign in April-May 2020, educational establishments of all Belarusian regions and Minsk hosted open regional discussions “The Future We Want: Our Ideas and Actions”.

In the course of the global online survey, dedicated to the UN 75th anniversary, the citizens of Belarus, mainly young people, stressed that the climate change, ecology problems, and health risks would have the major effect on the future of our planet.
According to them, after 25 years of joint work the countries of the world will reduce the number of conflicts and achieve improvements in medical services and better environment. They also hope to see more respect for and observance of human rights and improvement of access to education.

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/96528-young-voices-sustainable-development




Date: 25 September 2020
Title: UN human rights experts: Belarus must release opposition leader Maria Kalesnikava
Content: 25 September 2020
The experts expressed serious concern at what appears to be systematic targeting and persecution of opposition politicians, such as Ms. Kalesnikava, who was snatched off the streets of the capital, Minsk, threatened with death or deportation and then secretly imprisoned.
“It is particularly troubling that the authorities have resorted to enforced disappearances in an effort to quash protests, stifle dissent and sow fear,” the experts said. “We urge the authorities not to use national security concerns to deny individuals their fundamental rights, among others the rights to opinion, expression, of peaceful assembly and association.”
Ms. Kalesnikava, a musician and political activist, was abducted on 7 September by a group of masked men presumed to be security agents. She was driven to the border the next day, where she was told she would be deported “alive or in bits”. However, she reportedly managed to thwart deportation by ripping up her passport.
She then disappeared for three days with no information on her whereabouts or state of health. On 10 September, authorities said she was held in pre-trial detention in Minsk, and on 16 September, she was officially charged with undermining national security, a charge that carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison.
“Belarus must conduct prompt and effective investigations into what happened to Ms. Kalesnikava, uphold her right to an effective remedy, and identify and bring to justice those responsible for her enforced disappearance,” the experts said. “It is unacceptable that her relatives and associates were denied information on her whereabouts for three days in clear violation of fundamental safeguards enshrined in national legislation and international law.”
Ms. Kalesnikava campaigned for an opposition candidate ahead of the 9 August presidential election which is widely considered to have been rigged. As protests swept the country, she was elected to the seven-person leadership of the Coordination Council, a body established to overcome the ongoing political crisis through negotiations. Most of its leaders have been arrested, deported or fled the country.
Several opposition politicans have reportedly been forcibly taken to borders with Poland, Lithuania or Ukraine and expelled from Belarus. Those who refused to leave, such as Ms. Kalesnikava, have faced reprisals.
“We remind Belarus that absolutely no circumstances can justify enforced disappearances – not political instability or any other public emergency,” the experts said. “Belarus must strictly comply with fundamental legal safeguards to prevent enforced disappearances. These include immediate registration, judicial oversight of the detention, notification of family members as soon as an individual is deprived of liberty, and the right to hire a defence lawyer of one’s choice.”
As they communicated earlier this year to the Belarusian government, the experts are concerned about a culture of impunity stretching back decades. Other experts, including the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, have also communicated with the Government on this topic. “Regrettably, no progress has been made in the investigation and the search for several individuals who disappeared in the early 2000s.”
They reminded Belarus that it is “obliged to protect the relatives’ rights to truth, justice and reparations regarding past cases of enforced disappearance”.
* The experts: The UN Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances: Mr. Luciano Hazan (Chair-Rapporteur), Mr. Tae-Ung Baik (Vice Chair), Mr. Bernard Duhaime, Ms. Houria Es-Slami, and Mr. Henrikas Mickevičius; Mr. Nils Melzer, Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; Ms. Agnès Callamard, Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions; Mrs. Anaïs Marin, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Belarus; Ms. Irene Khan, Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of expression,Mr. Clément Nyaletsossi Voule, Special Rapporteur on the rights of peaceful assembly and association, Working Group on Arbitrary Detention: Ms. Leigh Toomey (Chair-Rapporteur), Ms. Elina Steinerte (Vice-Chair), Mr. José Guevara Bermúdez, Mr. Seong-Phil Hong, Mr. Sètondji Adjovi; Ms. Dubravka Šimonović, Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women, its causes and consequences
The Special Rapporteurs, Independent Experts and Working Groups are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, Country Page – Belarus
For more information and media requests, please contact: Vladimir Rakocevic (+41 22 92 89202/ vrakocevic@ohchr.org ).
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Renato de Souza (+41 22 928 9855 / rrosariodesouza@ohchr.org), Jeremy Laurence (+ 41 22 917 7578 / jlaurence@ohchr.org) and Kitty McKinsey (kmckinsey@ohchr.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/92909-un-human-rights-experts-belarus-must-release-opposition-leader-maria-kalesnikava




Date: 23 September 2020
Title: COVID-19 pandemic: countries urged to take stronger action to stop spread of harmful information
Content: 23 September 2020
WHO, the UN, UNICEF, UNAIDS, the UN Development Programme (UNDP), UNESCO, the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), the UN Global Pulse initiative and the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies  (IFRC), together with the governments of Indonesia, Thailand and Uruguay held a webinar on the margins of the 75th UN General Assembly to draw attention to the harm being done by the spread of misinformation and disinformation, the latter being deliberate misinformation to advance an agenda.
“As soon as the virus spread across the globe, inaccurate and even dangerous messages proliferated wildly over social media, leaving people confused, misled and ill-advised”, said UN Secretary-General António Guterres. ”Our initiative, called “Verified”, is fighting misinformation with truth. We work with media partners, individuals, influencers and social media platforms to spread content that promotes science, offers solutions and inspires solidarity. This will be especially critical as we work to build public confidence in the safety and efficacy of future COVID-19 vaccines. We need a ‘people’s vaccine’ that is affordable and available to all.”
“Misinformation and disinformation put health and lives at risk, and undermine trust in science, in institutions and in health systems,” said WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “To fight the pandemic we need trust and solidarity and when there is mistrust, there is much less solidarity. False information is hindering the response to the pandemic so we must join forces to fight it and to promote science-based public health advice. The same principles that apply to responding to COVID-19 apply to managing the infodemic. We need to prevent, detect and respond to it, together and in solidarity.”
“On top of the immediate impact on pandemic responses, disinformation is undermining public trust in democratic processes and institutions and exacerbating social divides”, said UNDP Administrator Achim Steiner. “It’s one of the most concerning governance challenges of our time. UNDP is actively collaborating with Member States, fellow UN agencies, and other partners to find holistic responses which respect human rights.”
“Misinformation is one of the fastest growing challenges facing children today,” said Henrietta Fore, UNICEF Executive Director. “It takes advantage of the cracks in trust in societies and institutions and deepens them further, undermines confidence in science and medicine, and divides communities. In its most pernicious forms, such as when it convinces parents not to vaccinate their children, it can even be fatal. Because misinformation is more a symptom than a sickness, countering it requires more than just providing truth. It also requires trust between leaders, communities and individuals.”
“We can beat COVID-19 only with facts, science and community solidarity,” said Executive Director, Winnie Byanyima. “Misinformation is perpetuating stigma and discrimination and must not come in the way of ensuring that human rights are protected and people at risk and those marginalized have access to health and social protection services.”
“Since the start of the pandemic, UNESCO has mobilised its international networks of media partners, journalists, fact-checkers, community radio stations, and experts, to give citizens the means to fight against false information and rumours — phenomena that have been exacerbated by the pandemic,” said Audrey Azoulay, the UNESCO Director-General. ”Collective mobilisation to promote quality and reliable information, while strictly ensuring respect for freedom of expression, is essential. A free, independent and pluralistic press is more necessary than ever.”
“Trust is a cornerstone of our digital world,” said Houlin Zhao, Secretary-General of the International Telecommunication Union. “Building on the long-standing WHO-ITU BeHe@lthy BeMobile initiative, ITU has been working with national ministries of telecommunications and health and mobile network operators since the beginning of this crisis to text people who may not have access to the internet, providing them with science- and evidence-based COVID-19 health advice directly on their mobile phones.”
WHO and partners urged countries to engage and listen to their communities as they develop their national action plans, and to empower communities to build trust and resilience against false information.
“Engaging communities on how they perceive the disease and response is critical to building trust and ending outbreaks,” said Jagan Chapagain, IFRC Secretary General. “If our response does not reflect the communities’ concerns and perceptions, we will not be seen as relevant or trusted by affected populations, and the epidemic response risks failure.  More than ever, local responders are at the forefront of this crisis. We need to recognize the incredible role they play in understanding and acting on local knowledge and community feedback.”
The co-hosts also called on the media, social media platforms, civil society leaders and influencers to strengthen their actions to disseminate accurate information and prevent the spread of misinformation and disinformation. Access to accurate information and the free exchange of ideas online and offline are key to enabling effective and credible public health responses.
"UN Global Pulse was set up a decade ago inside the UN System to pioneer the use of real-time and predictive insights to protect vulnerable communities in times of crisis”, said Robert Kirkpatrick, Director of UN Global Pulse, the United Nations Secretary-General’s initiative on big data and artificial intelligence (AI). “During this pandemic we have seen a tremendous increase in requests for advanced analytics from across the UN System and Member States. We will continue to work with WHO and other partners to help identify and combat mis- and disinformation.”
Note to Editors
WHO defines an infodemic as an overabundance of information, both online and offline. It includes accurate information as well as mis- and disinformation.
In May 2020, WHO Member States passed Resolution WHA73.1 on the COVID-19 response at the World Health Assembly. The Resolution recognises that managing the infodemic is a critical part of controlling the COVID-19 pandemic: it calls on Member States to provide reliable COVID-19 content, take measures to counter mis- and disinformation and leverage digital technologies across the response. The Resolution also called on international organisations to address mis- and disinformation in the digital sphere, work to prevent harmful cyber activities undermining the health response and support the provision of science-based data to the public.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/92910-covid-19-pandemic-countries-urged-take-stronger-action-stop-spread-harmful-information




Date: 21 September 2020
Title: One million people share hopes and fears for future with the UN
Content: 21 September 2020
The results are in from a massive, unprecedented crowd-sourcing survey of international opinion, launched in January 2020 to mark the 75th anniversary of the United Nations.
Participants from all walks of life, women, men, girls and boys in developed and developing countries were encouraged to share their hopes and fears for the future and how the UN can help to bring about change.
No matter where they came from, their background, age or gender, participants in the exercise were, the UN has said, “remarkably unified” in their vision of the future.
Here are five key findings from the report published by the UN:
The whole world remains gripped by the COVID-19 pandemic, so it’s perhaps not surprising that the immediate priority of most people who took part in the survey, which has been continuing throughout the global lockdown caused by the pandemic, is improved access to basic services; these include healthcare, water and sanitation as well as education. Many believe that access to education and women’s rights will ultimately improve.
Here’s what one respondent in Mexico had to say: “The virus has taken away jobs, interactions, education and peace. Fear is everywhere, and people are not responding well to it”.
The COVID-19 pandemic has, according to the United Nations, underlined the need for international cooperation in order to develop, produce and distribute a vaccine so all countries, rich and poor benefit.
It’s part of the importance the UN places on multilateralism; countries working collaboratively and productively in the common good.
And it seems many of the one million respondents agree that is a good thing; a significant 87 per cent of people believe that international cooperation is vital to deal with global challenges and that COVID-19 has made international solidarity even more urgent.
One respondent from Albania underlines the importance of shared social responsibility; “It is of paramount importance that the recovery must be built upon the spirit of humanity. The lesson we learnt from the pandemic is that literally no one is safe unless everyone is safe”.
The apparent inability of humankind to slow down the warming of the planet, prevent irreversible climate change and the resulting destruction of the natural environment is the overwhelming medium- and long-term concern of the people who were surveyed. Other long-term concerns include an increase in poverty, government corruption, community violence and unemployment.
A young person from China says everyone is affected by climate change: “Current global climate change as a result of environmental pollution is putting individuals and whole populations at increased risk”.
Looking to the past, six in ten respondents believe the UN has made the world a better place and 74 per cent say that the UN is “essential” if global challenges are to be effectively tackled. However, over half of all people who answered the survey still don’t know much about the UN and consider it as “remote” from their lives.
Many recommended establishing a youth council to advise senior UN officials and one respondent from Brazil suggested more engagement at a regional and local level: “The UN could act by making greater engagements with regional and local actors, investing in the future by providing means that foster the development of the autonomy of social actors.”
When it comes to the future, younger participants and those in many developing countries tend to be more optimistic than those who are older or living in developed countries. People in central and southern Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa tend to be more optimistic than those living in Europe and North America.
“No one is powerless.” says a 17-year-old high school student from Japan.
HOW DID THE BELARUSIANS VOTE?
The majority of Belarusians, of whom 77.2% were young people aged 16 to 30 years (70.8% - women, 87.7% - people with secondary and higher education), chose strengthening of solidarity between people and nations and rethinking of mechanisms of the global economy as the absolute priority of recovery from the crisis caused by the pandemic. They also believe that support of the most seriously affected countries and communities is necessary and human rights are to become the key element of the recovery plans.
Having noted that climate change, ecological problems and health risks will have the biggest effect on the future of our planet the Belarusians state that after 25 years of joint efforts the countries will manage to reduce the number of conflicts and achieve healthcare and ecology improvement.  They also hope to see more respect for and observance of human rights and improvement of access to education.
Among the answers to the question on global trends, which will affect the future of our planet the most, ecological problems and climate change were listed by the Belarusians far ahead of other challenges as well as health risks, armed conflicts and politically motivated violence.
The survey demonstrated that cooperation with other states to manage the above trends is considered as very important by the Belarusians.  Finally, the citizens of our country are optimists as the majority of them are sure that in 2045 they will live better or, at least, not worse than today.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/96534-one-million-people-share-hopes-and-fears-future-un




Date: 19 September 2020
Title: Belarus crisis under the spotlight at Human Rights Council
Content: 19 September 2020
At the end of a memorable day of back-and-forth discussions between the Council President and delegations - featuring more than a dozen points of order by delegations who questioned the right of some of those addressing the Council to speak and no less than 17 amendments to a European-Union sponsored call for action – the Geneva-based forum finally adopted a resolution on the deteriorating rights situation in Belarus. It passed by 23 votes for, two against and with 22 abstentions.
Delivering a statement for UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, Ms. Al Nashif said that despite violence by state security officers and thousands of arrests, peaceful mass demonstrations have continued.
“We witnessed thousands of arrests, hundreds of reports of torture and other ill-treatment, including sexual violence and the reported torture of children. The violent abduction of people in broad daylight by masked individuals, presumably on the basis of their peacefully expressed opinions. Harassment, intimidation, pressure and reported expulsion from Belarus of members of the opposition, including the members of the Coordination Council, should stop.”
Successive UN Special Rapporteurs on the situation of human rights in Belarus had consistently described a deeply oppressive environment for human rights in the country, Ms. Al Nashif noted.
The December 2010 election, had been followed by “a massive crackdown” on political opponents, human rights groups and media, and hundreds of arrests, with allegations of torture and ill-treatment in custody”, the Deputy High Commissioner continued, citing a report by the Office of the High Commissioner, OHCHR, which had made 15 recommendations to the Government.
Few of these were implemented, she maintained, “and almost 10 years after the December 2010 election, we are seeing many of the same patterns recurring. Some are intensifying.”
The opening comments of the Urgent Debate on the Situation of Human Rights in Belarus - the sixth to be held by the Geneva forum since its creation in 2006 – also included those by the UN Special Rapporteur on the human rights situation in Belarus.
“Mr. Lukashenko’s eagerness to remain in power after the end of his current term appears to be the main cause of a current political deadlock in Belarus,” said Anaïs Marin, via video message. “As demonstrations have spread to all sectors of society – from housewives to factory workers and students - I call on the police to immediately stop escalating violence.”
The Council also heard opening remarks from the European Union delegation, which had led an earlier request for an Urgent Debate, on the grounds that the Presidential election of 9 August 2020 had been held without meaningful international observation and was neither free nor fair.
The EU bloc tabled a resolution calling on the UN High Commissioner to provide an oral update to the Council “before the end of the year”, and to present a report on the human rights situation during and after 2020 Presidential election in Belarus at the 46th session, followed by an interactive dialogue.
“We are alarmed at the Special Procedure mandate holder’s report of attacks on, and torture and cruel inhuman or degrading treatment of peaceful protesters, as well as intimidation and detention of opposition leaders. Enforced disappearances, abductions, expulsions and arbitrary detentions continue in Belarus,” said Germany’s Ambassador Michael von Ungern-Sternberg. “We call for the immediate release of all those who have been arbitrarily deprived of their liberty. For these reasons, the EU has tabled a resolution requesting the High Commissioner to make an interim oral update with recommendations to this Council before the end of the year and to present a comprehensive written report on the human rights situation during and after 2020 Presidential election in Belarus at the 46th session followed by an interactive dialogue.”
Speaking via video link, opposition candidate in the 2020 election, Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, appealed to the Belarusian authorities to “immediately cease violence against peaceful citizens. We demand immediate release of all political prisoners. We demand to allow entry and free movements to the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the situation of Human Rights in Belarus. Finally, we demand free and fair elections so the citizens of Belarus can freely choose their Government according to the laws of the country.”
She insisted on the Opposition’s’ “willingness to talk with the authorities and look for peaceful rights-based solutions to the crisis” affecting the country.
“Belarus needs fast and resolute decisions”, she said. “It’s very important to recognize that standing up for the democratic principles and human rights is not interfering in internal affairs; it is a universal question of human dignity.”
Another video message from protester Ekaterina Novikava, provided insight into the alleged brutal treatment of people taken into custody.
“I saw men with weapons and bullet-proof vests. The yard was covered with men lying on the ground who had been beaten with sticks, with truncheons, being kicked,” she said. “There was blood everywhere, there were men kneeling with their face against the walls, everyone was being beaten. We were asked, ‘Did you vote for Tikhanouskaya? You wanted change,’ they said, ‘We’ll kill you all, that’s how it’s going to end.’”
Rejecting the EU’s call for an oral update on Belarus by the High Commissioner for Human Rights before the end of the year, along with a report and interactive dialogue at the Council’s 46th session, the Belarusian delegation insisted on their country’s sovereignty in its internal affairs.
“The Government rejects any such unfounded allegations that undermine the validity of the elections which were a reflection of the sovereign right of the people to make their own choice,” ,” said Permanent Representative to the UN Office and other International Organizations in Geneva, Yuri Ambrazevich. “The use of alternative assessments of reality at international fora we see as an intervention in domestic affairs. The supposed serious violation and deterioration of the human rights situation in Belarus is something we do not agree with.”
Confirming that thousands of demonstrators had been arrested because they had broken the law and that not all protests had been non-violent, the ambassador maintained that social media chat platforms had been used by demonstrators to coordinate “tactics”.
“The administrators of this Telegram channels continue to call for actions and protests in the streets and are coordinating their tactics through the social network,” he said. “Thousands of people have been detained because they violated the law. Despite claims of the opposite, between 12 and 19 of August not all of the protests were peaceful; very often, stones, sticks, cars and so-forth were used or indeed Molotov cocktails that were prepared in advance.”
Questioning the Council’s involvement in the affairs of Belarus, the Russian delegation echoed the stance of other Member States by insisting that “not interfering in the affairs of another State is the basis of international law”.
Gennady Gatilov, Permanent Representative of the Russian Federation to the United Nations Office and other international organizations in Geneva, added that the challenges before Belarus were “domestic. The initiators of today’s debate on the supposed violations of human rights in Belarus are nothing other than an attempt through pressure and threats to destabilize the situation in the country and provoke a political crisis, as they already did in the neighbouring country.”
The Indonesian delegation, meanwhile, recalled the UN Charter, highlighting “the time-honoured principle” of “respect of the integrity, sovereignty and the political independence of all States” that “should continue to be upheld by this Council.  Furthermore, as stipulated in the resolution that established the Council, all States have the obligation and the obligation and responsibility to protect their own people including to ensure the protection and the promotion of human rights.
“In this connection, Indonesia is confident that the Government of Belarus should take all necessary steps to de-escalate the situation and to refrain from using unnecessary and excessive use of force against civilian demonstrators and protesters.”

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/91966-belarus-crisis-under-spotlight-human-rights-council




Date: 18 September 2020
Title: WHO, with USAID support, delivers 250 oxygen concentrators to Belarus
Content: 18 September 2020
It is planned that the delivered oxygen concentrators of the leading world manufacturer will be used as part of the national reserve during the second wave of COVID-19 expected in autumn or winter and are to be distributed by the Republican Centre for Medical Response Organization to the medical facilities of the country, where supplemental oxygen support of the patients will be most needed.
The purchased oxygen concentrators fully meet all the requirements of the World Health Organization.  This equipment for oxygen therapy is vital for the patients with moderate and severe cases of COVID-19 with low oxygen saturation levels caused by coronavirus infection. The operating principle of the concentrator involves generation of oxygen from ambient air and its delivery to a patient via the rhinal catheters.  Oxygen concentrators are completely autonomous and constitute an important source of oxygen for the patients with the reduced blood oxygen level. The concentrators are fitted with a bacteria-excluding filter, its generation capacity is 8 litres per minute and oxygen concentration in the mixture is over 90%.  They can also be used for two patients simultaneously.
The equipment for the total amount of 211,000 US dollars was delivered under the Support of WHO preparedness and response in fighting the COVID-10 pandemic project financed by the US Agency for International Development (USAID).
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/91965-who-usaid-support-delivers-250-oxygen-concentrators-belarus




Date: 16 September 2020
Title: New General Assembly underscores ‘necessity of multilateralism’
Content: 16 September 2020
“The context in which we are working, serves to remind us of the necessity of the multilateralism system”, Volkan Bozkir told delegates sitting distanced apart in the gilded hall at New York Headquarters.
He expressed that it was a deep honour to be hosting the session, noting the importance of meeting in person, “so long as health conditions allow”, and affirmed his intension to convene face-to-face meetings as much as possible.
While taking the mitigation measures needed to protect the health and safety of delegates and staff,  the UN official upheld that in the "business of diplomacy, there is no substitute to meeting counterparts face-to-face, to build long-term understanding of each other’s positions and forge compromise”.
Mr. Bozkir told the plenary that next week the General Debate would be addressed by more Heads of State than ever before.
He asserted that two weeks of crucial High-level meetings, “will guide our work for the session” and expressed confidence that their impact “will not be compromised by the circumstances”.
The newly minted Assembly president promised to do his “utmost to support and lead” the high-level meetings to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the UN; the 25th anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women; a high-level commemoration to promote the International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons; and the Biodiversity Summit.
“During the 75th session, we will hold two General Assembly Special Sessions”, he informed the plenary, “one on COVID-19 – the first Special Session convened to discuss a pandemic – and the second against corruption”.
Mr. Bozkir also set out a list of priorities for his tenure, which include reviewing the UN Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, commemorating the 25th anniversary of the World Summit for Social Development, and preparing for the Fifth UN Conference on Least Developed Countries.
There will also be a high-level meeting on water-related goals and targets of the 2030 Agenda  and Oceans Conference, together with revitalizing the work of the Assembly, and discussions over Security Council reform.
“I will also work with you to successfully implement the various mandates entrusted to me”, he assured.
After warmly congratulating Mr. Bozkir, Secretary-General António Guterres offered his full support and committed partnership.
“This year will be a critical one in the life of our Organization”, he said. “We must continue to respond to the immediate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic by strengthening health systems and supporting the development and equitable distribution of treatments and vaccines”.
The UN chief highlighted the need to build a strong recovery, based on the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement,  while continuing the Assembly’s work across the full range of global challenges ahead, including peace and security, disarmament, human rights, gender equality, and sustainable development.
Marking the 75th anniversary milestone, Mr. Guterres observed that the world has high expectations of the UN as the main multilateral platform in a rules-based international system.
“The nature of multilateralism is changing, and I have frequently pointed to the need for a more networked and inclusive multilateralism for the 21st century”, he flagged, welcoming the Assembly’s pledge “to work towards consolidating trust and cohesion” among Member States, major groups of countries, and other international organizations.   
  
In closing, the Secretary-General said he looked forward to working closely with the Assembly president during the 75th Session, “to address our shared objectives” and offered the cooperation and support of “the entire Secretariat”.
“I wish you a very successful mandate”, he concluded.
Outgoing President Tijjani Muhammad-Bande finished off his extraordinary year in office, having to steer the 74th session through the beginning of the pandemic, by paying tribute to former Secretary-General Javier Pérez de Cuélla, and Burundi President Pierre Nkurunziza – both of whom passed away in 2020.
He thanked the Secretary-General and Deputy Secretary-General for their “unprecedented support” along with Secretariat staff, without whom the “Assembly could not have functioned well”.
“We started this session guided by the hopes and aspirations of the people we serve”, he said, noting that the Assembly has made “great strides” in  galvanizing multilateral efforts to tackle poverty eradication and zero hunger, quality education, climate action, and inclusion.
Mr. Muhammad-Bande pointed out that the first High-level Meeting of the Assembly focused on global health, before anyone knew that the year would be defined by a pandemic.
“The emergence of the novel corona virus (COVID-19) has shown that we have to continue to deepen multilateral cooperation in the health sector”, including scaling up national and global efforts “to build a healthier world for all”, he asserted.
He expressed gratitude that, at the onset of the pandemic, Member States adopted two decisions that allowed more than 70 resolutions to be passed, and the Chairs of the Main Committees for the 75th session to be elected.
Underscoring the importance of the Assembly, he recalled that it was “founded upon equality of voice and vote” and its resolutions reflect the “aspirations of humanity”.
“This is a moment of reckoning for our shared planet and future…a time for action, ambition, equality, inclusion, and partnership”, Mr. Muhammad-Bande said, stressing the need to keep youth engaged in the Organization’s work.
It is only in doing so can the world be “certain of peace, justice and development”, he endorsed.
“We must continue to thoughtfully define our actions and uphold our pledge to leave no one behind, even in the face of disagreement”, he said, bowing out of office gracefully. “Indeed, in spite of disagreement, we must practice empathy and choose unity over discord”.

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/91254-new-general-assembly-underscores-%E2%80%98necessity-multilateralism%E2%80%99




Date: 16 September 2020
Title: Journalism under fire: UNESCO raises alarm over surge of attacks on media workers covering protests
Content: 16 September 2020
In its new report, Safety of Journalists Covering Protests – Preserving Freedom of the Press During Times of Civil Unrest, the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural agency (UNESCO) said that between January and June this year, journalists have been increasingly attacked, arrested and even killed.
Launching the report, UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay underscored that the freedom to inform citizens on the causes of unrest and the response from State authorities, are of vital importance for democracies to thrive.
“Journalists have a critical role in reporting and informing audiences on protest movements”, she said.
Wide-ranging abuses
UNESCO’s findings reveal a “wider upward trend” in the use of unlawful force by police and security forces over the last five years, with more than 30 protests impeded by police and security forces last year alone – double the 2015 number.
The report finds that during this period, global protests have been rooted in concerns over economic injustice, government corruption, declining political freedoms and growing authoritarianism.
It details a wide range of abuses journalists face when covering protests, from harassment, intimidation and beatings, to being shot at with lethal or non-lethal ammunition, detention and abduction.
‘Much greater efforts’ needed
Citing the Committee for the Protection of Journalists, UNESCO said that in some protests, up to 500 separate violations occurred. And during demonstrations linked to the Black Lives Matter movement for greater racial justice, these included the use of rubber bullets and pepper balls, which led to the blinding of several journalists.
Ms. Azoulay pointed out that “for many years, UNESCO has been raising global awareness” to ensure that journalists can do their jobs, “without fear of persecution” and has continued to train “security forces and the judiciary on international norms in freedom of expression”.
However, the UNESCO chief warned the figures in the report “show that much greater efforts are needed”.
Ensuring better protection
The report also contains concrete recommendations for all actors – from media outlets and national authorities to international organizations – to ensure better protections for journalists.
Strengthening training for police and law enforcement on freedom of expression and appropriate behaviour in dealing with the media, is just one of the proposals outlined in the Safety of Journalists.
Others include providing appropriate training and equipment to journalists, including freelancers, sent to cover demonstrations as well as appointing national ombudsmen to hold police accountable for the use of force against journalists during demonstrations.
Standing shoulder-to-shoulder
UNESCO provides technical assistance to Member States, including training for police and security forces on upholding press freedom and freedom of expression.
“We call on the international community and all relevant authorities to ensure that these fundamental rights are upheld”, the UNESCO chief stated.
Key trends identified by UNESCO since 2015
According to the Belarusian Association of Journalists (BAJ), during the post elections protests from August 9 to September 14, security forces detained 198 journalists. Dozens of journalists were beaten and some were seriously injured.BAJ maintains a table in which it documents all cases of reprisals against journalists in Belarus - since the beginning of 2020, 323 cases have already been recorded in it.
In the press freedom rating of Reporters Without Borders, Belarus ranks 153 (Russia - 149).
The NGO "Belarusian Association of Journalists" has prepared an analytical report on Belarus based on the monitoring of attacks and violations of media rights in Belarus, Ukraine, Russia in 2017-2019, carried out by the Justice for Journalists Foundation.
According to the report, Belarus ranks second after Armenia among 12 post-Soviet countries in the relative number of attacks against media workers per 100,000 population with an indicator of 11.4. The main method of attacks on journalists in Belarus is attacks using legal and economic mechanisms - they make up 89%. The main source of danger for media workers is government officials - primarily the police and the courts.

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/91232-journalism-under-fire-unesco-raises-alarm-over-surge-attacks-media-workers-covering-protests




Date: 15 September 2020
Title: 75th Session of UN General Assembly:  UN Secretary-General on his expectations and priorities
Content: 15 September 2020
The world leaders will meet at times of the global pandemic, climate change crisis and growing inequality in order to solve the most acute problems of our time.
The 75th session of the General Assembly will be different from all the previous ones as the countries will have to respond to the unprecedented challenges and elaborate the long-term solutions.
On the eve of the 75th session of the General Assembly opening, UN News asked UN Secretary-General what he thinks should be done to solve the crisis.
Secretary-General António Guterres could hardly know when assuming the office two and a half years ago that the 75th UN anniversary would have to be marked at times of the unprecedented pandemic, which even aggravated the global problems: cruel inequality, climate change, unequal position of women, poverty and continuous armed conflicts.
UN News: COVID-19 has hit the world hard and changed many things. We’ve seen amazing acts of solidarity, but there are still some struggles ahead. How do you assess where we are now with this pandemic?
UN Secretary-General António Guterres: I’m very worried. The pandemic has shown us the enormous fragility of the world. Not only in relation to COVID-19, but also in relation to climate change, to the lawlessness in cyberspace, the risks of nuclear proliferation, to the impacts of inequality in the cohesion of society.
A microscopic virus brought us to our knees. This should lead to a lot of humility in world leaders, and solidarity in the fight against COVID-19.
A microscopic virus brought us to our knees. This should lead to a lot of humility in world leaders, and solidarity in the fight against COVID-19. But we know that  there has been no unity. Each country has adopted its own strategy, and we have seen the results: the virus has progressed everywhere.
In developing countries, people are suffering so much from this lack of solidarity. This is negative for everybody, because if we are not able to properly address COVID-19 in these countries, the virus goes back and forth and we will all pay a heavy price, even in the richest countries in the world.
UN News: What would you hope governments and community do to overcome it and emerge stronger?
SG: We need everyone to work together in cooperation. It is absolutely essential that a vaccine for COVID-19 be considered a global public good, a people’s vaccine. We want to avoid have a competition of countries trying to get as many vaccines as possible for themselves, and forgetting about those who have fewer resources.
We need an affordable vaccine for everybody, everywhere, because we will only be safe if everybody’s safe. To think that we can preserve the rich people and let poor people suffer is a stupid mistake.
UN News: COVID-19 may have diverted attention and resources away from the urgent need for climate action. What are three key things that must be done immediately for the world to shift gear on this issue?
SG: Our objective has been defined by the scientific community. We absolutely must limit the growth in temperature to 1.5 degrees, by the end of the century. For that, we need to have carbon neutrality by 2050. And for that, we need to have a reduction of about 45 per cent of emissions in the next decade.
So, the objectives are clear. How can we reach them? We need a total commitment, especially of the big emitters, to all the transformational actions in energy, in agriculture in industry, in transportation, in all areas of our life, we need transformation actions that make it possible to reach those objectives.
We absolutely must limit the growth in temperature to 1.5 degrees, by the end of the century. For that, we need to have carbon neutrality by 2050.
And it’s very simple. We should stop spending taxpayers’ money in subsidies to fossil fuels. We should massively invest in renewable energy because it’s cheaper, it’s most profitable. It’s not only the right thing to do it is the best economic thing to do.
We need to stop the construction of coal power plants. We need to invest in new forms of mobility, namely through electric cars; we need to invest in hydrogen. That is the fuel of the future.
And at the same time, we need to conduct protection of biodiversity, protection of forests, transformation in our agriculture. In all these aspects, we need to work together with a common strategy and with a clear objective, we need to be carbon neutral in 2050.
UN News: The 2030 deadline set for the achievement of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals is really not too far away. How should world leaders re-focus efforts, to achieve the SDGs? After all they are our blueprint for a more sustainable and equitable planet.
SG: Well, because of COVID-19 and the need to recover our economies, we are spending trillions of dollars at the present moment. So, if you are spending thousands of dollars, let’s do it in line with the Sustainable Development Goals.
Let’s do it in line with the 2030 Agenda. Let’s rebuild our economies better, uh, with more equity fighting inequality, with more sustainability fighting climate change, and addressing all the other aspects that are relevant in the Sustainable Development Goals – be it the reduction of poverty, be it the protection of the oceans, be it things related to education, to health, to governance. So, COVID-19 is a threat, is a problem, but it is also an opportunity because as we are to change, we can change in the right direction. As we are mobilizing massive resources to rebuild, we can rebuild in the right direction and our blueprint must be Agenda 2030 and the sustainable goals.
UN News: The UN has been around for 75 years, and you’ve called on everyone to participate actively in the UN75 conversations, especially those not often heard, including youth. You have spoken to youth, but also you were often in listening mode. What encouraged you from those conversations with youth?
SG: A very strong commitment of youth to international corporation. The young generation is much more cosmopolitan than my generation. They feel a universalist approach to problems. They understand that we need to be together.
We need a stronger multilateralism, but the multilateralism that is also people’s multilateralism, in which they can participate in decision making.
And so they understand that we need a stronger multilateralism, but the multilateralism that is also people’s multilateralism, in which they can participate in decision making, and this very strong commitment of young people to ideas like Universal Health Coverage; to ideas like climate action; to ideas like more justice and equality in our societies; gender equality (the) fight against racism. All these aspects show very committed young people. That is the biggest hope I have in relation to our common future.
UN News: Some 25 years ago, the Beijing Declaration was a historic turning point for advancing the rights of women. But millennia of patriarchy have resulted in a male dominated world. What would you like to see men do, to ensure we have gender policy parity and equality?
SG: Men must understand that it is in the interest of everybody, not only of women, to have gender equality and gender parity, because the world will be better.
It is true we live in a male-dominated world with a male-dominated culture. That is why it is so important in the UN to reach parity. And we have done it at the top level, but we now need to do it everywhere.
There is essentially a question of power and we need to have – I don’t like to use, ‘empowering women’ – it looks like we are giving power to women. Power is not given, it’s taken, but we need to have women moving, in order to assert their role in society. And we need men understanding that that is a positive thing.
UN News: Mr. Guterres, you’ve spoken passionately about inequalities and injustice, the cause of many problems in the world today. What are some of the most damaging examples of these, and how can multilateralism be the answer for all humankind to benefit?
SG: It’s very shocking from the point of view of wealth and income, to see 1 per cent of humankind, having more resources than half of the world population. But I would say the most shocking aspects of inequality are not necessarily linked to money.
It’s the inequality linked to discriminations in relation to gender, in relation to racism, in relation to religion, in relation to people with disability, in relation to the LGBTQI community. I mean, we need to have a society in which cohesion is our objective. We need to invest in cohesion to make every community - indigenous communities, minorities in societies, every community – feel that their identity is respected, but also that they are part of the society as a whole.
UN News: Mr. Guterres, the last word is for you. This is a virtual General Assembly, devoid from the usual fanfare, but full of urgency and gravitas and hope. What would you want world leaders and the public to take away from this UNGA75?
SG: Well, of course, many things, but if I would have to choose, say priorities, I would say, let’s make sure that we have a global ceasefire. Let’s make sure that we’ll have a vaccine that is a global public good, and people’s vaccine. And let’s make sure that when we rebuild our economies, we do so to reach carbon neutrality in 2050.


United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/90962-75th-session-un-general-assembly-un-secretary-general-his-expectations-and-priorities




Date: 11 September 2020
Title: Belarus: UN chief deeply concerned over use of force against peaceful protesters
Content: 11 September 2020
In a statement, the UN chief also expressed concern over reports of intimidation against civil society groups, media workers and opposition figures, calling on authorities to refrain from the use of force against those engaging in peaceful assembly and to ensure that claims of torture and other mistreatment of detainees are fully investigated.
“The current crisis can only be resolved by the Belarusian people through a broad-based, inclusive dialogue, which should start immediately in the interest of stability,” he assured.
Mr. Guterres’ statement follows a letter sent to President Alexander Lukashenko by International Labour Organization (ILO) Director-General Guy Ryder earlier in the week, who denounced the detention and arrest of six trade unionists taking part in the wave of peaceful protests that have swept the country in recent weeks, amid opposition claims of a rigged election in early August.
The ILO chief urged the President to release and drop charges against those detained, and “ensure full respect” for workers’ rights.  “No one should be deprived of their freedom or be subject to penal sanctions for the mere fact of organizing or participating in a peaceful strike or protest,” he wrote.
Independent human rights experts appointed by the UN Human Rights Council have also urged the government to end the violent crackdown, declaring that “torture cannot be justified for any reason”.
“There can be no justice without the State’s unequivocal commitment to accountability and redress for violations of human rights”, the experts added.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/90680-belarus-un-chief-deeply-concerned-over-use-force-against-peaceful-protesters




Date: 10 September 2020
Title: ILO calls on Belarus President to respect workers’ rights and freedoms amid protests
Content: 10 September 2020
The Director-General of the International Labour Organization, Guy Ryder, has called on the President of Belarus, Alexander Lukashenko, to prevent human rights violations and “ensure full respect for workers’ rights and freedoms" during the wave of protests that have swept the country in recent weeks.
In his letter to the Belarus President, Ryder urged President Lukashenko to release and drop charges against six trade unionists who have been detained by the authorities after participating in peaceful protests and industrial action.
He reminded the President that it is the responsibility of the Government to ensure a climate free from violence, threats or pressure against peacefully protesting workers and that any such allegations should be rapidly and independently investigated.
“I must urge you to do all in your power to prevent the occurrence of human rights violations and ensure full respect for workers’ rights and freedoms,” Ryder’s letter said.
He expressed his deep concern at reports coming out of Belarus on the arrest, detention, imprisonment and mistreatment of workers’ leaders.
"No one should be deprived of their freedom or be subject to penal sanctions for the mere fact of organizing or participating in a peaceful strike or protest," Ryder wrote.
The letter recalls that the ILO has been working with the Belarus government, and the national workers’ and employers’ organizations, for 16 years, helping to address issues raised by an ILO Commission of Inquiry in 2004  which was set up following serious infringements of trade union rights and freedoms in the country.
Ryder notes that while there has been some progress on these issues, “the Commission’s recommendations are far from being fully implemented.”
The intervention by the ILO Director-General follows a request made by the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC).
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/90294-ilo-calls-belarus-president-respect-workers%E2%80%99-rights-and-freedoms-amid-protests




Date: 01 September 2020
Title: UN human rights experts: Belarus must stop torturing protesters and prevent enforced disappearances
Content: 01 September 2020
UN human rights experts* today called on Belarus to stop torturing detainees and bring to justice police officers who reportedly have been humiliating and beating protesters in their custody with impunity.
They also urged the authorities to fully comply with fundamental safeguards – immediate registration, judicial oversight of detention and notification of family members as soon as an individual is deprived of liberty – with a view to preventing enforced disappearances.
“The prohibition against torture is absolute under international human rights law,” they said. “It cannot be justified for any reason.”
“Similarly, no circumstances whatsoever, whether internal political instability or any other public emergency, may be invoked to practice, tolerate or justify enforced disappearances. Authorities in Belarus must immediately put an end to all human rights violations and combat impunity.”
The experts received reports of 450 documented cases of torture and ill-treatment of people deprived of their liberty after the disputed presidential election on 09 August that led to mass protests and arrests. “We are extremely alarmed at the hundreds of allegations of torture and other ill-treatment in police custody,” they said.
Most people reported missing have been accounted for, but it is alarming that the whereabouts and the state of health of at least 6 individuals are reportedly unknown to their relatives. “We also remain concerned that cases of enforced disappearances may proliferate should heavy-handed response to peaceful protests continue,” they said.
“Freedom from torture is one of those human rights considered so important that they cannot be limited or suspended under any circumstances,” they said. “Any violation of the non-derogable prohibition of torture and ill-treatment must be prosecuted and punished.”
The experts also received reports of violence against women and children, including sexual abuse and rape with rubber batons, and said: “The State must do everything in its power to prevent, investigate and punish any form of abuse, including violence against women, whether those acts are perpetrated by the State or by other actors.”
Among some 6,700 people detained in recent weeks while exercising their right to freedom of peaceful assembly are journalists and passers-by who were arbitrarily arrested and hastily sentenced. On Saturday, the government withdrew accreditation of 17 journalists working for foreign media outlets.
“There can be no justice without the State’s unequivocal commitment to accountability and redress for violations of human rights,” said the experts. “We are also concerned that indiscriminate arrests continued over the weekend at a peaceful women’s march in the capital, Minsk, on Saturday and at peaceful protests in many cities on Sunday.”
The experts called on the Belarussian authorities to “ensure that all persons who participated in peaceful assemblies are promptly released.
“No person should be criminally charged for their peaceful participation in a demonstration,” they said. They reminded authorities that that a failure to acknowledge deprivation of liberty by state agents and a refusal to acknowledge detention constitute an enforced disappearance, even if it is of a short duration.
In addition to full and impartial investigations, Belarus “must hold perpetrators to account and ensure compensation for the victims and their families.”
The experts will continue to closely monitor the situation and seek to engage with the authorities.
ENDS
*The experts: Mr. Nils Melzer,   Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; Mrs. Anaïs Marin,  Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Belarus,   The UN Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances: Mr. Luciano Hazan (Chair-Rapporteur), Mr. Tae-Ung Baik (Vice Chair), Mr. Bernard Duhaime, Ms. Houria Es-Slami, and Mr. Henrikas Mickevičius; Ms. Mary Lawlor,  Ms. Irene Khan,   Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of expression, Mr. Clément Nyaletsossi Voule,   Special Rapporteur on the rights of peaceful assembly and association,   Working Group on Arbitrary Detention:   Ms. Leigh Toomey (Chair-Rapporteur), Ms. Elina Steinerte (Vice-Chair), Mr. José Guevara Bermúdez, Mr. Seong-Phil Hong, Mr. Sètondji Adjovi
The Special Rapporteurs, Independent Experts and Working Groups are part of what is known as the   Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, Country Page –   Belarus
For more information and media requests, please contact: Koat Aleer (+41 22 917 9194 /   kaleer@ohchr.org).
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Renato de Souza (+41 22 928 9855 /   rrosariodesouza@ohchr.org) and  and Kitty McKinsey (kmckinsey@ohchr.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter   @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at   http://www.standup4humanrights.org


United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/89329-un-human-rights-experts-belarus-must-stop-torturing-protesters-and-prevent-enforced




Date: 20 August 2020
Title: What Special Procedures of the UN system to contact regarding the facts of human rights violations?
Content: 20 August 2020
Key functions: to investigate cases of deprivation of liberty imposed arbitrarily or otherwise inconsistently with the relevant international standards, to seek and receive information from Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations as well as from the individuals concerned, their families or their representatives.

Click to fill in the complaint form.
Email:  wgad@ohchr.org
Key functions: reports on violations, as well as discrimination, threats or use of violence, harassment, persecution, intimidation or reprisals directed at persons exercising these rights.
Click to download the complaint form.
Click to submit the information online - https://spsubmission.ohchr.org/
Click to download the complaint form.
Click to submit the information online: https://spsubmission.ohchr.org/
Email: sr-torture@ohchr.org,  urgent-action@ohchr.org
The appeals to the above bodies should contain the facts confirming human rights violations and be clear and well-grounded. Therefore it is important to document all the events that happened to the victims.
Following consideration of the appeals the OHCHR Special Procedures bodies acknowledge the facts of violation of the international human rights obligations by the state.
Out colleagues in the UN Resident Coordinator Office in Belarus are ready to provide consultations to the applicants on their appeals to these bodies and to provide additional information.
Anna Taliaronak anna.taliaronak@un.org
Olga Arefeva olga.arefeva@un.org
+375173277971

United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/88791-what-special-procedures-un-system-contact-regarding-facts-human-rights-violations




Date: 17 August 2020
Title: UN expresses “deep concern” over allegations of violence against children in Belarus
Content: 17 August 2020

“In one particularly shocking case a 16-year old boy was severely beaten while in detention and suffered brain injuries as a result, - said Najat Maalla M’jid  in her statement. - At present, he is reportedly in the intensive care of the hospital, where he was in an induced coma, but has now regained consciousness.”
Special Representative Najat Maalla M’jid welcomed the release of a large number of people detained on the night of 13 August. She recalled that detention of children should only be used as a measure of last resort, for the shortest period possible and that legal support should be provided to all children in contact with the justice system.
Special Representative also reminded that the minors have the right to freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly.  Any use of force against them must be proportionate and only used as last resort “taking into account their special protection needs.” The persons who have committed violations against minors, - emphasized Secretary-General’s Special Representative, - must be held accountable.
Najat Maalla M’jid also recalled that Belarus is a state party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and is obliged to take all necessary legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect children from any form of physical and psychological violence, injuries or assault, degrading and inhuman treatment or exploitation including sexual exploitation.
The protests in Belarus began after the presidential elections on Sunday, 9 August. People took to the streets after learning about violations committed in the course of voting.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/88798-un-expresses-%E2%80%9Cdeep-concern%E2%80%9D-over-allegations-violence-against-children-belarus




Date: 14 August 2020
Title: The UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus calls on authorities to take immediate measures to prevent any instances of torture or other ill-treatment in detention
Content: 14 August 2020
“Torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment are absolutely prohibited and can never be justified. While we welcome the release of many individuals from detention last night, the testimonies by a number of former detainees about their treatment in custody are deeply troubling. If confirmed, these reports would point to systemic problems in the management and oversight of detention facilities in Belarus”, — said Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki.
The UN Resident Coordinator requested an urgent meeting with the Minister of Interior to discuss human rights concerns, focusing on the treatment of individuals in places of deprivation of liberty, the enjoyment of freedom of peaceful assembly in Belarus, and to offer broader UN System capacity support and other assistance. She has also requested access for the UN to visit two detention facilities in Minsk to see the conditions of detention there.
The UN Resident Coordinator called on the authorities to take immediate measures to prevent any instances of torture or other ill-treatment in detention. In addition, she urged the authorities to ensure that detainees, as well as those released from detention, receive adequate medical care, including rehabilitation and psychosocial support. As relevant, this assistance should address the specific needs of children and young people victims of torture or other ill-treatment, or who have witnessed violence.
“As we receive increasing numbers of reports of torture and other ill-treatment, it will be important to ensure that when possible these are well documented, also to allow for the prompt, thorough and impartial investigation of and future accountability for such acts. Timely medical examinations will be crucial in this regard, alongside the important work of human rights organizations gathering information on these cases”, — said Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/88785-un-resident-coordinator-belarus-calls-authorities-take-immediate-measures-prevent-any




Date: 12 August 2020
Title: Bachelet condemns violent response of Belarus to post-electoral protests
Content: 12 August 2020
UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet on Wednesday condemned the violent response of the Belarusian authorities to the peaceful demonstrations held across the country in the aftermath of the presidential election and called for people’s grievances to be heard.
Following the announcement of contested preliminary results from Sunday’s election, largely peaceful protests erupted throughout Belarus, prompting a heavy crackdown by the security forces. Police were reported to have used unnecessary and excessive force against largely peaceful protestors, firing rubber bullets, using water cannons and throwing stun grenades. Reports indicate that police officers beat protestors, including after they were detained. At least 250 people have been injured, and one protester died, in unclear circumstances.
“I remind the Belarussian authorities that the use of force during protests should always be exceptional and a measure of last resort, clearly differentiating between any violent individuals and peaceful protesters, against whom force should not be used. State authorities must allow and facilitate the exercise of the rights to freedom of expression and of peaceful assembly and not repress it. People have the right to speak up and express dissent, even more in the context of elections, when democratic freedoms should be upheld, not supressed,” said the UN Human Rights Chief.
“Reports suggest that more than approximately 6000 people have been detained in the last three days, including bystanders, as well as minors, suggesting a trend of massive arrests in clear violation of international human rights standards. Even more disturbing are the reports of ill-treatment during and after detention. I remind the Belarusian Government of the absolute prohibition on torture and other ill-treatment of detainees,” Bachelet added.
In this context, the High Commissioner called for the immediate release of all those who have been unlawfully detained, and for prompt, thorough, independent and impartial investigations into all allegations of human rights violations.
“Those arbitrarily detained or ill-treated for peacefully expressing dissent are entitled to justice and redress. The authorities should also hear and respond to people’s grievances regarding the elections,” the High Commissioner stressed.
Bachelet also expressed concern at the intermittent internet shutdowns since Sunday, as well as the blocking of many social media platforms, NGOs and news websites, which amount to a severe curtailment of the right of freedom of expression, including the right to seek and provide information.
Journalists covering the demonstrations have been harassed and in some cases attacked, and have had their equipment destroyed or confiscated, and more than 50 reporters and bloggers have been detained, with criminal investigations opened against some of them.
“Free flow of information is crucial in any democratic society, and especially in a context of crisis and social unrest. But even more so, in the current situation of the COVID-19 pandemic, and where people might feel compelled to express dissent online rather than on the streets. The right to peacefully protest online must be also protected.”
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/88796-bachelet-condemns-violent-response-belarus-post-electoral-protests




Date: 05 August 2020
Title: New World View from Business & Career Week Experts
Content: 05 August 2020
Over 500 participants and 20 experts met during the Business & Career Week to realize what those who develop their businesses and career would need in the new reality.  The week offered 15 free of charge online events co-conducted by ProWomen BY and UNDP in Belarus.
Among the experts there were heads, partners and co-founders of organizations, marketing, communications and PR specialists, HR and career development experts.
Here are ten important recommendations regarding business and career development in the new world.
Business:
1. Define the principles you build your business on. It will add courage and resoluteness and help get rid of everything unnecessary.  Seeing the purpose is very important as this clarity enables sustainability and helps determine what and who you will say “yes” or “no” to. (Marta Skugareva, Monkey Food café co-founder, communications specialist).
2. See about financial sustainability.  Money of your business is not your money already. Money of an owner is the owner’s salary, if she/he is directly involved in this business, and dividends - that is what remained after all the pay-outs. The owner should not receive as much as she/he needs, but must earn money in accordance with the same motivation system, which is used for the personnel.  (Irina Yanukovich, PiK-audit director, auditor)
3. Search for the balance between online and off-line modes. We have interviewed over 30 businesswomen and noticed that many considered online mode as a means to make their businesses more sustainable and now plan to preserve and develop this area.  The second wave of pandemic is still likely to interfere with businesses and you must be prepared to quickly switch back and forth between online and off-line modes.  (Julia Malkova, ProWomen By and Botanika founder, marketing specialist, communications specialist and brand strategist)
4. Set not only economic goals for your business. When business is built on social and economic goals, it becomes more sustainable: more economically strong and more attractive for employees, clients, and investors. Analyse how your business influences the community around it and calculate the ecological footprint of your company.  Write down in steps what you could do to improve the situation. Start simple and be consistent. (Katya Shkor, PR specialist in Orange Bird marketing agency for sustainable development)
If you decide to sell your business, deal with it in a responsible manner.
1. Organize your documents, property, work arrangements, intellectual property, relations with partners and state bodies.
2. Calculate your budget. Make a decision on how much you want to receive for your business and how much you are ready to spend for transaction processing.  Remember that sale of business entails tax liabilities.
3. Make information public.  Prepare the basic documentation package, which will allow a buyer to get acquainted with your business and decide upon whether to buy it.
Minimize the risk and hire a consultant.  If you have sold your business correctly, you will later be pleased to watch it working and progressing.  (Katerina Kubrak, CleverConsult legal agency partner, expert of Association of Business Security and Compliance).
Career:
1. Consider your learning strategy. It is no good to blindly follow the mainstream. Analyse what else is missing and write down what you want to see as a result of learning. Chalk out a spot, where you want to be in a year and write down in details what you must do to achieve it. The information field is huge today, and we have access to numerous learning resources, and the trick is not to jump from one resource to another, but to create your own plan and to move purposefully in the right direction. (Valentina Chekan, co-founder of IT Princess Academy and LuCh high school)
2. Create a profile in LinkedIn.  This will enable direct contacts with recruiters and employees of the companies you are interested in. Such personal contacts are always efficient. This will also help evaluate you competitiveness on the market. Remember that this resource requires active development: expand the network of your contacts, publish useful and interesting information, add skills, demonstrate your growth, take part in discussions. (Maria Kragelskaya, IT-Academy, head of employment and career development department)
3. Set the price of your work. To determine your wage expectations the market research is needed and you cannot rely on one and only source of information.  Study the difference in such concepts as bottom quartile, median, and upper quartile.  Your most important concept is median.  Remember that median is not an arithmetical average, but it is a sum in the middle of the wage range, which divides it into two equal parts.
Define your expectations within the range of maximum, optimum, and minimum. The minimum will be close to median, the optimum is the value of median plus 5-20%, the maximum is the value you will use in negotiations. Make sure to define walk-away point for yourself to mark the level, lower which the payment would not be fair and reflecting your level of expertise.  Remember that you must connect your salary expectations and value proposition and should not reason the raise with your financial obligations such as credits, housing rent, etc. (Anna Bondarenko, People Partner in IT-company, career development consultant)
4. Choose the strategy of negotiations. Think of negotiations as of a dialogue. It is not a battle or struggle; it is a discussion of your working conditions. Try to move the focus from yourself when discussing your salary.  First of all, make sure you know the full offer of an employer and only after that announce your salary expectations.
Get ready for negotiations and be prepared to fence and argue.  Prepare the arguments, which are really convincing, build on value proposition, which should be composed by formula: achievement, skill, result.
If you have doubts, don’t be afraid to ask for extra time to take a decision. (Anna Bondarenko, People Partner in IT-company, career development consultant)
5. Ask questions after your job interview is over. Make sure you ask about the history of the vacancy: why the vacancy was opened or what the reason of previous employee’s leaving was. Clarify the length of the probationary period and remuneration during this period. Ask once again to briefly specify your core duties, discuss working hours, working conditions, equipment, and benefits package. Agree upon the term for decision making. (Polina Drobushevich, Prodify PR-manager, engaged in learning area in recruitment).
Pro-Women By - non-commercial organization, which supports girls enthusiastic about the idea of own businesses.  ProWomen By involves experts to provide girls with necessary practical tools for launch and development of businesses and helps set necessary business relations.  ProWomen By holds yearly over 40 workshops, lectures, master classes and training sessions to support and inspire the women.
Business&Career Week was supported by UNDP in the Republic of Belarus as part of a range of activities aimed to respond to COVID-10 challenges.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/89794-new-world-view-business-career-week-experts




Date: 30 July 2020
Title: UNICEF conducts webinar on legal aid to children suffering from violence, including human trafficking
Content: 30 July 2020
As part of cooperation with the Belarusian National Bar Association (BNBA) and with the support of the British Embassy in Belarus UNICEF conducted a gratuitous webinar “Providing legal aid to children, who fell victim of violence (including human trafficking and the related offences).”
The webinar became a regular event in a series of the planned online sessions in partnership with BNBA and was dedicated to the World Day against Trafficking in Persons marked on July 30.
Dmitry Lepretor, a lawyer of the legal advice office of Centralny district of Minsk, Minsk City Bar Association, became a webinar expert. He highlighted the issues of regulation of legal defence of children exposed to violence, the peculiarities of aid provision by a lawyer under this category of cases, and fixed on certain moments of protection of interests of the victim arising in practice. The lawyer emphasized that the law stipulates that legal aid related to social protection and rehabilitation offered to victims of human trafficking and, if they are under 14 years of age, to their legal representatives is provided from the republican budget resources. At the same time, according to the Law of the Republic of Belarus “About legal profession and lawyer activities in the Republic of Belarus,” legal aid to the minors in their interests and to their parents (foster parents, guardians) in the interests of children is provided free of charge at the expense of the Bar Association.
Parents, representatives of educational establishments and legal community interested in the topic took part in the webinar (105 participants in total).
UNICEF focuses on the issues of legal support and defence of interests of the minors.  In partnership with BNBA online consulting on the issues stemming from marriage relations as well as on criminal and administrative liability was launched with the use of the Telegram chatbot @kids_lawyer_bot.
If a child suffers from bullying on the Internet or online violence (including human trafficking) specialists on kids.pomogut.by will provide consulting. Psychological aid is provided by telephone: 8 801 100 16 11 (24 hours) or 8 801 201 55 55 (8.00:20.00). It is safe, free of charge and anonymous.


United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/86291-unicef-conducts-webinar-legal-aid-children-suffering-violence-including-human-trafficking




Date: 22 July 2020
Title: Online marathon on combating violence against children and young women takes place in Belarus
Content: 22 July 2020
United Nations Children's Fund, UN Development Program and UN Population Fund with financial support from the UK Government conducted a three-day online marathon called “Creation of favourable environment for children and women's development”.
The marathon kicked off under the auspices of UNICEF Belarus.  The accounts of the agency in social networks hosted children, representatives of educational establishments and the private sector, psychologists, athletes and writers, who discussed how to create a friendly and favourable environment free of bullying.
In any no-win situation there will always be a person, who is stronger than your offender and who will be able to protect you, - said Yulia Stefnyak, marathon participant and UNICEF volunteer in Belarus. I am in college and I don’t experience bullying now - this is the real happiness.
Young people from Baranovichi shared their experience in carrying out the project on bullying prevention, which they had designed during the training on social project planning with the UPSHIFT method in January 2020.  Click to find out more about their achievements:
https://cloud.mail.ru/public/2vwF/3DPKk476W
During the day the participants also discussed the problem of cyberbullying, which is particularly topical today when it is necessary to observe social distancing and self-isolation, so the Internet is sometimes the only means of communication with the outer world.
The world is changing and the role of technology is obviously getting progressively bigger allowing us to solve many business and personal issues quickly, - stated Nikolai Bulash, the marathon speaker and head of the commercial department of MTS mobile network operator.   Children and young people actively use their devices and have long been a part of the World Wide Web so far. The Internet is a boundless resource for education, getting useful content, a platform for communication for the youth and, at the same time we understand that there are threats too. In this situation we should not restrict but teach children how to use the technology properly.
During the discussion all the participants emphasized the importance of raising the awareness of children, teenagers and parents about the threat of violence and its impermissibility including in an online environment.  Taking this into account they mentioned that it is necessary to engage children, teenagers, among others, from the most vulnerable groups in planning and implementation in educational establishments and at the local level of activities aimed at prevention of bullying and cyberbullying and informing about the initiatives being implemented. The participants also stressed that it remains important to raise awareness about accessible services at the local and national levels including the Child Protection Helpline - 8 801 100 16 11 - and development of cross-sectoral partnership for creation of the safe environment both in real and virtual world.
The second day of the online marathon was under the auspices of UNDP Belarus, who spoke about women's economic empowerment.
To complete the initiative UNFPA Belarus conducted a number of events where the participants discussed how social sphere specialists can organize and conduct preventive actions to counteract domestic violence and abuse against people with disabilities.
UNFPA and their colleagues from the Belarusian association of assistance to children and young people with disabilities (BelAPDIiMI) and the territorial centre for social service (TCSS) of Moskovski district of Minsk provided a unique tool - Stop Violence brochure - created in plain language easy to understand for everyone.  The brochure and the developed modules of training lessons can be further used by social service providers in their work with people with disabilities aimed at prevention of domestic violence and cruel treatment.
To download the brochure: (https://goo.su/1mgM).
It is worth reminding that the topics offered during the online marathon are the priority areas on the way to achievement of Sustainable Development Goals.  According to UNICEF, every second school boy or girl at the ages from 13 to 15, that is about 150 million children worldwide, experience peer violence in schools or in their close vicinity.
The International Student Assessment PISA research conducted by the World Bank in 2018 testifies that 19% of schoolchildren in the Republic of Belarus suffered from repeated bullying during a month.
According to UNFPA reports, people with disabilities are exposed to domestic violence and inhuman treatment from their relatives and guardians twice as frequently.
If you missed our marathon you can watch the full recording on YouTube on UNICEF, UNDP and UNFPA channels.
The first day of online marathon here - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uV5xhiCEaJQ
Webinar “Innovative approaches to prevent violence against young women with disabilities with the use of the plain language materials” - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oDnOLE8XO-I
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/86290-online-marathon-combating-violence-against-children-and-young-women-takes-place-belarus




Date: 21 July 2020
Title: Belarus: International community must continue scrutinising human rights situation ahead of election, says UN expert
Content: 21 July 2020
“The already dire human rights situation has deteriorated even further over the last year,” Anaïs Marin, Special Rapporteur on the human rights situation in Belarus, said in presenting her annual report to the Human Rights Council. The report analyses civil and political rights in Belarus between 1 April 2019 and 31 March 2020, with a focus on economic, social and cultural rights
“Regrettably, in 2019-2020 there have been no major improvements in the legal and regulatory protection of human rights in Belarus,” she told the Council. “Since close to nothing was done to address recommendations made in previous reports, the systemic and systematic human rights violations remain, both in law and in practice.”
President Aliaksandr Lukashenka, in power since 1994, is running for the sixth time in an election scheduled for 9 August, and Marin is concerned that the Government uses restrictive laws and arbitrary administrative and judicial measures to penalise dissent. Social and political activists, human rights defenders, journalists, bloggers and other members of civil society have been repeatedly harassed and intimidated, and many have been arrested as they tried to exercise their rights of freedom of expression and peaceful assembly.


Without the support of the Government or any national human rights institution, Belarusians find it difficult to exercise their economic, social and cultural rights. For vulnerable groups – such as women, people living with disabilities and people with HIV – the situation is even worse.
Minorities, LGBTQI people and families of detainees are stigmatised, and no anti-discrimination law exists to protect them. The Special Rapporteur expressed concern about the availability and quality of healthcare in places of detention during the COVID-19 pandemic, especially for children serving disproportionately long prison terms for drug-related offences.
She also said Belarusian speakers are discriminated against in higher and secondary education and in the media. “This not only threatens the very survival of the language, it also curtails cultural life in the country”, Marin said.
Belarus remains the only country in Europe that applies and implements the death penalty. “I regret that Belarus has still not adopted a moratorium on executions, and I am concerned about the lack of efforts for fighting torture and ill-treatments”, she added. The government violates its own law against forced labour, in systematically compelling students, employees of state-owned enterprises, army conscripts and detainees to work without pay.
“By giving visibility to violations of fundamental freedoms, my mandate gives members of civil society an opportunity to be heard, Marin said. “I would like to hear what the Government is ready to do to ensure tangible and sustainable progress in the protection and promotion of human rights. In the meantime, I can only recommend that the mandate be renewed.”
Even though Belarus does not recognise her mandate, the Special Rapporteur reiterated her readiness to engage in a constructive dialogue with the Government.
*The expert: Ms Anaïs Marin (France) was designated as Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Belarus by the UN Human Rights Council in 2018. She is a researcher with the University of Warsaw, Poland. A political scientist specialising in international relations and Russian studies, she holds a Ph D from Sciences Po, where she studied international public law and comparative politics with a focus on post-communist transformations in Central and Eastern Europe. She has also taken part in OSCE/ODIHR election observation missions, including in Belarus. She has published extensively on Belarusian domestic and foreign policies.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, country page – Belarus
For more information and media requests please contact Nataliia Kuzmina (+41 22 928 96 25 /nkuzmina@ohchr.org) or write to sr-belarus@ohchr.org.
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Renato de Souza (+41 22 928 9855 / rrosariodesouza@ohchr.org) and John Newland (mediaconsultant2@ohchr.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone's rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/53821-belarus-international-community-must-continue-scrutinising-human-rights-situation-ahead




Date: 16 July 2020
Title: Worrying signs in teenager’s behaviour. What should parents do?
Content: 16 July 2020
Adolescence is one of the most complicated periods in child development. Specialists designate it as an age crisis because it is the hard time for both parents and adolescents.  The most important psychological characteristic of this period is the emerging feeling of adulthood.
Adolescents’ ambition forecast their future status, which they have not reached yet, and exceeds their capabilities. It is expressed in their prominent striving to stand for their independence and rights still waiting for positive attitude, help, protection and support from the adults.
The following characteristics of adolescence may be specified:
-  demonstrativeness in everything (behaviour, personal appearance);
- mood swing (impulsivity, mood change, increased vulnerability, resentfulness);
- fast growth, development and changes of the body, irregularity of physical development;
- over-sensitivity to the opinions of the others;
- need for being accepted by peers;
- eagerness to oppose to adults, to stand for own independence and rights;
- decrease of parental authority;
- rebellion against control from adults and, at the same time, need for guidance and anticipation of support;
- dependence of self-assessment on the style of mutual relations with peers and adults.
It is very important for an adolescent that parents recognise his/her rights as equal to those of the adults. If not everything is right among parents and a teenager, if there are difficulties in their relations, it is never too late to change the situation. However the older is the child, the more efforts adults will have to apply.  Still there are no hopeless situations and it is important to stay patient and not to give up halfway.
Adolescent’s behaviour to be paid special attention:
How to hold a conversation with a teenager?
Talk to the child, be interested in his/her life and needs: what is going on, what is good and what is not, what help he/she needs, what his/her vision of your relations is, what should be changed. Such dialogues are important and you should find time for them outside of context of criticism or discussion of his/her academic performance. For a teenager it is important to have an adult nearby who is supportive and understanding, and such communication may become essential for building of skills of resilience and development of psychological immunity to unfavourable impacts from outside.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/86292-worrying-signs-teenager%E2%80%99s-behaviour-what-should-parents-do




Date: 04 July 2020
Title: How a water supply and sanitation project helped Belarus exceed expectations
Content: 04 July 2020
Belarus is currently well-positioned to provide its citizens with basic water supply and sanitation (WSS) services – but that wasn’t always the case, as historical deficiencies in the country’s WSS sector resulted in negative impacts on the quality of life for residents across the country.
For example, old treatment facilities produced foul odors in the city of Berezino, poor water quality in Krichev caused washing machines to break, and the color of water in Smolevichi was frequently changing due to the high iron content. So what did Belarus do to improve its WSS sector and set it on a more sustainable path?
Following independence, Belarus faced challenges similar to those of other countries belonging to the Commonwealth of Independent States, including its transition from a planned to market economy, and continuing the delivery of basic services in an environment of enormous change. The country made impressive strides in increasing water supply and sewerage coverage, but still faced issues regarding the quality, efficiency and sustainability of its water and sanitation services at the turn of the century.
In 2006, the Government of Belarus adopted its National Water Development Program, Chistaya Voda (meaning clean water), which sought to address the remaining challenges in the sector. Its focus was on increasing the supply of high-quality drinking water, modernizing the sector, enhancing water supply and sanitation institutions to improve their quality of services and financial status, and reducing costs. With outside financing, this Program had the potential to help the sector reach new heights.
The World Bank’s Belarus Water Supply and Sanitation Project aimed to improve the quality, efficiency and sustainability of water supply and wastewater treatment services on three fronts: investments in infrastructure to rehabilitate and expand water supply and sanitation services, support to utilities in the preparation of project pipelines, and sector modernization efforts, including benchmarking utility performance and the review of norms and standards.
The Project, which supported 32 water utilities in the sustainable provision of high-quality services, originally sought to benefit 324,000 people with improved quality of water. At the time of completion, however, the Project reached 611,766 people.
Once the project was completed, 7,390 consumers also received improved access to water sources. And while a key target of the Project was the laying/replacing of 60km of transmission and distribution pipelines, the result was more than double that number at 154km of pipeline.
The Project also resulted in essential sanitation improvements. While 47,520 individuals received access to better sanitation, additional actions helped set the stage for an overall service level increase. The Project contributed to the construction and rehabilitation of wastewater treatment plants and sewers, leading to increased levels of treatment and safe disposal of wastewater, as well as increased environmental health benefits due to reduced pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.
But given that numbers only tell a small part of the story, can it also be said that lives on the ground have undoubtedly improved as a result of the Project? The answer is a resounding yes! For example, residents in Berezino are now breathing cleaner air and have noticed an improved cleanliness of their main river. A new artesian well and deferrization station means fewer broken washing machines in Krichev. And that discolored water in Smolevichi? It’s almost non-existent.
Significantly strengthening WSS sectors is no small feat, and such an endeavor certainly can’t be completed with the snap of a finger. But through the Water Supply and Sanitation Project, Belarus in collaboration with the World Bank demonstrated that considerable progress could be made in improving the country’s WSS sector.
Written by Stjepan Gabric, Amelia Midgle, Dzimitry Buronkin, Alex Lazar
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/86298-how-water-supply-and-sanitation-project-helped-belarus-exceed-expectations




Date: 01 July 2020
Title: UN experts demand end to crackdown on protesters in Belarus ahead of elections
Content: 01 July 2020
The independent experts said that since 18 June alone, at least 200 political activists, human rights defenders, journalists, bloggers and other members of civil society have been arrested during peaceful demonstrations across the country. The protests aimed at showing solidarity with nearly 500 other activists detained since May while exercising their right to give and gather signatures for nominating presidential candidates.
“We strongly condemn the Government’s continuous policy of mass arrests of members of the civil society who are peacefully exercising their fundamental rights,” the experts said. “We firmly condemn policies and actions that restrict Belarusians’ right to freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of opinion and expression.”
The latest protests followed the arrest on 18 June of the country’s main opposition candidate, Viktor Babaryko, under investigation for alleged financial crimes.
It was reported to the experts that unidentified men in plain clothes began to arbitrarily arrest journalists and passers-by in several towns of Belarus, while anti-riot police used excessive force against peaceful protesters. Many of those detained were beaten, intimidated, ill-treated and either received fines or sentences of up to 15 days of administrative detention on charges of violating the procedure for holding mass events.
“We are concerned that the approach of the Government towards peaceful protesters and journalists trying to perform their work is becoming more and more violent and abusive. We would like to reiterate that restrictions to human rights, and notably civil and political rights, are particularly serious when done in the lead-up to elections,” the experts said.
“Ahead of the election campaign, we urge the Government to immediately stop cracking down on peaceful protesters and other members of civil society, including journalists and bloggers.
“A pluralistic environment in which all people can safely and freely exercise their right to seek and disseminate information, and their rights to freedom of expression, peaceful assembly and association is essential to ensure the integrity of the ongoing electoral process, and the legitimacy of its outcome,” the experts said.
*The experts: Ms. Anaïs Marin, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Belarus; Mr. Clement Nyaletsossi Voule, Special Rapporteur on the right to peaceful assembly and association; Ms. Mary Lawlor, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders; Mr. David Kaye, Special Rapporteur on the freedom of opinion and expression; Diego García-Sayán, Special Rapporteur on the Independence of Judges and Lawyers.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, country page – Belarus
For more information and media requests please contact Nataliia Kuzmina (+41 22 928 96 25 /nkuzmina@ohchr.org) or write to sr-belarus@ohchr.org.
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Renato de Souza (+41 22 928 9855 / rrosariodesouza@ohchr.org) and John Newland (mediaconsultant2@ohchr.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in? Then STAND UP for someone's rights today.
#Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at http://www.standp4humanrights.org
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/53823-un-experts-demand-end-crackdown-protesters-belarus-ahead-elections




Date: 26 June 2020
Title: Belarus hosts event to commemorate UN Charter Day
Content: 26 June 2020
On June 26, 2020, a presentation of the UN Charter in Belarusian was held at the Loshitskaya Manor Museum to mark the 75th anniversary of the signing of the United Nations Charter.
The ceremony was attended by Foreign Minister Vladimir Makei, UN Resident Coordinator Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki, Minsk History Museum Director Galina Ladisova, National Library Director General Roman Motulsky, ambassadors of Great Britain, US, France, Russia, and China - the countries whose representatives were the first signatories of UN Charter on June 26, 1945 in San-Francisco.
In his speech at the ceremony, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Belarus Vladimir Makei noted:
“UN Charter is some kind of cook book or a book of life hacks, which includes recipes for every occasion - the guidelines, which every modern diplomat and politician should follow when planning and building foreign policy of their country.
We want the fundamental principles enshrined in the Charter to be not just beautiful words on paper whose validity cannot be challenged. They must have practical value and be the pillar of the international cooperation".
In her opening word UN Resident Coordinator Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki stated that the conflict prevention, fight for fundamental human rights, equality of men and women, economic and social progress in larger freedom – all of these closely interlinked human priorities and aspirations in the UN Charter are still valid today.
“One cannot be achieved without the other.  In particular, no true social progress can be achieved without respect for human rights, real equality, and without giving space to a diversity of voices and opinions.  We hear the call for respect of these universal values globally, and in Belarus.  We hear the call of the planet, desperately needing our attention,” emphasized Ms. Kazana-Wisniowiecki.
During the ceremony, the UN Charter, which was first published in the Republic of Belarus in the Belarusian language, was handed over to the funds of the National Library of Belarus.
Recording of the online broadcasting of the ceremony is available here.
Publishing of UN Charter in the Belarusian language was the part of the wide-scale campaign UN75 conducted to celebrate in the Republic of Belarus the 75th anniversary of the creation of the United Nations Organization.
Commemoration of the first International Delegate’s Day (April 25) established upon an initiative of Belarus by the UN General Assembly and opening of the historic photo exhibition dedicated to the 75th anniversary of the International San-Francisco Conference were conducted as part of the Plan of Joint Events signed by the Foreign Ministry of Belarus and UN Belarus in the Belarusian National History Museum in April.
In April and May, nation-wide discussions involving Belarusian school and university students about UN role and future were conducted in cooperation with the Ministry of Education in Minsk and all the regions of Belarus.
Citizens of Belarus can also vote for their own and UN future by taking part in a one-minute survey at www.un75.online.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/51757-belarus-hosts-event-commemorate-un-charter-day




Date: 11 June 2020
Title: UNICEF in Belarus Supported Campaign to Celebrate UN’s 75th Anniversary
Content: 11 June 2020
Over 80 high school and university students and educators of Baranovichi State University, Polessie State University (Pinsk), schools of Baranovichi, Pinsk, Stolin, Belozersk, Drogichin, and others took part in the discussion.
Senior coordinator for child protection at the UNICEF Office in Belarus Dmitry Shilin told the participants about psychological and legal aspects of restorative justice.  UNICEF expert Andro Gigauri - one of the authors of Georgia’s justice reform - took part in the online session.
UNICEF treats the development of restorative justice for the minors as a high priority.  Sponsored by the British Embassy in Belarus, efforts are being made to improve the national legislation and develop social services for children in conflict with the law. The Baranovichi social and pedagogical centre hosts the counselling centre, which provides psychological and legal assistance to the minors.
At the next stage of work with youth regarding restorative justice, focus groups will be established to test mobile apps for teenagers aimed at raising legal awareness with a focus on conflict with the law.
In addition, UNICEF continually invites high school students, higher education institutions, and specialised secondary educational establishments to submit essays (2 pages maximum) dedicated to restorative justice for minors. The following topics are offered:
Importance of restorative justice
Voices of the young (personal or somebody else’s experience)
Legal education (how to make the law accessible to children)
Components of restorative justice (mediation, probation, distraction)
School mediation
Informatization  and the law (how to integrate the law into information technology and get the message across to children)
Stigmatization of children in conflict with the law
Victim and Offender: the importance of finding a common language
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/49054-unicef-belarus-supported-campaign-celebrate-un%E2%80%99s-75th-anniversary




Date: 28 May 2020
Title: UN Representatives and National Partners Provided Modern Infrared Non-Contact Thermometers to Public Health Facilities of Minsk Region as Part of Coronavirus Response
Content: 28 May 2020
The aid was rendered as part of the international technical aid project “Supporting Functioning of Architecture for Managing Sustainable Development Goals Achievement in the Republic of Belarus” financed by UNDP, UNICEF and UNFPA in Belarus, coordinated by SDG National Coordinator and implemented in partnership with the Foreign Ministry of Belarus.
Given the COVID-19 situation, project funds in the amount of 15 thousand US dollars initially allocated for the sustainable development international forum, which had been called off because of the COVID-19 pandemic, were doled out to support public health and social care facilities of Belarus.
Non-contact thermometers measure the temperature in 30 seconds with no need to touch a patient.  Therefore physical contact between medical workers and patients decline, thus preventing virus transmission and simplifying the measure procedure.  This is especially important when working with infants and children with special needs.
The thermometers purchased as part of the joint project will be delivered to maternity hospitals of Minsk region, infant orphanages and residential facilities for disabled children in all regions of Belarus.
The delivery of thermometers was organized in the Minsk Regional Clinical Maternity Hospital with the participation of SDG National Coordinator and Deputy Chairman of the Council of the Republic of the National Assembly of Belarus Anatoly Isachenko, UN Resident Coordinator in the Republic of Belarus Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki, UNDP Resident Representative in Belarus Alexandra Solovieva, and UNFPA Assistant Representative in Belarus Olga Atroshchenko.
Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, in order to solve the high-priority tasks in the field of public health and social care, UN funds and programmes in Belarus have mobilized new resources and reassigned international technical aid projects carried out by the UN system for the total of 5 million US dollars. These funds have been doled out to purchase sanitizers, medical face masks and gloves, other personnel protective equipment, and to publish materials raising public awareness for different groups of population.
The UN system has managed to involve rapid response budgets allocated as contingent financing by head-quarters of UN funds and programmes and has mobilized the funds of the key donors including European Union, United States Agency for International Development, Poland, Russian Federation, Germany, Global Environmental Facility and Belarusian private sector.
Acting as a unified system UN in Belarus has focused its efforts on social and economic response to COVID-19. Supporting small businesses and organizations offering social services to the most vulnerable the UN agencies hence provide direct support to help tackle the challenges caused by the coronavirus. Long-term priorities include distance learning, digitalization, contribution to local social and economic development, dealing with gender issues associated with COVID-19, providing social services to the vulnerable groups such as elderly people, people with disabilities, migrants, refugees.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/48389-un-representatives-and-national-partners-provided-modern-infrared-non-contact-thermometers




Date: 27 May 2020
Title: Activation of SDG Attainment Project Discussed at the Meeting with SDG National Coordinator
Content: 27 May 2020
The participants discussed the execution of the UNDP/UNICEF/UNFPA project, “Supporting Functioning of Architecture for Managing Sustainable Development Goals Achievement in the Republic of Belarus” supported by SDG National Coordinator and the Foreign Ministry of the Republic of Belarus.
UN Resident Coordinator and heads of UN agencies spoke about the activities of the UN system in Belarus aimed at providing urgent assistance in the amount of 5.5 million US dollars to help the country with the aftermath of the pandemic.
Highlighting the unique character of the joint project designed to support SDG attainment not only for the region but for the world as a whole, UN representatives underlined the importance of the long-term planning when implementing follow-up projects on SDG achievement, integration of SDG in the national plans and programs, and coordination of SDG implementation and use of cross-sectoral approaches.
It is important that the new United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) for Belarus for 2021-2025 aims to support implementation of the National Sustainable Development Strategy until 2035.
To carry out the long-term planning it is necessary to harness the potential of the Council for Sustainable Development, which engages all the ministries and many partners, including the private sector, who support SDG activities at the local level. The format of the Council’s activities will also allow the UN agencies to coordinate their work on SDG achievement more efficiently, in particular, after signing and start of implementation of the new United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) for Belarus for 2021-2025
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/49030-activation-sdg-attainment-project-discussed-meeting-sdg-national-coordinator




Date: 26 May 2020
Title: Belarus’ Economy Can Face a Severe Shock, says World Bank
Content: 26 May 2020
As a small, open, commodity-exporting economy, Belarus is heavily exposed to shocks caused by deep contractions in its main trading partners, the collapse of oil prices, and global financial volatility related to the COVID-19 pandemic, says the World Bank’s latest Economic Update for Belarus, released today.
Belarus’ economy is anticipated to contract by at least 4 percent in 2020 – the largest decline in 25 years – and growth is expected to remain weak in the medium-term.
“The impacts of COVID-19 will be severe for Belarus,” said Alex Kremer, World Bank Country Manager for Belarus. “A faster return to normal, however, could be achieved by enabling social distancing to slow the spread of the virus and cash transfers to assist vulnerable households. In addition, policy measures to boost competitiveness and productivity will allow Belarus to take advantage of global trends expected to accelerate after COVID-19. These include the growth of digital services, as well as more opportunities for goods and services, as producers seek to diversify supply chains and relocate manufacturing closer to home.”
A Special Topic Note that is part of the Update reviews the experiences of other countries in responding to the pandemic and formulates potential policy measures for Belarus.
“To help mitigate the social and economic impacts of the pandemic, it is critical to strengthen support to the poor and most vulnerable,” said Kiryl Haiduk, World Bank Country Economist for Belarus. “In Belarus, this could include increasing the coverage and generosity of means-tested benefits, such as the cash component of the targeted social assistance program (GASP), and increasing unemployment support.”
Since the Republic of Belarus joined the World Bank in 1992, lending commitments to the country have totaled $2.1 billion. In addition, the country has received grants of $31 million. The active investment lending portfolio financed by the World Bank in Belarus includes ten projects totaling $1.05 billion.
Written by Dzimitry Buronkin
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/86299-belarus%E2%80%99-economy-can-face-severe-shock-says-world-bank




Date: 22 May 2020
Title: World Bank Supports Belarus’ COVID-19 Response with €90 Million Financing
Content: 22 May 2020
The World Bank has approved a €90 million package to help Belarus take effective and timely action to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic by strengthening the country’s national healthcare system.
The project will address the health system’s immediate needs for medical equipment, supplies, and training to treat severe cases of COVID-19, including through provision of modern ventilators, pain medication, and antibiotics, as well as personal protective equipment for health workers.
Furthermore, the project will finance communications activities to promote social distancing and hygiene best-practices that can prevent the spread of infections among the population.
“This project will help save the lives of Belarusians by providing critical equipment to the health sector,” said Alex Kremer, World Bank Country Manager. “It will have the most impact when combined with social distancing measures, including preventing large gatherings, reducing physical presence in workplaces and educational establishments, and reducing non-essential movements, all of which will save lives and help mitigate longer-term economic impacts. The earlier such measures are implemented, the better the outcomes for people’s lives and livelihoods.”
The project will also strengthen public health laboratories and epidemiological capacity for early detection, confirmation, and reporting of cases. It will finance medical supplies and equipment to help detect COVID-19, including testing kits, personal protective equipment, laboratory reagents, and training. In addition, the project will help with the acquisition and distribution of modern ambulances and essential ambulance equipment.
This project complements longer-term World Bank support to Belarus’ health systems, including the ongoing Belarus Health Systems Modernization Project, and a potential future project to support hospital consolidation and long-term care that has been requested by the Government of Belarus.
Since the Republic of Belarus joined the World Bank in 1992, lending commitments to the country have totaled $1.9 billion. The active investment lending portfolio financed by the World Bank in Belarus includes nine projects totaling $942.71 million.
The World Bank Group, one of the largest sources of funding and knowledge for developing countries, is taking broad, fast action to help developing countries strengthen their pandemic response. We are supporting public health interventions, working to ensure the flow of critical supplies and equipment, and helping the private sector continue to operate and sustain jobs. We will be deploying up to $160 billion in financial support over 15 months to help more than 100 countries protect the poor and vulnerable, support businesses, and bolster economic recovery. This includes $50 billion of new IDA resources through grants and highly concessional loans.
Written by Dzimitry Buronkin
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/86301-world-bank-supports-belarus%E2%80%99-covid-19-response-%E2%82%AC90-million-financing




Date: 19 May 2020
Title: Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS joined the UN75 Regional Discussions
Content: 19 May 2020
The discussion that gathered together over 140 students and educators of Francisk Skorina Gomel State University, Shamyakin Mozyr State Pedagogical University, Gomel Regional Institute for Educational Development, teachers training colleges, gymnasiums and high schools of the region was dedicated to XXI Century Social Epidemics.
UN Resident Coordinator Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki, Beltele radio company host, and UNAIDS Goodwill Ambassador in Belarus Svetlana Borovskaya, head of BSPU Coordination Centre of Education for Sustainable Development Inessa Zubrilina and representatives of People Plus republican association spoke to the participants of the event.
The results of the discussion will bring about youth projects, which participating students will develop during the summer and will present to the wider public in September.
The event was organized by the UN Resident Coordinator Office in Belarus, Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) in Belarus, Francisk Skorina Gomel State University, and the Coordination Centre of Education for Sustainable Development of Maxim Tank Belarusian State Pedagogical University.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/49038-joint-united-nations-programme-hivaids-joined-un75-regional-discussions




Date: 18 May 2020
Title: IOM Belarus Joined Global Dialogue to Mark UN 75th Anniversary
Content: 18 May 2020
In the opening speech UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki underlined that the year of the UN 75th anniversary has brought profound changes worldwide.
The issues of the political and economic status arise, aggravating polarization at regional and national levels is observed, and the new forms of violence and armed conflicts grow.
To tackle environmental problems, demographic changes, global inequality, and growing urbanization more effective cooperation between countries, sectors, and generations will be required.
Ms. Kazana-Wisniowiecki emphasized that the young generation is the most numerous ever in the world history and urged the young people to take an active part in building the global agenda in accordance with the challenges of both present and next generations.
“One of the simplest exercises of the UN75 initiative is participation in a one-minute online survey on the UN website - www.un.org. Opinions and ideas that you elaborate in regional dialogues and the one-minute survey will be provided to the world leaders and high level UN officials at the important event as part of the 75th session of the UN General Assembly in September 2020», said UN Resident Coordinator.
The subject of today’s regional online discussion is a future without trafficking in human beings. International Organization for Migration (IOM) in the Republic of Belarus has become a moderator of the discussion focusing on the active position of youth and its possible contribution to combating trafficking in persons.
«However there is still one element badly needed to combat modern slavery. It is you, the active young people, who can make their contribution to counter-trafficking. We understand that nobody is able of doing everything, but we also know that everyone can do something», said Mahym Orazmuhammedova, Chief of Mission, IOM Belarus.
During the meeting, the participants exchanged views on the problem, discussed the proposed issues, and shared experience of organizing outreach activities highlighting the subject of combating trafficking.
The next stage of the campaign on the occasion of the UN 75th anniversary will be young participants’ own projects.
«I hope that our discussion will inspire you to create own projects in your schools or communities. It is important. It matters. And now it is time to make the world a better place», Ms. Orazmuhammedova said to the participants.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/49049-iom-belarus-joined-global-dialogue-mark-un-75th-anniversary




Date: 26 April 2020
Title: International Chernobyl Disaster Remembrance Day
Content: 26 April 2020
Only in Belarus 470 small towns and villages disappeared from the map, as a result 138,000 people were forced to permanently leave their homes. One third of the territory of Belarus has been contaminated or otherwise affected by the accident.
Thirty-four years on, the Chernobyl tragedy reminds us again of itself in the alarming news about the large-scale fires that engulfed the abandoned villages and dense forest in the polluted territories of the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone. Fires have spanned an area of 20 hectares. The cause of the fire is said to be a man-made field burning in Ukraine. The fire destroyed 12 villages in the restricted zone, the residents of which were evacuated in 1986. The well-known “red forest” also burnt – the place which 34 years ago was covered in large amounts of radioactive dust and acquired a brown-red color. Serious damage on the local ecosystem and animals, many of which are listed in the Red Book, was inflicted by fire.
At present time, during the COVID-19 pandemic, issues of climate change and social and economic development of the region have become more relevant than ever. The pandemic is already impacting the local communities and medical and social services in areas affected by the Chernobyl accident.  COVID-19 will also leave a mark on the tourism sector, urban development, industry, and will change lives of local populations, especially the elderly, children, people with disabilities and the poor. In Belarus, as in other countries, small and medium-sized businesses have already experienced the consequences of the virus.
The UN in Belarus pays respect to the victims of the Chernobyl accident.  We call on all interested partners to support the further development of the Chernobyl territories, including through comprehensive, long-term programs, partnerships and investment in development.

Here you can find the Secretary-General's Report “Persistent legacy of the Chernobyl disaster” [2019].
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/44618-international-chernobyl-disaster-remembrance-day




Date: 24 April 2020
Title: UNDP Belarus kicks off the UN75 Youth Dialogues by giving a voice on the future to the Polessie State University students
Content: 24 April 2020
More than 100 students and tutors of the Polesie State University connected online to listen to experts and discuss development issues linked to local socio-economic development, adaptation to climate change, and the role of technology and innovations in coping with emergencies.
In each thematic block, the participants voiced current local problems and offered non-traditional solutions.
Measures to improve the regional economy included proposals to establish a business accelerator hub on the basis of the university to stimulate local small and medium business, encourage youth entrepreneurship, facilitate the development and piloting of new business ideas. For several years now, the university has been successfully operating an incubator of youth start-ups, which designed and accumulated many innovative business ideas.
The development of local tourism is another drive for the regional growth. It can be instrumental in the recovery of depressed areas, such as some regions affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The southern regions of Belarus are rich in nature attractions and are famous for their abundance of flora and fauna species. The creation of a tourism cluster in the Pripyat Polesie will help develop a network of ecological routes, which will also include the vast untouched nature territories of the Polesie State Radiological Reserve. For eco-routs to be sustainable, is it crucial to build a service infrastructure connecting them into holistic eco-system.
The impact of cimate change can already be visible in the southern regions of Belarus. Temperature increase, record low groundwater levels, frequent forest and peat fires. The climate dialogues focused on a number of groundbreaking pilots designed to help adapt land use practices, including re-introduction of degraded lands, to new climate challenges, and offered solutions for growing new types of agricultural products. The audience has shown a particular interest in a project on cultivation of table grape varieties, which opens good perspectives for the development of the Belarusian wine industry in region.
The emergencies block focused on the use of innovation and digital technologies to respond and prevent man-made, natural and health crises. Taking into consideration the past experience from the Chernobyl disaster and its consequences in Belarus and the ongoing situation with COVID-19, the participants stressed the necessity to change the approaches used today to respond to emergencies. The changes are needed in emergency procurement and preparedness and the functioning of enterprises. The emphasis should be done on the developing dual-use technologies. As an example, a project was presented on establishing a local production of ozonators - technology that could be effectively used to control the spread of viral diseases both at home and on an industrial scale. It is more cost-effective to forecast the emergency and be ready to deploy preventive measures than to respond to crisis from scratch. Keeping this in mind, the youth stepped forward with a proposal to establish an emergency information and analysis centre in Pinsk. The facility will be developing new approaches towards crisis forecasting and prevention. The participants made their voices loud on the importance of investing in innovation, building new partnerships and training of specialists, who can turn brilliant ideas into bright solutions.
The dialogue with Polesie University will be continued by working together on creating an investment platform for the development of the territories of Belarus affected by the Chernobyl disaster.
The UN75 youth dialogues with the participation of UN agencies will take place in May in all major universities of Belarus. The events are part of global campaign launched by UN to crowdsource ideas and solutions from young people to help shape a better world of tomorrow.
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/49059-undp-belarus-kicks-un75-youth-dialogues-giving-voice-future-polessie-state-university




Date: 18 March 2020
Title: "Towards the Future We Want" campaign kicks off in Belarus
Content: 18 March 2020
The Republic of Belarus strongly supported the UN initiative when decided to hold nation-wide discussions of the issues important to Belarus and UN, and invited young people to take part in it.
On March 18, Maxim Tank Belarusian State Pedagogical University (BSPU) hosted a symbolic ceremony of signing a plan of joint events to be held as part of the youth campaign “Towards the Future We Want” dedicated to the 75th Anniversary of the United Nations.
The ceremony was attended by Deputy Minister of Education Alexander Kadlubai, UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki, and BSPU rector Alexander Zhuk.
Representatives of UN agencies in Belarus, sustainable development partner group, Inter-University Club of Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Friends, and SDG youth ambassadors took part in the event. Representatives of regional councils on sustainable development, university students and lecturers - participants of regional events from six regions of the country and the city of Minsk – were able to participate in the meeting via video conference.
In his welcoming address rector of Maxim Tank Belarusian State Pedagogical University Alexander Zhuk thanked UN agencies for cooperation in the area of sustainable development and expressed hope that the youth campaign “Towards the Future We Want” would become a new stage of fruitful cooperation.
Mr. Zhuk emphasized that the principal participants of the youth campaign are the students studying the teaching profession and pupils of pedagogical classes. “Education is a driving force of all key criteria of development: health, well-being, economics, and environment; it allows to transform your vision of the society as a whole into reality and is the most efficient investment into sustainable development,” said Alexander Zhuk.
In his speech prior to the signing ceremony Deputy Minister of Education Alexander Kadlubai stated that the plan of joint events would let young people, who are the drivers of development in Belarus and worldwide, look again at the problems through the prism of sustainable development goals, express their views on the way forward for the country and the whole world. He also expressed confidence that implementation of the plan of joint events would be strongly supported by all regional educational establishments.
For her part, UN Resident Coordinator Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki, on behalf of UN in Belarus, thanked the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Belarus, BSPU administration, and Association of Education for Sustainable Development for cooperation in organizing and holding of the meeting. She also paid special tribute to the BSPU Coordination Centre of Education for Sustainable Development for its integrated support of the plan development.
“The key events of the youth campaign in Belarus will be the open discussions entitled, “The Future We Want: Our Ideas and Actions” organized in all regions of the country. During the discussions in Belarusian universities supported by UN agencies in Belarus young people will be able to share their hopes and fears, assess current and future risks and opportunities, and elaborate variants of cooperation,” she said.
Highlighting global changes caused by climate change, new technology development, growing inequality, new patterns of violence and conflicts in today’s world, Ms. Kazana-Wisniowiecki called the young people to be active advocates of changes and take part in an online survey at www.un.org/ru/un75.
After the signing ceremony the UN Resident Coordinator addressed the meeting participants and, via teleconference, representatives of regional universities with a speech “UN75: Joint Future with Joint Forces.” In the ensuing discussion the UN Resident Coordinator received over 40 questions from all regions of Belarus.
In the plan of joint events of the youth campaign “Towards the Future We Want” coordinated by the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Belarus, Maxim Tank Belarusian State Pedagogical University, Association of Education for Sustainable Development, Cluster of Continuous Pedagogical Education, and UN agencies in the Republic of Belarus, a number of joint awareness raising and educational events is scheduled to be held in a wide circle of educational establishments in all regions of the country.


United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/91001-towards-future-we-want-campaign-kicks-belarus




Date: 17 February 2020
Title: Belarus and United Nations sign action plan to commemorate UN’s 75th Anniversary
Content: 17 February 2020
The Republic of Belarus and the United Nations in Belarus have agreed to join efforts and work together in order to not only highlight the role of Belarus in creation of UN and draw the attention of the society to the unchanged relevance of the UN Charter as part of the UN75 campaign, but also to launch the nation-wide conversation involving young people on the most acute for Belarus and UN issues of sustainable development.
On February 17, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) of the Republic of Belarus hosted a symbolic ceremony of signing a plan of joint events for commemoration in the Republic of Belarus of the 75th Anniversary of UN creation.

The ceremony was attended by MFA Minister Vladimir Makei, UN Resident Coordinator in Belarus Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki, representatives of UN Country Team and MFA Directorate General for Multilateral Diplomacy.
The Plan defines a series of joint commemorative, awareness-raising and educational activities involving a wide range of governmental agencies, non-governmental organizations, educational establishments, international organizations and embassies, and mass media.
Among them there are Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Communication and Informatization, Ministry of Education, Belarusian youth organizations, Commission on Youth Affairs of the House of Representatives of the National Assembly of Belarus. Active participation of the National Coordinator on SDG implementation, Council for Sustainable Development members, and many other policy makers is expected.
Speaking at the signing ceremony Belarusian Foreign Minister Vladimir Makei stated that the Plan was a result of collaboration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the United Nations.  While implementing this Plan it is important and necessary to bring the UN work closer to the people of Belarus making it more comprehensible so that they learn about the role of this organization at the global and country levels.
For her part, when thanking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the initiative of the joint Action Plan signing, UN Resident Coordinator Joanna Kazana-Wisniowiecki emphasized that the planned events would show the whole world how UN remains relevant and can be a tool in finding solutions for the global challenges. She also stressed that the UN75 initiative was intended to examine the vision of future by the youth and those groups of population who normally do not have power to influence the UN activities.
Among the events to be conducted during the jubilee year there will be a solemn ceremony on the occasion of the first International Delegate's Day (April 25) established upon an initiative of Belarus by the UN General Assembly, a historic photo exhibition dedicated to the 75th anniversary of the International San-Francisco Conference, a presentation of the UN Charter in Belarusian language to be organized on June 26 - the day of its signing, and a jubilee concert on October 24 - the UN Day.
Nation-wide conversations involving Belarusian students of high schools and universities on the UN role and future in Minsk and the regions of Belarus in cooperation with the Ministry of Education will be an important item of the Plan.
The people of Belarus already have a chance to vote for their future and the future of the United Nations. Join the conversation on the future you want on the UN’s website. Change the world for the better!
United Nations Office in Belarus
17 Kirov street, Minsk,
220050, Belarus
URL: https://belarus.un.org/en/90995-belarus-and-united-nations-sign-action-plan-commemorate-un%E2%80%99s-75th-anniversary




