Date: 20 November 2020
Title: We stand firm in our efforts to uphold and implement the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, says Bhutan's Minister of Foreign Affairs
Content: 20 November 2020
Thimphu, November 20, 2020: To celebrate the World Children’s Day and to mark 30 years of Bhutan signing and ratifying the Convention on the Rights of the Child, His Holiness the Je Khenpo today issued a decree calling on all to ensure the wellbeing of the children for all times to come.
“Bhutan’s efforts towards children’s wellbeing and happiness is commendable. I urge all to continue the efforts and work together to build a society fit for our children, one that cares for the happiness and best interests of our children at all times,” the decree states.
To celebrate the day, the National Commission for Women and Children (NCWC) in partnership with the Dratshang Lhentshog Secretariat, the Ministry of Education and UNICEF Bhutan organized a dialogue between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Chairperson of the NCWC Dr Tandi Dorji and children on issues concerning children especially during the pandemic.
During the dialogue, Lyonpo interacted and responded to questions from children on education, health and child protection issues. The dialogue will be aired on BBS 1 after the 9 PM news and on BBS 2 from 8.30PM today.
World Children’s Day, Lyonpo said, is not only a time to celebrate but also to remind all, especially decision and policy makers on the commitments they have made, to abide by them and for children to demand action as many are doing the world over.
“Despite the good work undertaken by the Government and many civil society groups, there is still much to be done to ensure the rights of our children and to enable them to fully participate in the society,” Lyonpo said. “As a small Least Developed Country, Bhutan continues to face a number of constraints in terms of resources, capacity and infrastructure. There are many competing priorities of the Government especially during this pandemic with limited resources and disruptions in our economy. However, Bhutan stands firm in its efforts to uphold and implement the principles and provisions of this convention.”
“Today as we join many other countries in the world to advocate for all children, let us particularly commit and remember those who are not heard, for the children who are in need of special care and protection, for the children who need us every day to thrive and those most vulnerable. Let us work hard, diligently and hope for a brighter and better future, especially for our children in the post COVID era,” Lyonpo said.
To mark signing of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, November 20 is celebrated globally as World Children’s Day. This year is extra special for Bhutan as the nation celebrates 30 years of signing and ratifying the Convention. Bhutan was among the first countries to sign the Convention on June 4, 1990 and ratify it on August 1 the same year.
Amongst the most important achievements after Bhutan ratified the Convention are the drafting of the National Child Policy, the National Action Plan for Child Wellbeing and Protection 2020 and the strengthening of the protection system through development of critical Standard Operating Procedures, guidelines and manuals related to case management, adoptions and alternative care.
The establishment of the Woman and Child Toll Free Helpline 1098 and the Central Management System were key initiatives enabling timely and effective services and a systematic approach for the collection of data. The institutional mechanism was further enhanced through setting up of the Dzongkhag and Thromde Women and Children Committees and the Women and Children Welfare Committees at the national level.
UNICEF Bhutan Representative Dr Will Parks said that the World Children’s Day this year is taking place during one of the most challenging times.
“The coronavirus pandemic has laid bare the deep inequalities in our societies and impacted all of us, especially children,” Dr Will Parks said. “UNICEF Bhutan remains committed to support the efforts of the Royal Government of Bhutan to reimagine a more equal, just and sustainable society for our children.”
As the occasion also coincides with the World Day of Prayer and Action for Children, a thousand butter lamps were lit at the Kuenray of the Trashichhodzong and prayers recited.
UN House
Peling Lam, Kawajangsa,
Thimphu, Bhutan
Tel: +975 2 322 424
URL: https://bhutan.un.org/en/111451-we-stand-firm-our-efforts-uphold-and-implement-un-convention-rights-child-says-bhutans




Date: 15 June 2020
Title: United Nations announces funds to fight COVID-19 and “Build Back Better”
Content: 15 June 2020
On behalf of the United Nations (UN) in Bhutan, the Resident Coordinator, Gerald Daly, during his meeting with Foreign Minister Lyonpo (Dr) Tandi Dorji, committed USD 1.17 million to support the Royal Government of Bhutan in addressing issues related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
A part of the commitment comes from the Secretary General’s UN COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund, with the aim to support responses to COVID-19 and part of it is from the Joint Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Fund, which will fund activities to accelerate progress towards achieving the SDGs.
The UN Resident Coordinator said the funds will not only protect people from the spread of the virus but will also help to prevent harm to the most vulnerable over the longer-term and ensure that Bhutan can “Build Back Better”.
The programme financed by the Secretary General’s UN COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund supports education continuity and those whose livelihoods in the tourism and agriculture sectors are at risk. The Joint SDG Fund will support the Royal Government to create strategies to increase and make effective use of investments to manage the impact of the COVID-19 crisis, respond to climate change threats, and advance Bhutan’s ambitious sustainable development agenda.
The donor countries for the Secretary-General’s COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund are Switzerland, The Netherlands, Norway and Denmark who also contributed to the Joint SDG Fund.
“Lyonpo (Dr) Tandi Dorji thanked the UN in Bhutan for an additional commitment of US$ 1.17 million to the Royal Government to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic which has affected the world over. It is during times like these that the important role of the United Nations becomes more apparent and much needed. Only through the spirit of global partnership and cooperation, which defines the United Nations, will the world be able to overcome the challenges of COVID-19”.
UN House
Peling Lam, Kawajangsa,
Thimphu, Bhutan
Tel: +975 2 322 424
URL: https://bhutan.un.org/en/97752-united-nations-announces-funds-fight-covid-19-and-%E2%80%9Cbuild-back-better%E2%80%9D




