Date: 02 May 2023
Title: Botswana’s human rights record to be examined by Universal Periodic Review
Content: 02 May 2023
GENEVA (28 April 2023) – Botswana’s human rights record will be examined by the UN Human Rights Council’s Universal Periodic Review (UPR) Working Group for the fourth time on Wednesday, 3 May 2023, in a meeting that will be webcast live.
Botswana is one of 14 States to be reviewed by the UPR Working Group during its upcoming 43rd session from 1 to 12 May 2023. Botswana’s first, second and third UPR reviews took place in December 2008, January 2013 and January 2018, respectively.

The documents on which the reviews are based re: 1) national report - information provided by the State under review; 2) information contained in the reports of independent human rights experts and groups, known as the Special Procedures, human rights treaty bodies, and other UN entities; 3) information provided by other stakeholders including national human rights institutions, regional organizations, and civil society groups.

The three reports serving as the basis for the review of Botswana on 3 May can be found here.

Location: Room 20, Palais des Nations, Geneva

Time and date: 9:00 – 12:30, Wednesday, 3 May 2023 (Geneva time, GMT +2 hours)

The UPR is a unique process which involves a periodic review of the human rights records of all 193 UN Member States. Since its first meeting was held in April 2008, all 193 UN member States have been reviewed thrice within the first, second and third UPR cycles. During the fourth UPR cycle, States are again expected to spell out steps they have taken to implement recommendations posed during their previous reviews which they committed to follow up on and highlight recent human rights developments in the country.

The delegation of Botswana will be led by Mr. Machana Ronald SHAMUKUNI, Minister of Justice.

The three country representatives serving as rapporteurs (“troika”) for the review of Botswana are South Africa, Qatar, and Bolivia (Plurinational State of).

The webcast of the session will be at https://media.un.org/en/asset/k1u/k1uyawzk9o

The list of speakers and all available statements to be delivered during the review of Botswana will be posted on the UPR Extranet.

The UPR Working Group is scheduled to adopt the recommendations made to Botswana at 15:30 on Friday, 5 May 2023. The State under review may wish to express its positions on recommendations posed to it during its review.

// ENDS //

For more information and media requests, please contact Pascal Sim, HRC Media Officer, at simp@un.org and David Díaz Martín, HRC Public Information Officer, at david.diazmartin@un.org

To learn more about the Universal Periodic Review, visit https://www.ohchr.org/en/hr-bodies/upr/upr-main

UN Human Rights Council, follow us on social media:
Facebook | Twitter | YouTube | Instagram
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN Building
Cnr Khama Crescent & President's Drive Government Enclave
Gaborone, Botswana
URL: https://botswana.un.org/en/229715-botswana%E2%80%99s-human-rights-record-be-examined-universal-periodic-review




Date: 30 November 2021
Title: The UN in Botswana celebrates Court of Appeal judgement to decriminalize consensual sex between same sex partners
Content: 30 November 2021
The UN is celebrating the court decision on 29 November 2021, where the Court of Appeal ruled on the decriminalization of same sex relationships.
Photo by LEGABIBO
This is indeed a clear message that justice and state laws should protect everyone, regardless of who they are and whom they love. We congratulate the Court of Appeal for ruling against discriminatory legal provisions that infringe upon the rights of LGBTQI+ persons to privacy, personal freedom, dignity, and to be treated equally and without discrimination of their human rights. This represents another great step for LGBTQI+ human rights in Botswana and is yet another example of the transformative power of civil society organizations and movements, and of the results that strong multi-stakeholders’ partnerships can bring.
While celebrating the achievement, let us also bear in mind the need to keep up the good work and to increase efforts to raise awareness about human rights and to promote continued support for a more favourable legal, political, institutional, and social context for LGBTQI+ communities and for everyone to participate and prosper in dignity and equality, in line with human rights treaty bodies recommendations to Botswana, such as the UPR, the ICCPR, the CEDAW and others.
The UN believes in a world where everyone’s human rights are respected and where every human being deserves to love and to be loved, without fear of discrimination.
We are proud partners with Botswana’s active and vibrant civil society organizations. The UN in Botswana stands ready to continue to provide support to ensure no one is left behind.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN Building
Cnr Khama Crescent & President's Drive Government Enclave
Gaborone, Botswana
URL: https://botswana.un.org/en/160888-un-botswana-celebrates-court-appeal-judgement-decriminalize-consensual-sex-between-same-sex




Date: 31 March 2021
Title: Botswana receives its first shipment of the COVID-19 Vaccine from COVAX
Content: 31 March 2021
After a year of disruptions due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with more than 36 000 people infected, over 500 lives lost, and thousands of families affected in countless ways, the path to recovery for Botswana can now begin with the arrival of a vaccine for COVID-19.
The delivery of the first 24 000 doses of the AstraZeneca South Korea COVID-19 Vaccine licensed to SKBioscience in Korea, is part of the largest, most complex global roll-out of vaccines in history through the COVAX Facility which plans to deliver at least 2 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines by the end of this year. This is an unprecedented global effort to make sure all citizens have access to vaccines.
“UNICEF is proud to support the Government of Botswana in this vital work. Availability of vaccines will go a long way in protecting the lives of Batswana from the COVD-19 scourge. Each step on this journey brings us further along the path to recovery for Batswana children and their families affected by COVID-19 and importantly the start of the vaccination roll-out brings immense hope for the population of Botswana.” Joan Matji, UNICEF Representative for Botswana.
The shipment received today is the first tranche of many that will be allocated to Botswana in the coming months through the COVAX Facility. The facility is working to accelerate the development of and access to COVID-19 vaccines. It is co-led by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the World Health Organization (WHO) working in partnership with UNICEF as well as the World Bank, manufacturers, civil society organizations and others.
“WHO and the COVAX partners are happy to support the Government of Botswana in combating COVID-19. These vaccines will complement the other public health measures including wearing of masks, handwashing and social distancing. Botswana has done a tremendous job in their efforts to control the disease and roll out vaccination. We commend their efforts and reaffirm our commitment to support them further.” WHO Representative, Dr Josephine Namboze.
To facilitate vaccinating against the COVID-19 scourge, the Ministry has launched an on-line COVID-19 vaccination self-registration portal for eligible vaccine beneficiaries to register.  The on-line self-registration will assist in identifying the eligible vaccine beneficiaries as well as help plan for the distribution of vaccine.  “Once registered, the Ministry of Health and Wellness will communicate with the enrolled individuals about vaccination program, eligibility, place of vaccination, follow-up and appointments” Director, Health Services, Dr. Malebogo Kebabonye.
The website address or URL for the COVID-19 Vaccination self-registration is https://dhis2sms.gov.bw/vaccine/&nbsp;
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN Building
Cnr Khama Crescent & President's Drive Government Enclave
Gaborone, Botswana
URL: https://botswana.un.org/en/123674-botswana-receives-its-first-shipment-covid-19-vaccine-covax




Date: 09 February 2021
Title: The UN urges the Government of Botswana to abolish the capital punishment
Content: 09 February 2021
Following the executions of Mr. Wedu Mosalagae (33) and Mr. Kutlo Setima (29) which took place on 8 February 2021, the United Nations in Botswana calls on the Government of Botswana to stop the use of capital punishment and impose an immediate moratorium on executions with a view to its abolition. There is a clear global trend towards abolition including from States with a variety of legal systems, traditions, cultures, and religions. At the end of last year, 123 states voted in favour of the General Assembly resolution calling for a moratorium on the use of the death penalty.  The United Nations in Botswana strongly urges the Government of Botswana to put an end to further executions.
As a state party to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Human Rights Committee recommended that Botswana should move towards the abolition of the death penalty in accordance with article 6 of the Covenant.
During Botswana’s Universal Periodic Review (UPR) in 2018, recommendations were made urging Botswana to abolish the death penalty including taking active steps to ensure that public consultations on the abolition of the death penalty are held. We call on the Government of Botswana to engage in a national dialogue on this issues on the basis of a full presentation of all aspects of the matter including the enjoyment of the right to life  with a view to attain its abolition and ratification of the Second Optional Protocol of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.  The UN stands ready to support any discussions leading towards abolition of death penalty.
The United Nations advocates for a moratorium on the death penalty and ultimately an abolition worldwide in line with the fundamental right to life, the absence of evidence that the death penalty provides an effective deterrent, and the irrevocable nature of the punishment. The best deterrents for serious crimes lie in ensuring respect for the rule of law and due process; ensuring that there is no impunity, irrespective of who commits a crime and that those suspected of such crimes are promptly and properly investigated and prosecuted; and ensuring that the authorities engage closely with the communities affected by the crime.
The United Nations Secretary-General, Mr. Antonio Guterres has underscored that “the death penalty has no place in the 21st century.”
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN Building
Cnr Khama Crescent & President's Drive Government Enclave
Gaborone, Botswana
URL: https://botswana.un.org/en/111129-un-urges-government-botswana-abolish-capital-punishment




