Date: 03 June 2024
Title: Second Cambodia Urban and Housing Forum
Content: 03 June 2024
Phnom Penh – May 30-31, 2024: Ministry of Land Management, Urban Planning and Construction (MLMUPC) in collaboration with World Bank and UN-Habitat organized the Second Cambodia Urban and Housing Forum under the theme of “Smart, Green, Resilient and Inclusive Cities.”

More than 200 representatives participated in the forum from government institution, embassies, development partners, the private sector, academic institutions and young planning professionals, and civil society. Experienced national and international urban and housing experts had a dialogue on the challenges and experiences related to urban and housing development to build smart, green, sustainable, and inclusive cities to fulfil the needs of all citizens.
In the opening session, H.E. Say Samal, Deputy Prime Minister of Cambodia and Ministry of Land Management, Urban Planning, and Construction (MLMUPC) stated that “We have to plan and develop our cities sustainable and inclusive manner where all citizens can enjoy urban life aligned with culture, civilization and tradition.” He also addressed that Cambodia needs to integrate innovate ideas from all stakeholders to develop the country and be a sustainable and inclusive country to enjoy happy life not only for Cambodian nationals but also to people from other countries.
Cambodia has been experiencing rapid urbanization and it is projected that over 40 per cent of the population will reside in urban areas by 2050. Unplanned and ad hoc urban development including informal settlements can cause environmental and social issues due to inappropriate and unplanned land uses or management mechanisms. Therefore, proactive planning and government’s interventions including better infrastructure and services will be the key to develop sustainable and inclusive cities to meet the needs of all residents in the urbanized cities.
In this regard, H.E. Dr. Beng Hong Socheat Khemero, Director General of the General Department of Land Management and Urban Planning (GDLMUP) stressed that the GDLMUP and the General Department of Housing will support numerous municipalities and urban areas to develop master plan by aiming at sustainable future spatial development to avoid the adverse impacts of urbanization. This is aligned with the guidance of H.E. Say Samal and the guidance of the Pentagonal Strategy-Phase 1 of the Royal Government of Cambodia, under the leadership of Samdach Bavor Thipadei Hun Maneth, Prime Minister.
Through the presentations during the forum, Mr. Andre A. Bald, Lead Urban Specialist of World Bank, also stressed that urbanization can play a positive role to trigger economic and social development if it will be managed well with sufficient stakeholder participation.
Mr. Sok Vanna, Habitat Programme Manager of UN-Habitat Cambodia, also shared the UN-Habitat’s experience and their commitment to support government institutions such as MLMUPC to solve existing urban and housing issues through providing technical support to achieve smart, green, sustainable and inclusive cities. The importance of a people-centred approach was also highlighted to increase people’s engagement and to achieve sustainable impacts.
At the closing session, Mr. Joseph Scheuer, Resident Coordinator of the UN Resident Coordination Office, stressed the importance of a people-centered sustainable urban future through effective partnerships among different stakeholders to transform cities and human settlements for the long-term prosperity of all people in Cambodia. He also shared four strategic areas to promote smart, green, sustainable and inclusive cities: (1) urban governance, planning and management, (2) resilient infrastructure and services, (3) land and affordable housing, and (4) innovative urban and smart data.
H.E. Tekreth Samrach, Permanent Secretary of State of the MLMUPC, emphasized that the Second Cambodia Urban and Housing Forum was a crucial opportunity as a platform to promote discussion across various stakeholders to consider and identify suitable and potential solutions to problems and challenges that the country are facing due to current urban and housing development in our cities.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/270428-second-cambodia-urban-and-housing-forum




Date: 30 May 2024
Title: UNIDO, FIA & CGCC LAUNCH INNOVATIVE INVESTMENT SUPPORT FACILITY (ISF) SCHEME TO CATALYZE GROWTH IN CAMBODIA'S POST-HARVEST FISHERIES
Content: 30 May 2024
Phnom Penh, 29 May 2024​ – Through the European Union (EU)-funded CAPFISH-Capture Programme and its Post-harvest Fisheries Development project, the Fisheries Administration (FiA), the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), and the Credit Guarantee Corporation of Cambodia (CGCC) join forces to embark on a groundbreaking Investment Support Facility (ISF) scheme aimed at catalyzing growth in Cambodia's post-harvest fisheries. The ISF scheme is a blended financing initiative co-funded by the EU.
With its rich fisheries resources and cultural heritage, Cambodia holds great promise for excelling in the global fish and fishery products market. However, post-harvest fisheries face challenges such as inadequate fish-processing technologies, limited value addition, and food safety concerns impacting consumer trust and the sector's competitiveness on a global scale.
Building on the success of its current Value Chain Investment Support (VCIS), the CAPFISH-Capture project has designed the ISF scheme to support post-harvest fisheries enterprises and their input suppliers in overcoming these challenges, enhancing productivity and product safety and quality. This scheme blends co-financing from the enterprises' own resources, guaranteed business loans distributed by the local financial institutions, and grant support from the project. This new scheme targets over 100 eligible enterprises in the fisheries value chain in addition to the 50 enterprises already being supported by the project's VCIS.
CGCC is selected to manage the ISF scheme in partnership with commercial banks and microfinance institutions. "ISF plays a pivotal role in enhancing Cambodia’s fishery sector. Through ISF, eligible enterprises in the post-harvest fishery sector will be able to access technical support, capacity building, and financial assistance, including a grant and guaranteed loan with favorable conditions. ISF will contribute to the national economic growth and the development of the agricultural sector, which is one of the priorities of the Royal Government of Cambodia of the 7th, through modernization and quality improvement of agricultural products to ensure food security, resilience, high value-adding, and competitiveness in terms of both quality and price. Ultimately, these efforts contribute to the overarching goal of securing food supply and elevating the standard of living for the Cambodian people," said H.E. Dr. MEY Vann, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and Member of the Board of Directors of CGCC.
Emphasizing the promising role of the ISF in enhancing the competitiveness in Cambodia's post-harvest fisheries, Mr. Dejene TEZERA, UNIDO's Director of Agri-business​​ and Infrastructure Development, expressed, "At UNIDO, we are proud to introduce the ISF scheme for this sector. Based on UNIDO’s solid experience in innovative financing and value chain development, we firmly believe that this innovative financial model will elevate the value and quantity of safe, high-quality fishery products, enabling fish processors to thrive in global markets. Through investments in innovation and capacity building, we are paving the way for a future where Cambodian fisheries stand tall on the world stage, delivering excellence, reliability, and prosperity to local communities and beyond."
H.E. Igor DRIESMANS, EU Ambassador to Cambodia, lauded the timely launch of the ISF scheme, noting its potential transformative impact on Cambodia's fisheries sector. "By harmonizing with global market requirements, including those of the EU, the ISF will not only help boost competitiveness and sustainability but also underpin economic expansion, public health safeguards, and local job creation in the sector. I am optimistic that the success of the ISF in this sector will inspire replication and scale up in other agricultural sub-sectors, catalyzing holistic development, bringing more investment in the sector and prosperity across various segments of Cambodia's agricultural landscape." said the EU Ambassador.
Acknowledging the invaluable support from the EU and UNIDO in bolstering food safety and fisheries sustainable development, H.E. DITH Tina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF), reaffirmed his commitment to further advancing the country's fisheries sector to new levels of success.
In line with the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC)'s Pentagon Pillar 2: Economic Diversification and Competitiveness Enhancement, H.E. DITH Tina emphasized, "The ISF is a good initiative to support the collaboration between the Fisheries Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, UNIDO, and the private sector to promote growth in the post-harvest fisheries sector in Cambodia. I am positive that this program, which will be implemented by CAPFISH-Capture Program, will promote the processing of post-harvest fishery products to a higher standard and quality, as well as provide economic benefits to fisherfolks and processing enterprises."
Ends –
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/270050-unido-fia-cgcc-launch-innovative-investment-support-facility-isf-scheme-catalyze-growth




Date: 28 May 2024
Title: Cambodian peacekeeper to be honoured posthumously at UN ceremony
Content: 28 May 2024
UN Headquarters Observes International Day of
United Nations Peacekeepers on 30 May
UN Headquarters will observe the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers on Thursday, 30 May 2024.
In 1948, the historic decision was made to deploy military observers to the Middle East to supervise the implementation of Israel-Arab Armistice Agreements, in what became the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization.
Since that time, more than two million peacekeepers from 125 countries have since served in 71 operations around the world. Today, some 76,000 women and men are serving in 11 conflict zones across Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East.Cambodia currently deploys more than 600 uniformed personnel to the UN peace operations in Abyei, the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lebanon, and South Sudan,
During formal ceremonies at United Nations Headquarters, Secretary-General, António Guterres, will lay a wreath to honour all UN peacekeepers who have lost their lives since 1948. He will also preside over a ceremony in the Trusteeship Council Chamber, at which Dag Hammarskjöld Medals will be awarded posthumously to 64 military, police, and civilian peacekeepers, who lost their lives serving under the UN flag, including 61 who perished last year.
Among the peacekeepers to be honoured posthumously with the Dag Hammarskjold medal is one from Cambodia: LT COL Chivorn PHOEUK, who served with the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA).
The Secretary-General will also present the 2023 Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award to Major Radhika Sen, a military officer from India, who served with the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO).
Created in 2016, the Award “recognizes the dedication and effort of an individual peacekeeper in promoting the principles of UN Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women, peace and security”.
In his message, the Secretary-General said: “Today we pay tribute to the more than 76,000 United Nations peacekeepers who embody humanity’s highest ideal: peace. Day in and day out, at great personal risk, these women and men bravely work in some of the most dangerous and unstable places on earth to protect civilians, uphold human rights, support elections and strengthen institutions. More than 4,300 peacekeepers have paid the ultimate price while serving under the UN flag. We will never forget them.”
The theme for 2024 International Day of UN Peacekeepers is “Fit for the future, building better together.”   The theme denotes that while UN Peacekeeping has proven to be part of the solution for over 75 years -- assisting host countries in navigating the difficult path from conflict to peace --  the Secretary-General’s New Agenda for Peace policy brief sets out a path for multilateral peace and security operations to remain viable tools to address future crises and conflict.
“UN Peacekeeping remains a unique global partnership, with peacekeepers from over 120 countries making a meaningful difference every day to millions of people in some of the most world's most difficult places,” said Jean-Pierre Lacroix, Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations. "As we respond to tomorrow's challenges, UN Peacekeeping continues to evolve, leveraging partnerships to be nimble, responsive and fit-for-purpose, promote stability, protect the vulnerable and help to build a durable peace.”
The International Day of UN Peacekeepers was established by the UN General Assembly in 2002, to pay tribute to all men and women serving in peacekeeping, and to honour the memory of those who have lost their lives in the cause of peace.
# # # # #
Media Contacts:  Douglas Coffman, Department of Global Communications -+1 (917) 361-9923,  e-mail: coffmand@un.org; or Hector Calderon, hector.calderon@un.org or Aditya Mehta, mehta2@un.org from the Department of Peace Operations .
For more information, please visit the Peacekeepers Day websites here: https://www.un.org/en/observances/peacekeepers-day; or
https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/international-day-of-un-peacekeepers-2024-0
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/269795-cambodian-peacekeeper-be-honoured-posthumously-un-ceremony




Date: 28 May 2024
Title: UNIDO: GENDER MAINSTREAMING PAVES THE WAY FOR TRANSFORMATIVE CHANGE
Content: 28 May 2024
Siem Reap, 24 May 2024 – With financial support from the Government of Norway, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) hosted a pioneering regional training workshop in Siem Reap, Cambodia, under the theme "Accelerating Transformative Change Through Effective Gender Mainstreaming."
This workshop aimed to enhance the capabilities of UNIDO country representatives and project management teams across Asia and the Pacific to advance results on gender equality and the empowerment of women.
UNIDO's commitment to advancing Inclusive and Sustainable Industrial Development is underscored by its focus on gender equality and women's empowerment as fundamental principles. Through partnerships with public and private sectors, UNIDO emphasizes the role of women as key contributors to poverty reduction, advocating for women entrepreneurs and investors and enhancing policymakers' understanding of the critical link between gender equalityand sustainable industrialization.
Additionally, UNIDO acknowledges the high expectations of key donors such as the Global Environment Facility(GEF) and the European Union (EU) regarding gender-focused initiatives. The workshop, co-organized by UNIDO, GEF, and UN Women, builds on a broader programme that was piloted at UNIDO Headquarters in Vienna. It has been customized to the needs of UNIDO representatives and project management teams in the field to equip participants with cutting-edge tools and knowledge to design and implement gender-transformative projects, aiming for significant gender outcomes.
UNIDO has led diverse initiatives to support women entrepreneurs in the industrial sector, offering tailored training, enhancing market access, and building strong women's business networks to leverage varied expertise and resources. Ms. Cecilia Ugaz Estrada, Director of UNIDO Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women Unit, stressed, "There is an urgent need to address gender disparities in the industry to unlock women's full potential as leaders and agents of innovation and economic change”.
Notably, UNIDO's flagship project, the CAPFISH-Capture: Post-harvest Fisheries Development in Cambodia, was showcased to the workshop participants. With its expertise in economic development, this EU-funded project has empowered numerous women-led fisheries enterprises to enhance skills, ensure food safety compliance, and expand market reach both locally and internationally.
Ends –
For more information, please contact:
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/269797-unido-gender-mainstreaming-paves-way-transformative-change




Date: 22 February 2024
Title: Promoting Human Rights and Civic Spaces in Cambodia: OHCHR Launches New Project Cycle Supported by the European Union
Content: 22 February 2024
PHNOM PENH, 21 February 2024 – The United Nations Human Rights Office in Cambodia (OHCHR) announces the initiation of a new project cycle for the country programme 2024–2026, co-funded by the European Union. This initiative aims to bolster the promotion and protection of civic space, empower civil society stakeholders by deepening their understanding of international human rights laws, ensure inclusive participation in policy-making and legislative processes, and facilitate enhanced engagement with authorities.
In its ongoing commitment to advancing human rights, OHCHR Cambodia offers technical advice to national institutions based on human rights assessments, conducts capacity-building programs for governmental and civil society actors, and collaborates closely with the United Nations Country Team and other partners to integrate human rights principles into efforts supporting sustainable peace and inclusive development in Cambodia. Additionally, the Country Office continues to assist the Government in meeting its obligations under international human rights law.
Aligned with OHCHR global strategy and the United Nations Secretary-General's reform agenda, the Country Office adopts a 'people-centric' approach, focusing on the needs of individuals and communities in vulnerable situations. Guided by the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the imperative of 'Leaving No One Behind', the office advocates for human rights, particularly under Sustainable Development Goals 5 Gender Equality and 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. Moreover, it collaborates with the Government in preparing submissions to treaty bodies and participating in reviews under the Universal Periodic Review.
European Union Ambassador to Cambodia, Igor DRIESMANS, stated the commitment of EU to human rights as a cornerstone of its agenda, both domestically and internationally. The EU substantial contribution of EUR 1.5 million for 2024–2026 underscores its dedication to promoting and safeguarding human rights in line with international legal standards, aiming to foster a more peaceful and sustainable society.
Central to OHCHR strategy is enhancing partnerships with governmental entities, academia, and civil society organizations. The Country Office will focus on raising awareness about international human rights mechanisms, and addressing human rights violations affecting marginalized groups, including Indigenous peoples, LGBT individuals, persons with disabilities, women, and youth, as well as environmental activists, human rights defenders, journalists, and trade union members.
OHCHR remains committed in its support to the Royal Government of Cambodia in fulfilling its international human rights commitments. By nurturing civic spaces, upholding fundamental freedoms, promoting equality, strengthening the rule of law, and fostering inclusive policymaking and legislation, OHCHR strives to advance human rights and contribute to the Kingdom’s journey towards a more just and equitable society.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/261299-promoting-human-rights-and-civic-spaces-cambodia-ohchr-launches-new-project-cycle-supported




Date: 09 January 2024
Title: REINFORCING THE USE OF SOLAR DRYING TECH TO BOOST CAMBODIAN FISHERY SMEs' PRODUCTIVITY AND COMPETITIVENESS
Content: 09 January 2024
Phnom Penh, 10 January 2024 – The CAPFISH-Capture: Post-harvest Fisheries Development project has introduced a simplified solar drying guidebook, transforming the fish and shrimp drying process in Cambodia.

The Solar Dryer Dome (SDD) technology enables processors to dry fish and shrimp in any weather condition and in a clean environment, significantly reducing post-harvest losses and elevating product quality. Recognizing the need to shift from traditional open-sun drying to solar technology, the project is actively promoting the adoption of solar drying among local processors. The project is co-funded by the European Union (EU).
The SDD technology addresses numerous challenges faced by processors, including over or under-drying, contamination, uncertain weather conditions, and labour-intensive practices. Through its Value Chain Investment Support (VCIS) intervention, the project has supported 10 fishery enterprises, spreading across 06 provinces, in adopting solar dryer domes, enhancing productivity, and improving hygiene practices to produce high-quality, safe dried fish and shrimp products, positioning them competitively against imported products.
To address the knowledge gap in utilizing this new solar drying technology, a Simplified Step-by-Step Guide for Fish and Shrimp Drying Process in a Solar Dryer Dome has been developed in collaboration with key stakeholders. This comprehensive resource has been shared with fishery enterprises and post-harvest fisheries value chain actors, empowering processors to effectively utilize solar drying technology and optimize the quality of dried fishery products.
Ms. Khim SOK, owner of Heng Hort (Sok Khim) Dried Fish Processor in Siem Reap, expressed the guide's impact on product quality and consumer trust, stating, "Thanks to this easy-to-use guide, I know better how to use the solar drying technology effectively, resulting in higher-quality dried fish products and increased consumer trust and sales."
Furthermore, in partnership with the SWITCH to Solar project, the CAPFISH-Capture project, alongside key stakeholders including the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF), Provincial Departments of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (PDAFFs), fisheries cantonments in provinces, Microfinance Institutions (MFIs), solar technology providers, and fishery enterprises, is driving initiatives to promote and expand access to solar technologies in the agrifood and fisheries sector, fostering stronger business linkages and joint ventures.
The Simplified Step-by-Step Guide: https://cambodia.un.org/en/257402-simplified-step-step-guide-fish-and-shrimp-drying-process-solar-dryer-dome
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/257504-reinforcing-use-solar-drying-tech-boost-cambodian-fishery-smes-productivity-and




Date: 22 December 2023
Title: International Migrants Day 2023 Celebration in Phnom Penh
Content: 22 December 2023
PHNOM PENH: On Friday, 22 December 2023, the Ministry of Labour and Vocational Training, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the International Labour Organization (ILO) celebrated the International Migrants Day (IMD) 2023 under the theme “Enhancing Regular Pathways for Migration through Governance, Skills Development and Certification for Cambodian Migrant Workers”. IMD 2023 was organized to honor the dedication and contribution of migrant workers to socio-economic development and poverty reduction, to commemorate and advocate for their rights and well-being and to bring attention of policymakers and stakeholders to the challenges migrant workers face and initiate responses to those challenges.

IMD 2023 was presided over by His Excellency Heng Sour, Minister of Labour and Vocational Training and gathered around 200 representatives from line ministries, government entities, migrant workers, employers and workers’ association, CSOs, private recruitment agencies and association, private sector, academia, funding agencies, development partners and UN agencies.
Migration is inextricably linked to sustainable development. In countries like Cambodia, remittances continue to offer lifelines to families of migrants in host countries, ensuring their basic needs are met and spurring local markets. Migrants significantly promote trade and investment, bring innovation and contribute skills and knowledge to their countries of origin and destination.
In Cambodia there are 1.3 million migrant workers who are working mainly in seven countries, including Thailand, South Korea, Malaysia, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong and Saudi Arabia. Cambodian migrant workers are working hard every day in agriculture, fishing, construction, manufacturing and service sectors Cambodian migrant workers contribute significantly to socio-economic development through transferability of knowledge, skills and remittances. In 2022, Cambodian migrant workers sent approximately 2.7 billion USD in remittances home, equivalent to 4% of GDP.
However, migrants remain vulnerable to discrimination, violence, exploitation, abuse and deprivation of social services. Irregular migration along perilous routes where traffickers and smugglers operate continues to come at a terrible cost. Well-managed migration allows states and individuals to harness the power of human mobility.
The event was able to honor the dedication and key contributions of migrant workers to the family, community and society. IMD 2023 raised awareness, engaged stakeholders, and promoted safe, orderly and regular migration for Cambodian migrant workers through keynote presentations, experience sharing of returning migrant workers and a policy dialogue.

Ms. Kristin Parco, Chief of Mission, IOM Cambodia, … migration patterns are increasingly complex – driven and impacted by the changes we see in the world today. Inadequate regular migration pathways and protections leave people vulnerable to violence, exploitation, and abuse. Despite the progress made, with the changes such as demographic shifts to aging populations, income differentials and economic transformation, as well as climate change impacts, new approaches and strategic and sustainable responses are required”.
HE Heng Sour, Minister of Labour and Vocational Training said, “Under this 7th legislature of the Royal Government of Cambodia, migration has become one of the key priorities of the Ministry of Labour and Vocational Training in order to promote and protect the rights of Cambodian migrant workers working abroad as well as foreign migrant workers working in Cambodia”.
Notes to the editor:
IOM, as the related UN agency for migration, acts with its partners to assist in meeting the growing operational challenges of migration management, advance understanding of migration issues and uphold the human dignity and well-being of migrants and dedicated to promoting humane and orderly migration for the benefit of all and works with government and partners to ensure that the Sustainable Development Goals and targets linked to migrants’ rights remain part of the Government agendas. It does so by providing services and advice to governments and migrants and works to help ensure the orderly and humane management of migration, to promote international cooperation on migration issues, to assist in the search for practical solutions to migration problems and to provide humanitarian assistance to migrants in need, be they refugees, displaced persons or other uprooted people.
For further information or media inquiries, please contact:
KAO Sokunpharady, International Organization for Migration,  +855 – 93 938 789 skao@iom.int
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/256737-international-migrants-day-2023-celebration-phnom-penh




Date: 19 December 2023
Title: TEST PROJECT: A MILESTONE IN SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRY AND CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION IN CAMBODIA
Content: 19 December 2023
Phnom Penh, 19 December 2023 – In collaboration with the Ministry of Information, Science, Technology and Innovation (MISTI) and the Ministry of Environment (MoE), the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) has successfully implemented an environmental project called Low-carbon Development for Productivity and Climate Change Mitigation through the Transfer of Environmentally Sound Technology Methodology (TEST), aiming to address pollution issues and promote sustainable Industry in the country.
The TEST project had the objective of addressing pollution problems that arise from the industry sectors, namely air, water, solid or liquid materials, and toxic chemical wastes. The project was supported financially by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and technically by the UNIDO Headquarters (HQ). It made use of various integrated tools such as Resource Efficiency and Cleaner Production (RECP), Environmental Management System (EMS), and Environmental Management Accounting (EMA) to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while reducing production costs, increasing productivity, and creating a healthier and safer workplace. Additionally, it aimed to encourage the adoption of supportive policies or regulations.
The project supported 55 beneficiary factories and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and provided them with a green Industrial framework that made sustainable practices accessible and scalable. "By doing so, the project contributed to improving the manufacturing conditions at these factories and SMEs and supported their transition towards green Industry. As a result, the 55 factories and SMEs were able to save resources and increase productivity by 10-20%, leading to an annual saving of around US$10 million per year. Additionally, it facilitated reaching US$10 million in investments.  Also, the success of the TEST project is the concrete example of the greening industry for other developing countries,” said Dr. Rana Pratap SINGH, UNIDO TEST Project Manager.
“The project also benefited approximately 130,000 workers, with over 80% of them being women, of the beneficiary factories and SMEs by assisting these factories in meeting sustainability and compliance standards. It built the capacity of factory key staff, improved the health and safety of workers, reduced negative impacts on the surrounding community, and fostered a shift in mindset towards green activities and practices. Aside from the economic and social benefits of the green industry resulting from the TEST project intervention, the environmental impact was also noteworthy. The project can potentially contribute directly to the CO2 reduction with an average of 40,000 tons per year during the period of 2018-2028 while also contributing to a sustainable reduction in the discharge of wastewater, solid waste, and GHG emissions," said Mr. Narin SOK, UNIDO Cambodia Country Representative.
“The project also supported the National Determined Contribution (NDC) especially the Industrial Processes and Product Uses (IPPU) with its carbon avoidances. Also, it helped to increase the awareness of Resource Efficiency and Cleaner Production (RECP) as a part and TEST Methodology as a whole. Further, the MoE will commit further to the Long-Term Strategy for Carbon Neutrality (LTS4CN) 2050, and updated NDC42,” said H.E. Dr. HENG Chanthoeun, Deputy Director General of Directorate General of Policy and Strategy, MoE.
“With the success of this TEST Project, he would like to thank all stakeholders for your strong collaborations especially to MoE as a co-implemented partner, UNIDO for the technical assistance, GEF for the project funding, and the factories and SMEs for commitments in implementation. Also, the TEST project helped the factories and SMEs strengthen Resource Efficiency and Cleaner Production (RECP), Environmental Management System (EMS) and Environmental Management Accounting (EMA), Increasing Productivity, Reducing the production cost, and increasing competitiveness of manufacturing sectors for local, regional and international markets,” said H.E. HEM Vanndy, Minister ofMISTI. "We could scale up and encourage more initiatives and commitment as outlined in the 100 Days campaign toward a green and sustainable industry sector in Cambodia and he urges all developers, public and private sectors, and institutions under the MISTI to commit and continue to support the above initiatives, especially among 60,000 SMEs, and 2,000 Factories. Also, to support further with an advanced level of TEST for bigger impact in the greening industry such as Eco-Industrial Park (EIP) initiatives which target to strengthen Special Economic Zones (SEZs) or Industrial Parks (IP) in Cambodia," added the Minister, following the TEST project's successful outcome.
The TEST project is a significant step towards promoting industry practices and mitigating climate change in Cambodia, marking a positive development in the country's industrial landscape.
Ends –

For more information, please contact:
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/256490-test-project-milestone-sustainable-industry-and-climate-change-mitigation-cambodia




Date: 30 November 2023
Title: CAMBODIA: CAPFISH-CAPTURE PROJECT RECEIVED THE GENDER EQUALITY MOBILIZATION AWARD 2023
Content: 30 November 2023
Phnom Penh, 30 November 2023 – The CAPFISH-Capture: Post-harvest Development project team in Cambodia, on 28 November 2023, received the 2023 Gender Equality Mobilization Award (GEM Award) at the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO)'s General Conference in Vienna, Austria. The project team was recognized for its remarkable contribution to advancing gender equality and strengthening women's economic empowerment in Cambodia's fisheries sector. The award's theme was "Making gender equality a lived reality in the industry."
The fisheries sector in Cambodia is crucial for its economy and food security, with around 40% of the population relying on it for livelihood and sustenance. The majority of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) involved in Cambodia's post-harvest fisheries are led by women in charge of the processing, marketing, retailing and selling of the surplus of fishery products all over the country. However, despite their significant contributions throughout the entire fisheries value chain, including aquaculture, women's involvement is often perceived as an extension of domestic work, invisible in decision-making processes and under-valuated in economic terms.
Underlying gender inequalities limit women's opportunities to enhance their skills, a critical factor that undermines their economic and social participation. Moreover, women face gender-based discrimination, as well as severe constraints on their time due to reproductive and caregiving responsibilities, hindering the pursuit of their work-related goals, and, thus, the success of fisheries. Overcoming these challenges and creating opportunities for women to upgrade their skills, need empowerment of women to take on leadership roles and foster a more equitable and inclusive environment across the entire value chain.
The CAPFISH-Capture project, co-funded by the European Union (EU), aims to contribute to the development of post-harvest fisheries through the upgrading of the regulatory and institutional system, as well as the adoption of better practices and innovation by the private sector. Taking into consideration women's prominent roles in post-harvest fisheries and the prevalent gender inequalities hindering women from fulfilling their potential, the project has adopted a gender-responsive management approach, integrating gender equality and women's empowerment throughout its entire project cycle.
Mr. Narin SOK, UNIDO Cambodia's Country Representative, applauded the CAPFISH-Capture project for receiving the GEM Award. He recognized that “the project's gender equality approach has fostered an inclusive environment where everyone can flourish, leaving no one behind.” Narin highlighted UNIDO's pride in the project's ongoing efforts to promote women's economic roles and empower women-led MSMEs in post-harvest fisheries.
Under the Value Chain Investment Support (VCIS), the project provided technical assistance and equipment support to 28 fishery processing enterprises, of which 20 are women-led MSMEs. Many of these women-led enterprises have successfully obtained the Cambodia Quality Seal (CQS) certification, which mandates adherence to gender equality promotion.
27 national food inspectors responsible for the CQS certification (including 10 women), as well as the business development service providers supporting the MSMEs, have received training on gender equality and women's empowerment.
"By mainstreaming gender throughout the project, including gender policies, business support, project management, research and innovation, and stakeholder capacity building, the project aims to have long-term impacts on advancing gender equality and empowering women in Cambodia's fisheries sector," said H.E. Sotha POUM, Delegate of the Royal Government, Director General of the Fisheries Administration (FiA). His Excellency emphasized that the CAPFISH-Capture project, jointly implemented by the FiA and UNIDO, has laid a foundation for enduring positive impacts on gender equality and women's empowerment in the post-harvest fisheries sector following the MAFF, MISTI and FiA Policies on Gender Equality Promotion.
As part of the project's initiative to enhance the competitiveness of Cambodia's post-harvest fisheries, funding has been allocated to support eight research projects addressing sector-related challenges, considering women's needs and constraints to scale up their business performance. Notably, four of these projects are led by women researchers in collaboration with universities and the private sector.
Furthermore, the project has supported five women-producer groups, consisting of 141 members, with a majority being women. In the upcoming phase of the investment support, the project aims to select 20 additional enterprises, with a targeted minimum of 60% being led by women.
"Supporting women-led enterprises is essential for the economic development and sustainability of the fisheries sector. As their businesses thrive and prosper, they not only contribute to the broader economy but also serve as inspiring role models, encouraging other women to become entrepreneurs and transform gender-unequal power relations," said Koen EVERAERT, Deputy Head of Cooperation, EU Delegation to Cambodia. "The CAPFISH-Capture project's successful model can be replicated, and its best practices can be shared to foster women's entrepreneurship and economic empowerment," added Koen.
Ends –
For more information, please contact:
More information about the project: https://open.unido.org/projects/KH/projects/180039
Project Newsletters: http://newslettercapfish-postharvest.org/achieve
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/254203-cambodia-capfish-capture-project-received-gender-equality-mobilization-award-2023




Date: 10 November 2023
Title: JOINT PRESS RELEASE: The Signing Ceremony of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for Cambodia 2024-2028
Content: 10 November 2023
Phnom Penh, November 10, 2023, with endorsement by Samdech Moha Borvor Thipadei HUN MANET, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia, Dr. Chhieng Yanara, Senior Minister and Second Vice-Chairman of the Council for the Development of Cambodia, together with his counterpart Mr. Jo Scheuer, United Nations Resident Coordinator (UNRC) signed the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for Cambodia (Cooperation Framework) 2024-2028 at the Council for the Development of Cambodia (CDC). The ceremony was attended by senior representatives of the relevant line ministries and institutions of the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) and representatives of the United Nations system in Cambodia, with a total of 60 participants.
The Cooperation Framework serves as the strategic document that provides guidance to the UN system at the country level, enabling the UN Country Team (UNCT) to effectively support the Royal Government of Cambodia in contributing to national development priorities as articulated in the Pentagonal Strategy – Phase I and making significant progress towards the Cambodian Sustainable Development Goals (CSDGs), LDC Graduation, and Cambodia’s vision 2050. The Cooperation Framework was formulated through a series of consultations between the RGC and the UN Country Team, in addition to consultations with development partners, civil society organizations, the private sector, and youth representatives. As a result, this Cooperation Framework 2024-2028 was endorsed, in principle, at the successful Validation Workshop on September 21, 2023.
A Joint Steering Committee, co-chaired by the Second-Vice Chairman of CDC and UNRC, will be established to monitor the implementation of this cooperation framework, provide strategic direction, and coordinate the implementation between relevant ministries/institutions of the Royal Government of Cambodia and all key stakeholders. While the signing of the framework marks a significant milestone, the success of this strategic development policy lies ahead in the implementation and requires active engagement by government institutions, sustained and inclusive partnership with development partners, civil society and the private sector; while its performance will be measured through a robust monitoring and evaluation framework. By prioritizing these key areas and fostering collaboration, meaningful results can be achieved while fulfilling the shared vision of progress and development in Cambodia.
Speaking at the signing ceremony, Dr. Senior Minister placed a high value on the Cooperation Framework 2024-2028 and believed that its implementation would make an essential contribution to Cambodia’s socio-economic development and accelerate the achievement of RGC’s priorities as articulated in the Pentagonal Strategy - Phase 1. He also highly commended the efforts of the UN Country Team in achieving past results and their continued support and close cooperation with the RGC under the leadership of Samdech Moha Borvor Thipadei HUN MANET, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia.
“The Cooperation Framework that we sign today is the architecture through which the vital partnership between the United Nations and the Royal Government of Cambodia is strong and effective and ultimately supports a greener, more prosperous and fairer future for all people in Cambodia, ensuring that no one is left behind as the nation moves forward,” said Mr. Jo Scheuer, the United Nations Resident Coordinator.
In conclusion, Senior Minister Chhieng Yanara reaffirmed the CDC’s commitment to continuing to cooperate with the United Nations in Cambodia and line ministries and institutions, as well as all relevant stakeholders, to ensure the achievement of the stated outcomes as articulated in the Cooperation Framework2024-2028.
For further information, please contact:

Read the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for Cambodia 2024-2028
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/252462-joint-press-release-signing-ceremony-united-nations-sustainable-development-cooperation




Date: 02 November 2023
Title: Press freedom and journalists’ safety are the lifeline to peace, development, and sustainability
Content: 02 November 2023
PHNOM PENH (2 November 2023) – The United Nations Human Rights and UNESCO jointly convened a multi-stakeholder consultation on the implementation of International Human Rights Standards on Press Freedom to commemorate the "International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists".
The consultation was attended by more than 150 participants, including government officials, diplomatic community, United Nations representatives, international and regional experts, civil society organisations, media and journalists, academics, and youth. The consultation aimed at a) raising awareness about the freedom of the press in light of international human rights obligations of Cambodia, b) creating a space for authorities and stakeholders to discuss challenges to the freedom of the press and opportunities to comply with international human rights obligations, and c) highlighting the safety mechanisms and measures implemented by Cambodian authorities to address the gaps and challenges.
The consultation included two panel discussions focusing on a) the role of parliament and judiciary in safeguarding and advancing the freedom of the press, b) the role of State institutions and law enforcement agencies in protecting and promoting the freedom of the press in its three key aspects: freedom of expression, safety of journalists, and access to information. These topics have created a unique opportunity for State authorities and civil society representatives to exchange their experiences, address challenges, and explore avenues for enhanced cooperation, coordination, and concerted efforts in upholding the freedom of the press. This endeavour aligns with the provisions outlined in the Cambodian Constitution and adheres to international human rights standards.
Addressing the closing ceremony, Roueida El Hage, Country Representative of the United Nations Human Rights Office, she stated that “together with the stakeholders, we should continue to strengthen efforts to raise awareness about the rights to freedom of opinion and expression under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), take all necessary measures to prevent threats, harassment, intimidation, violence against journalists, or arbitrary restrictions on journalists in the exercise of their profession, and create an environment conducive to the exercise of the right."
“On this International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists, let us recall how much the journalists need to work with confidence, independence and protection to carry out their mission. Those who attack them must also be systematically held to account and brought to justice. Any action aimed at undermining these imperatives jeopardizes not only the safety of journalists, but also the access of the public to reliable information, which is a prerequisite for peace and progress in our societies,” Mikel Aguirre Idiaques relayed the message of the UNESCO Director General Audrey Azoulay.
The organisers shared the outcomes of the two panel discussions as follows:
The United Nations Human Rights Office and UNESCO Cambodia are dedicated to supporting Cambodia in meeting its international human rights obligations and addressing obstacles to ensuring the right to freedom of expression, freedom of access to information, and the safety and security of journalists. They also aim to support journalists, media outlets, and civil society organisations in achieving the high standards of reporting necessary to create a more peaceful, progressing, and inclusive society based on the theme of the 75th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: Freedom, Equality and Justice for All.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/258915-press-freedom-and-journalists%E2%80%99-safety-are-lifeline-peace-development-and-sustainability




Date: 23 October 2023
Title: UN Cambodia Youth Future Fair Empowers Young People to Shape a Sustainable Future
Content: 23 October 2023
Phnom Penh, Cambodia – The UN Cambodia Youth Future Fair, with the theme "Your Action - Your Future," was held on 21 October 2023 at the CJCC-RUPP. The Fair provided the opportunity to bring together over a thousand young people from diverse backgrounds to empower and engage them in shaping a sustainable future.
The event was organized jointly by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport, the UN family in Cambodia including UNFPA, UNDP, UNICEF, UNOHCHR, UNAIDS, WFP, other UN agencies, development partners, CSOs, Youth Network, and the private sector.
The Youth Future Fair was the culmination of a series of activities that brought youth together to creatively discuss and share ideas and solutions on some of the key issues that impact youth today.  At the Fair participants engaged in discussions, debates, learned from experts and networked. As part of the Fair, there were Creative Forums which engaged participants in discussions about the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Sexual and Reproductive Health, Rights and Choices, Human Rights, Gender Equality, Green Skills, Youth and Education. The Fair challenged youth to generate ideas and solutions – and to network with each other and come up with practical solutions for taking action. The Fair challenged youth to imagine the future they want to see in a “World of 8 Billion” people through creative arts and dialogue.
As part of the Fair, a "Next in Art Competition" was held, with the Fair showcasing the creative talents of young artists. This competition provided a platform for participants to express their vision for a sustainable future through art. Winners are to be recognized and awarded at the Fair event, further motivating young individuals to explore their artistic abilities and contribute to promoting the SDGs and equal society.
Highlights about the Event:
“Young people are the future of our nation, and it is essential that we invest in their education and training so that they can acquire the skills they need to succeed in the 21st century economy. We must all work together to create an appropriate environment to promote education and training for young people, so that we can achieve qualified human resources and build a highly civilized, moral, equitable, innovation and environmentally friendly society,” said H.E. Chek Lim, Deputy General of DG-Youth, Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport.
Ms. Sandra Bernklau, UNFPA Representative to Cambodia and represent the UN family at the Youth Future Fair stated that “Harnessing the full views of youth requires facilitating a safe, creative and innovative space which will allow for youth participation and expression. In a world of 8 Billion, facing growing climate crisis and multiple challenges – what will you do to make your community a better place? Are you involved? Are you taking action? I would encourage you to get involved - join a youth network be part of the solutions and take action.”
Youth Future Fair Participants’ Srey Neang, a 20-year-old, second-year accounting student at Vannda University, said: "The Youth Future Fair was great and very different from other fairs I've attended. At each booth, I learned more about different topics, such as safe migration, which I was not aware of before, as well as child issues and other health and social services. I encourage all young people to attend and expose themselves to such events when possible to learn more and network with other young people from different backgrounds."
Winning Artist in the Next in Art Competition​- Van Vart, a 25-year-old from Prey Veng Province, said: " I was so excited to show my great talent and skills to the public. This was an inspiration and motivation to the next generation. I wanted them to understand that they matter and that anything is possible if they keep trying and never give up. Just do your best, don't be afraid, and show your confidence and commitment to achieving your goals. I hope that all the content I created on social media will inspire young people, motivate and value talented people, and encourage them to be real and supportive."
The UN Cambodia Youth Future Fair was a UN collaborative event that provided young people the platform to discuss serious issues that will impact their lives and their futures. The Fair provided a platform for young people to engage, learn, and collaborate, and equipped them with the tools and motivation needed to make a difference in the communities where they live and to shape the Cambodia they want.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/250302-un-cambodia-youth-future-fair-empowers-young-people-shape-sustainable-future




Date: 19 October 2023
Title: Judiciary determined to overcome gender stereotypes
Content: 19 October 2023
PHNOM PENH (19 October 2023) – The United Nations Human Rights Office in Cambodia concluded a two-day pilot training course for judges and prosecutors on October 18 and 19, 2023, titled "Addressing Gender Bias in the Judiciary", in collaboration with the Royal Academy for Justice of Cambodia.
The two-day pilot training course was facilitated by international experts and judges and attended by 35 participants (21 women and 14 men), including representatives of the regional court of appeals, judges, and prosecutors from various provinces, as well as officials from the Royal Academy for Justice of Cambodia and the Ministry of Justice. The pilot training course aimed at explaining international human rights norms relating to gender stereotyping with a view to promoting the protection of human rights and access to justice for women and other individuals who are marginalised on the basis of sex, gender identity, and/or sexual orientation.
In the opening session, the President of the Royal Academy for Justice of Cambodia, His Excellency Chhorn Proloeung, stated that "the training is focused on further strengthening the capacity of judges and prosecutors on international human rights norms and exchanging experiences with international, regional and national experts to identify and overcome gender stereotypes in the judiciary".
Highlighting the significance of jurisprudence in courts in Cambodia in compliance with international human rights law, Roueida El Hage, Country Representative of the United Nations Human Rights Office in Cambodia, underlined that "the pilot training course is yet another benchmark towards a comprehensive technical cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Academy". She expressed her aspiration that "the content of the course would be integrated in the curriculum of the Royal Academy for the sustainability of knowledge transfer".
According to international human rights standards, the judiciary is under an obligation to ensure that all legal procedures in cases involving allegations of gender-based violence (GBV) are impartial, fair, and unaffected by gender stereotypes or discriminatory interpretations of legal provisions. This obligation extends not only to judges but also to prosecutors, lawyers, law enforcement officials, and other relevant judicial actors.
Participants in the pilot training course expressed the need to disseminate the information to other duty bearers, including police, community leaders, court personnel, investigation staff members, among other actors, in order to improve their comprehension and management of access to justice for all, in particular GBV survivors.
The United Nations Human Rights Office in Cambodia is committed to supporting Cambodia in fulfilling its international human rights obligations and addressing gender-stereotyped judicial practices.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/258912-judiciary-determined-overcome-gender-stereotypes




Date: 17 October 2023
Title: Minister of Education to Attend the Global School Meals Coalition Summit in Paris
Content: 17 October 2023
Phnom Penh – His Excellency Hang Chuon Naron, Cambodia’s Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, Youth and Sport, is representing the Royal Government of Cambodia this week at the inaugural Global School Meals Coalition summit hosted by President Macron in Paris.
Cambodia joined the coalition in 2021 following its launch at the United Nations Food Systems Summit, recognizing the potential of school meals to amplify human capital development and power local food systems. This global initiative, co-chaired by France and Finland, aims to guarantee that every child has access to healthy and nutritious meals necessary to thrive and flourish academically by 2030. Well-designed school meal programmes are one of the most impactful and efficient interventions that benefit entire communities. By focusing on one policy lever – school meal and related public food procurement policies – governments can strategically leverage their power to make progress on several systemic issues.
With a long-standing history of successful school feeding programme implementation and results, Cambodia has been recognized by the School Meals Coalition as a positive example to be highlighted in this year’s summit and as such it will feature prominently.
“Indeed, Cambodia’s nationalization of the school meals programme which started in 2020 is growing rapidly, thus attracting children to schools and supporting child learning, nutrition, health and long-term well-being,” said H.E. Naron. He added that WFP is working with national and local authorities to create the conditions for the Government to fully own the programme, by ensuring the programme is included in national budgets, planning and the country’s national protection scheme.
Given the French Government’s convening role, H.E. Jacques PELLET, Ambassador of France to Cambodia, the Minister and the World Food Programme's representative undertook a joint visit to Angserei Primary School in Kampong Chhnang province, where over 200 pre-primary and primary school-aged children are served hot, nutritious breakfast every morning.
The visit was an opportunity for the ambassador to witness the national school feeding programme in practice.
“As a co-chair of the School Meals Coalition, we are deeply committed to this noble cause of global nutrition and education at both national and international levels,” said H.E. Jacques PELLET, Ambassador of France to Cambodia. He emphasized that France is actively supporting the cause within its own country and worldwide through WFP’s school meals programme. “Our visit to this wonderful school today reinforces our shared vision for a world where every child is nourished in body and mind.”
Advocacy for school meals both in Cambodia and abroad is key to sustain commitment and peer learning to better feed tomorrow’s generations. The School Meals Coalition is the perfect platform where governments and partners can agree to work together under the same tent to improve the quality, sustainability and scale of national school meals programmes and complementary interventions.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/249706-minister-education-attend-global-school-meals-coalition-summit-paris




Date: 04 October 2023
Title: UN AND CAMBODIA JOIN FORCES TO STRENGTHEN EARLY WARNINGS AND DISASTER PREPAREDNESS
Content: 04 October 2023
PHNOM PENH – The National Committee for Disaster Management (NCDM), the United Nations in Cambodia and the lead agencies of the Early Warnings for All (EW4ALL) initiative - International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), International Telecommunication Union (ITU), United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), and World Meteorological Organization (WMO), have organized the National Consultation Workshop on Early Warnings for All to bring key stakeholders together to strategize and enhance Cambodia’s early warning system, a vital component in minimizing the impact of disasters and adapting to climate change.
"As a nation, Cambodia is actively working to strengthen its disaster preparedness and early warning systems, with the aim of safeguarding lives, empowering communities, and fostering a resilient future for all Cambodians," stated Sameun Hang, Second Vice of NCDM, emphasizing that the workshop marks a significant milestone in the country’s journey towards implementing comprehensive disaster risk reduction and climate adaptation measures.
However, significant global, regional, and national gaps persist in translating early warnings into effective actions such as efforts are still required to enhance awareness, build adequate institutional capacity, connectivity challenges, strengthen community engagement, enhance preparedness planning, create sufficient funding, including for operationalization and maintenance of hydro-met stations, and creating adequacy of hydrological and meteorological observations covering the whole country.
"Cambodia is prone to various climate-induced hazards, such as floods, drought or storms. These hazards pose significant risks to communities, agriculture, infrastructure and the economy. Early warning systems are proven to be an effective tool that mitigates the impact of climate-induced disasters and, develops a more resilient nation," said Jo Scheuer, UN Resident Coordinator in Cambodia.
Government ministries, UN agencies, bilateral and multilateral organizations, international non-governmental organizations, civil society organizations, regional bodies, private sector entities and technical experts participated in the workshop. They reviewed the current state of early warning systems in Cambodia, assessing progress in implementing the four pillars of EW4ALL: disaster risk knowledge; observations and forecasting; dissemination and communication; and preparedness and response. They also discussed financing instruments and investment needs, as well as identified priority technical areas for advancing early warning systems in the country. One outcome was to establish a national coordination mechanism for EW4ALL, leveraging existing disaster management structures in Cambodia and fostering collaboration and coordination among stakeholders to drive effective implementation of early warning systems nationwide.
"The insights gained from these discussions will shape the country's EW4ALL implementation roadmap for 2024-2027," stated Claire Conan, WFP-Cambodia country director. She emphasized WFP’s role as the UN focal point in Cambodia for the EW4ALL initiative and its support to the global leads in crafting a comprehensive roadmap to further early warnings in Cambodia. "Through strategic partnerships and collaboration with national and global leaders in disaster risk reduction, WFP is committed to contribute to timely and effective early warnings for every Cambodian. Together, we're building resilience and shaping a safer future.

#                 #                   #

The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @wfp_media
For more information please contact (email address: chanmoniroth.iv@wfp.org):
Chanmoniroth IV, WFP/Cambodia, Mob. +85586 315 888

URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/248159-un-and-cambodia-join-forces-strengthen-early-warnings-and-disaster-preparedness




Date: 21 September 2023
Title: WFP AND CAMBODIAN DELEGATION ON STUDY TOUR TO KOREA TO STRENGHTEN SCHOOL MEALS PROGRAMME
Content: 21 September 2023
PHNOM PENH – Cambodian Government officials, along with staff from the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), are visiting the Republic of Korea (RoK) on a study tour aiming at strengthening Cambodia’s school meals programme. Backed by the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA), the mission will enable participants to gain first-hand insights from Korea’s successful model.
"With our Home-Grown School Feeding (HGSF) programme, Cambodia aims to provide food while improving nutrition and education, strengthening rural development and increasing food security," says Claire Conan, WFP Country Director in Cambodia. “KOICA's support has been transformative, constructing essential school infrastructure and enhancing the capacities of programme implementors. Their assistance extends to the local economy, promoting a home-grown model that sources food locally, empowering farmers, promoting agricultural growth, and establishing a sustainable food system.”
The delegation, comprising key officials from the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Economy and Finance, National Social Protection Council and Council of Agricultural and Rural Development, will learn best practices from Korea's school meals programmes - focusing on policies, implementation mechanisms and inter-ministerial coordination. The delegation will also engage with Korean counterparts, observe local food procurement processes, and visit local schools rolling out the programmes. They will then meet senior officials at KOICA's headquarters to find out more about programme implementation, management, policy development, innovative financing strategies and the role of science, technology and innovation in designing sustainable programme and establishing effective collaboration with diverse partners and stakeholders.
Hang Chuon Naron, Cambodia’s Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, Youth and Sport, emphasizes the importance of prioritizing students’ health through nutrition programme and food quality control in schools as a powerful driving force for education reform in the Government’s seventh mandate.
“This study tour to Korea perfectly aligns with Cambodia’s vision for sustainable and inclusive development, enabling knowledge-sharing between our nations. It marks a significant milestone in the collaboration between Cambodia and Korea, made possible by the invaluable support of KOICA. This tour underscores the profound partnership between our countries and highlights our joint commitment to promoting education, nutrition and rural development,” expressed Hang, with genuine enthusiasm, adding that with Korea’s multifaceted support, Cambodia is forging a path towards a brighter future, where education, nutrition and sustainable development thrive hand in hand.
The outcomes of this tour will then significantly contribute to the full institutionalization of the School Feeding Policy in Cambodia and the development of a comprehensive national HGSF programme as the programme reaches a critical phase, transitioning to government ownership as a recognized social safety net.

#                 #                   #

The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/246772-wfp-and-cambodian-delegation-study-tour-korea-strenghten-school-meals-programme




Date: 12 September 2023
Title: Momentum gathers in Cambodia towards inclusive, smart and sustainable cities for all
Content: 12 September 2023
Phnom Penh, Cambodia, September 12 2023 – The United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) and UN-Habitat, in collaboration with the Ministry of Interior and the Smart City Steering Committee, convened an inception workshop today to initiate the implementation of “Cities for all”, a joint project to promote inclusive, smart and sustainable urban development in Cambodia. The event saw the participation of over 90 delegates from international organizations, UN agencies, development partners, and the Royal Government of Cambodia.
Urbanization stands as a significant driving force in recent global development.  As of 2022, about 25 per cent of Cambodia’s population lives in urban areas. The growth and development of cities are expected to continue playing an indispensable role in the country’s efforts to graduate from the Least Developed Country status.
In support of the national and sub-national governments’ initiatives to meet the needs of urban citizens, UNOPS and UN-Habitat launched the “Cities for all” project in partnership with the Ministry of Interior and the Smart Cities Steering Committee. In line with Sustainable Development Goal 11 of the 2030 Agenda which emphasizes the need to create inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable cities and communities, the project aims to address the needs and challenges faced by urban citizens by integrating a human security dimension into Cambodia’s urbanization process. The approach entails a people-centric, comprehensive, context-specific, and prevention-oriented strategy to identify common urban challenges and devise sustainable solutions.
In his remarks, H.E Ngy Chanphal, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior and Chair of the Smart Cities Steering Committee, said, “By 2030, the vision of the sub-national administration reform is to empower the sub-national administrations with strengthened resources and capacities to provide better services to citizens. The smart cities initiative is an approach to accelerate the realization of the reform vision. In the meantime, implementation of smart cities initiatives will bolster the sub-national administrations to better address the urban issues in their constituencies.”
Urbanization is also one of the strategic priorities outlined in the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for Cambodia. UNOPS, as a central resource for the United Nations system in fund management and infrastructure development, brings its expertise to implement projects in changing contexts. UN-Habitat, with its focus on reducing inequality and improving living standards, shows a proven record of work in synergy with Cambodia's urban development efforts.
Representing Mr. Jo Scheuer, the UN Resident Coordinator, Ms. Eda Kraja, UNOPS Country Manager a.i. for Cambodia, affirmed, “With our complementary expertise in resilient infrastructure and sustainable urban planning, I am confident this collaborative endeavour will exemplify UN Cambodia’s vision to deliver as one and to be fit for purpose in line with Cambodia’s urban development agenda.”
The “Cities for all” project is funded by the United Nations Trust Fund for Human Security. During the workshop, experts from the Ministry of Interior and the UNOPS/UN-Habitat joint programme presented the project overview and a roadmap to define smart city development concepts for sub-national administrations. The outcome of this project will contribute to the development of a National Policy Framework for Smart and Sustainable Cities by 2025.




URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/245533-momentum-gathers-cambodia-towards-inclusive-smart-and-sustainable-cities-all




Date: 16 August 2023
Title: Joint Press Release: Cambodia celebrates strides made in fostering development of food standards throughout the food chain
Content: 16 August 2023
16 August 2022, Phnom Penh: Three hundred stakeholders in agriculture, food and nutrition came together on 16 August 2023 in Phnom Penh, for Cambodia’s World Food Safety Day commemoration, aimed at drawing attention and inspiring action on food safety.
Policymakers, development partners, non-governmental organizations, key experts, the private sector, researchers, lecturers, students, farmers, and youth groups stood together in solidarity and as a call to action that everyone, everywhere, should play a role in ensuring food safety for all. This marked Cambodia’s second World Food Safety Day celebration and was held under the theme Food standards save lives, as organized under the leadership of the Council for Agricultural and Rural Development (CARD).
“Foodborne illness is a crucial public health issue in Cambodia. We are committed to ensuring that our food supply is safe and healthy for all Cambodians through a multisectoral approach, which will lead to safe and healthy diets, accessible through proper pricing and responsive to all nutrition issues. However, this task requires good stakeholder cooperation and a willingness among respective stakeholders to implement relevant food safety practices. These stakeholders should comprise consumers, the private sector and Government from the national and sub-national levels,” said His Excellency Dith Tina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF).
Food safety remains a significant public health concern in Cambodia. Between 2010 and 2015, over half of the reported disease outbreaks were caused by food poisoning or diarrhea. Additionally, between 2014-19, 134 outbreaks of foodborne diseases were identified as having been caused by poor hygiene practices during food preparation, incorrect storage temperature control, cross-contamination, and the use of unsafe water and ingredients.
“Food safety, nutrition and food security not only contribute to the health and wellbeing of a population but also support national economies, stimulating sustainable development. A global pandemic, climate change and rapidly changing food systems have an impact on the safety of food. Only when food is safe can it meet nutritional needs and help adults to live an active and healthy life and children to grow and develop,” said Dr Nargiza Khodjaeva, Acting WHO Representative to Cambodia. “While globally, Southeast Asia has some of the highest incidences and death rates related to foodborne illness, the positive steps the Royal Government of Cambodia has made to strengthen food safety to date will help safeguard human health for all Cambodians.”
Stressing the importance of joining hands and collaborating on food standards to safeguard human health, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) Assistant Representative Programme, Kosal Oum said:
“Food safety is very much the responsibility of all parties along the food chain, from producers, processors, food regulatory bodies, business owners, to consumers. The huge gathering today signals the recognition of the importance of partnerships and a growing spirit of collaboration among all stakeholders along value chains, from farm to table, considering food environments and the decisions of consumers, when it comes to food safety.”
In line with this value chain approach to food safety, the discussions during the commemoration event covered an array of topics, including food standards in production, food standards for street vendors and stallholders, protecting consumer health and ensuring fair practices in the food trade, food standards and labelling, school food standards, and the journey towards global compliance, among others. The range of subjects highlighted the importance of different parties and sectors and the impact of food safety standards on consumer and public health and the economy.
“Cambodia's food processing industry has the potential for economic development. The government strives to improve food safety and standards as the country enters the global market. We are currently assisting in developing a legal framework and control system while building capacity to ensure food standards are improved and public health requirements are met. Through the European Union (EU) funding, we are implementing the food safety systems in the fisheries sector, harmonising with EU requirements, which could be replicated in other sectors,” said Narin SOK, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) Country Representative said reflecting on ongoing initiatives that are strengthening food standards in the industry.
The celebration provided an opportunity for stocktaking on achievements made in fostering the development of food standards and for providing an agreed strategy with collective priorities moving forward. Such achievements include the historic passing of the Food Safety Law by His Majesty Norodom Sihamoni in 2022 as well as other laws and policies such as the Law on Standards of Cambodia, the law on Consumer Protection, as well as the Law on the Management of Quality and Safety of Products and Services. With the laws in place, much remains to be done towards enforcement to ensure the attainment of safe and nutritious food for all.
At WFP-Cambodia, we’re working on food safety in the context of the homegrown school feeding program. We are not only feeding hungry children, but also ensuring that the food they eat is safe and healthy,” said Claire Conan, World Food Programme representative to Cambodia.
The World Food Safety Day celebration was organized jointly by development partners: FAO, WHO, UNIDO, WFP, iDE, Nutrition International, World Vision International, Adventist Development and Relief Agency, Hellen Keller International. Organization was in partnership with the Royal Government of Cambodia, through Council for Agricultural and Rural Development, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Commerce.
The event received support from the European Union, UKAID programme- the Fleming Fund, the German Agency for International Cooperation, the Latter-Day Saints Charities, New Zealand Agency for International Development, the Republic of Korea Ministry of Food and Drug Safety and the United States Agency for International Development.

For further information, please contact:
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/241595-joint-press-release-cambodia-celebrates-strides-made-fostering-development-food-standards




Date: 03 August 2023
Title: Cambodia Quality Seal (CQS): Recognizing Cambodia’s Enterprises for Their Improved Food Safety Compliance
Content: 03 August 2023
Phnom Penh, 03 August 2023 – The Fisheries Administration (FiA), in partnership with the European Union (EU) and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), announced the awarding of CQS certificates to fishery processing enterprises in Cambodia. These enterprises have successfully met the requirements of the CQS, an initiative developed as part of the CAPFISH-Capture: Post-harvest Development project.
The CQS initiative, spearheaded by FiA and supported under the CAPFISH Capture, a project funded by European Union and implemented by UNIDO, is the first-ever food safety certification scheme in Cambodia's fisheries sector. It aims to enhance the safety and quality of fish and fishery products in post-harvest fisheries, fostering sustainable and inclusive growth within the industry.

The CQS certification applies to various actors within the fisheries value chain, including processing enterprises, fishing vessels, and collecting centers (landing sites) that adhere to the required standards. By prioritizing food safety, the CQS aims to bolster consumer confidence and promote Cambodia's national brand.

By aligning with the theme of World Food Safety Day 2023, Food Standards Save Lives, H.E. Sopha CHAN, Director General of the Institute of Standards of Cambodia (ISC), Ministry of Industry, Science, Technology, and Innovation (MISTI), emphasized that the CQS certification scheme is set to enhance the competitiveness of Cambodia’s fish and fishery products, facilitating international trade and safeguarding public health.

The initial round of CQS certifications was awarded to eight post-harvest fishery enterprises that have demonstrated compliance with the rigorous requirements of the scheme. These enterprises are Leang Leng Enterprise, Ny Ieng Neng Enterprise, Samnang Sothea Enterprise, Home Taste Food, Phnom Pich Bunkhea Fish Sauce Enterprise, Thoeurn Sreyny Enterprise, Vong Dara Processing Enterprise, and Heng Hort (Sok Khim) Processing Enterprise.

H.E. Sareth HAS, Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF), lauded the EU-funded project's impact on promoting food safety and expanding export opportunities: "The CQS certification scheme has been further developed as part of the government's effort to promote safe food for everyone and enhance access to export markets." He also expressed optimism that more CQS logos will soon be displayed on fish and fishery products in Cambodian minimarts and supermarkets.

“To ensure the credibility and integrity of the CQS certification scheme, FiA and UNIDO, with support from a consulting firm called Peterson Projects & Solutions, have thoroughly developed the scheme through a comprehensive and transparent process. The CQS verification audits are conducted by well-trained auditors from FiA and relevant government agencies, ensuring the highest standards of food safety compliance,” said H.E. Sotha POUM, Delegate of the Royal Government, Director General of FiA.

“The competent enterprises that have the potential to export their products to the European Union markets will be selected to provide further support to establish a food safety standard document and traceability system to be ready for the EU Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety (DG-SANTE) verification in 2024”, added H.E. Sotha POUM.

Bryan FORNARI, Head of Cooperation of the European Union Delegation to Cambodia, said working with the Government and the private sector to ensure higher standards of products, including food safety, opens business opportunities and creates decent jobs in the food businesses. “It also ensures the protection of all consumers from potential health risks. The EU CAPFISH programme continues to work with MAFF to improve food safety compliance so that fisheries processed products can be gradually exported from Cambodia to the EU and international markets. We are delighted to see the first concrete results of this work through the development of this Cambodia Quality Seal.”

With the CQS certification in place, Cambodia significantly strides towards becoming a champion in food safety compliance and sustainable fishing practices, benefitting local consumers and international trade.

Ends –

For more information, please contact:
More information about the project: https://open.unido.org/projects/KH/projects/180039
Project Newsletters: http://newslettercapfish-postharvest.org/achieve



URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/240742-cambodia-quality-seal-cqs-recognizing-cambodia%E2%80%99s-enterprises-their-improved-food-safety




Date: 12 May 2023
Title: Cambodia Joins Global Partnership to Reaffirm Its Commitment Towards a Green and Inclusive Economic Transformation
Content: 12 May 2023
Phnom Penh, 12th May 2023 – Today, the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC), through the Ministry of Environment (MoE), officially launched the Partnership for Action on Green Economy (PAGE) in Cambodia to reaffirm its commitment towards sustaining the country’s economic growth on a sustainable and inclusive trajectory.
Being an alliance of five United Nations (UN) agencies, PAGE is increasingly recognized as a model for delivering coordinated support of the UN to countries for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and targets of the Paris Agreement. PAGE’s unique value proposition is its focus on “upstream” economic policies that have the potential to eventually move the whole of the economy on a more sustainable trajectory.
Supported by the European Union (EU), Switzerland, Germany, Sweden, Finland, Norway, and Korea, the project in Cambodia will span over five years, including a one-year inception phase that will be concluded by mid-2023.
To ensure that its support in Cambodia is fully aligned with existing strategies and programmes, PAGE has engaged the Cambodia Development Resource Institute (CDRI) to conduct a scoping study. This study is to identify opportunities and options for macro-economic and sectoral policy reform including high-impact sectors such as garment manufacturing, tourism, agriculture, and finance that can enable a green economy transition.
Representing the Minister of Environment and Chair of the National Council for Sustainable Development at the event, H.E. Dr. Paris Chuop, Under Secretary of State, stressed that Cambodia has already demonstrated its commitment to green economy principles as a means to promote sustainable development and the economic, social and environmental balance within the Kingdom of Cambodia. With its strong commitment, Cambodia developed National Policy on Green Growth and National Strategic Plan on Green Growth 2013-2030, as well as the Environment and Natural Resources Code and submitted its Long-Term Strategy for Carbon Neutrality (LTS4CN) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Thereby, joining this global partnership will leverage the country’s efforts in mobilizing additional support in terms of new and advanced knowledge and finance to expedite the transformation towards an inclusive green economy.
Mr. Asad Naqvi, Head of PAGE secretariat, elaborated on a unique strength of PAGE programme which brings together expertise in economic growth, employment, industrial competitiveness, national development planning and finance, and capacity building. Those are key ingredients needed for the transformation of the whole economy and finance. "Transforming the economy is not an easy task that can be accomplished by a single institution." "We are proud of Cambodia's application because it brought together the big set of ministries, private sectors, civil society organizations, academia, and research institutions, which is what is needed for transformation," he continued.
Speaking on behalf of the five UN agencies supporting the implementation of PAGE Cambodia, Mr. Narin Sok, UNIDO's Country Representative, reiterated the Joint UN commitment to work closely with relevant line Ministries to ensure that PAGE Cambodia contributes to promoting green and inclusive economic growth in Cambodia. The implementation of PAGE programme is fully aligned with and will contribute to the realization of the overall objectives of new UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2024-2028.
The event brought together 100 participants from various relevant ministries, private sectors, civil societies, academia, national research institutions and development partners. It concluded at 17 :00 PM.
Note:
The Partnership for Action on Green Economy (PAGE) is a global flagship initiative involving  five UN agencies, including the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), the International Labour Organization (ILO), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), and the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR) in responding to the growing need for coordinated action to address the challenges of sustainable development and climate change following the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil held in 2012. PAGE is supported by the generous contributions of its partners. Their support, financial and in-kind contributions are integral to enabling countries to transform their economies into drivers of sustainability. PAGE funding partners include the European Union, Germany, Finland, Norway, Korea, Sweden and Switzerland. Further details about PAGE can be found: https://www.un-page.org/

The PAGE project in Cambodia is coordinated by UNITAR. The coordinating Government institution is the Department of Green Economy.
PAGE Cambodia Focal Point: 
Ms. Rachana Kong
National Project Coordinator
Email: rachana.kong@unitar.org
Phone: +855 12 644 649
UNITAR Focal Point:
Ms. Amrei Horstbrink
Senior Specialist,
Green Development and Climate Change Programme
Email: amrei.horstbrink@unitar.org
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/231142-cambodia-joins-global-partnership-reaffirm-its-commitment-towards-green-and-inclusive




Date: 08 May 2023
Title: WFP AND CAMBODIAN PARTNER LAUNCH US$3 MILLION INNOVATIVE PROJECT TO SUPPORT SMALLHOLDER FARMERS
Content: 08 May 2023
PHNOM PENH – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and the Cambodian Agriculture Cooperative Corporation (CACC) are launching a new project targeting over 1,200 smallholder farmers and their extended families in Koh Nhek, Mondulkiri, the country’s north-eastern province.
With funding from the Global Agriculture and Food Security Programme and CACC – respectively US$1.79 million and US$1.1 million, the project aims to enhance the resilience and livelihoods of smallholder farmers through organic agriculture and access to markets. It also seeks to promote improved nutrition and gender equity through social behavior change approaches, designed to generate demand for healthy diets and tackle harmful social norms.
“The project was designed in the COVID-19 context and adopted an innovative public-private-producer partnership approach, underscoring the need to leverage private-sector investment, strengthen policy dialogue, secure the necessary know-how and support more environmentally sound, socially equitable and economically viable development,” said Claire Conan, WFP Representative in Cambodia.
CACC will build an inclusive and integrated organic food value chain and incentivize smallholder farmers, including women and indigenous population, to switch to the organic farming approach using only natural fertilizers and pesticides, coupled with other climate-smart practices.
“The prices of organic food are higher and more stable than traditional commodities, creating opportunities for higher profit margins and steadier sources of income,” said Kunthy Kann, CACC managing director, noting that smallholder farmers of Mondulkiri tend to restrict their cultivation to rice, employing largely traditional rotation farming practices, making their yields vulnerable to climatic and other types of shocks.
“Our goal is to increase the participating farmers’ incomes by up to 20 percent, compared to typical farm gate returns,” Kann added, illustrating that CACC will facilitate market linkages to ensure this, and the farmers will be able to use the premiums earned to better safeguard against future shocks and stresses.
“Increased income will play an important role in facilitating better nutrition as households can access more diverse and healthy foods, siding away the negative impacts of shock-induced damages on their household nutrition,” said Conan, noting that the connections between livelihoods and nutrition are of particular significance given the high poverty and malnutrition levels in the targeted area.
“To tackle the issues, the project will deploy social behavior change communication to influence food behaviors and gender equality in the households,” said Conan, adding that to engage women in the project is a key transforming factor because in Cambodia, women play a lead role in households’ food management and make up over half of the agricultural labor force countrywide despite facing many difficulties in terms of access to land, extension services, financial services, market and technology.

#​     ​   #​    ​#



The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

Follow us on Twitter @wfp_media
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/230668-wfp-and-cambodian-partner-launch-us3-million-innovative-project-support-smallholder-farmers




Date: 30 April 2023
Title: Value Chain Investment Support to Enhance Cambodian  SMEs’ Competitiveness and Market Access
Content: 30 April 2023
Phnom Penh, 28 April 2023 – The Fisheries Administration (FiA) and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), under the EU-funded CAPFISH programme, handed over to the selected enterprises green and innovative technology, equipment, and materials needed for their more effective and efficient business operations and production, and improved compliance with food safety and environmental requirements.
Solar dryer domes and solar panels are examples of green technologies promoted under Value Chain Investment Support (VCIS), while the equipment and materials include water treatment machines, packing machines, hot air dryer machines, rapid freezers, cold storage facilities, and so on. This handover was also to recognize the enterprises that have completely upgraded their facilities and met the national food safety requirements.
The ceremony was also to award the selected enterprises with VCIS technical assistance on food safety compliance, business and market development, market linkages, and social and environmental management plan. They are ready to implement their business plan, which was approved by the VCIS multi-stakeholder investment committee.
The Equipment Handover and Awards Ceremony is part of the VCIS scheme launched in August 2021. As of now, twenty-eight enterprises in Cambodia’s post-harvest fisheries have been selected for technical and investment support.
As one of the critical interventions under the CAPFISH-Capture project, co-funded by the European Union (EU), VCIS is a co-investment scheme that incentivizes enterprises in Cambodia’s post-harvest fisheries to upgrade their business operations and implement food safety and social and environmental standards. At least 200 fisheries processing enterprises are targeted for the support to improve competitiveness and market access. VCIS will continue to support more qualified enterprises based on their interest and co-investment commitment.
Cambodia’s fisheries value chain is mainly represented by micro and small informal enterprises, which are fragmented and constrained by a lack of access to finance, technologies, markets, and tailored business development technical support. They produce a variety of agri-food and fish and fishery products with inadequate hygienic and food safety practices, hence struggling to compete with both imported products and in global markets.
However, Mr. Gunther Beger, Managing Director of UNIDO’s Directorate for SDG Innovation and Economic Transformation, sees it as an opportunity for the Kingdom. He commented that “through the flagship of the EU-funded CAPFISH programme, this issue gives us a big opportunity to promote green industrialization and build sustainable value chains for poverty reduction and job creation to make the agri-food sector the engine for growth and prosperity in the country.”
Speaking at the ceremony, H.E. Carmen Moreno, Ambassador of the European Union to Cambodia, highlighted the importance of “contributing together to the development of a greener, more competitive and connected economy, and to promoting Cambodian Small- and Medium Enterprises’ integration into ASEAN and global markets. To achieve this goal, compliance with food safety standards, such as certification systems, is essential” and “needed to access any market, and get ready for the most valuables markets, such as the European Union”.
H.E. Dith Tina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF), emphasized the importance of the fisheries sector in Cambodia and appreciated the CAPFISH programme as a strong support from the European Union to the RGC. He commented that “CAPFISH supports are in line with the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) policy to promote food safety and access to the international markets and improve the fishery value chain which mainly focuses on upgrading post-harvest fisheries operations and controlling the quality and safety of the fish and fishery products. The event demonstrates the strong partnership between the public, private sector, and development partners working together to make Cambodia’s fish and fishery products more competitive to reach international markets.”
We believe that the success of the VCIS intervention can be replicated for other agricultural commodities rather than just fish and fishery products. “It is in line with the European Union’s commitment to supporting a green economy in Cambodia by focusing on food, agriculture, and forests sector, including the agro-processing industry,” added H.E. Carmen Moreno.
Ends –

For more information, please contact:


URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/229575-value-chain-investment-support-enhance-cambodian-smes%E2%80%99-competitiveness-and-market-access




Date: 05 April 2023
Title: Despite impressive treatment results, Cambodia’s HIV response must address inequalities affecting children and young key populations
Content: 05 April 2023

PHNOM PENH, April 5, 2023—Today National AIDS Authority, Ministry of Health- National Center For HIV/AIDS, Dermatology and STDs (NCHADS), and UNAIDS Multi-country Office of Cambodia, Lao PDR and Malaysia, based in Phnom Penh, jointly disseminated Cambodia’s latest HIV estimates. The 2023 HIV estimates point to Cambodia’s continued commendable treatment services and results. However, targeted efforts and investments are required to reduce new infections among men, eliminate mother-to-child transmission and reach children living with HIV with services.
“Cambodia has made strong progress toward ending the AIDS epidemic, but inequalities are still stalling progress. These updated HIV estimates equip us to better understand the impact that gender and age-related inequalities, inequalities faced by key populations, and inequalities between children and adults have had on the national HIV response,” said Senior Minister and Chair of National AIDS Authority, Excellency Ieng Mouly.
By the end of 2022, estimated 76 000 (63 000-85 000) people were living with HIV (PLHIV) and of which 74 000 (61 000 – 83 000) were adults 15 years and older and about 2000 (1600-2400) were children (0-14 years). 86% of all PLHIV knew their HIV status and estimated 11 000 people did not know that they were living with HIV.
Cambodia’s achievements in attaining the highest linkage to treatment services with high level of viral suppression rate among PLHIV are exemplary. As of December 2022, 64 931 PLHIV were accessing antiretroviral therapy and it translates to 99% of PLHIV who knew their status were accessing treatment, and 98% of PLHIV on treatment were virally suppressed.
“A clear strength of the Cambodian HIV response is its ability to link people to treatment services once they have been diagnosed, retain them on treatment and maximise the benefits of having people with an undetectable viral load who then are not able to transmit HIV. Now we must work to reach those not accessing testing services by scaling up approaches such as community-based testing and self-testing,” said NCHADS Director, Dr. Ouk Vichea.
It is estimated that there were 1400 (1200-1500) new HIV infections in 2022, which translates to about four people become infected with HIV every day. New HIV infections have been reduced by 91% since the peak of the HIV epidemic in 1996 but the pace of decline has been slowing down and only 33% reduction as compared to 2010. New HIV estimates indicated that increasing proportion of new HIV infections are among men and boys; they accounted for 79% all new HIV infections in 2022. By population, 83% to total new HIV infections are among key populations (female entertainment workers, gay men and other men who have sex with men, transgender women, people who use and inject drugs) and their sexual partners.
“While HIV infections have decreased significantly among women, they are increasing among men, and particularly young gay men,” said Patricia Ongpin, Director of UNAIDS Cambodia, Lao PDR, and Malaysia office. “To bend the curve of new HIV infections, we need focused interventions to increase HIV knowledge as well as access to prevention and testing services for young key populations. We need to explore new ways of working to provide HIV related services to those not yet reached.”
Two critical concerns are the ongoing cases of HIV transmission to babies as well as the low service access for children living with HIV. One of ten pregnant women living with HIV did not access prevention of mother-to-child treatment services last year. The country’s transmission rate from mothers to children remains high at almost ten percent (9.9%). Additionally, just 59% of children living with HIV have been diagnosed and were on treatment in 2022.
“The latest data tell us we must prioritize elimination of mother-to-child HIV transmission urgently while working to ensure that the children who are infected are not left behind,” Ms. Ongpin said.
The Cambodian Policy to Eliminate AIDS includes a raft of measures including increased national investments, deepened community engagement, international cooperation to close prevention gaps and increasing access to social security and healthcare for vulnerable people. The new HIV data will help finetune these approaches, ensuring resources and services are tailored and targeted to those who need them most.

Contact
H.E. Dr. Chhim Khindareth, Secretary General of NAA, Mobile phone: 085 836 767, Email: khindareth@naaa.gov.kh
Dr. OUK Vichea, Director of NCHADS, Mobile phone: 012 51 24 25, Email: oukvichea@nchads.org
Patricia Ongpin | OngpinP@unaids.org | UNAIDS Multi-country Office for Cambodia, Lao PDR, and Malaysia | tel. + 855 2321 9340 | unaids-ap.org | unaids.org
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/226998-despite-impressive-treatment-results-cambodia%E2%80%99s-hiv-response-must-address-inequalities




Date: 06 February 2023
Title: IFAD, the UN’s rural development agency, and the Kingdom of Cambodia deepen partnership for inclusive agricultural growth
Content: 06 February 2023
Phnom Penh, 07 February 2023: An International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) delegation to the Kingdom of Cambodia led by Jyotsna Puri, Associate Vice-President of the Strategy and Knowledge Department, and Reehana Raza, Regional Director for Asia and the Pacific, met key officials, including Prime Minister Samdech Hun Sen, to discuss investments that will promote inclusive and sustainable agricultural growth in rural Cambodia, particularly through priority export and domestic value chains. These investments will support the government’s post-COVID recovery strategy and Agriculture Development Policy.
While Cambodia has seen a significant reduction in poverty over the last two decades, the poverty rate has climbed to 18 per cent (up from 10 per cent in 2019) as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The war in Ukraine has led to higher costs for fuel and fertilizer, and has disrupted supply chains. Rural families, especially small-scale farmers, are particularly vulnerable. Three-fourths of all of Cambodia’s 6.8 million farmers are categorised as small-scale farmers and they struggle to achieve the scale and consistent quality of produce needed by export and domestic markets. Most supplement their incomes with non-farm wage labour.
“From our experience in Cambodia, we know that there is great potential for small-scale farmers to be resilient and contribute in measurably significant ways to economic growth. This will require, among other things, investments in infrastructure, building value chains, irrigation facilities, creating markets and ensuring access to financial services. Additionally the private sector and farmers organizations must also play their role.” said Jyotsna Puri. “Also, with innovation and better and more use of mobile technology, rural families in Cambodia can build safer, healthier, more secure lives with improved livelihoods not just for themselves but for the rest of the population. As an IFI and as a UN organization, IFAD is well positioned to support the government in its planned growth trajectories, while ensuring no one is left behind.”
IFAD has accompanied Cambodia’s development journey since the late 1990s, moving from recovery and ensuring food security to building institutions to now focusing on the market economy. Over the next decade, IFAD aims to contribute to a sustainable rural economy and ensuring that benefits reach the most marginalized communities.
“Today, Cambodia’s small-scale farmers face multiple challenges, including volatile food and fuel prices and the effects of climate change,” said Reehana Raza. “Our goal is to enable small-scale farmers, and especially rural youth, to become more productive by improving their access to productive assets and skills, enabling them to earn increased, sustainable incomes while reduce their vulnerability to climate and other shocks,” she added.
The delegation visited several project sites, including the Kandal, Kampong Speu and Kampot Provinces and saw first-hand the results of IFAD’s support. Across the four projects currently financed by IFAD, participants reported improved productive capacity, better links to markets, more opportunities for youth, and progress towards an enabling environment for export and domestic markets. For instance, at Khmer Green Charcoal in Phnom Penh, the delegation learnt how biochar briquettes from waste coconut husks and other waste biomass, is helping 3,000 chicken farmers provide bird warmth in brooders to reduce chick mortality, thus benefitting from higher incomes. Farmers have also replaced charcoal with the briquettes as cooking fuel, leading to less deforestation and pollution – as well as better health. The delegation also saw IFAD-supported small-scale infrastructure projects, such as collection points for farmers to sell produce to traders, irrigation projects and canal rehabilitation for disaster risk reduction, and better rural roads linking farms to markets.
In addition to the prime minister, the delegation met Aun Pornmoniroth, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Finance; Lim Kean Hor, Minister of Water Resources and Meteorology; Dith Tina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries; Ouk Rabun, Minister of Rural Development and other key partners from the United Nations system.

Since 1996, IFAD has helped finance 12 rural development programmes and projects in the country for a total investment of US$950.48 million, of which US$309.08 million came from IFAD's own resources. These investments have benefited over 1.56 million households in Cambodia. Read more about our work in Cambodia here

Press Release No.: IFAD/07/2023

IFAD is an international financial institution and a United Nations specialized agency. Based in Rome – the United Nations food and agriculture hub – IFAD invests in rural people, empowering them to reduce poverty, increase food security, improve nutrition and strengthen resilience. Since 1978, we have provided more than US$24 billion in grants and low-interest loans to fund projects in developing countries.

A wide range of photographs and broadcast-quality video content of IFAD’s work in rural communities are available for download from our Image Bank.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/217977-ifad-un%E2%80%99s-rural-development-agency-and-kingdom-cambodia-deepen-partnership-inclusive




Date: 28 December 2022
Title: IN CAMBODIA WFP AND EDUCATION MINISTRY HOST COOKING CONTESTS TO CELEBRATE SCHOOL COOKS’ CONTRIBUTION
Content: 28 December 2022
KAMPONG CHHNANG & PURSAT – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport, with support from KOICA, are this month recognizing the role school cooks play in the school meals programme through a series cooking competitions.
“The school meals programme has a proven impact on students’ health, growth and success in the classroom. School cooking contests are a fun way to recognize the hard work and dedication of the 3,000 school cooks in Cambodia’s school meals programme. The hot, nutritious breakfast they prepare every morning goes a long way towards a brighter future for the children of Cambodia,” said Claire Conan, WFP Representative and Country Director.
“It is also a chance for the cooks to learn the importance of kitchen hygiene and food safety practices, share their cooking experience and grow their understanding of school meal requirements and the basics of nutrition,” said H.E. Yung Kunthearith, Deputy Director of the School Health Department.
Starting in the 2016-2017 school year, the school meal cooking contest promotes healthy and nutritious school meals, while encouraging creativity in a cost-effective manner. Each cook is given US$5 to buy ingredients, and they must use at least three locally-produced ingredients and follow child nutrition guidelines to make a special dish. Meals are judged by a panel made of staff from the School Health Department and WFP on their originality, taste, texture and appearance. Additional points are rewarded for the presentation of the dish. Three winning cooks from each district will go to the final provincial-level competition where the ingredients and menu are revealed right before the cooking starts. Three best cooks will emerge and be awarded.
A total of 15 winners from five districts in Pursat made it to the final round of competition at the provincial level and in Kampong Chhnang, 18 winners from the six districts moved to the final. The first-standing cook of each province received a US$150 prize, the second US$120 and the third US$100. The champion cooks also won their respective schools US$100 to be used to purchase school kitchen equipment.
Today, there are more than 3,000 school cooks working in 1,113 schools under the School Feeding Programme. The breakfast they prepare serves some 300,000 pre-primary and primary school children across rural Cambodia.

###
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/213626-cambodia-wfp-and-education-ministry-host-cooking-contests-celebrate-school-cooks%E2%80%99




Date: 10 November 2022
Title: Media Advisory:  The UN Secretary-General, H.E. Antonio Guterres, will pay a visit to the historical Tuol Sleng Genocide Museum during his participation in 12th ASEAN-UN Summit and related events in Phnom Penh
Content: 10 November 2022
WHAT:          The UN Secretary-General, H.E. Antonio Guterres, will pay a visit to the historical Tuol Sleng Genocide Museum during his participation in 12th ASEAN-UN Summit and related events in Phnom Penh.
WHEN:          Sunday 13 November 2022 at 12:55pm to 13:10pm
WHERE:        Tuol Sleng Genocide Museum

The UN Secretary-General (UNSG) and his delegation will participate in the 12th UN-ASEAN Summit and related events in Phnom Penh from 11 to 13 November 2022. During his visit, the Secretary-General will go to the Tuol Sleng Genocide Museum.
The Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in Cambodia would like to invite national and international press to participate in the UNSG’s remarks to the media after his visit at the museum. They will take place at the museum compound.
For further information and RSVP, the media is encouraged to contact Ms. Sreysros Keo, Programme Communication and Advocacy Officer of the UN Resident Coordinator Office in Cambodia, at sreysros.keo@un.org or (+855)11 88 57 66.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/206856-media-advisory-un-secretary-general-he-antonio-guterres-will-pay-visit-historical-tuol-sleng




Date: 02 November 2022
Title: The New United Nations Resident Coordinator, Mr. Joseph Scheuer, Presents the Letter of Credentials to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the Kingdom of Cambodia
Content: 02 November 2022
After the UN Secretary-General’s appointment as the UN Resident Coordinator in Cambodia, Mr. Joseph Scheuer of Luxembourg presented his letter of credentials to H.E. Prak Sokhonn, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the Royal Government of Cambodia to officially take up his assignment in the country.
During the courtesy call on the Deputy Prime Minister, the UN Resident Coordinator expressed his appreciation for the excellent parthership between the Royal Government and the United Nations and discussed future opportunities in the context of new UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for 2024-2028. Mr. Scheuer also recognized and appreciated Cambodia's contribution to the UN Peacekeeping operations since 2006.

“I look forward to collaborate with the Royal Government and partners in developing the new UN Cooperation Framework with Cambodia for 2024-2028 in support of achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Through our cooperation, we will focus on key priority areas for transformative impact, such as human capital development, addressing inequality, green economy and digital transformation, benefiting all Cambodians and ensuring that no one is left behind”, said Mr. Scheuer.

The United Nations Country Team in Cambodia consists of more than 20 agencies, funds, and programmes. For over three decades, the United Nations in Cambodia has been working closely with the Royal Government of Cambodia, development partners, civil society, and the people of Cambodia for sustainable development, enhancing resilience, sustaining peace and promoting human rights in the country.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/205717-new-united-nations-resident-coordinator-mr-joseph-scheuer-presents-letter-credentials




Date: 13 September 2022
Title: WFP AND GOVERNMENT OF CAMBODIA TO LAUNCH BEHAVIOUR CHANGE CAMPAIGN TO IMPROVE NUTRITION AMONG SCHOOLCHILDREN
Content: 13 September 2022
PHNOM PENH – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), in partnership with the School Health Department of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (MoEYS), is launching an innovative social and behaviour change communication (SBCC) campaign to improve the diets of primary school children in Cambodia.
The nutrition-in-schools campaign was developed jointly by WFP and MoEYS at a workshop attended by UN agencies, civil society organizations, the Ministry of Health and the Provincial Offices of Education from Kampong Chhnang, Kampong Thom and Siem Reap.
“Many factors contribute to poor nutrition, and behaviour is one of them. An effective campaign that educates children on the importance of a nutritious and balanced diet can be central to their long-term development and health,” said Claire Conan, WFP Representative and Country Director.
“Building on our long-standing engagement in school meal programmes, we are now working with the School Health Department and partners to develop the campaign to encourage increased consumption of fruit, vegetables, and proteins.”
In Cambodia, school children suffer from high levels of micronutrient deficiencies, rising overweight and obesity rates and a lingering burden of undernutrition. The rapid proliferation of highly processed foods in recent years has had significant impact on the quality of diet. At the same time, diet diversity remains relatively low. Rice, meat, and fish consumption are high, while fruit, vegetables and consumption of other animal-source protein, like milk or eggs, fall below international guidelines.
“This is concerning because despite some progress in reducing the burden of wasting, stunting and underweight in Cambodia, undernutrition remains a persistent problem at the household level,” said H.E. Dr. Chhay Kimsotheavy, Director of MoEYS’ School Health Department.
WFP, in collaboration with the Royal Government of Cambodia, has been providing nutritious school meals to primary and pre-primary school children since 1999, helping to improve nutrition outcomes as well as student attendance, concentration and learning. However, as school meals represent only a portion of children’s diets and do not tackle food consumption at home or unhealthy snacking behaviours, there is still an opportunity to use schools as a platform to influence children’s diets more broadly.
This campaign will help advance the goals of the 2019 National Policy on School Health, the National Action Plan on School Health, and the Standard Guidelines for School Health Promotion, all of which include strategic priorities aimed at promoting improved dietary and health behaviours for school children and their caregivers.
#                 #                   #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/198886-wfp-and-government-cambodia-launch-behaviour-change-campaign-improve-nutrition-among




Date: 20 June 2022
Title: Information Note #17: Civil Society Participation
Content: 20 June 2022
The United Nations Secretary-General’s Call to Action for Human Rights includes public participation and civic space as one of seven thematic areas for action, stating that “society is stronger and more resilient when women and men can play a meaningful role in political, economic and social life, contributing to policy-making that affects their lives, including by accessing information, engaging in dialogue, expressing dissent and joining together to express their views.”
Civic space is key for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. It is the marginalized people who are at the greatest risk of being left behind. By ensuring the meaningful participation of civil society, countries can reduce inequality, ensure inclusion, and improve sustainability. In Cambodia, civil society actors cover a wide range of issues, including service delivery in the development and humanitarian fields, promoting good governance, conservation, peace-building, and human rights. They are found in every province of the country, in every sector, and staffed by individuals and volunteers from a wide range of backgrounds.
Cambodia’s Constitution, promulgated in 1993, places an emphasis on the role of the individual in public life, enshrining in Article 35, the right “to participate actively in the political, economic, social and cultural life of the nation”. However, the constitutional promise that “suggestions from the people shall be given full consideration” by the authorities are still to be fully implemented. Since 2017, civic space and exercise of fundamental freedoms has been restricted as outlined in successive reports by the United Nations.[1]
United Nations Support
Since the 1990s, the United Nations has worked hand-in-hand with civil society in Cambodia to promote and protect human rights. It has provided training and capacity building to civil society actors on international human rights standards, worked with civil society partners in investigating allegations of human rights violations and abuses, promoted their participation in public affairs, and supported their advocacy at national and international level.
Today, the United Nations in Cambodia continues to empower civil society as human rights defender and accelerator for development, advocating for the expansion and protection of its operating space. The United Nation’s partnership with civil society has allowed it to play a critical role as defender of rights since its inception.
The right to freedom of expression: Working closely with the Royal Government of Cambodia, journalists and civil society the United Nations is providing technical assistance, capacity-building and legal support, as well as strengthening networks to promote greater freedom of expression, access to information and media freedom as fundamental human rights and critical pillars of democracy. As part of the implementation of the UN Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists, a legal support desk has been set up with lawyers with expertise on freedom of expression, providing support and advice on Cambodia’s legislation to over 30 media professionals. Furthermore, following the Plan of Action, more than 300 representatives from the media, the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Information and Ministry of Justice have engaged in a series of dialogues convened by the United Nations to build better understanding of the role of the media in providing information to the public during the pandemic, and foster collaboration between the authorities and journalists to create an enabling environment for freedom of expression and access to information.
The right to freedom of association: The United Nations continues to work closely with civil society organizations, including human rights groups, trade unions and others, to build their knowledge and capacities, understand the threats they are facing and to monitor developments with regard to their operating environment. The United Nations has worked closely with civil society to advocate against the shrinking of civic space, including by identifying problematic provisions of legislation that regulates NGOs, associations, and trade unions, and the work that they carry out. In February this year, the UN in Cambodia launched a project aimed at bolstering civic space.
The right to freedom of peaceful assembly: The United Nations monitors the exercise of this right, including by monitoring demonstrations and engaging with authorities to ensure that this right is upheld. For many years, the UN has been present at demonstrations in Phnom Penh and elsewhere in the country, assisting authorities in ensuring that they facilitate rather than restrict or hamper the right to protest. This has included liaising with authorities in moments of high tension.
The right to participation in public affairs: The United Nations develops the capacity of civil society organizations and creates the space for their participation in policy-making and localizing the SDGs for more informed, effective, sustainable and inclusive decisions, for example, children and youth, women, and indigenous peoples. Each advance in protecting civic space has a positive ripple effect for communities and individuals, and their rights. It is also critical for development, peace, and security more broadly. In the area of youth, the United Nations Youth Advisory Panel (UNYAP) in Cambodia was established in 2007 as an interactive platform for dialogue with young people led by young people, to understand their development priorities and perspectives and ensure the voices of Cambodian young people are heard within the UN system. In 2021, UNYAP with support from UN and partners, was able to successfully mobilize young people through the organization of major events such as International Youth Day, Youth Talk Programmes, Campaign on Promoting Decent Employability for Youth and a media mentoring programme to build capacity on civic engagement.
In its Universal Periodic Review (UPR) in 2019, the Royal Government voluntarily committed to “ensure a free civic space, allowing human rights defenders and journalists to freely express themselves both offline and online, without fear of harassment or reprisal, and refrain from prosecuting persons for exercising their fundamental rights”. In September 2021, the UN Secretary-General called on Cambodia to “strengthen civic and democratic space, [and] end harassment of political actors and human rights defenders”. The United Nations has worked with the relevant ministries and institutions, including the Cambodia Human Rights Committee, to implement the UPR recommendations and increase dialogue with the civil society. For instance, a consultation of the UPR Mid-term Report was co-organized on 23 March 2022.
As Cambodia recently held the Commune Council elections and moves towards national elections in 2023, citizens and civil society organizations, including women’s organizations, need to be able to fully contribute and participate in policy making that affect their lives. The Secretary-General’s Call to Action for Human Rights reiterates that the active engagement of civil society actors is critical to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals in Cambodia. Despite not having a mandate to get involved in assisting, organizing, or observing the 2022 commune elections, the United Nations closely monitored the human rights situation in during the electoral period[2]. The United Nations stands ready to support the Royal Government of Cambodia in taking steps to improve civic space through legislative reform to strengthen compliance with Cambodia’s international human rights obligations, including the Law on Associations and Non-Governmental Organizations and the Law on Trade Unions.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development places human rights at the heart of efforts to promote and drive socioeconomic development with its key principle of leaving no-one behind and empowering people as active agents of sustainable development. The United Nations, as a development partner of Cambodia, will continue to highlight the interdependence of all human rights and to collaborate with the Government to improve civic space and to ensure that Cambodia’s development is shared, inclusive and harnesses the skills and contributions of the society as a whole and the country’s civil society.

###
UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are consolidated by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator on behalf of the UN Country Team.

[1] See, for example, Report of the UN Secretary-General to the Human Rights Council, 16 September 2021.
[2] https://cambodia.un.org/en/183273-united-nations-not-involved-assisting-organizing-or-observing-2022-commune-elections
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/186650-information-note-17-civil-society-participation




Date: 24 May 2022
Title: UNODC launches public information campaign to sensitize about the harmful consequences of gender-based violence in Phnom Penh
Content: 24 May 2022
Phnom Penh, Cambodia, 24 May 2022 – Domestic violence or intimate partner violence, which includes physical, sexual, or emotional abuse, is the most common type of violence against women in Cambodia. One in five women between the ages of 15 and 49 have experienced physical violence. According to the 2020 Cambodia Centre for Human Rights report, this incidence rate has risen during the Covid-19 pandemic.


While the Royal Government of Cambodia has made significant efforts to combat gender-based violence (GBV), remaining challenges need to be addressed, such as the lack of knowledge on victim-centred police responses to GBV against women and other available support services.
To help address these key barriers in Cambodia, the United Nations Office on Drug and Crimes (UNODC) Regional Office for Southeast Asia and the Pacific, with support from the German Federal Foreign Office, is launching a 6-month public information campaign today, aiming both at strengthening community-police relations and informing the public of available services to tackle GBV-related crimes.
"UNODC is pleased to contribute to the National Action Plan for Prevention Violence Against Women (NAPVAW) 2019-2023 by means of this public information campaign. We aim to sensitize the harmful consequences of GBV in Phnom Penh and make people aware of the available services to victims. GBV does not only affect the victims, but it also damages the social fabric of the communities," emphasized Mr Esteban Felipe De La Torre, UNODC Regional Coordinator for Southeast Asia.
He further added that this campaign is part of a wider advocacy and awareness-raising initiative from a UNODC project that focuses on community policing approaches to reduce cases of GBV in high-risk areas in Phnom Penh. By working closely with the Cambodian National Police, the project also strives to build the capacity of frontline male and female police officers, to enhance existing mechanisms to detect, report and refer to incidences of GBV.
With the support from the Municipal Department of Women Affairs and District/Khan Office of Social Affairs and Welfare, six communities in three Districts confronted with significant challenges related to GBV were identified, including Khan Dang Ko, Khan Po Senchey, and Khan Sen Sok. Targeting diverse audiences, especially women between the ages of 15 and 49, this public information campaign against GBV will reach out to the public by disseminating online and printed content. Prominent online influencers from various sectors will also amplify the campaign’s message.
With the hashtag #SpeakUpAgainstViolence, the campaign entitled “Help is always available for you”, encourages victims and witnesses to overcome the cultural and social stigma associated with GBV and speak up by building positive sentiment toward seeking support when needed.
Lieutenant General Chiv Phally, Director of Anti-Human Trafficking and Juvenile Protection Department, Cambodian National Police, and Ms Sar Sineth, Deputy Secretary-General, Ministry of Women’s Affairs of Cambodia, recognized champions against GBV, spoke at the event and emphasized the importance of reaching out to the most vulnerable communities.
During her closing remarks at the launch, Dr Angelika Stauder, First Secretary and Deputy Head of Cooperation, Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany in Phnom Penh, commented that: “The police alone cannot solve violence against women and girls. It is a societal problem which requires a societal response. However, the police do have unique powers and responsibilities to protect victims from further harm, pursue perpetrators and prevent crimes. I hope that this public information campaign launch is an important step in directing victims towards the available police service and safety resources.”
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/183133-unodc-launches-public-information-campaign-sensitize-about-harmful-consequences-gender-based




Date: 23 May 2022
Title: WFP trains commercial rice mills on rice fortification
Content: 23 May 2022
Phnom Penh, May 23-24, 2022: The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), in partnership with Green Trade and the Cambodia Rice Federation, is organizing a 2-day technical training this week on rice fortification to support the development of in-country fortification capacity.

Production managers from 15 commercial rice mills are participating in the training, which will use a hands-on approach to demonstrate the blending process, equipment installation and operation, and quality assurance and control.
“This training is a step forward in support of the national agenda on food fortification and responds to recommendations from the 2021 Food Systems Dialogue on commercializing fortified foods,” said H.E. Sok Silo, Secretary General of the Council for Agricultural and Rural Development.
Food fortification is the addition of important micronutrients to foods, like rice, to enhance its nutritional value safely and cost-effectively. While the fortification of salt, fish sauce, and soy sauce with iodine and/or folate has been practiced for a number of years in Cambodia, rice fortification is still relatively new to the country.  In fact, it was with the support of WFP that fortified rice was first introduced in the national school feeding programme.
“I believe it is a key step to unlock the nutrition issue in the country, where a majority of the population eats a large portion of rice on a daily basis,” added H.E. Sok Silo, emphasizing that Cambodia falls amongst the countries with the highest levels of rice consumption in the region.
Though the regular white rice that is commonly consumed in Cambodia is a good source of energy, it lacks critical micronutrients like vitamin A, iron, and calcium that are prevalent in other foods like fruits and vegetables.  As a result, many Cambodians are affected by micronutrient deficiencies, which can impact health, productivity, and learning capacity.
A study on the economic consequences of malnutrition in Cambodia found that the cost related to malnutrition ranges between 250 and 400 million USD annually, of which over 134 million USD islost to micronutrient deficiencies alone.
“The addition of vitamins or minerals to rice safely improves its nutritional quality and can be an effective way to fight micronutrient deficiencies among the poor without a need to change their food habits and taste,” said H.E. Mam Borath, Director of Nutrition Improvement Department of the Ministry of Planning, quoting a 2017 study by WFP that one fifth of Cambodian households cannot afford the least expensive adequate nutritious diet.
Since 2010, WFP has been a leading partner to the government on rice fortification. Early acceptability studies showed that fortified rice was well-liked by teachers, parents, and school children around the country. Later, a randomized control trial with over 9,000 school children confirmed the positive impacts of fortified rice in improving the health and cognitive performance of children in rural districts.
As a result, the government approved the use of fortified rice in the school meal programme in 2016. Three years later, WFP and Green Trade carried out the first in-country blending of fortified rice, which proved successful and paved the way for the current work supporting national rice millers to take on the blending process.
“We congratulate the government for its partnership and support of this innovation. We are now at a stage in which we can scale up and ensure sustainable supplies of fortified rice in the country. We also thank USDA and DSM for their generous contributions, which have made this possible,” said Claire Conan, WFP Representative and Country Director.
“By leveraging the use of fortified rice, we can ensure that nutritious foods can be afforded by everyone, particularly the poor and vulnerable, and help overcome malnutrition across the country, especially amongst women, children and lactating mothers.”
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/183042-wfp-trains-commercial-rice-mills-rice-fortification




Date: 28 April 2022
Title: Cambodia receives funding from the Elsie Initiative Fund to identify barriers to the deployment of uniformed women to United Nations peace operations
Content: 28 April 2022
New York, 28 April 2022 – The Elsie Initiative Fund for Uniformed Women in Peace Operations (EIF) announced today that Cambodia will receive funding to undertake a study to identify barriers to the deployment of women in the Royal Cambodian Armed Forces (RCAF), to United Nations peace operations. Cambodia, the 25th highest troop contributing country to United Nations peacekeeping, currently deploys 766 military personnel, among which 14 per cent are women.
Committed to advancing gender equality, Cambodia plans to increase its deployment of military women to United Nations peacekeeping to 20 per cent by 2024. This project marks a crucial step in translating this commitment into concrete actions. Through a comprehensive assessment, the project will identify specific barriers to, and opportunities for the meaningful participation of women in the RCAF. Results and recommendations from the project will also inform policy formulation and guide institutional reforms to address the barriers identified and promote women’s full and meaningful participation.
“From once a host nation of UNTAC, Cambodia has transformed into an active troop contributing country in United Nations Peacekeeping missions in Africa, Middle East, and Europe. Since 2006, Cambodia has deployed 8302 peacekeepers including 580 women to UN missions in 9 countries. Amongst the priority sectors, the Royal Cambodian Government promotes women's roles in leadership, peace and security,” said His Excellency Sokhonn Prak, Cambodia’s Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of International Affairs and International Cooperation. “Cambodia is committed to the Women, Peace and Security (WPS) agenda, which is a major part in our effort in global peace and security and promotion of women's participation in political, economical and social lives in post-conflict society," he said.
Adopting a whole-of-institution approach, the RCAF will establish a cross-department working group to ensure successful implementation and national ownership of project outcomes. The working group will comprise members from the National Center for Peacekeeping Forces (NPMEC), the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Ministry of Women’s Affair, and other key government partners. Upon completion of the project, the working group will ensure that the recommendations are then incorporated into the policies, national action plans, and programs of the key government departments.
In close partnership with the NPMEC and RCAF, the project will be managed by UN Women Cambodia – a long-standing partner supporting the Cambodian government in empowering women and advancing gender equality. UN Women Cambodia will oversee the project implementation, including the selection of an independent research institution to conduct the assessment, utilizing the Measuring Opportunities for Women in Peace Operations (MOWIP) methodology developed by DCAF - the Geneva Centre for Security Sector Governance.
Sarah Knibbs, Officer-in-Charge of the UN Women Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific, said the project is a major landmark in supporting Cambodia’s effort to increase women’s meaningful participation in United Nations peace operations, a concrete example of multilateralism in action. “It demonstrates Cambodia’s leadership to translate its commitment into the first concrete step to realizing this goal. This also coincides with Cambodia’s role and priority as the Chair of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) this year, focusing on advancing the women, peace and security agenda in ASEAN. I believe it will also have a positive spill-over impact in the ASEAN region and hopefully inspire the other ASEAN Member States,” she added.
Leading by example, Cambodia is the 2nd highest contributor of women peacekeepers among the ASEAN Member States. With this project, Cambodia aims to go beyond the gender targets set in the United Nation’s Uniformed Gender Parity Strategy 2018-2028 of 11 per cent by 2024.
***
About the Elsie Initiative Fund (EIF)
Established by the United Nations and Canada in 2019, the EIF is an innovative, multilateral fund that aims to accelerate progress towards the United Nation’s gender targets in line with Security Council resolutions and the United Nations Uniformed Gender Parity Strategy 2018-2028. Funded by contributions from Australia, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, the Republic of Korea and the United Kingdom, the EIF supports the sustainable deployment and meaningful participation of uniformed women peacekeepers by providing financial assistance and incentives. For more information on the EIF, please visit https://elsiefund.org/ and follow @ElsieFund on Twitter.

Media contacts:
Elsie Initiative Fund: Shuyu Luo shuyu.luo@unwomen.org
UN Women: Montira Narkvichien montira.narkvichien@unwomen.org; Yoomi Jun yoomi.jun@unwomen.org
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/179373-cambodia-receives-funding-elsie-initiative-fund-identify-barriers-deployment-uniformed-women




Date: 17 February 2022
Title: Skills and Future of Work Partner Forum
Content: 17 February 2022
Phnom Penh, 22 February 2022 - The establishment of effective skills and lifelong learning systems requires a long-term vision and clear action plan, taking into account Cambodia’s needs and priorities.
To seek support and engagement from stakeholders to achieve its vision, the International Labour Organization (ILO), in partnership with the Ministry of Labour and Vocational Training (MLVT), held a half-day Skills and Future of Work Partner Forum, between 2.00-5.30pm, on 17th February 2022.
Through this forum, the ILO joined hands with a wide range of stakeholders towards a common objective to further promote skills development and lifelong learning for all, and in turn, together contribute to Sustainable Development Goals.
The forum focused on innovation in TVET, with particular attention to digitalization, decarbonization and demographic shifts, which will serve as a platform for the ILO and like-minded development partners to engage in dialogue, and join forces on:
In building such multi-stakeholder partnerships, the forum explored the ways to increase investment in national programmes on skills and lifelong learning.
H.E. Ith Samheng, Minister of Labour and Vocational Training stated:
“We know that investing today in the skills and employment of young people means investing in the present and future of our society. And this investment needs to focus on the quality and quantity of work.
The foundations of increased employable skills, lifelong learning, and the transformation to a digital and green economy, are necessary to support the Future of Work in all sectors, especially to eliminate economic barriers, which will result in long-term sustainable economic growth in Cambodia.”
Ms. Pauline Tamesis, United Nations Resident Coordinator for Cambodia, affirmed:
“Thanks to the digital and blended platforms, as well as digital innovation, the UN continues to support learning and teaching by making opportunities more accessible to young women migrant returnees, low-skilled workers and rural and vulnerable youth, they have acquired skills in demand and become certified.”
Mr. Graeme Buckley, ILO Country Director, said:
“Digitalisation and Decarbonization present new opportunities and challenges. The rise of digital economy offers enormous opportunities for decent jobs. Decarbonization of the economy will imply some jobs cut but also provide new green job opportunities.”

Summary:
What: Face to Face & Online Partner Forum
Where: Raffles Le Royal Hotel, Phnom Penh, Cambodia
When: 2.00-5.30pm, 17 February 2022

The International Labour Organization (ILO) in Cambodia works to advance the country’s economic and social sector with its tripartite constituents, and has been playing an important role in helping to restore livelihoods, generate sustainable employment, rebuild infrastructure, and strengthen democratic institutions. To support youth to enter the labour market and to support the Government’s COVID-19 social and economic response, the ILO is supporting the digital transformation of the TVET system in Cambodia. Many Cambodian public and private TVET institutions received the capacity building to design and deliver innovative blended learning and assessment packages, which will be allowing​ 3,000 youth to acquire skills in demand and become certified.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/172913-skills-and-future-work-partner-forum




Date: 24 January 2022
Title: MoEYS, KOICA AND WFP REPRESENTATIVES VISIT KAMPONG CHHNANG TO CELEBRATE THE RESUMPTION OF SCHOOL MEALS
Content: 24 January 2022
Kampong Chhnang – Today, the Minister of Education, Youth and Sport (MoEYS), the Country Director of the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) and the Country Director of the World Food Programme (WFP) visited primary schools in Kampong Chhnang province to inaugurate school feeding kitchens, eating halls and other facilities supported by KOICA, while celebrating the resumption of school meals for the 2022 school year. They were accompanied on their tour by senior representatives of the Smet and Ang Serey primary schools and local authorities.
Embedded in the national education and social protection policy frameworks, the school feeding programme provides nutritious breakfasts to 276,000 primary and pre-primary school children in 1,113 schools across ten provinces. In 2022, school feeding in 290 of these schools is entirely funded and run by the Government as part of the national school feeding programme.
School feeding contributes to children’s education and human capital development. Enhancing nutrition supports children’s cognitive development and health. When children are well-fed, they are also better able to concentrate and learn, leading to better school performance.
Targeted to the poorer areas of Cambodia, school feeding also benefits parents by acting as an indirect income transfer, allowing them to save the money they would have spent on their children’s breakfast for other needs.
“Since the programme started, we have noticed a reduction in drop-out rates and a boost in the retention rate,” said H.E. Dr Hang Chuon Naron, the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, adding that providing children with nutrient-rich foods through free school meals strongly motivates families to send and keep their children in school while easing the burden on the household.
Alongside its other education projects in Cambodia, KOICA has supported the school feeding programme since 2020.  Thanks to KOICA’s $10 million investment, 69,000 school children in Kampong Chhnang, Pursat and Kampong Thom provinces receive nutritious breakfasts daily.
“We are delighted that the home-grown school feeding programme has fully resumed, ensuring that children are able to go to school, receive nutritious meals and study to the best of their ability,” said RHO Hyunjun, KOICA Country Director. “Education is such a game-changer for a country’s development, and we don’t want to leave any child behind. We hope our humble contribution will play a role in this.”
Under the home grown-school feeding model supported by KOICA, school feeding also benefits the community at large. The food served at school is grown and purchased locally thus providing predictable income-generating opportunities for local smallholder farmers and suppliers and benefiting the local economy.
“We thank KOICA for its support to school feeding in Cambodia,” said Claire Conan, WFP Representative and Country Director in Cambodia. “Beyond meals themselves, KOICA’s support also extends to enhancing the enabling environment for school feeding through capacity strengthening initiatives and the construction of standard model kitchens, eating halls and WASH. These initiatives are important building blocks for the national school feeding programme as it continues to grow in the future.”

URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/169433-moeys-koica-and-wfp-representatives-visit-kampong-chhnang-celebrate-resumption-school-meals




Date: 20 December 2021
Title: GENERAL MEDIA RELEASE: A Mobile App making migration safer for Cambodian women.
Content: 20 December 2021
“I went to work in Thailand for 8 months, and it was very hard. I can’t speak Thai language and I have no idea how to find support if I need help. I always feel unsafe,” says Long Leap.
For a large number of Cambodian women migrant workers who live and work abroad, there are serious gaps in information and access to service providers required to ensure their safety and rights. “One of the things that we know about migrant workers is that they can risk being isolated in the country that they go to. They may feel quite cut off from services and information in the country where they're working,” says Sarah Knibbs, Officer-In-Charge UN Women Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific.
It is for these reasons that the My Journey Mobile App was conceived. Developed through a collaboration between the Safe and Fair Programme in Cambodia, the Child Helpline Cambodia, and InSTEDD iLab, My Journey Mobile App provides access to essential, reliable, and practical information and services freely available on mobile phones, anywhere.
An emphasis has been placed on making sure the app is user-friendly and universally accessible. Information is delivered through video, animations, audio, and dialogues, with content designed for users of all literacy levels. As Long Leap explains, “This app is very easy to use, the information is detailed but simple to understand, and even if you can’t read you can use the audio function.”
A driving principle in the development of the My Journey Mobile App was to understand the migration journey of Cambodian women. As such, the development drew upon the narratives and perspectives of Cambodian women migrant workers themselves, and it was clear that for women, safe migration is more than passports and visas.
Sophea Khun, National Programme Coordinator for the joint ILO-UN Women Safe and Fair Programme in Cambodia explains, “you could have all the documents to travel and work in a particular foreign country, but if you are not free from intimate partner violence, or control over your money or sexual consent, then it's not a safe migration either. So, the app reflects this, and we have added information about sexual reproductive health, sexual harassment, and links to services too.”
Ultimately the My Journey Mobile App is about empowering women with the information and access they need to take control of their own journeys, making safe and informed choices. Knibbs says, “these women make an enormous contribution to their families, communities and the economy. It is very important to make sure we recognize the value of these women and their work and the courage of the choice they make as well”.
The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the challenges that Cambodian migrant workers face. Now with an ease in travel restrictions, many are predicting a huge increase in migration. This will include both those returned migrants and many new migrating workers who will be travelling for the first time. Says Khun, “It's likely that the border crossing is likely to happen soon. So, we hope that the information and links available on the My Journey Mobile App can support those women who are thinking of migrating, to help them make their journey safer.”
As Long Leap says, “I’d recommend my friends to use it, of course!  Because this app will help them to travel safely”.

My Journey is available free to download through the Google Play store:
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.instedd.ilabsea.myjourneys

URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/165995-general-media-release-mobile-app-making-migration-safer-cambodian-women




Date: 13 December 2021
Title: Information Note #16: Climate Change
Content: 13 December 2021
As the world gathered at the global climate conference COP26 seeking solutions to the climate crisis, we reflect on the need for action in Cambodia.
Over the last decades, Cambodia has had significant success in poverty alleviation and socio-economic development. However, increasing pressures on Cambodia’s ecosystems linked to climate change and complex environmental challenge – including cross-border ones linked to the Mekong River – need to be considered in its development model if Cambodia is to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The Ministry of Economy and Finance and the National Council for Sustainable Development estimate that climate change impacts could reduce Cambodia’s expected GDP by almost 10% by 2050, even if temperature increase is kept within the 2°C target. Cambodia ranks amongst the countries most vulnerable to climate change as a large proportion of its population depends on agriculture for livelihoods and lives in flood-prone areas[1]. Rainfall patterns are changing and are becoming less predictable, leading to more and more severe extreme weather events, such as tropical storms, floods and droughts.
This will significantly impact communities and may further result in economic losses, indebtedness, increased inequality, food insecurity and loss of life, with agriculture, infrastructure, forestry, and human health, the most affected sectors. The most vulnerable - children, women, people with disabilities, the elderly, and socially marginalized groups, such as migrant communities - will be the most affected.
Now is the time for a paradigm shift to support socio-economic growth that minimizes environmental and climate change impacts, with focus on the most vulnerable. The UN is encouraged by the growing interest in Cambodia and commitment across Government, civil society, private sector and young people, to place sustainable land and natural resource management and green growth at the heart of the country’s socio-economic development.
The United Nations in Cambodia is supporting the Royal Government of Cambodia to achieve Sustainable Development Goal 13 ‘Climate Action’ and take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. It is catalyzing its efforts around 4 broad areas:
The UN Human Rights Council recognised this October, for the first time, that having a clean, healthy and sustainable environment is a human right. This serves as a springboard to push for transformative economic, social and environmental policies that will protect people and nature. To achieve transformational efforts towards a more climate-smart, sustainable, economic development model, adaptation and mitigation strategies need to be interlinked and contextualized and target and engage the most vulnerable groups, including children.
The focus on a green economy at the global level, with climate neutrality commitments by countries and corporations, provides opportunities for Cambodia to attract investments in green technologies, with great potential to boost economic growth and create new jobs. Making Cambodia’s economy and society more resilient to climate shocks is thus an urgent priority. This requires a mix of approaches including enabling regulatory measures, engineering and scientific solutions, innovative financing, risk management tools, social and business innovations, and youth engagement. The UN is equipped to support Cambodia in developing these integrated approaches to address climate impacts, particularly for the most vulnerable, and support all Cambodian’s right to a healthy environment.
###
UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are consolidated by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator on behalf of the UN Country Team.
[1] UNICEF global report on children climate risk index ranking Cambodia as #46 globally
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/164901-information-note-16-climate-change




Date: 09 December 2021
Title: Launch of the Cambodia Futures Lab
Content: 09 December 2021
Phnom Penh, 9 December 2021 - The Ministry of Social Affairs, Veterans and Youth Rehabilitation and the United Nations Cambodia launched on 6 & 7 December the Cambodia Futures Lab in collaboration with the Ministry of Civil Service, Royal School of Administration, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, Khmer Enterprise, the Ministry of Commerce, National Council on Social Protection, in partnership with the MIT/Presencing Institute and the United in Diversity Foundation Indonesia.
Cambodia Futures Lab is introducing a 6-month learning initiative to co-create pathways for a prosperous, inclusive and innovative Cambodia to bring stakeholders from government, private sector and civil society and the UN to rethink how cross-sectoral issues of social protection, climate change and digital transformation can be taken into consideration in policy solutions.
How can diverse stakeholders reimagine together more sustainable futures? How can leadership, innovation and learning help reshape Cambodia’s development pathways to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development?
“To ensure that our policies reach the farthest and the most marginalized, our responses should be collectively designed and driven by government, business, civil society and development partners. Our first step is Cambodia Futures Lab to promote policy integration, especially in social protection and ensure no one is left behind.” said His Excellency, Boros Samheng, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Veterans and Youth Rehabilitation.
“We commit to multilateralism in the 21st century, where the UN can provide a platform, such as the Cambodia Futures Lab, to facilitate cross-sectoral collaboration, nurture innovation and generate solutions necessary to accelerate achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable development," said Pauline Tamesis, the UN Resident Coordinator in Cambodia
The opening remarks included a presentation by Prof. Otto Scharmer from MIT/Presencing Institute, the author of the “Theory U: Leading from the Future as it Emerges”, the concept is known to describe the fundamental mindset shift from ego to eco and from siloed to networked institutions to address the complex challenges of sustainable development.  Participants discussed the key elements of systems thinking, collective intention building and systems sensing exercises as a cornerstone for advancing sustainable development in Cambodia.
For media inquiries, please contact:
Tel: +855 11 88 57 66, E-mail: sreysros.keo@un.org
Tel: +855 12 53 81 18, Email : chhoursopannha@yahoo.com
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/164184-launch-cambodia-futures-lab




Date: 24 November 2021
Title: Cambodia Futures Lab: Partnership between the UN Resident Coordinator Office and the Ministry of Social Affairs, Youth and Veterans Rehabilitation
Content: 24 November 2021
Phnom Penh, 24 November 2021 – H.E Vong Sauth, Minister, the Ministry of Social Affairs, Veterans, and Youth Rehabilitation and Ms. Pauline Tamesis, Resident Coordinator, United Nations in Cambodia, exchanged letters to expand strategic partnership and thematic collaboration on the Cambodia Futures Lab.
The Cambodia Futures Lab is a 6-month process whereby leaders from government, civil society, private sector and UN agencies embark on a collective leadership and learning journey on systems transformation in the recovery from COVID-19 pandemic in Cambodia.
The objectives of the Cambodia Futures Lab are:
The Cambodia Futures Lab will offer a platform to define what type of systems transformation can be applied with innovation and strategic foresight into the COVID recovery efforts and accelerate the 2030 Agenda. The joint platform enable engagement with national stakeholders to shape inclusive and sustainable futures for Cambodia.
The Cambodia Futures Lab is jointly organized by the Ministry of Social Affairs, Veterans, and Youth Rehabilitation, the United Nations in Cambodia, together with the Ministry of Civil Service, the Royal School of Administration, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, Khmer Enterprise, the Ministry of Commerce, the National Council on Social Protection and in partnership with the Presencing Institute, the United in Diversity Foundation.
For media inquiries, please contact:
Tel: +855 11 88 57 66, E-mail: sreysros.keo@un.org
Tel: +855 12 53 81 18, Email : chhoursopannha@yahoo.com
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/160010-cambodia-futures-lab-partnership-between-un-resident-coordinator-office-and-ministry-social




Date: 03 November 2021
Title: Information Note #15: Inequality, Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the COVID-19 Response
Content: 03 November 2021
The pandemic is laying bare inequalities in Cambodia - inequalities in income, health and education. Many low-income households are going into debt. Preliminary findings based on the United Nations internal study suggest that debt has been used to cope with their daily economic, health and livelihood needs. Vulnerability and income inequality in Cambodia have been exacerbated by COVID-19, further highlighting the limits of looking at the growth of the Gross Domestic Product as a sign of overall prosperity and people’s well-being.
For the United Nations system in Cambodia, addressing these inequalities requires a human rights economy that invests in people in general and in particular in livelihoods, workplace, social security, family life, participation in cultural life. This includes the need to ensure access to housing, food, water, health care, and education — collectively known as economic, social and cultural rights.
The vision and promise of the United Nations in Cambodia are that all human rights belong to all people irrespective of income. Addressing inequality is the UN’s driving force for more social justice, labour rights, and gender representation. It is also a key objective of the United Nations Secretary-General’s Call to Action for Human Rights, which reiterates the urgency of placing human rights at the centre of sustainable development.
In close collaboration with the Royal Government of Cambodia, the United Nations has worked towards reducing inequalities and protecting economic, social and cultural rights:
Cambodia has signed and ratified a number of human rights protocols and conventions, its legal framework is well grounded on its national Constitution to take all possible legal, policy and institutional measures to achieve these rights. The Royal Government of Cambodia is to guarantee the economic, social and cultural rights to everyone, leaving no one behind – the key promise made under the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Cambodian people want and deserve social and economic systems that work for them. They want their human rights and fundamental freedoms to be respected at all times and have a say in decisions that affect their lives. The United Nations stands ready to support the Royal Government of Cambodia to create a new social contract that creates equal opportunities for all and respect the rights and freedoms of all, by:
###
UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.
[1] ILO calculation based on Cambodia Labour Force Survey 2019
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/156590-information-note-15-inequality-economic-social-and-cultural-rights-and-covid-19-response




Date: 13 October 2021
Title: Information Note #14: Health and COVID-19 Response
Content: 13 October 2021
The pandemic in Cambodia has disrupted all aspects of society, including the physical, mental, and social well-being of its communities. More than 115,335 cases and 2,544 deaths have been reported. The challenges responding to the pandemic are similar across countries: increasingly transmissible variants; transmission among young, healthy, mobile adults that make the virus difficult to detect and contain; challenges in full compliance with effective public health and social measures, pandemic fatigue; vaccine optimism. These challenges, however, have also brought opportunities to the Cambodian health system and beyond, and the investments in these opportunities will ripple for years to come.
The Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) is taking the opportunity to work for the future by investing in the health security system to ensure both a stronger response and a more prepared, resilient system. The United Nations commends RGC commitments to promote public health and has supported it throughout the pandemic with policy advice, technical cooperation in line with the WHO technical guidelines, coordination of partners and agencies, training and procurements. Below are some examples.
To improve early detection of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, working partners, the United Nations has supported the Ministry of Health (MOH) to expand laboratory diagnostic capacity with technical advice, testing strategies, training, and procurement (more than USD$2 million). By September 2021, 12 laboratories could test 12,000 samples per day, compared with one laboratory and 500 samples per day in February 2020. The National Institute for Public Health now conducts whole-genome sequencing for SARS-CoV-2, in addition to Institute Pasteur du Cambodge. These investments will advance the country’s ability to detect new variants of SARS-CoV-2 and other novel pathogens that may emerge.
The United Nations with development partners supported MOH to strengthen local capacity for detecting transmission in the field, assessing risk, and responding to outbreaks. Approximately 3,000 Rapid Response Team (RRT) members were trained in 2020 on COVID-19, almost two dozen came from their provinces to the national contact tracing team in February–July 2021 to support the response and participate in four-to-six-week on-the-job training at the Communicable Disease Control Department (MOH). These trained RRT members now serve as contact tracing and surveillance leads in their provinces.
As RGC rapidly expanded treatment facilities throughout the country, including large regional centres, United Nations Cambodia procured critical supplies, such as PPE (USD 1.8 million) and essential medicines and equipment for oxygen support (USD 820,000) to aid that expansion. In addition, it assisted capacity-building efforts for frontline healthcare workers, including critical care providers, in clinical management and Infection, Prevention and Control (IPC) measures. The United Nations with MOH brought national clinicians together through regular virtual calls for experience sharing, which leveraged the experience that local clinicians gained managing COVID-19 early in the epidemic to prepare those who had not yet faced it.
The United Nations joined RGC in its embracing of community engagement as an essential approach to facing COVID-19. In May and June 2021, the joint MOH-WHO missions facilitated dialogue sessions with provincial health directors and provincial governors to learn about their experiences fighting COVID-19, identify success stories and adjust response plans. The findings led to modified non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) and a national campaign to empower families and communities to make decisions that protect lives and livelihoods. The UN also has trained and supported community members,  Village Health Support Groups and village leaders across rural and vulnerable migrant communities to raise awareness of COVID-19 preventive measures in their communities, including promoting the uptake of COVID-19 vaccination, contributing to reducing the risk of community transmission.
Although efforts have focused on COVID-19, the United Nations has also worked alongside national partners and communities to ensure that essential and basic health services for all are not disrupted. Support for the National Center for HIV/AIDS, Dermatology and STD to adopt and expand innovative and agile approaches to minimize the disruption of needed services for people living with HIV and key populations community. Disruption of treatment services for people living with HIV has remained at less than 10% compared to the pre-pandemic period. Childhood vaccination coverage nationally for non-COVID vaccines have remained on track, however, there are low coverage areas in some hard to reach and high-risk communities that require close monitoring and support at local levels. The UN will work with health sector partners to continue monitoring and analysing the continuity of essential health services, including the coverage and work with local authorities and communities to address barriers.
To prevent importation and support returning migrant workers, a 2020 UN programme improved access to COVID-19 preventive measures and screening for returning migrants at points of entry and quarantine centres. The programme supported the provision of essential health and social services, such as maternal and newborn care, gender-based violence support, and mental health and psychosocial support. The programme also provided information on COVID-19 prevention and public health measures to returning migrants, as well as guidance on accessing essential health and social services. The United Nations has also worked with the Department of General Immigration to train border officials on health-compliant border management procedures and on performing duties while minimizing the risk of transmission.
To date, Cambodia has vaccinated more than 98% of people 18 years of age or older with at least one dose, making it one of the most vaccinated countries globally. UN support for this effort has been detailed in 3 August 2021 UN Information Note #11. Nevertheless, it is not the time to let down our guard. The Delta variant is more transmissible than previous variants and has resulted in explosive outbreaks and overwhelmed hospitals in other countries. Ongoing transmission brings the threat of new variants arising at any time. The UN urges continued investment in provincial surveillance and response systems to enable provinces to detect cases more quickly and respond to clusters with targeted, localized measures, which will help minimize economic and social disruptions. This investment should include better data availability and management in the provinces with disaggregated data to assess the coverage of essential health services, especially for the at-risk, vulnerable, and marginalized individuals. The United Nations encourages prioritizing efforts to ensure 100% of the vulnerable, elderly, and those with underlying health conditions are fully vaccinated to save irreplaceable lives and prevent overwhelmed healthcare systems and hospitals. The United Nations advocates continuing support on risk communication and community engagement to safeguard the gains made in empowering families and communities to make decisions that save lives and livelihoods.
The United Nations calls for respect for all human rights for the success of the public health response. While it is critically important to provide immediate health response to mitigate the risk of COVID-19 transmission, the United Nations promotes human rights and gender-based strategy as part of its support to public health. It calls on the authorities to promote equality and address non-discrimination, which includes addressing pre-existing barriers to access to health and make the treatment and health services available for those who lack means of payment. The United Nations further calls the authorities to rebuild public health policy towards universal health coverage that is grounded on human rights where everyone is empowered, informed and engaged.
Health is an investment that should not be considered a cost. We have learned from the COVID-19 pandemic that health is a fundamental and indistinguishable part of society, not a luxury. If health is at risk, everything is at risk. Governments must prioritize strengthening healthcare capacity and public health systems—to invest now for a safer, healthier future. To build back better, governments must also use this opportunity to implement transformational policies, such as Universal Health Coverage, and sustainable financing for health to ensure resilient health systems. The United Nations commends the Royal Government for prioritizing this and will continue to support it in doing so.
###
UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes is official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/151314-information-note-14-health-and-covid-19-response




Date: 27 September 2021
Title: Germany and World Food Programme to Provide Cash Assistance to Support Recovery of Vulnerable Cambodian Families Affected by COVID-19 and Climate Shocks
Content: 27 September 2021
Phnom Penh. Germany and WFP entered into a new partnership to support lower-income Cambodian families affected by multiple shocks such as COVID-19 and climate-related shocks. The Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), on behalf of the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), has committed EUR 5 million, which is approximately US$6 million to provide cash assistance to vulnerable households to support their recovery. The partners will also support the Royal Government of Cambodia to enhance the responsiveness of social protection schemes to strengthen resilience to shocks.
The COVID-19 pandemic has had profound social and economic impacts on Cambodia’s vulnerable population. For part of them, these negative effects have been compounded by climatic shocks such as the devastating floods of late 2020.
“COVID-19 and severe flooding have only added to the challenges faced by these already vulnerable people. Reports show that many of the most vulnerable households hit by these two shocks have reduced their food consumption, sold productive assets, and taken on debt to meet basic needs. We are pleased to be able to support those in need to meet their food and nutrition needs and support their recovery.” said WFP representative Claire Conan.
GIZ and WFP will use data from the Royal Government of Cambodia, including the Ministry of Planning’s Identification of Poor Households (IDPoor) database, and disaster-related information from the Platform for Real-​time Information System (PRISM), to identify poor households affected by the floods and COVID-19. GIZ has provided technical support to the Ministry of Planning to implement its IDPoor programme for more than a decade. The IDPoor programme now covers 100% of rural and urban areas in Cambodia.
Targeted households will receive cash transfers in addition to the government's COVID-9 emergency cash transfers. This extra support will prevent the households from falling further into poverty and help build up their resilience to future crises.
While the COVID-19 situation remains volatile and climatic shocks remain a constant potential threat, preparing for these is important. Therefore, WFP and GIZ will continue to provide support to the Royal Government of Cambodia to improve the responsiveness of current social assistance schemes to shocks.
“Germany is proud to have supported IDPoor together with Australia for over a decade. Together with our technical cooperation agency GIZ, the Ministry of Planning has continuously enhanced IDPoor and the registry now covers all of Cambodia. It is instrumental in the response to the COVID pandemic.” said H.E. Christian BERGER, the German Ambassador.
“In this additional collaboration with WFP, we are using a data driven approach with IDPoor and PRISM to help vulnerable groups including children, older persons and women in recovering and building resilience,” he added.
“We thank Germany for its long-term support to Cambodia and are eager to work closely with GIZ to support families that have suffered from the effects of multiple shocks since last year. We are keen to develop an operational model for Cambodia’s future shock-responsive social assistance scheme. In so doing, we will be able to identify new ways to enhance social assistance and disaster response programmes, meaning families in the future will be much more ready and resilient when shocks do occur,” said Conan.
This partnership will serve to support related efforts of government institutions such as the Ministry of Social Affairs, Veterans and Youth Rehabilitation, the General Secretariat of the National Social Protection Council, the Ministry of Planning, the National Committee for Disaster Management, as well as development partners engaged in social assistance and disaster response.

URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/146169-germany-and-world-food-programme-provide-cash-assistance-support-recovery-vulnerable




Date: 06 September 2021
Title: Information Note #13: Support to Persons with Disabilities and COVID-19 Response
Content: 06 September 2021
Persons with disabilities in Cambodia face multiple challenges such as inequality and discrimination in access to education, healthcare, employment, social protection, justice, public transport. They are also particularly vulnerable to violence and violations of their basic human rights. Women and girls with disabilities face additional discrimination and barriers when accessing services compared to men with disabilities. According to the 2019 General Population Census, 4.9 per cent of Cambodians (689,532 people) over the age of five reported some difficulty in performing basic functions.
The COVID-19 pandemic threatens all members of society, but many persons with disabilities face inequalities that leave them more exposed. These inequalities, which are heightened for women and girls with disabilities, arise from multiple barriers such as stigma, inaccessibility of infrastructure, transport and information, and the lack of inclusive public policies and services.
The United Nations system in Cambodia welcomes the extensive policy framework put in place by the Government to support a post-COVID recovery that is inclusive of persons with disabilities. The forthcoming adoption of a new disability law (expected in 2022) that will reflect the rights-based approach of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) will lay a solid foundation for future action. The National Disability Strategic Plan 2019-2023 (NDSP2) also provides a framework for action across all ministries and agencies at the national and sub-national levels. In addition, the National Social Protection Policy Framework 2016-2025 (SPPF) outlines a vision to expand coverage and increase coherence between social assistance, social insurance and labour market schemes.
The United Nations (UN) System in Cambodia is actively supporting the Government in its efforts to ensure effective disability-inclusive responses to COVID-19. In addition to the health sector, several UN agencies are focusing on the secondary impacts of the pandemic and contributing specific sectoral support such as social protection, education and employment.
Challenges remain in the effective mainstreaming of disability into broader policies and plans. There is still much work to be done to build the capacity of government officials, local authorities, other service providers, and the business sector to ensure effective disability inclusion in all responses to the pandemic, including in the development and implementation of laws, policies and plans.
The United Nations seeks to strengthen the capacity of national and sub-national service providers to deliver equitable and accessible basic services, including during emergencies. These include services such as healthcare, social welfare, rehabilitation employment, justice and education, and the protection of vulnerable populations, including persons with disabilities. The three-year recovery plan for persons with disabilities can serve as a roadmap in this regard.
To ensure the rights and well-being of persons with disabilities and their access to services and support will require commitment and creativity from all stakeholders, including but not limited to government agencies, UN agencies and other development partners, International Organizations, NGOs, the business sector and civil society. At the same time, urgent attention is needed to ensure that capacities to address the rights and meet the needs of persons with all types of disabilities for services and support in or near their communities are available, appropriate and accessible.
Most importantly, persons with disabilities must be at the center of recovery planning. No one knows better the challenges and barriers that must be overcome to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, restore a sense of wellbeing and enjoy the same rights and access to services, supports, and opportunities on an equal basis with others.
###
UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/143193-information-note-13-support-persons-disabilities-and-covid-19-response




Date: 30 August 2021
Title: World Food Programme and Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport Provide Food Support To 30,000 Families
Content: 30 August 2021
Phnom Penh – This week, the World Food Programme (WFP), in partnership with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (MoEYS), began distributing family food parcels to 30,000 vulnerable households across Siem Reap, Oddar Meanchey, Kampong Thom, Kampong Chhnang and Pursat. The distribution will benefit some 150,000 people across the five provinces and take place each day from 30th August to 3rd September. The food parcels will benefit households holding IPoor equity cards and which usually participate in the WFP/MoEYS school meals programme.

This fifth round of food assistance comes as the Royal Government of Cambodia has confirmed its commitment to a new School Meals Coalition, to be launched as part of the Global Food Systems Summit in September 2021. This coalition sees governments, the United Nations, civil society, academia, philanthropy and the private sector joining together in recognition that school meals is a crucial element of food systems transformation which can help countries recover from the COVID-19 pandemic and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. The initiative underscores the urgency to act now to protect the most vulnerable children from hunger and malnutrition leaving no one behind. Cambodia is one of the first 40 countries to sign up to this historic Coalition.
“Nutritious school meals increase students’ concentration spans and help them study more effectively, contributing to better educational outcomes,” said H.E HANG Chuon Naron, Minister of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport.
“Providing children with diverse, nutrient-rich foods through free school meals also motivates families to send and keep their children in school while easing their economic burden. This is why we signed up to join the School Meals Coalition, which demonstrates the Royal Government’s commitment to ensure that no child is left behind.”
For the past twenty years, the WFP-supported school meals programme has provided nutritious and healthy meals to primary school children in some of the poorest areas of Cambodia. Before the pandemic, the programme reached 223,000 children in 908 target schools in the five provinces.  Since the start of the COVID-19 outbreak and related school closures, children have missed out on the nutritious cooked breakfasts provided through the programme. This has particularly impacted children from the poorest families, many of whom also suffered from loss of income and livelihoods.
“WFP knows how important good nutrition is to young lives, which is why our team is working hard to make sure that these food packages reach vulnerable households where children could be at risk of not getting enough nutritious food,” said Claire Conan, WFP’s Country Director in Cambodia.
“Many households have been severely economically-impacted by the pandemic. This food distribution is designed to complement other social assistance schemes put in place by the Royal Government of Cambodia. We are deeply grateful to all our partners for their crucial role in providing this support to the vulnerable, especially MoEYS, the National Social Protection Council and our donors.”
This is the fifth round of food distributed to mitigate the economic impact of COVID-19 on vulnerable households. The distributions take place through school networks with support from Education Departments, school administrations, commune and village authorities, and NGO partners. WFP is also working closely with MoEYS and other partners to improve school infrastructure and facilities in preparation for a safe return to schools once they re-open.
The school feeding programme in Cambodia, including this special food distribution, is made possible by the generous support from the Governments of Cambodia, Japan, KOICA and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/142308-world-food-programme-and-ministry-education-youth-and-sport-provide-food-support-30000




Date: 23 August 2021
Title: Information Note #12: Mental Health and COVID-19
Content: 23 August 2021
“There is no health without mental health. COVID-19 has threatened mental health in Cambodia, particularly for vulnerable Cambodians, such as migrant workers. WHO and the UN are working to ensure that these vulnerable groups have access to mental health and psychosocial support.”[1]
Dr Li Ailan, WHO Representative to Cambodia.
As COVID-19 threatened people’s physical health, it also had a huge impact on their mental health. In May, the World Bank estimated that the pandemic had endangered at least 1.7 million jobs in Cambodia[2], putting immense socioeconomic—and emotional—stress on Cambodians. Workers in many industries had their salaries cut or their livelihoods threatened; students and families had to adapt to schools being physically closed; and everyone coped with greater social isolation and uncertainty. These challenges made many people feel anxious and distressed. Migrant workers were particularly affected, struggling to find a source of income upon their return[3], which caused considerable stress, depression and other mental health challenges. To date, over 225,000 (46% women) Cambodian migrant workers have returned to Cambodia from neighboring countries since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, demand for mental health services increased.
Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) is a core component of any public health response. Addressing the mental health effects of COVID-19 is essential to prevent long-term impacts on Cambodians’ wellbeing.
The United Nations prioritizes mental health as a human rights issue. In May 2020, the Secretary General issued a policy brief calling for concrete actions on mental health. The note provides substantive and policy guidance for the United Nations, Governments, civil society and other stakeholders to minimize the mental health consequences caused by the pandemic. The Secretary General notes that human rights violations against people with severe mental health conditions are widespread in all countries of the world.
The United Nations system in Cambodia has worked closely with the Royal Government to strengthen the mental health services offered at health facilities and in communities. Technical and financial support was provided to the Government[4] using a whole-of-system approach, reaching the most vulnerable population at community level through Village Health Support Groups (VHSGs), Health Centers and referral hospitals, rehabilitation centers and prison health staff to ensure everyone who is need have access to services without discrimination. It ensured essential mental health service delivery and psycho-social support in the context of COVID-19.
In collaboration with the Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse of the Ministry of Health, the United Nations trained health staff to provide appropriate mental health and psychosocial support (MHPSS) to vulnerable population, including returning migrants. As a result, 2,778 (969 females and 1,809 males) health staff from health centers and districts referral hospitals in 24 provinces and Phnom Penh gained knowledge and skills on MHPSS in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.
In October 2020, flooding affected Cambodians in 19 provinces. This capacity building provided a foundation for health staff to provide mental health and psychosocial support in some flood-affected areas, showing how investment in essential health services as part of COVID-19 preparedness and response has much wider benefits.
At community level, the UN in Cambodia supported the Department of Psychology of the Royal University of Phnom Penh to conduct awareness raising sessions on mental health and psychosocial support for villages chiefs and village health support groups. 2,134 (836 females and 1,298 males) villages chiefs and village health support groups in 11 provinces gained knowledge and skills on preventive measures for anxiety, depression, and suicide prevention, along with basic counselling skills and how to mitigate the risks of gender-based violence. Moreover, 90,900 copies of awareness raising materials on COVID-19 related anxiety and depression management, suicide prevention, basic psychosocial support and relaxation were distributed among the population through the 2,134 village health support groups in 11 provinces.
Support was also provided to strengthen Mental Health and Psychosocial Support by specialized NGOs, such as The Transcultural Psychosocial Organization (TPO) and Child Helpline Cambodia (CHC), through hotlines, social media, face to face counselling and referrals to other services. Child Helpline Cambodia received 7,323 calls and all were provided with educational information mental health. In addition, 134 children and youth and 49 adults received individual counselling, 445 children and youth, 58 adults were provided with basic mental health care tips and self-protection, and 10 children and 7 adults were referred for specialized services. In 2020, a total of 195,364 children and 104,651 adults were reached with MHPSS messaging and COVID-19 prevention messages through social media, and 51 children and 630 adults received specialized mental health support from TPO’s psychologists and psychiatrists.
MHPSS messages were also integrated in positive parenting programme and other Risk Communication and Community Engagement messaging implemented by ICS-SP. Since 2020, a total of 112,611 children and 76,816 parents/caregivers were reached with integrated MHPSS and COVID-19 prevention messaging and positive parenting tips. Additionally, 4,805 children and 5,392 parents/caregivers were reached through targeted community-based parenting sessions, peer-education and home-base visits, which included MHPSS information, conducted by trained community facilitators. All the above efforts contributed to addressing anxiety and stress in the context of COVID-19.
Mental health and psychosocial support is an important part of COVID-19 response and further investment in this support will contribute to a safer and healthier future for all Cambodians. Now is the time to leverage the progress made through the COVID-19 response and build better mental health systems for the future. Key actions include addressing the chronic underfunding of mental health, taking a systems approach to deliver equitable, effective, and accessible services based on human rights principles and championing mental health beyond the health sector. Strengthening further the capacity of other sectors including local authorities, social workers, and education to address mental health is a step towards ensuring widespread availability of MHPSS to all populations, including the most vulnerable and hard to reach.
###
UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.
1] https://www.who.int/cambodia/news/feature-stories/detail/who-rgc-and-partners-join-forces-to-offer-mental-health-support-to-migrant-workers-and-vulnerable-groups
[2] https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2020/05/29/covid-19-coronavirus-epidemic-poses-greatest-threat-to-cambodias-development-in-30-years-world-bank
[3] Situation Report from IOM Cambodia for June & July 2021
[4] Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse of the Ministry of Health and the Royal University of Phnom Penh of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/141242-information-note-12-mental-health-and-covid-19




Date: 09 August 2021
Title: Ministry of Health Establishes National Technical Working Group for Migrant Health
Content: 09 August 2021
Phnom Penh – Amidst the global pandemic which has brought to the forefront the need to for comprehensive national health care coverage and equity in access to health care services, Cambodian Ministry of Health (MoH) has given the green light to the establishment of the National Working Group for Migrant Health, under the joint Vice-Chair Secretariat of the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the World Health Organization (WHO).
This marks a milestone for IOM Cambodia which has over the past few years supported the Royal Government of Cambodia in ramping up efforts to include migrant workers in the national healthcare coverage and address the specific vulnerabilities they face. The Migrant Health Policy was endorsed by MoH in February 2021 with previous series of workshops facilitated by IOM Cambodia , where the initial talks on the on the development of the National Strategic Plan (2021-2030) also took place.
Kristin Parco, IOM’s Chief of Mission in Cambodia commented that the endorsement of the National Migration Health Policy will enhance the equitable access for migrants to health promotion and disease prevention. “The inclusion of migrant health in the development of national strategies will significantly contribute to the implementation of the Global Compact on Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration (GCM) in by the Royal Government of Cambodia,” Parco said.
“A champion country for GCM implementation, Cambodia is taking big steps to also become a migrant health champion country and lead by example in the region. The priority now is to develop and operationalize the National Strategic Plan of Action. Cambodia can be proud of its approach to strengthening migration governance and efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals,” she added.
Migrant workers in Cambodia, many of whom have been disproportionately affected by the COVID-19 pandemic often face barriers in accessing essential health services, such as their irregular employment status, lack of financial means and indebtedness and sometimes it is simply lack of information on how and where they can access health care.
In 2017, at a regional level discussion, MoH with the support from IOM Cambodia, committed to developing a Migrant Health Policy. Following this, a situation analysis was conducted in 2018 to analyse the specific situation of migrant workers in Cambodia and identify health challenges and existing legal frameworks which promote migrant health.
A technical consultation followed in December 2018, which involved MoH and other key ministries: Interior, Labour and Vocational Training and Education, Youth and Sports. The consultation resulted in a draft Migrant Health Policy and a recommendation to create a technical working group on the development of this policy.
Between January 2019 and February 2021, a series of 13 technical working group meetings took place to seek inputs from key stakeholders such as technical departments of MoH, hospitals, WHO and ILO. Finally, the Migrant Health Policy was adopted in February 2021.
Chanthida Dum, National Project Officer at IOM Cambodia, who supported MoH throughout the process said that IOM will continue to support MoH to finalize National Strategic Plan (2021-2030) and develop operational guidelines together with the national Technical Working Group for Migrant Health.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/138382-ministry-health-establishes-national-technical-working-group-migrant-health




Date: 03 August 2021
Title: Information Note #11: United Nations support to Cambodia’s national COVID-19 vaccination roll-out
Content: 03 August 2021
The Royal Government of Cambodia launched its national vaccination campaign against COVID-19 on 10 February 2021 with a target to vaccinate 10 million adults by the end of 2021. Priority groups for vaccination include frontline healthcare workers, the elderly, persons with co-morbidities and the wider adult population. As of 24 July 2021, a total of 6.6million[1] people received a first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine and 4.4 million[2] were vaccinated with a second dose. Among the targeted population, 50% of females received a first dose while 49% received a second dose. Vaccinations for elderly persons aged 60 and over continued to be prioritized and accelerated and as of mid-June 2021, 93% of health care workers were vaccinated with a second dose. Despite the constrained global supply of COVID-19 vaccines, the Royal Government has been able to secure, through bilateral procurement, COVAX and donations, a pipeline of COVID-19 vaccines to meet its target.  To date a total of 17,356,000 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been received in Cambodia and more are expected in the coming months.
Cambodia has one of the highest percentages of COVID-19 vaccination among its adult population in the WHO Western Pacific Region and is among the top 17 countries in the world to first vaccinate teachers.  Based on available data, vaccine hesitancy in Cambodia is relatively low compared to other countries in the world.  Since the onset of large-scale community transmission of COVID-19 in February 2021, the vaccination strategy adopted a geographical based roll-out, which prioritized vaccination in areas and cities at high risk for transmission, while gradually rolling-out vaccination to the rest of the country.  The Royal Government established several high-level committees, including the Ad-hoc Committee for COVID-19 Vaccination with five sub-committees and provincial committees to ensure efficient vaccinations country-wide; as well as to address the ongoing large-scale community transmission of COVID-19, including the imminent threat of the Delta variant.  Currently, Cambodia uses COVID-19 vaccines Sinovac, Sinopharm and AstraZeneca/Covishield which have obtained WHO approvals[3], with upcoming plans to include the Janssen (Johnson&Johnson) vaccine to its country vaccine portfolio.  Recommended doses of vaccine granted WHO Emergency Use Listing have been shown to provide excellent protection from severe disease and hospitalization against the Delta variant as well as against other variants of concern.
The United Nations has been assisting the Royal Government’s COVID-19 response and vaccination roll-out, as a top priority. Overall, the United Nations focuses on strengthening health systems as part of ‘building back better,’ promoting equitable vaccination and ensuring that those with highest risk for infection of COVID-19 are vaccinated first. In line with this, the United Nations provided technical support to the Royal Government for the development of the National Deployment and Vaccination Plan (NDVP) and the Operational Guidelines for COVID-19 for the vaccination campaign roll-out.   Cambodia joined the COVAX Facility, a global mechanism managed by GAVI, CEPI and WHO which aims to ensure COVID-19 vaccines are affordable and available to all countries.  The United Nations has been working to ensure Cambodia’s access to COVID-19 vaccines.  Through its cross-sector programmes and strategic partnerships, the United Nations is supporting the Royal Government to reach the most vulnerable populations to ensure timely access to accurate information about COVID-19 vaccines and to quality and safe vaccination services.  More specific assistance provided to the Royal Government by the United Nations, with funding from key donors, have included:
Recently, the Government announced its plans to vaccinate children 12 to 17 years old starting in August 2021. Evidence and guiding policies on COVID-19 vaccination among children are still emerging. In line with current WHO guidance, the United Nations recommends that adults and those with higher risk to infection (including frontline health and social workers), elderly and the most vulnerable should continue to be prioritized for vaccination, especially given global vaccine supply constraints. Children with underlying medical risks to develop severe Covid-19 infection are recommended to be vaccinated after adults with underlying medical conditions have been reached. Vaccinating children and adolescents may be needed in the future to further limit virus transmission, reduce the risk of new variants emerging and protect vulnerable and unvaccinated groups. See also UN Info Note #10 on Education for more information on vaccinating children.
Vaccination is one of the key strategies in the fight against COVID-19.  To effectively curb the transmission of COVID-19, vaccinations should be accompanied by effective public health and social measures.  In this regard, the United Nations continues to encourage and support the authorities to implement measures such as strong surveillance, strategic testing, early case detection, isolation and clinical care as well as mask wearing, hand hygiene and physical distancing.  The United Nations continues to advocate that the most at-risk populations be vaccinated first and for strengthening monitoring and evaluation systems to ensure the availability of disaggregated data and analysis to support efforts aimed at identifying high risk groups and ensuring equitable vaccination.  The United Nations also urges continued community engagement and effective communications at national and local levels to reduce COVID-19 transmission, counter misinformation, and improve COVID-19 vaccine acceptance.  Sustainable recovery from the pandemic requires bolstering the health care system and strengthening preparedness for potential future health emergencies.  At the global level, the United Nations has called for global solidarity to tackle the virus and advocates for fair, equitable and safe access to vaccines for people in all countries.  The United Nations in Cambodia remains committed to supporting the Royal Government in its COVID-19 response and vaccination roll out to protect people, save lives and ensure a more resilient recovery from the pandemic.
###
UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.
[1] 6,648,473 people or 66% of targeted adult population and 39% of total country population
[2] 4,431,252 people or 44% of targeted adult population and 29% of total country population
[3] They have received Emergency Use Listing (EUL) and Emergency Use Authorization (EUA)
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/138331-information-note-11-united-nations-support-cambodia%E2%80%99s-national-covid-19-vaccination-roll-out




Date: 03 August 2021
Title: UNIDO launches EU-funded Value Chain Investment Support scheme for post-harvest fisheries in Cambodia
Content: 03 August 2021
PHNOM PENH, 3 August, 2021 - With support of the European Union, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and the Fisheries Administration (FiA) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries have launched a Value Chain Investment Support (VCIS) scheme to support Cambodia’s small, medium and large enterprises.
VCIS is a co-investment scheme for eligible fishery business operators to upgrade their production and to add value to their products through food safety certifications thus improving the competitiveness of their products in national and global market places. VCIS provides financial and non-financial support to Cambodian entrepreneurs, especially women and youth, to help them upgrade their business operation to comply with food safety standards and market requirements. VCIS is expected to co-invest over USD 5 million in at least 100 enterprises along with their associated value chain actors in post-harvest fisheries.
The launch event, presided over by Poum Sotha, Director General of the FiA, brought together over 100 participants from development partners, NGOs, provincial offices and the private sector. Poum Sotha highlighted the importance of the competitiveness of post-harvest fishery business operators to promote market access. He said, "The VCIS scheme will benefit enterprises and create sustainable impacts for businesses and society. Our aim is to improve the competitiveness of Cambodian fishery businesses by establishing good practices, infrastructure, technology, and food safety certification to achieve better markets, not only within the country, but also globally.’’
The Government of Cambodia recognizes fisheries value chains as one of the pillars in the fisheries development, having important roles in contributing to the employment creation, food security and economy growth.
Attending the event virtually, Bryan Fornari, Head of Cooperation at the EU Delegation to Cambodia, said that the EU-supported CAPFISH programme sets a long-term strategic plan to support the fishery sector and private sector operators to strengthen and build a vibrant fisheries sector that benefits Cambodian fishery businesses through the generation of employment, food security and supporting livelihoods. VCIS leads to realization of valorizing of fishery resources aiming at better markets globally including the EU.
Speaking on behalf of UNIDO, Mr. Narin Sok indicated the important contributions of VCIS to   provide better access to and availability of safe, quality and nutritious fishery products. He said ‘‘with the support of VCIS, local entrepreneurs in post-harvest sector can build more trust of local products among consumers while building sustainable foods system in the country. The VCIS scheme is becoming increasingly important in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic when fishery businesses experienced significant impact.’’ He added, ‘‘this will require an urgent transformation of the current agri-food system, and a better awareness of the importance of nutrition and food safety.’’

Download available materials about VCIS: https://bit.ly/3xoPxC8
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/138755-unido-launches-eu-funded-value-chain-investment-support-scheme-post-harvest-fisheries




Date: 20 July 2021
Title: Information Note #10: United Nations support to Cambodia’s Education Sector in the context of COVID-19
Content: 20 July 2021
Education is critical for children’s personal development and lifetime prospects. It is key for escaping poverty, reducing inequality and it drives sustainable development. The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted education and school attendance globally. In Cambodia, since March 2020, schools have been closed for over 200 days, interrupting learning for approximately 3.2 million learners. Education losses drive drastic declines in human development, with estimates of Cambodia’s Human Development Index (HDI) for 2020 revealing a decline of 3.93% from 2019, equivalent to erasing all progress made in the past four years.[1] Prior to the pandemic Cambodia was already off-track to meet sustainable development goal (SDG) 4 on quality learning and the pandemic risks undermining any progress made.
It is not yet known when schools might reopen. The risk of children never returning to school increases with time, especially for children from vulnerable groups. The pandemic has exacerbated existing inequalities and risks deepening the digital divide. School closures have an impact beyond learning, affecting the ability of many parents and carers, especially women, to work, reducing access to nutritious food for many children and increasing the risks of violence against children. Global evidence continues to show that schools are not the main drivers of transmission and can be reopened safely[2].
The United Nations has been partnering with the Royal Government of Cambodia since the start of the pandemic, through the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (MoEYS) to assist the country to adapt, respond and recover from the impacts of COVID-19 on education. The United Nations’ efforts are aimed at providing a holistic package of support to children to foster continued access to quality education for all learners across the country and to ensure that no child is left behind.
A Joint Education Needs Assessment conducted jointly by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (MoEYS) and the Education Sector Working Group (ESWG), which the United Nations chairs, demonstrated that children have unequal opportunities to continue their learning, leading to substantive learning losses across all levels. While around 70% have been able to continue their education, only around 30% have access to online learning materials and 32% rely only on paper-based materials. Children from IDPoor households or with disabilities continue to face the greatest challenges. Analysis shows that 40% of households report having less food than before and 20% of boys and girls self-report having faced increased risk of violence or abuse due to school closures.
To assist children to continue learning during school closures, the United Nations and its partners work to produce inclusive distance learning materials for children at all levels. These include online platforms, television and radio. Paper-based distance learning materials have been regularly distributed to students across the country, particularly benefitting disadvantaged students without access to the internet or other information sharing platforms. Where relevant, learning materials have been translated into four indigenous ethnic minority languages, braille, and Cambodian sign language. Home learning packages for all public-school children in Grades 1 and 2 (approximately 750,000 children), have also been procured, given the vulnerability of this age group to learning losses. A complementary package in four minority languages will reach 5,000 children in the northeast. COVID-19 prevention and vaccination related information is also included in this package to support the vaccination efforts.
In the non-formal sub-sector, the United Nations is scaling up efforts to ensure that at least 300,000 (50% female) lower secondary school students and out-of-school youth can continue to access the most up-to-date learning resources through the Basic Education Equivalency Programme (BEEP) platform. In partnership with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (MoEYS), the United Nations is upgrading the BEEP platform to ensure continued learning of more learners; opened new BEEP Learning Centres in remote areas; digitized content; and provided supplementary, alternative and flexible learning opportunities to students currently enrolled at lower secondary schools.
The United Nations has also provided significant support to teachers. For example, a Continuous Professional Development has been developed, in alignment with the Teacher Career Pathway. The United Nations has been supporting distance and online learning by procuring tablets with free mobile internet data for all Provincial Teacher Training College (PTTC) teacher trainers. The United Nations coordinates the ongoing development and implementation of blended in-service training to upgrade PTTC teacher trainers’ ICT and innovative teaching methodology for distance, online education.
Recognizing the impact that COVID-19 restrictions have had on the ability of poor households to meet household food and nutrition needs during school closures, the United Nations has re-purposed school feeding resources to provide household food rations to poor families who usually participate in the pre-primary and primary school meals programme. To date, the United Nations, in partnership with Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (MoEYS), has provided assistance four times to over 90,000 households across ten provinces, complementing other COVID19 relief efforts, helping households meet food needs and encouraging poor families to keep children learning.
To support the safe re-opening of schools during 2020, the United Nations provided basic cleaning and hygiene supplies to all of Cambodia’s 13,300 public schools, benefitting 3.2 million students. With funding partners, the United Nations distributed US$4.2 million as block grants to primary and lower secondary schools nationwide prior to the start of the new school year in January 2021 to assist schools to meet additional costs associated with education service provision in the context of COVID19.
Risk communication and engagement with school communities have been supported by the United Nations. In September 2020, the United Nations, together with Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (MoEYS), launched a nationwide Back to School campaign, stressing the importance of good hygiene and COVID19 preventive measures. School infrastructure projects focusing on WASH infrastructure were scaled up to ensure adequate facilities for a safe return to school. A second phase of the nationwide Back to School campaign commenced in January 2021, addressing all aspects of children’s wellbeing: education, health, nutrition and protection. The development of a “Safe School Operations handbook” (113,006 copies), and its distribution to over 16,000 schools in Cambodia, ensured that all teachers and school directors were able to start the school year prepared.
To complement the campaign, the United Nations invested in a 12-month Communication for Education (C4E) initiative to promote community demand for education and accountability of local authorities for the delivery of COVID-19 safe education. This initiative is working to reach and connect with vulnerable communities in six target provinces (Ratanakiri, Mondulkiri, Stueng Treng, Kratie, Kampong Chhnang and Koh Kong). Since the 20 March 2021 school closures, both the Back to School campaign and C4E initiative were adjusted to include messages encouraging children to continue learning via distance learning programmes with support from parents and teachers.
The United Nations commends Cambodia’s initiative to prioritize vaccinations for teachers. Cambodia is one of the 17 countries to have prioritized vaccination among teachers, and to date approximately 85% of both public and private teachers have been fully vaccinated. The United Nations acknowledges the recent announcement by the Royal Government that the country is considering COVID-19 vaccinations for children aged 12-17 years. Evidence and guiding policies on COVID-19 vaccination among children are however still emerging. In line with current global WHO guidance, and given the constrained global supply of COVID-19 vaccines, the United Nations recommends that adults and those with higher risk to infection and the most vulnerable should continue to be prioritized for vaccination. Children with underlying medical risks to develop severe Covid-19 infection are recommended to be vaccinated, but only after adults with underlying medical conditions have been reached at a high coverage with two doses.  Planning ahead is encouraged and countries considering the vaccination of younger age groups also need to consider the safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines for children given potential risks and benefits.
The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport’s active participation in the Global Education Coalition, which was established in response to COVID-19, is also acknowledged, along with the commitment by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport’s to reach an allocation of 20% of total Government budget expenditure to education, up from a current 18.38%, from 2022. Ensuring sufficient financing for education is vital for recovery and to help offset losses in educational attainment during the pandemic.
Education is a fundamental human right and a driver of progress across all 17 sustainable development goals. The United Nations continues to encourage and support the Royal Government of Cambodia to prioritise the safe reopening of schools at the earliest moment possible and to keep them open to the extent possible, in order to avoid further declines in human development. The recent Prakas enabling small-group learning is welcomed as a first step. The COVID-19 pandemic is an opportunity to improve systems to deliver quality education to ensure that each child can reach their full potential. To achieve this, the Royal Government should continue its efforts to build a more inclusive and responsive education system that is resilient to future crisis and disruptions. This includes increasing investments in quality digital literacy, connectivity, and infrastructure to support continued learning, along with upskilling teachers to integrate ICT into teaching and learning practices. Greater focus should be placed on targeting children at risk of being left behind, recovering learning losses and nurturing children’s development and wellbeing. The United Nations remains committed to partnering with the Royal Government and other partners to promote inclusive, equitable and quality education as well as a more resilient recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic.
###

UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.

[1] UNDP, “Projected impacts of COVID19 on the 2020 human development index in Cambodia and its neighbors”, https://www.kh.undp.org/content/cambodia/en/home/library/projected-impa….
[2] UNICEF and UNESCO, “Re-opening schools cannot wait’, https://www.unicef.org/press-releases/statement-reopening-schools-canno…
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/136726-information-note-10-united-nations-support-cambodia%E2%80%99s-education-sector-context-covid-19




Date: 14 July 2021
Title: The Royal Government of Cambodia and World Food Programme Launch New Network Bringing Together Businesses in the Drive for Better Nutrition
Content: 14 July 2021
Phnom Penh – Today saw the launch of the SUN Business Network Cambodia (SBN Cambodia). This bold new initiative brings together some of the most forward-thinking private businesses in the food sector to accelerate progress in nutrition across Cambodia.
The network has been established by the Council for Agricultural and Rural Development (CARD) with support from the World Food Programme (WFP) to encourage collaboration and mutual support between the private sector, business associations, government, civil society and development partners to sustainably contribute to healthy diets and practices. Twenty businesses have already signed up to the SBN Cambodia as founding members.
About 100 participants from the above institutions attended the launching event to discuss how the private sector can contribute to reducing malnutrition and improving sustainable food system through the realization of the five strategic pillars of the SBN vision. These include developing a strong SBN brand, increasing nutrition awareness and demand, increasing the supply of nutritious foods and fortified products, strengthening the enabling environment for improved nutrition and promoting health and nutrition in communities and the workplace.
Indeed, despite Cambodia’s economic gains in recent years, malnutrition is still a lingering burden with about 9% of women and 2% of children under five obese, 10% of children under five wasted and 32% stunted in 2014.
“We’re proud of the progress made in the last decade in improving nutrition, especially for women and children,” said His Excellency Sok Silo, Secretary General of CARD.
“However, there is still much we need to do before we can finally end malnutrition. Cambodian businesses have an indispensable role in improving the quality of the food available to Cambodians, and we hope the launch of this SUN Business Network, alongside our continued support of the private sector, will show how much we value that role.”
SBN Cambodia is a major new milestone for the country in its support of the global Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) movement with the goal of realising a world free from malnutrition by 2030. It recognises the crucial role that the private sector can play in improving nutrition while contributing to sustainable and economic development.
“We are grateful that the Government established this network and look forward to working with the existing and future founding members. said Claire Conan, WFP’s representative in Cambodia.
“We believe that improving the nutritional content of food products is a win-win for the consumer and the business since offering improved nutrition creates opportunities for businesses to differentiate themselves and increase sales and profits”.
Leang Leng, the owner of an eponymous fish and soy sauce producer and one of SBN Cambodia’s founding members, commented:
“I believe the SBN will generate lots of new ideas and connections while educating the public about the importance of nutrition. This will generate higher demand.”
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/136034-royal-government-cambodia-and-world-food-programme-launch-new-network-bringing-together




Date: 07 July 2021
Title: Information Note #9: Building Back Better from COVID-19 through Quality Data
Content: 07 July 2021
Timely and reliable disaggregated data and official statistics are critical for understanding, managing, and mitigating the health, social and economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.  They are also essential for designing effective, evidence-based responses to the crisis and to drive an inclusive and sustainable recovery, that leaves no one behind.  While data is critical for policymaking in ‘normal times’, the pandemic has served to further elevate the importance of data to save lives and to recover better.
Cambodia has made progress in increasing the availability of data, however significant data gaps exist, including in the level of disaggregation required, geographical coverage and timeliness.[1]  The United Nations has prioritised assistance to the Royal Government of Cambodia to improve the quality, accessibility and disaggregation of data and statistics.  The United Nations is working to strengthen national capacity to enable this and is contributing to the production of reliable data that is needed to respond to the challenges posed by the pandemic.  Assistance also centres on improving national capacity for the monitoring of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and other national indicators to foster achievement of the 2030 Agenda.
In line with this, the United Nations is supporting the Ministry of Planning and the National Institute of Statistics, as well as line Ministries to improve the availability and utilization of data for sustainable development including to better link data to planning and budgeting processes. The focus has been on providing support for the implementation and roll out of the National Strategy for the Development of Statistics (NSDS) to enhance statistical systems in line with international standards.  The United Nations is also supporting the collection of key statistical data through national census, demographic, social and economic surveys, and administrative data systems that will provide quality data for use in monitoring national development frameworks and to guide policy direction. This incorporates support for the Government’s SDG monitoring and reporting along with the setup of the National Development/SDGs Indicators Reporting and Data Exchange among Government line ministries through the National Platform - CAMSTAT  which includes a CSDG/SDG tracking portal.   In the current context of the pandemic, reliable data will be essential to support SDG acceleration efforts to enable Cambodia to remain on track to achieve the SDGs.
The United Nations has carried out a series of rapid assessments and surveys, together with its partners to collect data to better understand the varied impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on health, society and the economy especially for vulnerable groups.  This has included impact assessments and surveys to glean data on the impact of the pandemic on children, women, youth, people with disabilities, people living with HIV/AIDS, sexual reproductive health, returning migrants, garment workers, informal workers, as well as on small and medium enterprises.   Many of the surveys have been undertaken in several rounds and intervals and have contributed to informing government policymaking and programme adjustment to better respond to the evolving COVID 19 situation.
The United Nations is also contributing quality data through regular household-based data collection to measure the evolution of food security and nutrition and the effectiveness of mitigation measures in Cambodia.  The United Nations carries out remote price and market monitoring in cooperation with the Agricultural Marketing Office (AMO) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) and produces monthly monitoring reports (Cambodia Market Update) that provide data and insights on price trends, market functionality and supply chains, agricultural production to understand prevailing market conditions and the implications for households in Cambodia and Government policy responses.    The United Nations collects monthly agricultural production data on Cambodia to provide early warning through the Global Information and Early Warning System. This monitoring continues through the COVID-19 pandemic and gives a snapshot of the Earth Observation Indicators targeting seasonal indicators, vegetation indicators, and precipitation indicators.
The United Nations agency - World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Ministry of Health of Cambodia prepare regular COVID-19 situation reports to highlight the most recent developments in the health response to COVID-19. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the United Nations has also supported the Royal Government to track the number of Cambodian returning migrants and the situation at borders and in quarantine to inform more effective policy responses.  The United Nations is also working on shock responsive social assistance connecting IDPoor data, with the social protection system and the national disaster management system.  Support has also been provided for a range of information management systems such as the Child Protection Information Management System; and Platform for Real-time Impact and Situation Monitoring (PRISM).
The United Nations worked with the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) to build some of the first models able to estimate COVID19’s social and economic impact. This work showed how stimulus packages that included social protection not only improve GDP but significantly reduce poverty and unemployment. Further work revealed how reduced access to education due to pandemic conditions caused a reduction in Cambodia’s Human Development Index.
To promote wide access to data, the United Nations hosts a public Reports Dashboard, which contains the latest published and upcoming research and assessments on Cambodia, drawn from various partners.  This includes research on the impacts of COVID 19.  As of 5 July 2021, 168 completed and ongoing assessments were included in the dashboard.  The dashboard provides visualizations and simple analytics of reports.  It helps to assess and identify knowledge gaps; create benchmarks to track progress in line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted challenges and vulnerabilities in data production and systems.  The Royal Government of Cambodia, with support from its partners, has made efforts to generate data and evidence to inform policy decision and programme adjustments.  In this light, the United Nations encourages the authorities to continue its efforts to strengthen national data and statistical systems to ensure that data can better contribute to leaving no one behind and to fostering equality and sustainable development.  To effectively do this, data production systems must respond more effectively and quickly to the changing environment and better anticipate risks.  The United Nations encourages better use of digital technologies, innovation, and new data sources to provide more timely data.  The United Nations also encourages the authorities to promote greater data literacy and data governance.  Highlighting the crucial role data plays in the pandemic response, the United Nations urges the authorities to ensure a balance between protecting public health and the right to privacy. Adequate data privacy and protection of personal information are achieved through appropriate legal and policy measures. At the same time balancing and respecting the importance of ensuring transparency and accessibility to data that is in the public interest is crucial.  It is important to adopt a holistic and whole-of-government approach to data governance with the engagement of all stakeholders and partners across sectors.  Greater effort is required to overcome data silos and priority should be placed on enhancing the capacity for the collection of disaggregated data to ensure the inclusion of vulnerable groups that are most impacted by the pandemic.
The United Nations will continue to partner with the Royal Government and other partners to improve the availability, timeliness and utilization of quality data and statistics necessary to respond to the pandemic, future crisis and to accelerate action to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
###
UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.
[1] More information can be found in the Cambodia’s Voluntary National Review 2019 https://www.kh.undp.org/content/cambodia/en/home/library/environment_energy/cambodia_s-voluntary-national-review-2019.html
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/134864-information-note-9-building-back-better-covid-19-through-quality-data




Date: 30 June 2021
Title: United Nations entities concerned by arrest of environmental human rights defenders in Cambodia
Content: 30 June 2021
BANGKOK (30 June 2021) – UN Human Rights and the UN Environment Programme are concerned by the detention of environmental human rights defenders in Cambodia.
On 16 June, four activists working for Mother Nature Cambodia (MNC), a grassroots organisation that advocates for the protection and preservation of Cambodia's natural environment, were arrested by the anti-cybercrime department of the General Commissariat of the National Police.

“We are living in the midst of an environmental crisis. Civil society which peacefully advocates for the environment is a fundamental partner in addressing the challenges of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution,” said Dechen Tsering, the UN Environment Programme’s Regional Director for Asia and the Pacific.
At least 24 human rights defenders, 12 of whom are women, are currently in detention in Cambodia.
“It is imperative to stop the use of all punitive measures routinely leveled against human rights and environmental rights workers in Cambodia. Human rights and environmental work are not criminal offences,” said Cynthia Veliko, South-East Asia Representative for the UN Human Rights Office in Bangkok.
“We urge the authorities to ensure that human rights and civil society organizations in Cambodia can operate without fear and intimidation and that their rights to freedom of expression, peaceful assembly and association are protected and respected,” Veliko said.
The arrests of MNC activists raises renewed concern for the shrinking space for human rights defenders in Cambodia, an issue previously highlighted by the UN Secretary-General in August 2020.
The United Nations entities call on the Cambodian Government to abide by its international human rights commitments, including recommendations made by the UN Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women and recommendations voluntarily accepted during the Universal Periodic Review, to guarantee the rights of human rights defenders and environmentalists to freedom of expression, assembly and association, without harassment, surveillance or other undue restrictions. Promotion and protection of human rights to the environment is not a crime.

ENDS

For more information and media requests, please contact:
Todd Pitman, OHCHR Regional Information Officer: +66 63 216 9080 / todd.pitman@un.org or
Wannaporn Samutassadong, OHCHR National Information Officer: +66 65 986 0810 / wannaporn.samutassadong@un.org or
Adam Hodge, UNEP Regional Information Officer: +66 2288-1230 / adam.hodge@un.org
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/133767-united-nations-entities-concerned-arrest-environmental-human-rights-defenders-cambodia




Date: 29 June 2021
Title: World Food Programme Partners With Ministry Of Education, Youth and Sport To Provide Food Support to 200,000 People
Content: 29 June 2021
Phnom Penh – Today, the World Food Programme (WFP), in partnership with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (MoEYS), began distributing family food parcels to 39,650 vulnerable households benefiting close to 200,000 people in five provinces.
The assistance benefits families who have been identified as vulnerable by local authorities, hold the national IDPoor equity card and have children enrolled in the schools supported by the WFP/MoEYS school meals programme.
In normal times, the school meals programme of the WFP/Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (MoEYS) provides nutritious and healthy meals to 223,000 children in 908 target schools in the five provinces of Siem Reap, Oddar Meanchey, Kampong Thom, Kampong Chhnang and Pursat. Good nutrition is essential to children’s mental and physical development and studies have shown that school meals increase students’ concentration and help them study more effectively, contributing to better educational outcomes while also relieving the economic burden on households.
Since the start of the COVID-19 outbreak and related school closures, children have missed out on the nutritious cooked breakfasts. This has particularly impacted children from the poorest families, many of whom have also suffered from loss of income and livelihoods.
“At this time of heightened needs, WFP and MoEYS’ food distribution complements other social assistance initiatives from the Royal Government of Cambodia, which were expanded in recent months. It will contribute to meeting the needs of particularly vulnerable households and ensure that children do not miss out on food during this crisis. We are deeply grateful to all our partners for their support, especially MoEYS and the National Social Protection Council.” said Claire CONAN, WFP’s representative in Cambodia.
This is the fourth round of food distribution meant to mitigate the economic impact of COVID-19 on vulnerable households. The distributions are conducted through school networks with support from Education Departments, school administrations, commune and village authorities as well as NGO partners. The rations include 25kg of rice, canned fish and vegetable oil. WFP is also working closely with MoEYS and other partners to improve school infrastructure and facilities as a preparedness measure for a safe return to school.
The school feeding programme in Cambodia, including this special food distribution, is made possible with generous support from the Governments of Cambodia and Japan, KOICA and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/133511-world-food-programme-partners-ministry-education-youth-and-sport-provide-food-support-200000




Date: 22 June 2021
Title: Information Note #8: UN Cambodia’s Support to Returning Migrant Workers in the COVID-19 Response
Content: 22 June 2021

Migration is an important economic lifeline for families in Cambodia. In the Mekong region, active migration corridors suddenly closed for extended periods with countries applying strict entry rules to control the COVID-19 pandemic within their borders. Deployment and outflows of migrant workers plummeted, especially during the first months of the pandemic. Loss of jobs, economic restrictions and lockdowns in host countries, led to the return of many migrant workers to their home countries. To date, over 200,000[1] (43% women) Cambodian migrant workers have returned to Cambodia from neighbouring countries since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic.
A Report by the United Nations on the impact of COVID-19 on returning migrant workers offers compelling evidence of the hardships and vulnerabilities that returning migrants face. It demonstrated that nearly 30% of returned migrant worker households have no income at all and more than 50% of returned migrant workers have debts. Women returned migrant workers are more likely than men to have no money and face more difficulties finding employment. In terms of accessing social assistance and essential health services, only 25% of returned migrants have IDPoor cards and over 49% have problems accessing health care due to lack of money or distance to health care providers.
The United Nations closely collaborates with the Royal Government of Cambodia and civil society organizations to assist returning migrant workers and to protect their rights. The United Nations prioritizes providing direct assistance to migrants at points of entry and in quarantine facilities and mitigating the socio-economic impact on the most vulnerable and preventing the spread of the virus in communities of return.  Through UN-supported Migrant Worker Resource Centres, the United Nations is providing counselling, food supplies, transportation, skills training, dispute resolution and job opportunities for returning migrant workers.
To facilitate infection prevention and control, the United Nations has provided over 125,000 returned migrants with critical water and hygiene services such as regular supply of soap and cleaning materials, set up mobile hand-washing stations, and renovated toilets at points of entry and quarantine facilities. Over 162,000 returning migrant workers arriving at points of entry in Cambodia and those who were referred for quarantine received information on COVID-19 prevention, health and social services with support from the United Nations and partner NGOs. In addition, over 21,000 members of rural communities with high numbers of returning and prospective migrants benefitted from COVID-19 awareness raising sessions directly in their villages. Broad dissemination of information on COVID-19 prevention, risk communications and engagement are critical to protecting health and livelihoods of returning migrants and communities.
The United Nations, in collaboration with partners, provided direct return assistance and nearly 131,000 returning migrants arriving at points of entry and those referred for quarantine received emergency food assistance. Over 16,000 migrants placed in quarantine received hygiene kits, which included sleeping and personal hygiene materials. Together with the Ministry of Health, local authorities, and partner NGOs, the United Nations supported vulnerable returning migrants (including children, women, women-headed households, and those living with HIV) in accessing health and social services through referrals in communities of return, including facilitating access to the IDPoor cash transfer programme and information about job opportunities and training. In Banteay Meanchey, Battambang, Siem Reap, Kampong Cham, Prey Veng, and Kampot provinces, the United Nations worked to strengthen livelihoods and supported over 700 returned migrants with cash grants to set up small income generating activities.
Addressing the impact on mental health has been an integral part of the United Nations COVID-19 response. To complement the efforts of the Ministry of Health, the United Nations and partner NGOs have trained over 800 professionals, provincial government officials and social service workers on providing psychosocial counselling for children, women, including women migrants, in quarantine. Over 175,000 children, parents and caregivers have been reached by awareness raising activities and consultations on mental health and psychosocial support.   In addition, the United Nations produced three animation videos targeting returning migrant workers with a focus on mental health, employment opportunities and migration journey which has reached close to 500,000 people.
The COVID-19 pandemic disproportionally impacts women [2], including women migrants, in Cambodia. The United Nations’ response prioritized the continuity of gender-based violence (GBV) prevention services during the pandemic, including referral and safe shelter services, counselling, and ongoing public information campaigns aimed at changing attitudes and eliminating discrimination against women migrants. Over 3,600 vulnerable migrants received hygiene kits in quarantine facilities and areas of return. With the support of the United Nations, 35 government social workers were specifically deployed to monitor the situation of children, focusing on children of returning migrants, providing case management and facilitating referrals. Over 5,000 returning migrant women were provided with maternal care support, GBV information and psychosocial support.
The United Nations supports the General Department of Immigration and General Commissariat of National Police to adopt a health-compliant approach to managing border procedures to mitigate COVID-19 associated risks. Over 750 frontline officials at key checkpoints on the Cambodian-Thai border have been trained on COVID-19 prevention and provided with personal protective equipment (PPE). In addition, the United Nations supports efforts to prevent trafficking in persons through measures such as safe migration information briefings, capacity training for government officials on identification of suspected victims of trafficking in persons, access to livelihood opportunities, and ongoing skills training programmes for prospective migrant workers. Over 75,000 migrant returnees and prospective migrants accessed information about labour migration, regular migration channels, accessing support services for migrants and COVID-19 prevention through the Migrant Resource Centre in Poi Pet. Provincial Job Centres continue safe migration awareness raising reaching at least 7,000 migrants and aspiring migrants in key migrant provinces like Siem Reap, Battambang, Banteay Meanchey, Kampong Cham, Prey Veng and Kampot.
The United Nations encourages the authorities to protect and empower returning migrants to enable them to overcome the immediate and longer-term impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. This includes protecting the basic human rights and labour rights of returning migrant workers and their families in line with Cambodia’s international human rights obligations, such as access to social protection, livelihood and health care. The United Nations also urges the authorities to ensure that ID Poor cards are  provided to migrant returnees who meet the eligibility criteria and additional assistance is provided for accessing jobs or vocational training opportunities to enable effective reintegration into communities. Administrative procedures should also be simplified. Fees payable by migrant workers for migration should be eliminated or reduced to encourage people to pursue safe and regular migration channels. The United Nations System in Cambodia remains committed to work with the Royal Government and other partners to ensure safety, dignity and rights for all returning migrants and their families.

###

UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.

[1] https://www.who.int/cambodia/internal-publications-detail/covid-19-join…
[2] See also UN Information Note # 6 on Gender Based Violence and Sexual Reproductive Health Rights in COVID-19 Response  and UN Information Note # 7 on Garment Workers in COVID-19 Response
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/132559-information-note-8-un-cambodia%E2%80%99s-support-returning-migrant-workers-covid-19-response




Date: 15 June 2021
Title: Information Note #7: UN Cambodia’s Support to Garment Workers in COVID-19 Response
Content: 15 June 2021
COVID-19 pandemic significantly impacted the garment industry in Cambodia. The pandemic and efforts to slow the spread of the virus led to factory closures, layoffs and unpaid absence affecting the lives and livelihoods of approximately 900,000 garment sector workers. Women account for 80 percent of the garment sector workforce and are disproportionately impacted by the pandemic, exacerbating inequalities and deepening poverty.  Crowded, close contact and confined settings (3C), are high-risk for COVID-19 virus transmission.  Garment workers tend to live, work and commute in 3C settings, where social distancing is not possible, placing them at greater risks of exposure to the COVID-19 virus within and beyond their workplace.
The United Nations System in Cambodia welcomes the Royal Government of Cambodia’s efforts to prioritise COVID-19 vaccinations for the garment sector. Since April 2020, the Royal Government provided garment workers, who were suspended due to the pandemic, with a US$40 per month cash assistance. The Royal Government also recently approved a one-time post-lockdown emergency cash assistance paid in June 2021 that benefits garment workers. Notwithstanding on-going Government support, the United Nations System in Cambodia is concerned about the lasting impact of the pandemic and efforts to control it on the social and economic rights of garment workers. Job losses and reduced income have left many struggling to meet basic necessities and led to workers taking loans as a coping strategy. Many workers lack access to adequate social safety nets, such as unemployment benefits[1], which place them at risk of falling into poverty and even hunger. The toll extends to garment workers’ families and the informal economy around factories. In 2019, the garment industry contributed about 11 % to GDP. However, since the pandemic, garment exports dropped by around 9.9% contributing to a 3.4% reduction in GDP in 2020.  The United Nations system is also concerned about conditions in quarantine facilities of garment workers when testing positive, including the lack of information, hygiene supplies and PPE.
In response, the United Nations System is working together with national authorities and stakeholders to mitigate the immediate negative impacts of the pandemic and to build a more sustainable and resilient garment industry for the long term. Through technical assistance and advocacy, the United Nations is prioritizing the protection of garment workers’ health, employment and income; as well as improving working conditions, promoting business continuity and boosting competitiveness of the garment sector.  The United Nations supports bipartite committees (worker-management) in factories[2] as well as tripartite mechanisms involving government, employers and workers at national level to promote dialogue regarding the needs of the sector. The tripartite dialogue also encourages greater collaboration to find solutions during the pandemic. International brands sourcing from Cambodia[3] are important partners of the United Nations in the efforts to make a difference in the garment sector.
To better understand the situation of garment workers during COVID-19, the United Nations conducted interviews in May 2020 with nearly 400 garment workers, and again in May/June 2021 with 370 garment workers to understand their concerns and physical and mental well-being. The most common concern among workers were personal finances, including not being able to pay back loans, as well as the immediate safety and health of their families.  Among workers, there are barriers to reporting symptoms, including fear of quarantine and loss of income.  Further research showed that despite serious concerns related to COVID-19, it is a challenge for workers to adopt preventative behaviour measures. In light of this, the United Nations will launch a COVID-19 behavioural change campaign that will provide detail information about preventive and risk mitigation in the garment industry and surrounding communities.
To protect garment sector workers and safeguard the public health, the United Nations initiated a risk assessment in the garment sector to prepare factories for restarting operations after the lockdown in May 2021. This aimed to put risk mitigation measures in place before reopening through a multi-sectoral approach and greater community participation, including engaging the business sector for safer and more productive solutions for operating under a “new normal”. The United Nations is working jointly with the Ministry of Labour and Vocational Training on raising awareness of COVID-19 mitigation measures in factories in the Phnom Penh area and in surrounding provinces. The United Nations Guidelines on COVID-19 prevention measures in workplaces, factories and enterprises were shared with the Government. In addition, a United Nations-action checklist on Prevention and Mitigation of COVID-19 at work and a guideline on discrimination and stigma related to COVID-19 were translated and distributed to factories. Recommendations were also provided to the Government on handling positive COVID-19 cases in factories. The United Nations has also widely disseminated communications directly to garment factories and workers which encourage them to adopt precautions to reduce exposure to and transmission of COVID-19.
As part of a technical assistance programme focusing on the garment sector, the United Nations provided factory and sectoral level support, including mandatory assessments for factories, capacity development, virtual workshops and convening the industry stakeholders to discuss issues related to the garment sector in Cambodia. The United Nations system has been consistently engaging with factories and industry players on issues including occupational safety and health (OSH), gender equality, COVID-19 prevention, emergency preparedness, crisis management, communications with workers and leadership, labour law, digital wages, sustainable compliance and future of the industry in Cambodia. Since the start of 2021, the United Nations facilitated more than 455 meetings with factory level worker-management committees in approximately 200 factories (289 virtual visits and 166 in person visits). More than 40 virtual trainings on different topics for factory workers and management were conducted. The United Nations continues to work closely with the Ministry of Labour and Vocational Training, Garment Manufacturers’ Association in Cambodia (GMAC) and Unions on these critical issues.
The United Nations agency, ILO, is mandated to conduct assessments on working conditions on core international labour standards, and the national labour law in all garment-exporting factories in line with agreements under the Memorandum of Understanding with the Royal Government of Cambodia and Garment Manufacturers’ Association in Cambodia. One hundred and ninety (190) virtual assessments have been carried out this year.
In addition, the United Nations is working with the Ministry of Education Youth and Sport (MoEYS), private sector, garment factories and GMAC to provide tailored upskilling courses for women garment workers, using education as a tool to enhance their resilience to economic shocks. The courses aim not only to increase basic literacy and numeracy skills of garment workers, but enhance financial literacy and learning on reproductive health, nutrition, worker rights and labour laws. The Factory Literacy Programme (FLP) has continued through the COVID-19 pandemic and has served over 2000 workers across 12 provinces through 25 partner factories. The programme will expand and continue for another 3 years.
The COVID-19 pandemic presents an opportunity to improve conditions in the garment sector and to foster a rights-based, sustainable and gender-responsive recovery.  The United Nations encourages the authorities to protect the basic rights of garment workers in line with their obligations under international human rights and labour rights norms and standards. Minimising the negative impacts of COVID-19 on the livelihoods of garment workers and strengthening access to social protection mechanisms should be the priority.  Appropriate measures should focus on ensuring the health and safety of garment workers both inside and outside the workplace.  Gender responsive measures and policies that more effectively meet the differing needs of women, men and others in the sector are also required. The United Nations System in Cambodia remains committed to working with the Government, employers and workers to ensure that the garment industry can become increasingly sustainable and resilient to shocks.

###

UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.

[1] Currently, there is no unemployment scheme in Cambodia and workers do not receive any social protection benefits when they lose their jobs.  However, measures have been put in place to address loss of income due to factory closures related to COVID-19, but these are often inadequate.  Many garment sector workers are excluded from accessing some benefits as they are formally employed and not viewed as poor.
[2] International Labour Organization (ILO)-International Finance Corporation (IFC)’s Better Work programme works at enterprise level in ten countries supporting factories to improve working conditions through dialogue between management and worker representatives (bipartite committee). In Cambodia Better Factories Cambodia works with around 200 bipartite committees promoting social dialogue.
[3] Better Factories Cambodia, under the global Better Work programme, has partnership agreements with around 40 international brands.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/131493-information-note-7-un-cambodia%E2%80%99s-support-garment-workers-covid-19-response




Date: 08 June 2021
Title: Information Note #6: UN Cambodia’s COVID-19 Response Gender Based Violence and Sexual and Reproductive Health
Content: 08 June 2021
Violence against women and girls, and particularly domestic violence, has dramatically escalated around the world in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. As many countries went into lockdown, access to services and justice for survivors of violence, as well as prevention efforts, were severely curtailed. Recent global estimates indicate that for every 3 months the lockdown continues, an additional 15 million women are expected to be affected by violence.[1] In April 2020, the UN Secretary-General urged all governments to make the prevention and redress of violence against women and girls a key part of their national response plans for COVID-19.
Violence against women is one of the most pervasive human rights violations worldwide and has enormous costs for women’s health, safety and well-being. In Cambodia, an estimated one in five women report having experienced physical and/or sexual violence by an intimate partner in their lifetime.[2] One in two children have experienced severe beatings, one in four children have experienced emotional abuse, and one in twenty girls and boys have been sexually assaulted.[3]
Violence against women and girls brings huge economic costs to any society. It impacts negatively on women’s participation in education, employment and civic life and undermines poverty reduction. It results in lost employment and productivity, and it drains resources from social services, the justice system, health-care agencies and employers. As such, violence against women is a clear barrier to sustainable development and achievement of the Cambodia Sustainable Development Goals.
The United Nations supports prevention of Gender-Based Violence (GBV) and increased access to essential services for women and girls in Cambodia.  For the COVID-19 pandemic, the United Nations prioritised support to the Ministry of Women’s Affairs (MoWA) and CSO service providers to ensure that essential services for Violence against Women/Gender Based Violence (VAW/GBV) survivors remain coordinated, accessible and functioning, using on-line modalities when possible, and information about service availability is disseminated, especially to those most likely to be left behind.
United Nations assistance also included support to health and social services for continued care to gender based violence survivors, such as (i) Equipping service providers in Phnom Penh and eleven provinces with knowledge and skills on gender responsive essential services, including case management, online counselling and basic counselling skills for GBV survivors; (ii) Update and dissemination of a service directory for GBV survivors; (iii) Education to prevent and respond to VAW during the pandemic through social media, reaching 360,056 people; and (iv) Assistance in developing guidelines for women and children’s safety in state quarantine.
Since the start of the pandemic there has been an increase in the number of calls to helplines and hotlines in Cambodia[4], particularly seeking support for COVID-19 related concerns, mental health, lack of food and safety. The United Nations is directly assisting these helplines/hotlines and has supported the development of Guidance for provision of services via helplines. The United Nations is also working to strengthen the capacity to respond to the protection needs and facilitate referrals to necessary services.
The United Nations continued support to the most vulnerable through strengthening 15 community-based women led networkers to conduct peer to peer psycho-social support for returning women migrant workers in quarantine facilities and for their integration into the community.  Approximately 2100 dignity kits were delivered to vulnerable female migrant returnees and women and girls at risk of GBV in 8 provinces.  Interventions have also focused on the protection of children of migrants who returned to Cambodia from Thailand in 2020 due to the closure of borders. As a result, almost 80,000 children, parents and caregivers were reached with awareness raising activities and mental health and psychosocial support (MHPSS), and about 500 service providers have enhanced capacity to provide MHPSS and on Gender-Based Violence (GBV) risk mitigation.
To protect children, newly adapted case management guidelines during COVID-19 and instructions for the safety of children in residential care were adopted and 583 social service workers were trained on its implementation, with the assistance of the United Nations. As a result, at least 12,743 children (5,639 females) since 2020 who experienced violence were provided with social, health and justice services.

Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights
In close collaboration with the National Maternal and Child Health Centre (NMCHC) of the Ministry of Health, the United Nations in Cambodia supported the development of National Guidelines on ensuring the continuity of essential Sexual Reproductive Maternal and Newborn health (SRMNH) services during the COVID-19 pandemic in April 2020. With the continued implementation of these important guidelines and timely programme adjustment, SRMNH services remain functioning and available to women and girls. The United Nations and the National Maternal and Child Health Centre keep monitoring the continuity of essential SRMH services across the country and the accessibility to these services, particularly by vulnerable populations. In 2020:
In order to make the prevention and redress of violence against women and girls a key part of the national response to COVID-19, the United Nations continues to advocate with the Royal Government to protect and promote the rights of women and girls including (i) to prioritize funding for essential services and to increase flexible funding for women’s organizations; (ii) to prevent violence against women and girls through national zero tolerance policies and social mobilization campaigns; (iii) to adapt services to the COVID-19 context; (iv) to amend the legal framework to ensure its compliance with international human rights norms and standards, including the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, and (v) to collect data for the improvement of GBV services and programmes.

###

UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.

[1] UNFPA, “Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Family Planning and Ending Gender-based Violence, Female Genital Mutilation and Child Marriage”, Technical Note, 27 April 2020
[2] Cambodia Demographic and Health Survey (CDHS) 2014
[3] The 2013 Cambodian Violence Against Children Survey (CVACS)
[4] Reports received from the main toll-free helpline managed by Child Helpline Cambodia (CHC) show that Pre COVID-19 lock down, CHC received around 2600 calls per month. During COVID-19 lock down, the calls increased from 2600 calls per month to 4,100 calls per month.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/130475-information-note-6-un-cambodia%E2%80%99s-covid-19-response-gender-based-violence-and-sexual-and




Date: 01 June 2021
Title: Information Note #5: Ensuring Food Security and Nutrition during COVID-19 Pandemic
Content: 01 June 2021
The COVID-19 pandemic and measures meant to slow the transmission of the virus are resulting in economic downturns in countries worldwide, which have led to increased food insecurity and malnutrition.
Before the pandemic, Cambodia had made impressive progress on food security and nutrition. Yet, the prevalence of undernourishment stood at 14% and malnutrition persisted in all its forms. One in three children under 5 suffered from chronic malnutrition and one in ten from acute malnutrition. Micronutrient deficiencies were widespread, and obesity was on the rise.
The United Nations system in Cambodia is concerned about the impacts of COVID-19 on the food security and nutrition status of vulnerable groups including the poor, women and children, the people with underling health conditions, old and the unsheltered. Food insecurity and malnutrition are closely linked with human dignity, and access to food and nutrition is basic human right of every human being. Indeed, loss of income and livelihoods reduces access to food and aggravates the difficulties many face to access affordable, healthy and adequate diets, as well as services.
A United Nations study released in April 2021 showed that in the last six months, households have increasingly adopted coping strategies to access food including reducing food intake, relying on cheaper options, and borrowing. It highlighted that IDPoor households, small size (1-3 members) and households with members having disabilities were more likely to have poor food security and nutrition outcomes. At the end of 2020 only half of Cambodian women aged 15-49 consumed a sufficiently diverse diet (down from 70% earlier in the year).  Public health experts further anticipated in a Lancet article (July 2020) a 14% increase in acute malnutrition in low and lower-middle income countries due to COVID-19.
Investing to protect food security and nutrition is essential in the COVID-19 response as:
The United Nations promotes rights-based, integrated, multi-sectoral, systems approach to food security and nutrition. Through such initiatives as the UN Nutrition, it speaks in one voice to elevate the prioritization and commitment to food security and nutrition and access to food for all while working with partners to realise the goals of the National Food Security and Nutrition Strategy as well as the recently launched roadmap for the prevention and treatment of wasting. It also supports interventions across the food, education, health, social protection, and WASH systems.  With the upcoming United Nations Food Systems Summit in July 2021, the United Nations is supporting the Royal Government to conduct inclusive dialogues, promote awareness and mobilize multistakeholder action to create pathways for more sustainable food systems.
Specific to COVID-19, the United Nations is contributing quality data through regular household-based primary data collection to measure the evolution of the food security and nutrition situation and the effectiveness of mitigation measures.
National social assistance efforts, notably the significant increase in cash transfers and the provision of food rations in lieu of school feeding provided by the Government at regular intervals since April 2020, have played an important role to mitigate further damage on food security and nutrition of the poorest. The United Nations supported these efforts and will continue to engage through advocacy and technical assistance to enhance both the nutrition-sensitivity and shock-responsiveness of social assistance.
To complement national initiatives in the COVID-19 response, the United Nations is also directly providing food packages and cash transfers - at times combined with building productive assets, technical training, and extension services - to the most vulnerable groups, including poor households affected by multiple shocks, informal workers, returning migrants, small-scale farmers, young children, pregnant and lactating women.
For instance, the United Nations provided take-home rations to support over 89,500 students from IDPoor households. Another round of food distribution will take place in June 2021.  The United Nations and its partners are also supporting approximately 1500 households impacted by COVID-19 in Siem Reap and Banteay Meanchey Province to restore their livelihoods.
In relation to the recent COVID-19 lockdown measures, as highlighted in Information Note #2 on Social Protection, the United Nations system in Cambodia advocated for a human rights-based response to COVID-19 based on a “do no harm” approach with emphasis on: (i) protecting the access of all, including the most vulnerable people to diverse, balanced and nutritious diets through the provision of food assistance and the expansion of social protection; (ii) considering food production, marketing and distribution as essential services; (iii) enhancing two-way communication to more effectively address issues concerning food access; and (iv) establishing preparedness measures to enhance the response in case of future similar measures.

###

UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/129439-information-note-5-ensuring-food-security-and-nutrition-during-covid-19-pandemic




Date: 28 May 2021
Title: Information Note #4: UN Support to Cambodia Prisons in the Current COVID-19 Context
Content: 28 May 2021
For Prison Operation Officials (Security and Health)
No.
Materials
Quantity
Unit
1
Quasi-PPE clothing (direct services to Covid-19 infected individuals)
2,500
Set
2
Face shields
2,500
Piece
3
Latex gloves
5,000
Pair
4
Rubber gloves
250
Pair
5
Rubber boots
250
Pair
6
Waterproof plastic aprons
250
Piece
7
N-95 masks
15,000
Piece
For Inmates (10,000 Individuals)
1
Rapid antigen test kits for detecting Covid-19
10,000
Set
2
Chinese traditional anti-flu medicine (Lianhua Qingwen Jiaonang)
35,000
Box
3
Multi-vitamin supplements
140,000
Tablet
4
Vitamin C 500 mg
420,000
Tablet
###
UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/128968-information-note-4-un-support-cambodia-prisons-current-covid-19-context




Date: 25 May 2021
Title: Information Note #3: Social Assistance & UN Cambodia’s COVID-19 Response
Content: 25 May 2021
Below provides an update of the United Nations in Cambodia response to the current COVID-19 outbreak and measures.

###

UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/127454-information-note-3-social-assistance-un-cambodia%E2%80%99s-covid-19-response




Date: 21 May 2021
Title: The National Committee for Disaster Management, Embassy of Japan and the World Food Programme (WFP) to Hand Over Six Newly Built Safe Evacuation Centers to Local Communities
Content: 21 May 2021
Pursat & Kampong Thom - Marking the completion of the six safe evacuation centres (SECs) meant to mitigate the impacts of floods on at-risk communities, the Japanese Embassy and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) joined the National Committee for Disaster Management (NCDM) to officially hand the facilities over to local communities in Kampong Chhnang, Kampong Thom and Pursat before the start of the rainy season.
The Safe Evacuation Centres (SECs) are built in compliance with international standards and are equipped with a large hall, a kitchen, a laundry, a storage room, bathrooms, a hand-washing station, a livestock shelter, and a large open field. Each site also includes water supply (tube wells, water storage and containers), electrical system (a generator, solar system) as well as lightning protection.
The six SECs can accommodate between 2,000 and 3,000 people and are the latest demonstration of the long-standing Japanese commitment to the people of Cambodia. They serve the dual purpose of housing displaced families when cyclones and floods strike during the rainy season and of providing a multi-purpose space for the rest of the year. For example, they have recently been used as a COVID-19 vaccination site and as a quarantine site.
During his remarks, Mr. Karimata Atsushi, Minister and Deputy Chief of Mission of the Embassy of Japan in Cambodia said, “I’m honored to be part of this handover ceremony. The government and the people of Japan are proud to help build the resilience of local communities to deal with natural disasters. Through this humanitarian support, we would like to stay close to the Cambodian people as they attempt to overcome this difficult situation. We hope that this project will further strengthen the friendly relationship that exists between the two countries.”
The WFP representative, Ms. Claire CONAN, thanked the Government of Japan for the invaluable support. “With this generous support, WFP and NCDM have constructed and equipped these six safe evacuation centers to protect people during floods and other natural disasters and serve as a space to serve the community at other times”.
“There are times in life which are difficult and having a place where we can take refuge and feel safe is essential. We hope that these centres will provide that protection for thousands of Cambodians,” she added.
Mr. Srey Nal, a commune chief and community representative, thanked the Government of Japan for its financial support and the two implementing organizations, WFP and NCDM, “for accomplishing such a good job”. He also added on behalf of the local community who are the real owners of these facilities, “we will take good care of these facilities so that they can in turn take good care of us in hard times.”
In 2019, the Government of Japan contributed USD 2.7 million to WFP to enhance the resilience of Cambodian communities to shocks and build institutional capacity for emergency preparedness. This support has enabled 1) the construction of six safe evacuation centers in 3 flood-prone provinces; 2) strengthened disaster risk management planning at national, sub-national and community levels, and 3) enhanced early action through early warning systems.
Since 1998, the Government of Japan has been a significant partner to WFP’s work in Cambodia, contributing USD 22 million in the last ten years to improving food security and nutrition through in-kind support (rice and canned fish) and cash contributions, as well as supporting the enhancement of emergency preparedness and response. Early this year, the Government of Japan allocated an additional US$ 2 million to the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) to mitigate the impact of floods on food security of flood-affected households and communities in Cambodia.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/127290-national-committee-disaster-management-embassy-japan-and-world-food-programme-wfp-hand-over




Date: 18 May 2021
Title: Information Note #2: Human rights & UN Cambodia’s COVID-19 Response
Content: 18 May 2021
Below provides an update on United Nations in Cambodia response to the current community outbreak and COVID-19 measures.







###

UN Cambodia’s Response to COVID-19 Information Notes are official documents from the United Nations in Cambodia intended for the media and other partners. They are prepared by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/127074-information-note-2-human-rights-un-cambodia%E2%80%99s-covid-19-response




Date: 10 May 2021
Title: Information Note: UN Cambodia’s COVID-19 Response to Current Community Outbreak
Content: 10 May 2021
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the UN’s priorities are and continue to be in saving lives and stopping the transmission of the virus; mitigating the socio-economic impact on the most vulnerable Cambodians; and recovering better from the pandemic.
Below provides brief explanation of what the UN is doing in response to the current community outbreak:




The UN in Cambodia has mobilized over US$ 100 million to support the over-all COVID-19 response and recovery since 2020.

###
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/126617-information-note-un-cambodia%E2%80%99s-covid-19-response-current-community-outbreak




Date: 08 April 2021
Title: United Nations Launches Joint Programmes to Support Sustainable Financing for Cambodia to Build Forward Better
Content: 08 April 2021
Working closely with the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), the United Nations in Cambodia has officially launched two joint programmes to expand financing options for the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) to meet growing demands for development investments and to maintain financial lifelines for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), particularly women-owned enterprises.
Both programmes support the realization of the Cambodia Sustainable Development Goals (CSDGs).
The first programme, the Integrated National Financing Framework (INFF) to Catalyze Blended Finance for Transformative CSDG Achievement, is financed by the Joint SDG Fund with a budget of US$ 1 million and will be implemented by the UN Development Programme (UNDP) and UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF).
The second programme, Unlocking Cambodian Women’s Potential Through Fiscal Space Creation (A Credit Guarantee Scheme for Women-owned Enterprises),  is funded by the UN COVID-19 Response and Recovery Multi-Partner Trust Fund for US$ 0.8 million and will be implemented by four UN agencies: UNCDF, UNDP, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).
“It is imperative to expand the development financing landscape through innovative financing tools and mechanisms, to unlock transformations required in building forward better, towards a more inclusive and greener future,” commented Ms. Pauline Tamesis, UN Resident Coordinator to Cambodia. “Adapting the principles of the Integrated National Financing Framework to the Cambodian content will allow the government to build a demand-driven financing framework, enable the expansion of development resources, and implement a sound financing strategy. The credit guarantee scheme, as part of the innovative financing system, will further provide low-cost and reliable financing to MSME businesses in Cambodia.”
The joint programmes are underpinned by the ‘leave no one behind’ principle and the UN Cambodia Framework for the Immediate Socio-Economic Response to COVID-19, a document that reasserts the UN’s commitment to supporting the Royal Government and people of Cambodia to mitigate the socio-economic impacts of the pandemic and to build the country forward better.
H.E. Ros Seilava, Secretary of State, Ministry of Economy and Finance and Co-Chair of the Joint Programmes’ Steering Committee noted that “both joint programmes are in line with the RGC’s priorities to move the policy and legislative agenda towards the identification and attraction of new and sustainable sources of finance for development, as well as the maintenance and boosting of existing flows, to meet increasing development demands. The partnership between MEF and UN Cambodia for these joint programmes will specifically contribute to the implementation of the RGC’s economic response plan to respond, recover and build resilience from COVID-19, while accelerating the achievement of the CSDGs.”
The launching event for the two programmes has also provided a platform for discussion on the concepts of the Integrated National Financing Framework and the assessment of development finance flows in the context of COVID-19.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/124333-united-nations-launches-joint-programmes-support-sustainable-financing-cambodia-build




Date: 22 February 2021
Title: The Government of Japan Provides WFP US$2 Million to Mitigate Floods Impact on Food Security
Content: 22 February 2021
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 22, 2021, Phnom Penh.  The Government of Japan is providing US$ 2 million to the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) to mitigate the impact of floods on food security of flood-affected households and communities in Cambodia.
The grant agreement is signed today between H.E MIKAMI Masahiro, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the Kingdom of Cambodia, and Ms. Claire CONAN, WFP Representative and Country Director, presided over and witnessed by H.E. Ngan Chamroeun, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior and Head of the National Committee for Sub-National Democratic Development Secretariat (NCDDS).
“Last year, Cambodia suffered severe continuous and torrential rainfall—which affected a large number of residents, resulting in loss of some lives and a lot of physical damages to the properties. I sincerely hope that this project will mitigate the impact of floods on food security of flood affected households and communities,” said H.E. Mikami Masahiro, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Under this project, WFP will work closely with NCDD and other partners to conduct a comprehensive food security and nutrition assessment in flood-affected area, and support community recovery through the rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure and the enhancement of local planning capacity and knowledge on food security, disaster preparedness and mitigation. 16 communes in Battambang, Pursat, Kampong Chhnang and Kampong Thom will be selected as the project target.
“We thank the Government of Japan for its support to mitigate the effects of last year’s floods. This assistance will be critical to vulnerable families living in flood-prone communities whose livelihoods and food system were affected and will help protect them from future shocks,” said Claire CONAN, WFP representative and country director.
Cambodia has been affected by severe floods on four occasions in the last decade. The latest one in October last year displaced 14,299 households and directly affected 176,000 households (close to 800,000 people) in 14 provinces. Houses, infrastructure and agricultural land were inundated and severely damaged. The country ranks 16th of 181 countries on the 2020 World Risk Index highlighting its high proneness and vulnerability to natural disasters. Climate shocks such as floods and droughts frequently threatened communities, and  their frequency and intensity are likely to increase in the future owing to the effects of climate change and the related degradation of natural resources, disproportionally affect some of the most impoverished communities.
Since 1998, the Government of Japan has been a significant partner to WFP Cambodia, contributing USD 22 million in the last ten years through both in-kind (rice and canned fish) and cash contributions in support of food security and nutrition. In 2019, Japan contributed USD 2.7 million to WFP to enhance the resilience of Cambodian communities to shocks and build institutional capacity on emergency preparedness. This support has enabled 1) the construction of six safe evacuation centers in 3 flood-prone provinces; 2) strengthened disaster risk management planning at national, sub-national and community levels and 3) enhanced early action through early warning systems.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/113010-government-japan-provides-wfp-us2-million-mitigate-floods-impact-food-security




Date: 03 February 2021
Title: Transformative Partnership: delivering differently in the new context | EU-UN Partnership Dialogue 2021
Content: 03 February 2021
PHNOM PENH 3 February 2021 – Representatives of the European Union (EU) and the United Nations (UN) met in Phnom Penh on 28 January to discuss how to work together in Cambodia more effectively, accelerate progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals and create even better impact in the lives of all of Cambodia’s people, to build back better after the Covid-19 pandemic.
“We want to be more effective, have a better impact and results in the future. For this, we need to improve the way we work together and this was the purpose of this dialogue between the EU and the UN,” said European Union Ambassador to the Kingdom of Cambodia, Carmen Moreno, explaining that the Covid-19 pandemic has created a new context in which development work takes place.
“All countries will have to put resources into recovery after Covid-19. But we cannot go back to the old model. Countries need to restart economic growth, but development is much bigger than that. Development is about creating opportunities for people, enlarging their lives, and enlarging their rights. So we need to see how we can be more effective, how we can produce better results,” she continued.
“A deepened partnership is particularly critical at this time of increased inequality and recovering from Covid-19, where solidarity is needed and multilateralism is required,” noted Pauline Tamesis, Resident Coordinator of the United Nations in Cambodia. “The EU and the UN share common values. And we are committed to human rights, sustainable development, and ensuring empowerment and protection of humanity and the planet.”
The European Union and its Member States together are Cambodia’s second largest partner in terms of grant development assistance, with the UN frequently taking the role of implementing agency. Ongoing projects in which the EU and the UN partner in Cambodia value more than USD 100 million and involve Cambodians from every walk of life across a wide range of areas, including education, agriculture and natural resource management, governance, human rights, social protection, public finance management, private sector development and climate change.
Though the dialogue addressed the serious consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic, the 40 delegates taking part emerged hopeful, agreeing that the new context provides a once-in-a-generation opportunity to transform systems in a way that would not have been possible otherwise.
“Even in despair, even in many of the disastrous consequences that we have seen from the pandemic, we have seen hope. We have seen it through the transformative policies that many governments have put in place that were previously unthinkable. It was just not imaginable and yet we are seeing it now. This is why Covid-19 gives us an opportunity for change. This gives us hope to build back better,” noted Ms Tamesis.
Media contact:
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/110334-transformative-partnership-delivering-differently-new-context-eu-un-partnership-dialogue




Date: 28 January 2021
Title: Embassy of Japan and the World Food Programme (WFP) Visit Newly-Built Safe Evacuation Center and a School Feeding Programme
Content: 28 January 2021
January 26th, Kampong Thom. The Embassy of Japan and WFP will conduct a joint field mission to Kampong Thom province to observe the resumption of school feeding and visit a newly-built safe evacuation center.

These programmes, implemented in partnership respectively with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport and the National Committee for Disaster Management, illustrate the longstanding partnership between the Government of Japan and WFP in support of national priorities in the areas of food security and nutrition as well as emergency preparedness.
Japanese Ambassador Masahiro Mikami noted that WFP and Japan have been working together for many years to eradicate hunger and reduce poverty in Cambodia, and he is looking forward to the visit.
Since 1998, the Government of Japan has been a significant partner to WFP’s work in Cambodia, contributing USD 22 million in the last ten years through both in-kind (rice and canned fish) and cash contributions in support of food security and nutrition, including school feeding, as well as emergency preparedness and response.
School feeding provides a safe and nutritious meal to pre-primary and primary school children in targeted vulnerable communities. It encourages children to enrol in school and attend class regularly, and, by reducing short-term hunger, improves concentration during classes, thus contributing to educational and nutritional outcomes, while also acting as an important safety net for the most vulnerable families.
In 2019, Japan contributed USD 2.7 million to WFP to enhance the resilience of Cambodian communities to shocks and build institutional capacity on emergency preparedness. This support has enabled 1) the construction of six safe evacuation centers in 3 flood-prone provinces; 2) strengthened disaster risk management planning at national, sub-national and community levels, and 3) enhanced early action through early warning systems.
The WFP Representative Claire Conan noted that ‘the severe floods which affected over 800,000 people across 19 provinces last October, were a stark reminder of how important our joint efforts on preparing for and responding to disasters is. The support of the Government of Japan to build six safe evacuation centers and enhance emergency preparedness at the community level is central to saving lives and livelihoods in Cambodia’.
The mission will travel to the Chimeak Primary School in Kampong Thom Province to observe the school feeding programme and to the flood-prone commune of Khsach Chiruos to visit one of the six safe evacuation centers under construction.

URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/109456-embassy-japan-and-world-food-programme-wfp-visit-newly-built-safe-evacuation-center-and




Date: 01 June 2020
Title: Cambodia and UN step up efforts to promote Decent Employment for Youth
Content: 01 June 2020
A joint programme will help school-to-work transition of young women and men in Cambodia.
Phnom Penh, 01 June 2020 – The Royal Government of Cambodia and the United Nations in Cambodia in partnership with the Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation (SDC), launched the second phase of a joint programme to promote decent employment for youth and reduce inequalities in the country.
The programme offers out-of-school and vulnerable youth with learning packages driven by innovation. Packages include technical; entrepreneurial; soft and on-the-job skills as well as demand-driven career guidance to ensure that out-of-school and vulnerable youth are better able to compete for quality employment in the labour market. In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, the programme also responds to the emergency measures and supports recovery efforts of the government.
In total, 170,900 youths (50% female) will directly benefit from the industry-driven skills and competencies development initiatives; basic education equivalency and literacy in factory programmes; entrepreneurship and enterprise development training and support initiatives; employment services; and youth rights at work awareness-raising programmes.
“In these times of turmoil, I am pleased to see our country coming together with international stakeholders to help and support vulnerable young Cambodians overcome today’s challenges and build a brighter future of work.” Said H.E Dr. Ith Samheng, Minister of Labour and Vocational Training.
“Cambodia’s response and recovery from the economic and social impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is an invaluable opportunity to unleash digital transformation with a skilled, empowered and resilient young population. The 160,000 young Cambodian women and men entering the job market every year will need more than ever to be equipped with the skills, competencies and the mindset to thrive even with uncertainty,” said UN Resident Coordinator, Ms Pauline Tamesis.
With a combined contribution of $4 million USD from SDC and $4.8 million USD from the four UN agencies (UNICEF, UNESCO, UNIDO and ILO), the Royal Government of Cambodia, and private sector, this four-year programme will benefit from the involvement of the private sector, including the Cambodian Federation of Employers and Business Associations (CAMFEBA), in the mission to facilitate young people’s school-to-work transition and contribute to reducing the skills mismatch in Cambodia.
“The Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation is pleased to join force and renew our partnership with the Government and the United Nations in Cambodia to assist young women and men in the country, to be better prepared for their future career, focusing on the more vulnerable people. Vocational Skills Development and Decent Employment remain priorities of Switzerland ’s International Cooperation” said Ms Carin Salerno, SDC Director of Cooperation.

The United Nations (UN) in Cambodia works to support peace, poverty eradication and human rights in the country. The UN is committed to enhancing development effectiveness in support of the priorities, plans and programs of the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC), civil society and other relevant partners.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/47986-cambodia-and-un-step-efforts-promote-decent-employment-youth




Date: 06 May 2019
Title: Prime Minister, UN representatives in Cambodia discuss progress and opportunities for sustainable development
Content: 06 May 2019
This dialogue aimed to discuss key sustainable development issues, highlighted within the 5-year UN Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF), to accelerate the implementation of the Cambodia Sustainable Development Goals (CSDGs).
“In the next five years, the UN will strategically support national development priorities, as articulated in the Rectangular Strategy IV, the draft National Strategic Development Plan 2019-2023 and the Cambodia SDG Framework,” Ms. Tamesis mentioned during her remarks.
This year, the dialogue focused on three main topics – social protection, data for development and the progress on the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG):
“Perhaps in moving forward, high priority attention will be needed to balance economic growth with safeguarding the natural environment, protecting human rights and promoting social goals, to ensure that the poor are protected from shocks, that prosperity is equitably shared, and that future generations also benefit from today’s decisions on how resources are managed,” Ms. Tamesis added.
Following the dialogue, the new UNDAF – 2019 to 2023 – was co-signed by Ms. Pauline Tamesis, UN Resident Coordinator and H.E. Prak Sokhonn, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.
The new UNDAF focuses on five development priorities: 1) Expanding social opportunities; 2) Expanding economic opportunities; 3) Promoting sustainable living; 4) Strengthening participation and accountability; and 5) Managing urbanization.
“Under the new UNDAF, the UN provides financial and technical support to the Royal Government to develop and implement plans, policies and frameworks to help prioritize issues affecting the most vulnerable,” said Ms. Tamesis.
About the United Nations in Cambodia: The United Nations (UN) in Cambodia works to support peace, poverty eradication and human rights in the country. The UN is committed to enhancing development effectiveness in support of the priorities, plans and programs of the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC), civil society and other relevant partners.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/26002-prime-minister-un-representatives-cambodia-discuss-progress-and-opportunities-sustainable




Date: 05 February 2019
Title: Safer Internet Day: UNICEF calls for concerted action to prevent bullying and harassment for the 85.7 per cent of young people online in Cambodia
Content: 05 February 2019
UNICEF warned today of the dangers posed by online violence, cyberbullying and digital harassment for the 85.7 per cent of young people aged 15 to 24 years old who are online in Cambodia, and called for concerted action to tackle and prevent violence against children and young people online.
The call, made on Safer Internet Day, comes following a recent UNICEF poll of young people, which received more than 1 million responses over five weeks from more than 160 countries, and suggestions from a series of student-led #ENDviolence Youth Talks held around the world. In it, young people provided thoughtful responses about what they and their parents, teachers and policymakers could do to keep them safe -- and kindness stood out as one of the most powerful means to prevent bullying and cyberbullying.
“We’ve heard from children and young people from around the globe and what they are saying is clear: The Internet has become a kindness desert,” said Ms. Natascha Paddison, UNICEF’s Officer-in-Charge Representative in Cambodia. “That’s why this Safer Internet Day, UNICEF is following young people’s lead and inviting everyone to be kind online, and calling for greater action to make the Internet a safer place for everyone.”
According to data from UNESCO on the prevalence of cyberbullying in high-income countries, the proportion of children and adolescents who are affected by cyberbullying range from 5 to 21 per cent, with girls appearing to be more likely to experience cyberbullying than boys.
In Cambodia, 80.4 per cent of girls aged between 15 and 24 years old are online, compared to 91.5 per cent of boys of the same age. Globally, 70.6 per cent of the world’s young people between 15 and 24 are online.
The online population in Cambodia is getting younger with 4.5 per cent of children under 15 years old online. While older students may be more exposed to cyberbullying than younger ones, children are not immune from harmful content, sexual exploitation and abuse, and cyberbullying.
Cyberbullying can cause profound harm as it can quickly reach a wide audience, and can remain accessible online indefinitely, virtually ‘following’ its victims online for life. Bullying and cyberbullying feed into each other, forming a continuum of damaging behaviour. Victims of cyberbullying are more likely to use alcohol and drugs and skip school than other students. They also are more likely to receive poor grades and experience low self-esteem and health problems. In extreme situations, cyberbullying has led to suicide.
“Thirty years after the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the creation of the World Wide Web, it is time for governments, families, academia and, critically, the private sector to put children and young people at the centre of digital policies," said Ms. Paddison. “By protecting them from the worst the Internet has to offer and expanding access to its best, we can each help tip the balance for good.”
###

About ITU ICT Facts and Figures
Data about Internet penetration among children and young people come from the ITU ICT Facts and Figures 2017, which features end-2017 estimates for key telecommunication/ICT indicators.
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org.kh.
Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/25487-safer-internet-day-unicef-calls-concerted-action-prevent-bullying-and-harassment-857-cent




Date: 25 January 2019
Title: Cambodia’s human rights record to be reviewed by Universal Periodic Review
Content: 25 January 2019
Cambodia is one of the 14 States to be reviewed by the UPR Working Group during its session taking place from 21 January to 1 February. Cambodia’s first and second UPR reviews took place in December 2009 and January 2013, respectively.
The documents on which the reviews are based are: 1) national report - information provided by the State under review; 2) information contained in the reports of independent human rights experts and groups, known as the Special Procedures, human rights treaty bodies, and other UN entities; 3) information provided by other stakeholders including national human rights institutions, regional organizations and civil society groups.
The three reports serving as the basis for the review of Cambodia on 28 January can be found here.

Location: Room 20, Palais des Nations, Geneva
Time and date: 20:30 – 00:00, Wednesday, 30 January (Phnom Penh time)

The UPR is a unique process which involves a periodic review of the human rights records of all 193 UN Member States. Since its first meeting was held in April 2008, all 193 UN member States have been reviewed twice within the first and second UPR cycles. During the third UPR cycle, States are again expected to spell out steps they have taken to implement recommendations posed during their previous reviews which they committed to follow-up on, as well as to highlight recent human rights developments in the country.
The delegation of Cambodia will be headed by Mr. KEO Remy, President of the Cambodian Human Rights Committee
The three country representatives serving as rapporteurs (“troika”) for the review of Cambodia are: Senegal, Pakistan and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
The webcast of the session will be at http://webtv.un.org
The list of speakers and all available statements to be delivered during the review of the Cambodia will be posted on the UPR Extranet [username: hrc extranet (with space); password: 1session].
The UPR Working Group is scheduled to adopt the recommendations made to Cambodia at 17.30 on 1 February. The State under review may wish to express its positions on recommendations posed to it during their review. The recommendations will be shared with the media on this day in advance.

ENDS
For more information and media requests, please contact Rolando Gómez at +41 (0) 22 917 9711 / rgomez@ohchr.org or Cédric Sapey at +41 (0) 22 917 9845 / csapey@ohchr.org
To learn more about the Universal Periodic Review, visit: www.ohchr.org/hrc/upr
UN Human Rights Council, follow us on social media: Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/25485-cambodia%E2%80%99s-human-rights-record-be-reviewed-universal-periodic-review




Date: 01 January 2018
Title: Joint Programme on Youth Employment
Content: 01 January 2018
Official signing ceremony of the Joint Programme on Youth Employment attended by senior representatives from the Royal Government of Cambodia and the United Nations system, who together inked the acceptance of the Joint Programme Document for a two-year cooperation, starting in 2017.
A cooperation agreement with the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, who will be a strategic development partner, was also signed.
UN agencies join forces to promote youth employment in Cambodia
The youth unemployment remains a big challenge for Cambodia. As 270,000 new workers enter the labour-force every year, many, among them, are taking the risk to take on jobs where informality and working poverty prevail. Key challenges, among others, include low level of education, skill-mismatch, low-skilled and unskilled labor force. Recognizing the need to address this issue, the United Nations system in Cambodia has developed the Joint Programme “UNited For Youth Employment in Cambodia” in partnership with the Royal Government of Cambodia with the aims to contribute to addressing these critical issues of youth employment in Cambodia.
The Joint Programme will be implemented for an initial phase of two years starting in 2017 with objective to facilitate young people’s entrance to the labour force while reducing inequalities – particularly for disadvantaged and vulnerable groups- and ensuring young women and men are better able to meet labour demand.
In the first two-year phase of the programme, SDC ($2 Million USD) and the five UN agencies ($2.5 Million, collectively through additional partnerships) will fund the programme.
The joint programme will focus on activities that will support young people and institutions directly:  Providing them with quality formal and non-formal education including volunteerism to develop relevant technical and vocational skills; equipping them with adequate entrepreneurial and business skills to create and develop sustainable enterprises; and helping them reduce their exposure to discrimination at work while raising their awareness of rights; and how to promote them.
URL: https://cambodia.un.org/en/25483-joint-programme-youth-employment




