Date: 25 September 2023
Title: Readout of the Secretary-General’s meeting with H.E. Mr. Lejeune Mbella Mbella, Minister for External Relations of the Republic of Cameroon
Content: 25 September 2023
The Secretary-General met today with H.E. Mr. Lejeune Mbella Mbella, Minister for External Relations of the Republic of Cameroon.

They discussed the situation in Cameroon, including in the North-West, South-West and Far North regions. They also discussed the global consequences of the war in Ukraine as well as the need to reform the international financial architecture. The Secretary-General reiterated the United Nations commitment to support Cameroon.

New York, 25 September 2023
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/247289-readout-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-meeting-he-mr-lejeune-mbella-mbella-minister-external-relations




Date: 04 April 2023
Title: UNHCR and CIFOR-ICRAF officialize partnership for resilience and sustainable use of forest resources in communities affected by forced displacement in Cameroon
Content: 04 April 2023
A Memorandum of Understanding between both organizations was signed on 23 March 2023 in Yaounde, with the UNHCR Representative for Cameroon, Olivier Guillaume Beer signing for the UN agency and Richard Eba'a and Ann Degrande for CIFOR and ICRAF.
forestry and agroforestry research, have formalized an agreement to work together to strengthen the resilience of refugees and host community members, while safeguarding the sustainable management of forest resources in areas affected by forced displacement in Cameroon.
A Memorandum of Understanding between both organizations was signed on 23 March 2023 in Yaounde, with the UNHCR Representative for Cameroon, Olivier Guillaume Beer signing for the UN agency and Richard Eba'a and Ann Degrande for CIFOR and ICRAF respectively, to find ways of improving the living standards of refugees and internally displaced people, while reducing their environmental footprint.
"Refugees as well as host community members very often use wood for cooking and other activities, which has a significant impact on the environment, including the loss of trees. This in turn threatens peaceful coexistence, exacerbates the risks of gender-based violence, and worsens the effects of climate change," said UNHCR Representative Olivier Beer. "This Memorandum of Understanding is therefore a crucial step towards mitigating any adverse effects brought on by the prolonged stay of people in a situation of forced displacement, while supporting resilience and sustainable development in areas that host people served by UNHCR."
By combining their efforts to mobilize resources for the improvement of the livelihoods of refugees and host community members as well as the sustainable use of forests, UNHCR and CIFOR-ICRAF are aiming to reduce their vulnerability, in accordance with the Sustainable Development Goals on zero hunger, good health and wellbeing, affordable and clean energy, and climate change.
"Including energy supply and livelihood options early on in interventions in refugee situations makes it easier to avoid damage and long-term impacts," said Abdon Awono, a CIFOR-ICRAF scientist. "Moreover, community involvement and local governance support are essential to the success of such programs".
UNHCR and CIFOR-ICRAF will begin their collaboration in Garoua-Boulai Subdivision in the East Region, which hosts over 64,000 Central African refugees. Both organizations have agreed to conduct participative research to allow various groups within communities to be part of the process of finding and implementing solutions that improve the management of natural resources, so they can build futures for themselves and generations to come.
UNHCR serves over two million people in Cameroon, of whom 475,000 are refugees. 347,000   of them are Central African refugees living in settlements, towns and villages in the East, Adamawa, and North Regions. Another 126,000 are Nigerian refugees living in and out of Minawao camp in the Far North Region. There are also 24,000 refugees of several nationalities living in urban areas like Yaounde and Douala. According to UNOCHA, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, there are more than one million internally displaced people in Cameroon, and over 557,000 returnees.
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/226195-unhcr-and-cifor-icraf-officialize-partnership-resilience-and-sustainable-use-forest




Date: 07 April 2021
Title: The humanitarian community appeals to all stakeholders to join forces to address the humanitarian needs in Cameroon
Content: 07 April 2021
Today, the Minister of Territorial Administration (MINAT), Mr. Paul Atanga Nji, and the Humanitarian Coordinator in Cameroon, Mr. Matthias Z. Naab, launched the 2021 Cameroon Humanitarian Response Plan.
The funding of the Humanitarian Response Plan will allow humanitarian organizations to provide humanitarian assistance to three million people in need of urgent aid in 2021.
Yaoundé, 7 April 2021 – Today, the Minister of Territorial Administration (MINAT), Mr. Paul Atanga Nji, and the Humanitarian Coordinator in Cameroon, Mr. Matthias Z. Naab, launched the 2021 Cameroon Humanitarian Response Plan. This plan aims to provide lifesaving assistance, reduce the vulnerability of people affected by crises and support communities to become more resilient to withstand future shocks.
Cameroon continues to be affected by three protection crises and concurrent, complex humanitarian situations. In 2021 there are 4.4 million people in need of humanitarian assistance in the country because of insecurity, diminished coping capacities and lack of access to basic services.
The violence in the Far North, North-West and South-West regions, the insecurity in the Central African Republic and Nigeria – that have led to the arrival of thousands of refugees in the East, Adamawa, North and Far North regions – and the disruptive impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and prevention measures on public and private revenues have substantially increased the population’s vulnerabilities.
“With over 320,000 internally displaced persons in the Far North region, as a result of the conflict, Cameroon is the second most affected country by the Lake Chad crisis after Nigeria. Providing humanitarian assistance, sustainable support for vulnerable women, children and men and identifying durable solutions for those displaced, remains a top priority for the humanitarian community. It will help people retain their dignity and build their resilience”, said Mr. Naab.
In 2020, the humanitarian response in Cameroon continued to be underfunded with only 50 per cent of the Humanitarian Response Plan funded. If the chronic underfunding of the humanitarian response in Cameroon is not addressed, several million people will continue to be left without vital humanitarian assistance and protection, further deepening their vulnerabilities.
For more information, please contact:
Carla Martinez, Head of Office, OCHA Cameroon, martinez14@un.org
Bibiane Mouangue, Public information officer, OCHA Cameroon, bibiane.mouangue@un.org
Press releases from OCHA are available at www.unocha.org/rowca and www.reliefweb.int
Cameroon Humanitarian Response Plan 2021 and Humanitarian Needs Overview 2021 are available at www.reliefweb.int
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/134111-humanitarian-community-appeals-all-stakeholders-join-forces-address-humanitarian-needs




Date: 03 April 2021
Title: The Humanitarian Coordinator in Cameroon strongly condemns the attack on a United Nations convoy in the South-West region of Cameroon
Content: 03 April 2021
The Humanitarian Coordinator in Cameroon, Mr. Matthias Z. Naab, strongly condemns the attack perpetrated by a non-state armed group on 26 March against a United Nations convoy in Ikata village, in the South-West region of Cameroon.
The Humanitarian Coordinator in Cameroon, Mr. Matthias Z. Naab, strongly condemns the attack perpetrated by a non-state armed group on 26 March against a United Nations convoy in Ikata village, in the South-West region of Cameroon.
The UN convoy, composed of two vehicles with seven staff members, was conducting a monitoring mission to Munyenge village in the South-West region. Shortly after entering Ikata village, a group of armed men opened fire on the convoy with automatic weapons. The attack did not lead to any loss of life nor injuries among the mission participants, but the two vehicles were seriously damaged.
This attack is the first of this kind on a UN convoy since the beginning of the North-West and South-West crisis. However, several humanitarian workers have been threatened, abducted, injured, and killed to date in the two regions.
The general insecurity, especially attacks on civilians, aid workers, and essential social service providers, increases the population’s suffering and undermines humanitarian actors’ capacity to provide life-saving humanitarian assistance timely.
On behalf of the humanitarian community, the Humanitarian Coordinator calls on all parties to the crisis to abide by their obligations under intrenational human rights law and to refrain from any attacks against humanitarian organizations, educational and health care facilities and their personnel and assets. The United Nations calls for perpetrators of these attacks to be held accountable.
“Safe, timely, and unhindered access of humanitarian organizations to deliver life-saving aid to the affected population needs to be guaranteed,” said Mr. Naab.
Mr. Naab stressed the humanitarian community’s commitment to continue to support crisis- affected populations in Cameroon.
For more information, please contact:
Carla Martinez, Head of Office OCHA Cameroon, martinez14@un.org
Press releases from OCHA are available at www.unocha.org/rowca and www.reliefweb.int
UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
To learn more about OCHA's activities, please visit www.unocha.org
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/134117-humanitarian-coordinator-cameroon-strongly-condemns-attack-united-nations-convoy-south-west




Date: 30 October 2020
Title: Cameroonian policewoman recognized by the  United Nations for her work in peacekeeping
Content: 30 October 2020
“Through both her words and actions, United Nations Police Officer Rebecca Nnanga exemplifies the best of United Nations policing,” said Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix.

Superintendent Rebecca Nnanga of Cameroon has been selected as one of two runners-up for the UN Woman Police Officer of the Year award for 2020 for her exemplary service while serving with the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA).
“Through both her words and actions, United Nations Police Officer Rebecca Nnanga exemplifies the best of United Nations policing,” said Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix.
Of the nearly 1,400 policewomen deployed in UN peacekeeping operations, twenty-one were nominated for the prestigious award.   The year’s winner Chief Inspector Doreen Malambo of Zambia, who serves with the UN Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS), will receive the top award during a virtual ceremony presided over by Mr. Lacroix on Tuesday, 3 November. Chief Superintendent Ugorji of Nigeria, serving with the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA), was chosen as the other runner-up.
UN Police Advisor Luis Carrilho, the UN’s ‘top cop,’ congratulated Superintendent Nnanga for her selection as a runner-up and said:  “We commend MINUSCA United Nations Police Officer Rebecca Nnanga’s tireless efforts to increase the recruitment of women police officers, achieving a quarter of new recruits in support of the internal security forces of the Central African Republic. Rebecca leads by example and is a tremendous role model for women and men in the police and in the communities we serve.”
Superintendent Nnanga deployed to MINUSCA in 2018 and currently serves as the Chief of the mission’s recruitment cell.  In this role, she has supported the recruitment of 1,000 personnel for the Central African Republic’s internal security forces over the past several years and increased the number and percentage of women included.   Her support for community-oriented policing has led to measurable security improvements in local communities. She has also worked to provide assistance to vulnerable people including survivors of sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV) as well as opportunities for local women to acquire new job skills. Superintendent Nnanga has been commended for her outstanding managerial abilities and for her work in ensuring good conduct and discipline among UN Police personnel.
Superintendent Nnanga joined the Cameroonian Police in 2001 and has served in assignments at the staff level and in training coordination.  She has extensive experience as a UN Police Officer -- serving previously in UN peacekeeping operations in Haiti (2011-2014) as well as an earlier stint in the Central African Republic (2015-2016).
The UN Woman Police Officer of the Year award was established in 2011 to recognize the exceptional contributions of female police officers to UN peacekeeping and to promote the empowerment of women. The award carries even greater significance this year given the 20th anniversary of Security Council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security.
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/98401-cameroonian-policewoman-recognized-united-nations-her-work-peacekeeping




Date: 26 October 2020
Title: UN shocked and outraged over horrific attack on school in Cameroon
Content: 26 October 2020
The United Nations has strongly condemned Saturday’s attack on a school in southwestern Cameroon, which claimed the lives of eight children, and wounded another twelve.
https://news.un.org/en/story/2020/10/1076112
On 24 October, a group of armed men attacked Mother Francisca International Bilingual Academy in Kumba, in Cameroon’s restive South-West region. According to local reports, the victims were aged between 12 and 14.
UN Secretary-General António Guterres called on Cameroonian authorities to conduct a thorough investigation to ensure that those responsible are held accountable, his spokesperson said in a statement.
“The attack is another disturbing reminder of the exacting heavy toll on civilians, including children, many of whom have been deprived of their right to education,” said the statement.
“Attacks on education facilities are a grave violation of children’s rights,” it added.
Mr. Guterres also called on all armed actors to refrain from attacks against civilians and to respect international humanitarian and international human rights law.
He also urged the parties to answer his call for a global ceasefire, reiterating the availability of the United Nations to support an inclusive dialogue process leading to a resolution of the crisis in the North-West and South-West regions of Cameroon
In a separate statement, Henrietta Fore, Executive Director of the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) also condemned the attack “in the strongest possible terms.”
“This has been a deadly weekend for schoolchildren in Afghanistan and Cameroon,” she said, also referring to the attack on an education centre in Kabul.
“I am shocked and outraged at these abominable attacks and condemn them in the strongest possible terms. Attacks on education are a grave violation of children’s rights,” Ms. Fore added, reiterating that schools must be places of safety and learning, “not death traps.”
According to the UN Humanitarian Coordinator in Cameroon, Matthias Z. Naab, the attack is the worst atrocity since the resumption of the school year on 5 October, in which more students enrolled in the North-West and South-West regions than in recent years. Unrest in parts of Cameroon had affected school enrolment and access to education.
“Children have a right to education. Violence against schools and innocent school children is not acceptable under any circumstances and can constitute a crime against humanity if proven in a court of law,” said Mr. Naab.
The UN World Health Organization (WHO) has provided medical supplies to the local hospital and the NGO, Médecins sans Frontières (MSF) is assisting with medical supplies and personnel.
The UN will continue to support Government and NGO efforts to provide necessary medical assistance to the wounded, added Mr. Naab.
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/97631-un-shocked-and-outraged-over-horrific-attack-school-cameroon




Date: 24 October 2020
Title: Cameroon: Statement by Humanitarian Coordinator on Killing of school children in Kumba, South West Region
Content: 24 October 2020
Mr. Matthias Z. Naab strongly condemns the attack against Mother Francisca International Bilingual Academy in Kumba, South West Region of Cameroon

Yaoundé, 24 October 2020 – The Humanitarian Coordinator in Cameroon, Mr. Matthias Z. Naab, strongly condemns the attack against Mother Francisca International Bilingual Academy in Kumba, in the South West region of Cameroon in which it is reported that at least eight children were killed and another twelve wounded.
“I am shocked and outraged by the killing of innocent school children which were attending school to get an education.  On behalf of the United Nations and the wider humanitarian community in Cameroon, I extend our deepest condolences to the families of the children killed and our support to the wounded and their families and to all the community”, said Mr. Naab.
On 24 October, a group of armed men attacked Mother Francisca International Bilingual Academy in Kumba.  At least eight children were killed as a result of gunshots and attack with machetes. Another twelve were wounded and taken to local hospitals.
The World Health Organization has provided medical supplies to the district hospital and Médecins sans Frontières is supporting the hospital with medical supplies and personnel. The United Nations will continue to support efforts by the Government and non-Governmental organizations to provide necessary medical assistance to the wounded.
The attack against school children is the worst atrocity since the resumption of the school year on 5 October 2020 in which more students enrolled in the North-West and South-West regions than in recent years.
“Children have a right to education. Violence against schools and innocent school children is not acceptable under any circumstances and can constitute a crime against humanity if proven in a court of law. I call on the competent authorities to conduct a thorough investigation into this tragedy”, reiterated Mr. Naab.
Mr. Naab reiterated the United Nations’ call for all armed actors to refrain from any attacks against children and other civilians, and ensure that schools, medical facilities and their personnel are not subjected to violence or threats in any way.
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/97920-cameroon-statement-humanitarian-coordinator-killing-school-children-kumba-south-west-region




Date: 17 August 2020
Title: Cameroon Is Global First for the UN75 Campaign
Content: 17 August 2020
"This is an incredible achievement which displays the dynamism and dedication of Cameroonian youth to add their voices to the UN75 call on the world they want."
Yaoundé, August 17, 2020
On January 1, UN Secretary-General; Antonio Guterres launched the world's largest conversation, the “UN75 Campaign”, built around UN75 Dialogues and a Survey consisting of questions where respondents are asked to give their opinions on how they would like the world to look like in the coming years.
In Cameroon, the first dialogue took place in Bamenda on February 29, 2020. From June till mid-August 2020, over 100 youth volunteers from some eight civil society organisations, gathered the voices of more than 35,000 Cameroonians. They surveyed communities nationwide using the UN75 Survey in paper form, with results later uploaded online.
Through their passion and dynamism, Cameroon today occupies the first position globally in the number of UN75 respondents, with Bamenda, Douala, and Yaoundé being the best three cities worldwide with most respondents. In Africa, more than 50% of total UN75 surveys are presently from Cameroon.
"This is an incredible achievement which displays the dynamism and dedication of Cameroonian youth to add their voices to the UN75 call on the world they want. It is interesting to note that Cameroon happened to become the country with most filled surveys on the International Youth Day, August 12. This was very timely, and we could not be more grateful to the hard work and commitment coming from Cameroonian youth volunteers and leaders," said Ms. Siti Batoul Oussein, UN Resident Coordinator a.i.
A report on the UN75 Campaign will be presented to the Secretary-General during the upcoming 75th Session of the UN General Assembly in September. The UN75 Campaign will be ongoing until December 31, with results and findings to be published in a final report in January 2021.
The general public is invited to take the UN75 Survey on www.un75.online

Contacts
Emanuel Foukou, PIO - UNRCO Yaounde, Tel +237 691123088. Email : emanuel.foukou@one.un.org
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/88171-cameroon-global-first-un75-campaign




Date: 11 August 2020
Title: WFP CONDEMNS KILLING OF A HUMANITARIAN WORKER IN CAMEROON
Content: 11 August 2020
“It is unacceptable that humanitarians working tirelessly to alleviate suffering in these difficult and unprecedented times should be targeted."
WFP CONDEMNS KILLING OF A HUMANITARIAN WORKER IN CAMEROON

DAKAR – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) was shocked to learn that a staff member of one of its partner organisations in the North West Region of Cameroon was killed by unidentified armed people.

“We are deeply saddened by the killing of this humanitarian worker,” said Chris Nikoi, WFP Regional Director for West Africa. “It is unacceptable that humanitarians working tirelessly to alleviate suffering in these difficult and unprecedented times should be targeted. We strongly condemn this act and similar actions targeting civilians and aid workers in the North West and South West regions of Cameroon.”
A statement by the United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator in Cameroon said the worker serving with the Community Initiative for Sustainable Development (COMINSUD) in Batibo Subdivision in the North was kidnapped from his home on 7 August and later killed.

#                         #                         #

The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies, building prosperity and supporting a sustainable future for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

Follow us on Twitter @wfp_WAfrica
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/87726-wfp-condemns-killing-humanitarian-worker-cameroon




Date: 05 August 2020
Title: Meeting of Religious Leaders From the Northwest and Southwest Regions of Cameroon
Content: 05 August 2020
Today, Wednesday 05 August 2020, the following religious leaders:
Met at the Archdiocese of Douala to discuss the Recovery Programme of the Northwest and Southwest regions.
In their deliberations with UNDP, they focused on how the Recovery Programme could alleviate the effects of the socioeconomic crisis that has impacted on the population.
They recognized that in addition to the heavy toll the crisis has had on the people, the current COVID-19 pandemic has worsened the situation.
In this regard, the religious leaders in support of the UNDP Programme, strongly endorse and support the implementation of the Recovery Programme as it focusses on the people in strengthening social cohesion, revitalisation of local economy, and access to basic services. They also call upon the people of the Northwest and Southwest regions to cooperate and facilitate the implementation of the Programme. They further appealed on donor friends to contribute resources for this programme.
In that connection, the religious leaders committed to support the Recovery Programme and expressed the wish to be regularly consulted and to be informed/updated of new developments on the ground throughout the implementation process of the Programme.
Done in Douala, Wednesday 5 August 2020
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/86597-meeting-religious-leaders-northwest-and-southwest-regions-cameroon




Date: 30 July 2020
Title: UN Secretary General’s High-Level Panel on Internal Displacement
Content: 30 July 2020
- Call for Submissions and Inputs -
The Secretary General’s High-Level Panel on Internal Displacement has been established to generate recommendations for stepped – up actions by Governments, the United Nations and other actors to better prevent, respond to and drive forward solutions to internal displacement1.
1 As per its Terms of Reference, the High-Level Panel has been tasked to look in these respects particularly at national responsibility and capacity; climate change and/or disaster-induced displacement; the humanitarian – development – peace nexus; the role of International Financial Institutions, the Private Sector and new forms of partnership at large; participation and inclusion of IDPs in the SDGs; improving the collection and use of data and evidence; new and creative forms of financing; and, as cross-cutting themes attention to protection needs, vulnerability and the unique experiences and effects of displacement of people of different genders, ages, abilities, and diversities.
The Panel has been called upon to think out of the box, be bold and innovative in its analysis and practical in its recommendations. The Panel is committed to carry out face-to-face consultations with a wide range of stakeholders at global, regional, and national levels. In light however of the current situation resulting from the global coronavirus crisis, it is for now prioritizing channels for gathering inputs remotely.
As a first step, the Panel is hereby calling for written contributions. In the spirit of the approach indicated already, the submissions should be bold, creative and practical. They need not focus on the day to day activities or programmes of the contributor but rather on what can make a difference on the respective challenges and imperatives of internal displacement.
Without intending thereby to restrict the nature and scope of the inputs, the questions outlined below can be used a guide in formulating the submissions:
1. The key issues, problems or imperative which, as you see it, should be prioritized by the Panel in its analysis of the crisis of internal displacement today and how prevention, response at large and solutions can be effectively advanced.
2. Across the objectives of prevention, response and solutions, how can national political will, responsibility and capacity be catalyzed and cultivated.
3. The relevance and role of humanitarian, development, peace, climate change and disaster reduction action and how a more integrated approach in these respects can be fostered. Submissions can in these respects also address the role of the Private Sector, Regional or International Financial Institutions and other development partners and actors.
4. Focusing on solutions, your perspectives on what has led to many situations of internal displacement remaining stalled for many years and how effective solutions can be catalyzed, driven forward and supported.
5. New or creative financing solutions which can be built up or better utilized in enabling more effective responses to displacement and the achievement of durable solutions.
6. Critical issues or questions as you see them in respect to data and evidence in the response to internal displacement including gaps, shortcomings and challenges in approaches or implementation and how these can be addressed.
7. What steps could be taken to strengthen the effectiveness of response management, coordination and accountability at all levels in contexts of internal displacement?
8. Across the questions and elements highlighted above, it will be appreciated if the submissions:
i. Highlight the protection needs, vulnerability and unique experiences and effects of displacement on people of different genders, ages, abilities and diversities.
ii. Address the questions of meaningful participation and inclusion of the internally displaced and affected communities in the respective responses.
iii. Include examples, practices or experiences which help illustrate the questions at stake and, in particular, from which lessons or conclusions can be drawn.
Submissions should be sent as either an MS Word or PDF attachment to idpspanel@un.org. Submissions can be made in English, French and Spanish.
All submissions received by the Panel will normally be posted on the Panel’s public website due to be launched shortly. Should you wish for your submission not to be published publicly, please indicate accordingly in your message transmitting it.
HLP - ID Secretariat / 12.03.2020
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/78512-un-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-high-level-panel-internal-displacement




Date: 26 July 2020
Title: UNDP, Islamic Development Bank and the Government of Cameroon signed an agreement to fight the COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 26 July 2020
I am grateful that UNDP Cameroon, in partnership with the Government and the Islamic Development Bank were able to mobilize additional resources to scale up Cameroon’s National COVID-19 Response Plan to fight the pandemic.”
Yaounde 28 July 2020: The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Cameroon signed on 23 July 2020, a tripartite agreement worth $13.8 million with the Government of Cameroon and the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) to strengthen the health system and the COVID-19 response plan in the country.
This follows the global agreement worth $ 27.440 million signed between the Government of the Republic of Cameroon and the Islamic Development Bank, to provide immediate response to COVID-19 by procuring vital medical and non-medical equipment including Scanners, respiratory equipment, ambulances, mobile radios for communications etc, and further strengthen the health system in Cameroon.
“This support is part of a «no regret» approach that will strengthen Cameroon’s health systems in a sustainable and comprehensive manner. I am grateful that UNDP Cameroon, in partnership with the Government and the Islamic Development Bank were able to mobilize additional resources to scale up Cameroon’s National COVID-19 Response Plan to fight the pandemic”, said the Resident Representative of UNDP Cameroon, Jean Luc Stalon.
“Beyond the response to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) which has  greatly stressed our health professionals, this partnership is an opportunity to further strengthen Cameroon's health system in the face of future resurgence of epidemics and pandemics in Cameroon”,   Dr. MANAOUDA Malachie, Minister of Public Health said.
To date, Cameroon has over 17110 positive cases of COVID-19, 14533 cured and 393 deaths.

……………END………………..

Contacts: UNDP: FAJONG Joseph LEREH, Communication and Advocacy Expert, Email: joseph.fajong@undp.org
About UNDP: UNDP partners with people at all levels of society to help build nations that can withstand crisis, and drive and sustain the kind of growth that improves the quality of life for everyone. On the ground in nearly 170 countries and territories, we offer global perspective and local insight to help empower lives and build resilient nations.
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/86598-undp-islamic-development-bank-and-government-cameroon-signed-agreement-fight-covid-19




Date: 03 July 2020
Title: Third session of UN75 Dialogue in Cameroon
Content: 03 July 2020
Yaounde, 02 July 2020
Theme "Women on the driving seat: the joint impact of COVID-19 and armed conflict on women in Cameroon, the way forward?”
The United Nations System in partnership with the Cameroon Women's Peace Movement (CAWOPEM), organized the third session of the UN75 Dialogue in Cameroon through a videoconference call. Discussions were centered around the theme "Women on the driving seat: the joint impact of COVID-19 and armed conflict on women in Cameroon, what way forward?”
Over 30 participants in attendance, among whom men, women and youth, addressed the subject in two key sessions. The first session was a time for the UN to listen to participants. It was chaired by Mrs. Siti Batoul Oussein, Resident Representative of UNFPA, in her capacity as Acting Resident Coordinator and United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator in Cameroon. This session captured people's views on the future of the world and the role they wish to see the United Nations play in the next twenty-five years. While the perspectives drawn are seen as promising, participants agreed on the fact that their achievement required more commitment towards peace, dialogue and the protection of human rights including the safeguarding of human dignity and the access to essential social amenities for all. Participants further expressed their wish for a stronger cooperation between the United Nations and the African Union and its decentralization at the level of the existing regional and sub-regional poles.
The second session of the exchange was a panel discussion. This panel was chaired by Mrs. Nicoline Nwenushi Tumasang, member of the CAWOPEM executive board. Panelists noted that the ongoing armed conflicts in Cameroon, from the violent extremism of Boko Haram since 2014 to the socio-political crisis in the two English-speaking regions since 2016, have exposed women and girls and made them more vulnerable than before. This situation was exacerbated with the outbreak, in March 2020, of the COVID-19 pandemic.
These back-to-back crises have almost negated the progress made so far by Cameroonian women and girls in the areas of the implementation of the Cairo Program of Action, the Beijing Platform for Action, the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the African Union Agenda 2063 and all the other commitments made by the international community and to which Cameroon has subscribed to promote gender equality and women empowerment.
Women and girls, who have been disproportionately affected together with men who support the gender equality cause examined the multidimensional repercussions of these crises on the rights and well-being of women. Together, they united their voices and offered their ideas on the progress of the world and the key role they hope to see the United Nations play for the good of humanity as a whole. On its part, CAWOPEM called for the role and perspective of women in crisis resolution, peacebuilding and the fight against poverty to be taken into account now and for the next 25 years.
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/52324-third-session-un75-dialogue-cameroon




Date: 19 June 2020
Title: Joint Statement by the United Nations Resident Coordinator, UNFPA and UN Women on the International Day of the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict
Content: 19 June 2020
We must stop rape now. We must break the vicious cycle of terror, poverty and impunity that enables sexual violence in conflict.
Yaounde, 19 June 2020
In 2015, the United Nations General Assembly declared June 19 International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict to raise awareness on the need to end conflict-related sexual violence and to honor the victims/survivors. On this fifth anniversary  of the commemoration, we would like to amplify, the United Nations Secretary General’s message of solidarity for the victims and survivors, his appeal to end sexual violence and all forms of gender-based violence and a global unconditional ceasefire to support the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.
Women and girls are disproportionately affected by sexual violence. In conflicts worldwide, rape is used as a weapon to destroy the lives of women and girls, to undermine the welfare and recovery of entire communities. The fear and stigma surrounding the COVID19 pandemic is further restricting women and girls’ access to basic social services like health and education and humanitarian aid, further exposing them to the risk of sexual violence.
According to recent data it is estimated that 15% of registered gender-based violence survivors in the Far North have suffered from sexual violence, including rape. This figure goes up to 33% in the North-West and South-West Regions. Only 5% of survivors resort to legal aid to seek justice and compensation.
We must stop rape now. We must break the vicious cycle of terror, poverty and impunity that enables sexual violence in conflict. Today we call on the Government of Cameroon with the support of its partners to reinforce strategies to eradicate violence against women and girls in armed conflict and to facilitate universal access to reproductive healthcare and services; to ensure local and national courts support the investigation and prosecution of sexual violence and ensure the full accountability of perpetrators and; to strengthen programmes aimed at supporting victims/survivors and their families rebuild their lives and livelihoods.
The United Nations in Cameroon is fully committed to work alongside Government in this regard and to protect women and girls and help survivors of sexual violence rebuild their lives. Ending gender-based violence including sexual violence in conflict is one of the three transformative results of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). In addition, UNFPA ensures that referral systems are functional to guarantee survivors’ access to sexual and reproductive health services, safe spaces for their protection and psycho –social assistance in order to rebuild their lives. The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN-WOMEN) provides holistic protection services to women and girls at risk of sexual violence in conflict situations. UN-WOMEN also ensures that survivors of these types of violence receive adequate reparation, empowerment and legal assistance.

Allegra Maria Del Pilar Baiocchi
UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator in Cameroon

Siti Batoul Oussein Resident Representative UNFPA in Cameroon

Hind Jalal Country Representative a.i. UN-WOMEN in Cameroon

For further information, please contact:
Jean NJITA, Public Information Officer, UN Cameroon, watard@un.org
Mbea MBEA, UNFPA, mmbea@unfpa.org
UN Cameroon press releases are available https://cameroon.un.org/en&nbsp;
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/50109-joint-statement-united-nations-resident-coordinator-unfpa-and-un-women-international-day




Date: 21 May 2020
Title: WFP AND JAPAN PROVIDE FOOD RATIONS TO PUPILS IN CAMEROON AMID COVID-19 PANDEMIC
Content: 21 May 2020
Children are the future of this country and it is important they receive assistance to continue their studies, while respecting preventive measures to avoid transmission of COVID-19.

The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) has resumed its school feeding support to more than 52,000 children including internally displaced persons and host communities in the Far North region of Cameroon, with the support from the Japanese government.
Responding to the school closure due to the COVID-19 pandemic, WFP is providing food rations consisting of rice, beans oil and salt to the parents of pupils benefiting from school feeding activity to ensure good nutrition when students study from home. The Government of Japan has provided USD 2.7 million to support this programme and further nutrition activities in Cameroon.
“An effective response to the current pandemic must include the most vulnerable,” said Mr. Ronald Sibanda, WFP Country Director ad interim in Cameroon. “Children are the future of this country and it is important they receive assistance to continue their studies, while respecting preventive measures to avoid transmission of COVID-19,” he added.
“In this time of pandemic, the Government of Japan is profoundly attentive about the situation of children in Cameroon, who couldn’t continue to receive daily nutritious meals due to the closure of school. I am glad to support the Government of Cameroon together with WFP by implementing this innovative way to secure the food supply for the pupils,” said H.E. Mr. OSAWA Tsutomu, the Ambassador of Japan to Cameroon.
WFP distributes food to parents with gloves, soap and water containers to ensure hygiene practices are respected. Participants were sensitized on the COVID-19 pandemic, respecting its prevention measures, and asked to come to the distribution sites with masks and to respect social distancing.
Cameroon’s Far North region, particularly the border area with Nigeria, have been plagued by violence, with repeated attacks by non-state armed groups since 2014, resulting in Nigerian refugee’s influx as well as displacement within Cameroon. These numerous population displacements disrupted the local economy, agriculture and pastoral production.
#                                 #                                 #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies, building prosperity and supporting a sustainable future for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @wfp_media @wfp_WAfrica
For more information, please contact (email address: Frederick.martin@wfp.org):
Frederick Martin, WFP/Yaounde, Mob. +237 691 101 247
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/46849-wfp-and-japan-provide-food-rations-pupils-cameroon-amid-covid-19-pandemic




Date: 12 February 2020
Title: Japan contributes additional funds for Peace and Security efforts and Humanitarian Assistance in Cameroon
Content: 12 February 2020
Since 2015, Japanese contribution to humanitarian efforts in Cameroon has amounted to over 47 million USD. Through these contributions, UN agencies have been able to significantly reduce the vulnerability of affected populations, especially youth and women, and strengthen their capacities and empowerment.
Yaounde, 10 February 2020 – The Government of Japan has announced a new contribution of over 2 million US dollars to United Nations programmes in Cameroon. Through this generous contribution, Japan renews its commitment to support internally displaced people and refugees as well as the promotion of peace and security in Cameroon.
The assistance from the Government of Japan will reinforce the resilience and address the growing and urgent needs of vulnerable groups such as IDPs, refugees and host communities affected by crises in the North West, South West, East and the three Northern regions of Cameroon.
“The work the United Nations organization are able to do through Japanese funding is critical to supporting these vulnerable groups. With this contribution, we would like to show our solidarity with Cameroon and the United Nations”, said H.E Tsutomu Osawa, Ambassador of Japan to Cameroon.
Since 2015, Japanese contribution to humanitarian efforts in Cameroon has amounted to over 47 million USD. Through these contributions, UN agencies have been able to significantly reduce the vulnerability of affected populations, especially youth and women, and strengthen their capacities and empowerment.
“Across the country today, hundreds of thousands of people need urgent assistance and protection. Attacks against civilians have increased, hundreds of thousands are displaced, Yet Cameroon remains the worst funded emergency in the continent and third worst underfunded globally. We are sincerely grateful to the Government of Japan’s continued support to our action on the ground. This contribution will enable us to reach women, men and children living in dire need, to save lives and help them recover.”, said the Resident Coordinator of the UN System in Cameroon, Allegra Baiocchi.
The total amount of 2.195.199 USD will be allocated to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the World Food Programme (WFP) and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) as follows:
• 727.272 USD for UNDP to provide support in “Contributing to early recovery efforts in the Far North, North West and South West regions through the Humanitarian-Development-Peace Nexus”. The overall objective of the project is to build the resilience of population, especially vulnerable groups, to environmental, social and economic shocks.
• 272.727 USD for UNICEF to provide “Protection Of Children, Adolescents And Youths Against Violence, Abuse And Exploitation, And Strengthening The Resilience Of Children, Adolescents And Women Affected By The Lake Chad Basin Crisis In Mayo Sava/Far-North Region”. The activities aim to promote social stability for children affected by the Lake Chad Basin Crisis through the provision of a safe environment that protects them from harmful practices, exposure to violent exploitation in Mayo-Sava Division of the Far North region.
• 1.000.000 USD for WFP to provide “Food assistance to the most food insecure refugees and local communities in Cameroon”. Thanks to this contribution from the Government of Japan, the most vulnerable populations affected by crises in the Far North, North, East and Adamawa regions will receive cash or food transfers to meet their immediate food needs as they build assets that will improve their livelihoods, increasing agricultural productivity and building resilience to natural disasters.
• 195.200 USD for UNHCR to provide “Protection and Solutions for Central African Republic and Nigerian refugees in Cameroon”. Through this generous contribution, UNHCR will continue to contribute to refugees' resilience and integration into the host communities, by improving access to durable means of livelihoods for refugees and their host population in the East, Adamawa, Far North and North regions of Cameroon.
For more information, please contact:
Embassy of Japan: SAKAI TATSUKI <tatsuki.sakai@mofa.go.jp>, Researcher and Adviser in Economy and Cooperation +237 222 206 202 ; info@yd.mofa.go.jp
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP): Joseph FAJONG +237 675 645 854 ; joseph.fajong@undp.org
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR): Xavier Bourgois ; +237 690 049 996 ; bourgois@unhcr.org
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF): Salomon Marie Joseph Beguel +237 699 770 569 ; smjbeguel@unicef.org
World Food Program (WFP): Yueyue LI +222 231 728 ; yueyue.li@wfp.org
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/53126-japan-contributes-additional-funds-peace-and-security-efforts-and-humanitarian-assistance




Date: 12 December 2018
Title: "MAPS Mission" for the implementation of  Agenda 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 12 December 2018

Under the leadership of the Ministry of Economy, Planning and Regional Development (MINEPAT), the objective of the mission was to support the Government in the identification and prioritization of targets, to accelerate the economic, inclusive and sustainable growth for its inclusion in public policies.
During the mission, the MAPS (Mainstreaming, Acceleration, Policy Support) met the Prime Minister, Head of Government, and the Minister Delegate to MINEPAT. The delegation also conducted consultations with sectoral ministries, representatives of civil society, the private sector and development partners.
He then reiterated the commitment of the Government of Cameroon, to implement the SDGs and reach the priority targets for the country.
The Minister Delegate to MINEPAT stressed the importance of integrating the SDGs into the document for the second phase of Vision 2035 in Cameroon, which is currently being drawn up.
Discussions were also carried out for the establishment of a coordination mechanism representing all actors in the Cameroonian society for the implementation and monitoring of the SDGs, and a roadmap has been established with a view to enabling Cameroon to continue its reflection on the contextualization and the effective implementation of public policies.
"The SDGs are a priority for Cameroon," noted Philémon Yang, Prime Minister of the MAPS mission. He then reiterated the commitment of the Government of Cameroon, to implement the SDGs and reach the priority targets for the country.
The Minister Delegate to MINEPAT stressed the importance of integrating the SDGs into the document for the second phase of Vision 2035 in Cameroon, which is currently being drawn up.
Discussions were also carried out for the establishment of a coordination mechanism representing all actors in the Cameroonian society for the implementation and monitoring of the SDGs, and a roadmap has been established with a view to enabling Cameroon to continue its reflection on the contextualization and the effective implementation of public policies.
"The SDGs integration process will be following the fundamental principle of leaving no one behind, to prioritize the inclusion of the most vulnerable populations," noted Ms. Allegra Baiocchi, Resident Coordinator of the United Nations system in Cameroon. Their realization requires the commitment of all actors: the government, civil society, and the private sector, she added.
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/19607-maps-mission-implementation-%C2%A0-agenda-2030-and-sustainable-development-goals




Date: 06 December 2018
Title: 130 actors mobilized to better plan health interventions in the northwest and southwest regions
Content: 06 December 2018
Yaoundé (Cameroon) - The North-West and South-West Regions of Cameroon are experiencing a crisis characterized by clashes between separatist forces and national armed forces, massive displacement of populations, and deterioration of essential social services.
Despite this climate of insecurity, many technical and financial partners, as well as NGOs, assist populations in need. But it appears that these goodwills need better coordination and that the information, which is piecemeal and incomplete, does not make it possible to address problems efficiently.
This is why the Ministry of Public Health supported by WHO, GIZ, and technical partners organized a workshop in Yaoundé from November 14 to 15, 2018, to exchange experiences, plan and implement interventions and health priorities in the South West and North West regions with all stakeholders.
The opening speech of the Minister of Public Health, André Mama Fouda, painted a gloomy picture: health indicators plummeting, children who are no longer vaccinated, pregnant women no follow up, chronically ill patients without treatment, and suspended health surveys. He prescribed two emergencies: establish a harmonized roadmap, and find the path of communication with those who kill and attack health workers.
The representative of WHO, Dr. Phanuel Habimana, recalled the role of his organization, which is to bring its technical capacity as well as the emergency preparedness measures, identifying in advance the agencies and organizations responsible for coordinating the sectors concerned.  Along with improving the humanitarian response by demanding higher standards of predictability, stakeholder responsibility, and partnership in all sectors or areas of activity.
After two days of intense work, the socio-health situation in the Northwest and Southwest was analyzed, planning methods and strategies for implementing public health interventions in these two regions were reviewed shared and capitalized, and priority health actions defined within all levels of the health pyramid. A roadmap for the implementation of activities by the State with the support of partners has been drawn up.
No 1232 Immeuble Mellopolis
Rue 1794, Ekoudou, Bastos
+ 237 222 20 08 00 / 222 20 08 01
URL: https://cameroon.un.org/en/23368-130-actors-mobilized-better-plan-health-interventions-northwest-and-southwest-regions




