Date: 06 June 2024
Title: Recent dialogue explores strengthening China-Africa-UN collaboration on climate change
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
06 June 2024
Beijing, 6 June – On Monday, 27 May 2024, the United Nations (UN) in China and the Embassy of Kenya in China co-hosted a dialogue to raise the need for renewed partnership between countries in Africa, as well as China and others in order to accelerate climate action, deliver on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and inform deliberations for the upcoming Summit of the Future.
The dialogue, hosted at the UN Compound in China located in Beijing, saw the in-person and online participation of representatives from the Government of China, Member States, UN Country Teams in China and African countries, research institutions, financial institutions, foundations, and the private sector.
In following last year’s Africa Climate Summit hosted in Nairobi, the dialogue was initiated by the Embassy of Kenya in China with a view to discussing the summit’s resulting Nairobi Declaration, which called on the international community to support Africa and “to act with urgency in reducing emissions, fulfilling its obligations, honouring past promises, and supporting the continent in addressing climate change”, and the need for concrete action in these areas.
In highlighting perspectives from Africa and China on the current state of collaboration on climate action and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the dialogue joins other events being held by the UN in China ahead of the Summit of the Future this September, a once-in-a-generation opportunity to enhance cooperation, reaffirm existing commitments including to the UN Charter and the SDGs, and move towards a reinvigorated multilateral system.
During his remarks, UN Resident Coordinator in China, Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, said, “As we focus on detail and delivery in today’s dialogue, I hope that the views and insights shared will help in making climate action a reality for the benefit of Africa and the world. You can always count on the UN in China to play its role as a convener, connecter and catalyzer for Member States and other development partners as we work together to realize the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.”
During his remarks, Ambassador of Kenya to China, His Excellency Mr. Willy K. Bett, said, “The Nairobi Declaration asks all stakeholders to recognize the immense potential of Africa in climate action. Africa possesses all the necessary resources to realize this future. Our young and growing workforce is educated, skilled and motivated to pursue industry, innovation, and enterprise. In addition, we have ample renewable energy potential.”
As raised during the dialogue, climate change is one of the key priority areas set for enhanced cooperation under the framework of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, with China now supporting a large number of projects focused on the development of renewable energy sources across the continent.
During his remarks, Chairman of the China International Development Cooperation Agency, Mr. Luo Zhaohui, said, “It is our responsibility to actively participate in and promote global climate governance. CIDCA is ready to work with all partners, to continuously increase support for Africa to combat climate change.”
In panel discussions at the dialogue, participants were able to explore concrete opportunities in Africa for project-based cooperation on adaptation and mitigation, climate finance and agribusiness, with participants also advocating for more investment and broader partnerships to support sustainable agriculture, enhance food security and minimize environmental impacts.
Joining the panel discussions, Ambassador of Barbados to China, His Excellency Mr. Hallam Henry, said, “As a small island state, Barbados is a vocal advocate for other developing countries vulnerable to climate change and continues to stress the importance of making financing more available in order for us to adapt to climate change and ensure our survival. We see the Bridgetown Initiative as key to these efforts.”
Joining the panel discussions, Ambassador of Germany to China, Her Excellency Dr. Patricia Flor, said, “As a co-facilitator for the Summit of the Future, together with our partner Namibia, we aim to build bridges. We strive to unite in finding answers to protecting global public goods. As industrialized country, Germany takes its responsibility seriously and stands ready to support the operationalization of the Nairobi Declaration together with our African partners. But looking at the large climate finance gap, it becomes clear, that we can only narrow this gap by broadening the donor base. This must include all countries that are high emitters as well as the private sector.”
Joining the panel discussions, Chairman of TPC (Tsao Pao Chee) Group, Mr. Chavalit Frederick Tsao, said, “I believe the next step is to complete the theory of change for impact, integrating all the SDGs under climate change with corresponding matrix to deliver the well-being and happiness economy, where GNH leads GDP.”
Other speakers who addressed the dialogue either in person or via video message include China’s Special Envoy for Climate Change, Liu Zhenmin, and Founder and Patron of the SMACHS Foundation, Charlene Ruto.
The dialogue builds on other strategic discussions and engagements held under the China-Africa-UN Transformative Partnerships Initiative, with inputs from the dialogue to form part of summary documents that will be shared with UN Headquarters and others ahead of the Summit of the Future.
---
For further information, please contact:
Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/270216-recent-dialogue-explores-strengthening-china-africa-un-collaboration-climate-change




Date: 29 May 2024
Title: China-IFAD SSTC Facility hosts workshop showcasing collaboration on climate-smart solutions
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
29 May 2024
Nairobi/Beijing, 29 May 2024: The China-IFAD South-South and Triangular Cooperation (SSTC) Facility of the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) showcased proven, cost-effective climate-smart solutions at a hybrid event at Egerton University in Nakuru County, Kenya. Experts from the United Nations system, governments, academia, think tanks, international organizations, and the private sector attended the event.
Smallholder farmers are increasingly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, such as erratic rainfall, drought, and increased pests and diseases. Climate-smart agriculture and enhanced resilience are crucial for addressing these challenges, ensuring food security, and achieving sustainable development.
The China-IFAD SSTC Facility, established in 2018, spearheads efforts to pilot and scale up innovative solutions for rural development. It fosters knowledge exchange and collaboration among IFAD member states by leveraging expertise from China and the Global South.
This event presented successful climate-adaptive solutions funded by the China-IFAD SSTC Facility and promoted knowledge exchange on agricultural climate adaptation.
In her opening remarks, Sara Mbago-Bhunu, IFAD Regional Director for East and Southern Africa Division, said that among 17 SSTC projects in 38 countries funded by the Facility, 10 included elements to address climate change and provide effective solutions to governments, institutions, smallholders, and local private sectors. From environmental challenges to financial challenges, IFAD is a pioneer in innovative climate solutions, leveraging experiences from China and the Global South.
Mei Hongyong indicated that the theme of this event aligns with China's green agricultural development strategy. He spoke on behalf of the Chinese government and said that China has been actively mobilizing climate finance, promoting sustainable agricultural policies, methods, and innovations. He further stated that China is willing to, within the framework of the Global Development Initiative and leveraging the China-IFAD SSTC Facility, continue to deepen cooperation with all parties in resources, knowledge, and technology.
Isaac O. Kibwage, Professor and Vice-Chancellor, Egerton University, and Yan Zhu, Professor and Vice-President, Nanjing Agricultural University, also delivered speeches, expressing their commitment to continuing the cooperation in promoting sustainable agricultural development in Africa and exploring more climate-smart solutions.
Leonard Bor, County Executive Committee Member for the Department of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries, and Cooperatives in Kenya, explained how the SSTC project in Kenya mobilized partnerships to promote horticultural technology transfer, improve agricultural extension services, and enhance Kenya's tomato value chain with support from Nanjing Agricultural University and Egerton University.
Nie Fengying, also professor at Nanjing Agricultural University, demonstrated how China's sustainable, low-carbon mulberry-dyke fish pond integrated ecological agriculture system simultaneously produces fish and silk, promotes local aquaculture, eco-tourism, and cultural preservation, and is being replicated in Vietnam.
In the closing session, Wang Wei, Director of the IFAD SSTC Facility, said, “We have seen the devastating effect of the recent floods in Kenya on local livelihoods. This reminds us that climate risks are closely related to each of us, related to our livelihood and future.”
She reiterated the importance of SSTC as an effective tool to advance peer learning and combat long term climate issues, “Developing and implementing experiences and solutions from and with the Global South is crucial for addressing climate challenges and serves as a solid foundation for our success.”
Media contact:
Han Lei | Country Programme Analyst, IFAD China and MCO l.han@ifad.org
Shen Jiaying | Communications Consultant, IFAD China and MCO: j.shen@ifad.org
Yamini Lohia | Regional Communications Officer, Asia-Pacific, IFAD: y.lohia@ifad.org
Linda Odhiambo | Communications Analyst, East And Southern Africa, IFAD:  l.odhiambo@ifad.org
IFAD is an international financial institution and a United Nations specialized agency. Based in Rome – the United Nations food and agriculture hub – IFAD invests in rural people, empowering them to reduce poverty, increase food security, improve nutrition and strengthen resilience. Since 1978, we have provided more than US$24 billion in grants and low-interest loans to fund projects in developing countries.
A wide range of photographs of IFAD’s work in rural communities are available for download from its Image Bank.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/270406-china-ifad-sstc-facility-hosts-workshop-showcasing-collaboration-climate-smart-solutions




Date: 13 May 2024
Title: UN dialogue highlights emerging AI issues ahead of key global summit
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
13 May 2024
On Wednesday, 24 April 2024, the United Nations (UN) in China and the United Nations University (UNU) Institute in Macau co-hosted a dialogue to raise issues and solutions related to artificial intelligence (AI) and digital technologies in order to inform deliberations for the upcoming Summit of the Future.
The dialogue, a side event of the UNU Macau AI Conference 2024, sought to provide a platform for stakeholders to share how innovations and best practices in AI and digital technology can address challenges stalling progress on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which saw participation from a range of AI and technology experts from the UN system, academia, civil society and the private sector.
In facilitating national, regional and global cooperation on AI with the hope of fostering more diversity, equity and inclusion in the development and use of related technologies, it is intended for the dialogue to be one of a series of events ahead of the Summit of the Future to be convened by the UN Secretary-General this September, a once in a generation opportunity to enhance cooperation, reaffirm existing commitments including to the UN Charter and the SDGs, and move towards a reinvigorated multilateral system.
During her remarks, UN Resident Coordinator in China ad interim, Ms. Beate Trankmann, said, “The conversation surrounding AI governance must be a global one. The UN is particularly well positioned to help establish international consensus on the principles that make AI and digital technologies more equally accessible, preventing further expansion of the digital divide, both between and within countries, and safeguarding against abuse.”
In advance of an anticipated Global Digital Compact to be agreed by Member States at the Summit as part of a Pact for the Future, the dialogue was framed around highlighting the applications in which digital technology can support the achievement of the SDGs, the risks that AI poses if adequate safeguards or global governance mechanisms aren’t set, and the potential role of China.
During his remarks, UN Under-Secretary-General and UNU Rector, Prof. Tshilidzi Marwala, said, “It is a key moment to bring together the global community. This dialogue today and the UNU Macau AI Conference are valuable opportunities to have substantive discussions and to inform policymakers who will be negotiating agreements on a governance framework of AI at the Summit of the Future.”
Keynote addresses and panel discussions held during the dialogue also raised the importance of closing divides in access and innovation, the need for an open, free and secure digital future, and the damage posed by threats such as hate speech, disinformation and misinformation to sustainable development.
Adding to remarks from UN representatives, dialogue participants also include those from the Beijing Normal University, East China Normal University, Science and Technology Development Fund, SenseTime, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Xi’an KissFuture Network Technology Co., Ltd, Tencent Research Institute, Tsinghua University, University of Macao, Venture Cup China, and the Yingke Law Firm.
In his keynote speech, Dean of Schwarzman College and Dean of Institute for AI International Governance at Tsinghua University, Prof. Xue Lan, highlighted challenges with creating a governance framework for AI, including that the inherent uncertainty that exists with AI and the speed with which it is evolving makes it difficult for regulators to develop a governance framework and results in policymakers needing to play catchup with the technological developments.
During his video message played at the dialogue, the UN Secretary-General’s Envoy on Technology, Mr. Amandeep Singh Gill, said, “It is important to ensure that AI technologies are governed in a manner that benefits everyone and promotes social and public good. If everyone is impacted, everyone must be involved in AI governance.”
Inputs from the dialogue will form part of summary documents to be shared with UN Headquarters and others ahead of the Summit of the Future.
---For further information, please contact:
Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/267096-un-dialogue-highlights-emerging-ai-issues-ahead-key-global-summit




Date: 09 May 2024
Title: China-IFAD SSTC Facility funds new projects to promote climate resilience, value chain development and youth empowerment
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
09 May 2024
Rome, 9 May 2024 - The China-IFAD South-South and Triangular Cooperation (SSTC) Facility is funding three newly-approved projects in Latin America and East Africa centred on bamboo farming, cassava value chains and youth empowerment. The projects expand the Facility’s portfolio of 17 projects which have been implemented since 2018 and have benefitted 44,000 smallholder farmers and counted over 70,000 indirect beneficiaries.
South-South initiative to promote the sustainable use of bamboo as an innovative strategy for climate resilience of smallholder farmers in Argentina, Bolivia, and Brazil
This project aims at promoting the Bamboo as a Substitute for Plastic (BASP) Initiative and enhancing the livelihoods and climate resilience of smallholder farmers and rural communities in Argentina, Bolivia, and Brazil. Implemented by the International Bamboo and Rattan Organization (INBAR), this project will transfer existing validated models of Climate Resilient Practices with Bamboo (CRPB) from Ecuador, Colombia, and Peru and provide the necessary framework for their replication and upscaling. Chinese specialists will train the trainers and identify suitable bamboo species and products for the regional market.
Facilitated by the project, locally available bamboo species will be integrated into farming systems and innovative sustainable bamboo planting processes will be introduced. Furthermore, bamboo will be included in national agricultural development programmes as an alternative food and fodder, biomass, and construction material, aiming to diversify incomes and enhance climate resilience. The project duration is set for 2 years with a total funding of US$324,152 by the Facility.
Support the Adoption and Promotion of Cassava Crop in Eritrea
In response to the request of the Ministry of Agriculture of Eritrea, this project promotes the improvement of production and processing techniques along the cassava value chain and aims to increasing food and nutrition security and enhancing nutritional diversification for smallholder farmers in Eritrea. Based on the knowledge from China, Nigeria and Cameroon, the project will expand cassava varieties which will be tested to ensure their alignment with the preferences of farmers, markets, and consumers in the country, and improve cassava food recipes with nutritional formula, which will be made available to local consumers economically. The project results will be shared with relevant stakeholders in other countries with an aim to diversify production and processing of cassava. The project duration is 2 years and funded with US$ 319,450.
ICT for Digital Rural Inclusion and Youth Empowerment
The main objective of this initiative is to identify and promote solutions for digital rural inclusion across Latin America and the Caribbean, helping youth entrepreneurs to introduce innovation in rural areas. The digital solutions are expected to increase farmers’ productivity and incomes, strengthen resilience to climate change and improve access to markets – particularly for youth.
The implementing team at IFAD’s SSTC and Knowledge Centre in Brasilia will map youth-led and youth- targeted solutions and select the most promising solutions for regional dissemination. Partnerships and networks for up-scaling of the digital solutions will be strengthened to increase their impact.
The initiative is a follow-up project of the Rural Solution Awards in which 19 solutions were awarded in 2020 and 2021 and awardees received mentoring in areas such as business strategy development, marketing, and sales, helping young rural entrepreneurs to further advance their ventures. Going beyond the previous project, this project will facilitate two small-scale pilots. One pilot facilitates digital technical assistance targeted at smallholder bee-raisers and the other provides digital financial services to local rural communities.
The project receives funding of $US 300,000 and will be implemented over the course of 18 months.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/268779-china-ifad-sstc-facility-funds-new-projects-promote-climate-resilience-value-chain




Date: 26 April 2024
Title: Joint SDGs event raises need for urgent action ahead of UN Summit of the Future
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
26 April 2024
BANGKOK, 26 April – On Wednesday, the United Nations (UN) in China, the China International Development Cooperation Agency (CIDCA) and the Permanent Mission of the People’s Republic of China to the UN Economic and Social Commission of Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), co-hosted a dialogue to raise the need for renewed efforts to deliver on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and inform deliberations for the upcoming Summit of the Future.
The dialogue, a side event of the 80th session of ESCAP held in Bangkok, Thailand, saw the participation of representatives from the Government of China, Member and Associate Members of ESCAP, UN entities, academia, development partners, foundations, research institutes and the private sector.
In highlighting perspectives from the Asia Pacific region on the current state of progress on the SDGs, it is intended for the dialogue in Bangkok to be one of a series of events ahead of the Summit of the Future to be convened by the UN Secretary-General this September, a once-in-a-generation opportunity to enhance cooperation, reaffirm existing commitments including to the UN Charter and the SDGs, and move towards a reinvigorated multilateral system.
During her remarks, UN Under-Secretary-General and Executive Secretary of ESCAP, Ms. Armida Salsiah Alisjahbana, said, "With a changing donor landscape and new emerging donors, we need to adapt partnerships towards more integrated, effective, and networked development cooperation strategies."
During his remarks, UN Resident Coordinator in China, Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, said, “Our dialogue today serves as part of our concerted efforts to better inform this Summit. The purpose of these engagements, including today’s event with our two co-hosts, is to forge mutual understanding, establish and consolidate partnerships, and mobilize much-needed resources for the SDGs.”
With current ESCAP estimates putting the achievement of the SDGs more than three decades behind schedule in Asia and the Pacific, the dialogue was framed around the existing country, regional and global efforts to accelerate the SDGs as well as the potential of new financing, partnerships, and pathways.
During his remarks, Vice Chairman of CIDCA, His Excellency Mr. Zhao Fengtao, said, “China stands ready to work with ESCAP and countries in the Asia-Pacific Region by synergizing our development strategies, allocating more resources, coordinating development and security, and improving global governance to jointly build an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future and bring the Asia-Pacific cooperation to new heights.”
The dialogue was also positioned around the “Six Transitions” highlighted by the UN Sustainable Development Group, a set of entry points for further investment that have potential multiplier effects across the SDGs, specifically, food systems, energy access and affordability, digital connectivity, education, jobs and social protection, and climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution.
During his remarks, the Permanent Representative of China to ESCAP, Mr. Ke Yousheng, said, “Recent years have seen significant shifts in thinking on development cooperation. While official development assistance remains an important component, South-South cooperation has become a critical and rapidly growing modality to achieve the SDGs.”
Adding to remarks from UN and government representatives from China, Malaysia and Thailand, other speakers at the dialogue include those from groups such as China Agricultural University, the Forum for World Education, the Global Energy Interconnection Development and Cooperation Organization, Strategy613, and The Rockefeller Foundation.
Inputs from the dialogue will form part of summary documents to be shared with UN Headquarters and others ahead of the Summit of the Future.
---
For further information, please contact:
Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/267095-joint-sdgs-event-raises-need-urgent-action-ahead-un-summit-future




Date: 19 April 2024
Title: UN-Habitat Held an Inception & Expert Group Meeting for Case Study on Municipal Solid Waste Integrated Disposal in Beijing Chaoyang Circular Economy Industrial Park
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
19 April 2024
Beijing, China, 19 April 2024 - UN-Habitat, in cooperation with Chaoyang Environmental Group Co., Ltd. (Chaoyang Environment), organized an inception and expert group meeting in Beijing. The meeting brought together a diverse group of experts from China and abroad to exchange insights on climate change and municipal solid waste management. Participants shared constructive suggestions and recommendations for enhancing the writing of the case study report.
As China undergoes rapid urbanization, it has undertaken numerous initiatives in municipal solid waste management, accumulating rich experience in the process. The partnership between UN-Habitat China office and Chaoyang Environment aimed to disseminate advanced practices and mechanisms employed by Chinese cities in municipal solid waste management, zero-carbon park construction, resource utilization, and climate action.
During the one-day expert group meeting, participants visited the Chaoyang Circular Economy Industrial Park, where they witnessed China’s achievements and innovative approaches in establishing a zero-carbon industrial park. National and international experts shared their knowledge and experiences on global climate change and municipal solid waste management. Participants had in-depth discussions and provided valuable suggestions and recommendations to further develop the case study report on municipal solid waste integrated disposal in Beijing Chaoyang Circular Economy Industrial Park.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/268967-un-habitat-held-inception-expert-group-meeting-case-study-municipal-solid-waste-integrated




Date: 04 December 2023
Title: Common ground for global cooperation on drought resilience builds at Beijing seminar
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
04 December 2023
BEIJING, 5 December – To build local awareness and momentum for the International Drought Resilience Alliance (IDRA), the Embassy of Spain in China, the Embassy of Senegal in China and the United Nations in China, co-organized a seminar at the UN Compound in Beijing on 30 November.
Recent drought events have been unprecedented in frequency and severity, with far-reaching economic, social and environmental impacts for all sectors of society. The consequences and duration of such droughts are further aggravated by increasing climate change, affecting areas not previously impacted.
As a global response to drought, on 7 November 2022, at COP27, Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez of Spain and President Macky Sall of Senegal, along with leaders from over 30 countries and 20 organizations, with the support of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification, launched the IDRA.
His Excellency Mr. Rafael Dezcallar de Mazarredo, Ambassador of Spain to China, said, “I would like to highlight that one of the two co-founders of IDRA is an African country, Senegal, together with an European one, Spain. IDRA wants to go beyond conventional divisions and mobilize global support for a global problem”.
The seminar sought to bring focus to the IDRA as a collaborative platform which aims to catalyse momentum and action that supports countries, cities, and communities to go beyond disaster responses and reduce vulnerability to droughts by mainstreaming preparedness and adaptation measures.
His Excellency Mr. Ibragima Sory Sylla, Ambassador of Senegal to China, said, “I would like to reaffirm my Government's commitment to work hand in hand with all stakeholders, including Spain, UN, African countries and Chinese authorities to promote IDRA in the hope that it will expand for the common good of humanity.”
The seminar aimed to promote the IDRA in China, find shared priorities for cooperation to build drought resilience globally, and encourage collaboration with the Government of China and other relevant stakeholders, including universities, research institutes and the private sector.
Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, said, “Let this event be a first step along the path of IDRA becoming an important global initiative that supports locally driven, scalable solutions to build drought resilience and put us on a path to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.”
During the seminar, representatives from the Government of China, including the Ministry of Water Resources and the National Forestry and Grassland Administration, and other sectors of society raised the country’s drought policies and actions, with the Kubuqi Ecological Restoration Project being one example.
Mr. Hao Zhao, Director-General, Department of International Economic and Technical Cooperation and Exchange Center, Ministry of Water Resources, People’s Republic of China​​​​​, said, “Our ministry stands ready to work with foreign countries, UN agencies, and water-related international organizations to discuss good measures and share experience on drought relief, as well as seek cooperation and development, and jointly promote the implementation of the water-related goals of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,”
As no country, rich or poor, is immune to drought, and its devastating impacts trigger crises that frequently extend across borders and continents, keynote speakers at the seminar emphasized the need for international cooperation and multilateral responses to build drought resilience for all.
During a panel discussion at the seminar, attendees were also able to exchange their respective experiences on issues relating to drought resilience while offering their assessments on how to best take the IDRA forward.
---
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China, Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/254188-common-ground-global-cooperation-drought-resilience-builds-beijing-seminar




Date: 03 December 2023
Title: Celebrate International Day of Persons with Disabilities with an Extraordinary Theatrical Journey: "Reversing the Future"
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
03 December 2023
Beijing, 3 December 2023 – The UN Theme Group on Disability (UNTGD), Phoenix Satellite TV, and various partner organizations came together and staged an exceptional celebration for the 2023 International Day of Persons with Disabilities.
The event featured the ground-breaking performance of “Reversing the Future”, China’s first inclusive play co-produced by the Beijing Happy Inclusion Social Work Center and The Pleasure Troupe. It humorously engaged the audience around disability inclusion, while featuring a cast with visual, hearing and physical disabilities. The play challenged stereotypes about disability through a post-nuclear war courtroom trial with enhanced “human augmentation” technology.
Following the performance, a high-level panel discussion took place, exploring the creative concepts behind the play and discussing the issues of accessibility, inclusion, equal participation, law enforcement, and the role of technology. The panel consisted of six distinguished participants, including the drama producer, lead actors, representatives from the UN, organizations of persons with disabilities, and the private sector.
Simultaneously, the photo exhibition "Beyond the ‘disability’ label, we are all wonderfully ordinary!" was unveiled. Curated jointly by UNESCO and UNFPA, this exhibition aimed to challenge stereotypes and showcase the diverse abilities of individuals with disabilities across various professions and life scenarios.
“Tonight’s theatrical performance and photo exhibition showcase the capabilities and creativity of persons with disabilities…By giving voice to the disability community, arts and culture can spark conversation and social transformation.” said UN Resident Coordinator in China, Siddharth Chatterjee, in his video remarks.
In his opening remarks, Prof. Shahbaz Khan, Director and Representative of UNESCO Regional Office for East-Asia underscored that, “On this International Day, let the spirit of this inclusive performance motivate us to rededicate ourselves to "unity in action." Let it compel us to tear down remaining barriers to inclusion and create a world where all persons, in their wondrous diversity, are valued and included.”
Zuogeng LIU, Executive Vice President of Phoenix Media Group, highlighted the responsibility of using media tools to call on society as a whole to pay attention to, respect, and include persons with disabilities. The aim is to ensure equal opportunities for everyone in the process of social development.
Held at the Phoenix Media Center, the event saw the participation of more than 100 representatives from key government institutions, organizations of persons with disabilities, UN agencies, civil society, and the private sector. The online recap of the event received widespread engagement and participation.
The International Day of Persons with Disabilities has been celebrated annually on December 3 since its declaration by the United Nations General Assembly in 1992. The day aims to promote the rights and well-being of persons with disabilities in all aspects of society and development, while increasing awareness of their situation in political, social, economic, and cultural life.
The 2023 celebration marks the eighth joint observance of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities since the establishment of the multi-stakeholder UN Theme Group on Disability in China. Chaired by UNESCO, the UNTGD brings together 160 members from UN agencies and civil society for dialogue and advocacy on the rights of persons with disabilities. In the next two years, UNESCO, UNFPA, and ILO will work together to implement the United Nations Partnership on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNPRPD) in China with support from the UN Resident Coordinator Office, to ensure the rights of persons with disabilities are fully respected, protected, and fulfilled, and to address issues such as accessibility, education, employment, sexual and reproductive health needs and services.
---
For more information on the United Nations International Day of Persons with Disabilities 2023, please visit: https://social.desa.un.org/issues/disability/events/2023-international-day-of-persons-with-disabilities-idpd
Visit the photo exhibition "Beyond the ‘disability’ label, we are all wonderfully ordinary!": https://china.unfpa.org/en/slideshow/international-day-persons-disabilt…
For more information on the United Nations China International Day of Persons with Disabilities 2023, please contact:
Qingyi Zeng, National Professional Officer, UNESCO Regional Office for East Asia q.zeng@unesco.org
Wen Hua, Programme Specialist, UNFPA China Office, wen@unfpa.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/254105-celebrate-international-day-persons-disabilities-extraordinary-theatrical-journey-reversing




Date: 27 November 2023
Title: UN Agencies Collaborate with Chinese Enterprises to Enhance Capacity for Sustainable Procurement
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
27 November 2023
Shanghai, 27 November 2023 - The 2023 United Nations/International Organizations Capacity Building Workshop on Sustainable Procurement and Supplier Sustainability was held last week in Shanghai convening over 70 participants from the Government of China, UN agencies, academia, local suppliers and businesses.
The capacity-building workshop was hosted by the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), with support from the China International Centre for Economic & Technical Exchanges of the Ministry of Commerce and Project Management Office of Knowledge Sharing, Capacity Building and Supporting Service Programme on Sustainable Procurement of UN/International Organisations (hereafter referred as ‘Sustainable Procurement Project’). As part of the Sustainable Procurement Project, this capacity-building workshop aimed to support Chinese suppliers, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and women-owned businesses (WOBs) to understand sustainable procurement standards and align with international best practices.
In her opening remarks, Ms. Anne-Claire Howard, Director of the UNOPS Procurement Group introduced the participation of Chinese suppliers in UN procurements, “China was the 15th largest supplier country with a total procurement amount of 501 million dollars (in 2022). Over 10,000 suppliers in China have registered on the United Nations Global Marketplace, the official procurement portal in the United Nations system.”
The workshop also marks an important milestone for Delivering Responsibility in Vendor Engagement (DRiVE), a supplier sustainability programme launched in 2018 driven by UNOPS’ commitment to sustainability and risk management in procurement. Through vendor assessment, inspection and corrective action planning, DRiVE ensures that UNOPS vendors operate responsibly and in accordance with high standards of integrity.
In early 2023, the initiative began a pilot in China with 13 UNOPS LTA suppliers. Through data collection, assessment, inspection and corrective action planning with Chinese suppliers, this pilot provided practical insights into sustainable procurement, enabling the participating companies to better engage with the UN procurement system and contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals, particularly Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production.
Mr. Rasmus Hansen, Officer-in-Charge of the UNOPS Sustainable Supply Chains Team, introduced the DRiVE programme and encouraged more Chinese suppliers to join in the future. “We believe there are mutual benefits. We will enhance the sustainability and maturity of our suppliers and make sure they are more engaged in UN procurements. This could raise added value for our entire project and benefit our partners. We are not only bringing a specific project in place but also developing the local economy and abilities of suppliers.”
A highlight of the event was the certificate ceremony for the pilot participants. Two representatives from Shenzhen Mindray and Suzhou Hengrun spoke on behalf of the DRiVE China pilot participants, sharing their insights and expressing their appreciation for the UNOPS-led DRiVE initiative. “Through the DRiVE China pilot program, we now have a better understanding of what sustainable procurement means and how we can continually enhance our business for greater responsibility.”
The workshop also featured knowledge-sharing on Environmental, Social, and Corporate Governance (ESG) investment, corporate value, green human resource management, climate-related disclosure and sustainable supply chain development by experts from Fudan University, Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences and Shanghai University of International Business and Economics. In addition, international organizations and third-party service providers such as Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and SGS were in attendance to share their expertise and hands-on experiences on ESG capacity building.
In the afternoon, three parallel training sessions were delivered by the procurement officer from UNHCR China Office, experts from CDP and SGS, as well as UNOPS sustainable supply chain specialists. Representatives shared their experiences regarding online bidding systems, procurement compliance, ethical standards and supplier sustainability and further interacted with the audiences.
ENDS
Notes to the editors:
Press contact details:
For more information please contact communications@unops.org.
About UNOPS
UNOPS mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. We help the United Nations, governments and other partners to manage projects, and deliver sustainable infrastructure and procurement in an efficient way. Read more: www.unops.org
About DRiVE
UNOPS attaches great importance to sustainable procurement and has been continuously integrating sustainable standards into the bidding process to build a responsible supply chain. Delivering Responsibility in Vendor Engagement (DRiVE), initiated by UNOPS in 2018, has become an important component of the Sustainable Procurement Framework since 2020 and contributed to our collective efforts towards a more sustainable future.
Driven by UNOPS' commitment to sustainability and risk management in procurement, DRiVE ensures that UNOPS vendors operate responsibly and in accordance with high standards of integrity through vendor assessment, inspection and corrective action planning. DRiVE has not only promoted sustainability in procurement, but also contributed to accelerating the progress of the Sustainable Development Goals, especially Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production.
In China, DRiVE was launched in early 2023 with 13 UNOPS LTA suppliers as pilot participants who continuously enhanced sustainable procurement through vendor assessment, inspection, corrective action planning and social impact.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/254444-un-agencies-collaborate-chinese-enterprises-enhance-capacity-sustainable-procurement




Date: 19 November 2023
Title: UN Special Envoy for Road Safety visits China to advocate for actions in addressing new road safety challenges
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
19 November 2023
19 November 2023 – The UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety (Special Envoy) will travel to China to meet representatives from various sectors, advocating for effective implementation of the Global Plan for the Decade of Action for Road Safety 2021-2030 with an aim of halving the number of victims on the road by 2030.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the China’s road traffic fatality rate was 18.2 per 100,000 population, higher than the Western Pacific regional rate of 16.9 (WHO 2016).  Furthermore, the cost of road crashes in China represents 6.2% of GDP (WB, 2016). The country's efforts to improve road safety are very encouraging such as the mandatory use of child safety seats to protect children on the road or the enforcement on speed limits and against drunk driving. However, despite the various measures implemented and a clear downward trend in the number of victims, there is still work to be done to tackle the emerging challenges on Chinese roads.
During the mission, the Special Envoy will visit three cities: Guilin (19 – 21 November), Shanghai (22 – 23 November) and Beijing (24 – 27 November). In Guilin, the Special Envoy will attend the China-ASEAN Mayors Forum and an event for UN Global Compact SDG Innovation Accelerator Learning Center, exploring the important nexus between road safety and other SDGs.
China is facing emerging road safety challenges
In 2016, the World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that there were 256,180 road traffic fatalities in China, the second highest absolute total after India. Faced with the worrying situation, China has implemented several measures over the past years, including prohibiting drunk driving, establishing coordinated rescue mechanisms for road crashes in collaboration with the National Health Commission, reducing air pollution emissions in the transportation sector and launching campaigns to promote the mandatory use of helmets and safety belts. In 2022, the Government announced its 14th Five-Year Plan for National Road Traffic Safety (2021-2025).
In addition, China observed a considerable increase in the use of urban public transport and attached importance to this field: in recent years, China continues its large investment in transport infrastructure and develops intelligent public transportation systems. As for road safety related laws and regulations, progresses are also made, including the compulsory use of child safety seats and national standards for e-bikes. With effective measures, there was a downward trend in road traffic mortality in the country in the last 20 years. However, while China has seen significant improvement in road safety, its road traffic mortality remains much higher than that in developed countries (the European average is 9.3/100,000 population). Vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians, motorcyclists and pedal cyclists, represent a large proportion of road traffic deaths in the country. Moreover, the growing number of e-bikes is posing a critical challenge to safe mobility. With approximately 300 million e-bikes, China is one of the largest e-bike markets worldwide. From 2013 to 2017, e-bikes have caused more than 56,000 traffic crashes and over 8,000 fatalities. In 2019, e-bike riders accounted for 13.8% of road traffic deaths and 17.4% of road traffic injuries. In consequence, road crashes involving e-bikes have emerged as one of the most important challenges to road safety in China. Furthermore, as world's largest car market, the country is witnessing a remarkable surge in private car ownership and usage, particularly in its major cities. This trend is fuelled by rapid economic growth and higher household disposable incomes in these urban centers. However, this accelerated urbanization has come at a cost, leading to severe traffic congestion, high levels of air pollution, and significant carbon emissions in many of China's bustling metropolises.
Special Envoy’s call for action
During his visit, the Special Envoy will meet with various stakeholders to discuss the road safety situation in China and explore potential opportunities of addressing the emerging challenges. According to the Special Envoy, further actions are needed to ensure safe and sustainable mobility in the country, including strong enforcement of the mandatory use of helmets, strengthening the post-crash emergency care, launching national road safety awareness campaigns, as well as improving road infrastructure especially in rural and underdeveloped areas.
“On top of the existing causes of road crashes, I have observed the emergence of new road safety challenges in the country, such as the increasing number of e-bikes and traffic congestion,” noted the Special Envoy, Jean Todt. “China being a leader in tech has a huge opportunity to quickly address these issues. This silent pandemic requires that it is placed high on government priorities.”

For further information or media inquiries, please contact Priti Gautam at priti.gautam@un.org and Stephanie Schumacher at stephanie.schumacher@un.org
###
About the Special Envoy: Appointed by the UN Secretary-General, the Special Envoy for Road Safety is dedicated to advancing road safety initiatives globally. Through strategic advocacy and community engagement, he works to create safer roads, mitigate road traffic injuries, and save lives worldwide.
Special Envoy brochure and Twitter account
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/253141-un-special-envoy-road-safety-visits-china-advocate-actions-addressing-new-road-safety




Date: 06 November 2023
Title: Second Int’l Forum on Sci-Tech Empowering Rural Transformation Highlights Youth Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
06 November 2023
BEIJING, CHINA, 6 November 2023 - The Second International Forum on Sci-Tech Empowering Rural Transformation was held at the UN Compound. The event was hosted by the China Offices of the three Rome-based agencies - the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the World Food Programme (WFP) China, in partnership with the Centre for Sustainable Agricultural Mechanization of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP-CSAM) and the China Internet Information Center (CIIC).
Using the First Forum, which focused on agri value chains as a cornerstone, the Second Forum on the International Forum on Sci-Tech Empowering Rural Transformation, shifted its focus on empowering youths, who are the key agents in pushing the rural transformation agenda through digital technologies.
Around 100 representatives of social groups, research institutions, enterprises, government institutions, the media, UN agencies, and other international institutions from China and abroad, as well as farmers who have benefited from various rural development programs and undertakings, attended in person and online.
While there are 600 million rural youths in the world, their limited access to education, land, natural resources, finance, technology, information, and education has impeded them from contributing to the rural economy. Nii Quaye-Kumah, IFAD Country Director and Head of IFAD East Asia Hub, highlighted that we need to scale up investment in rural youth, if we are to reap the demographic dividend and accelerate the 2030 Agenda. He observed that an increasing number of young people have been using innovative technologies to start-up businesses in rural areas. Nii Quaye-Kumah indicated that IFAD always places young people at the forefront of its development actions and will continue to ensure their access to resources and services and increase their representation in decision-making roles through its joint programs undertaken in line with the Chinese government’s rural revitalization agenda.
“China’s people-centred development has led to several accomplishments, including the eradication of extreme poverty,” said Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China. “The experiences of China offer many potential lessons that can be shared with other developing countries on their paths towards sustainable development.”
Wang Xiaohui, Editor-in-Chief of CIIC, remarked that more emphasis should be placed on the role of youth in promoting global rural vitalization in his opening speech. He pointed out that institutional mechanisms should effectively engage knowledgeable, passionate, and energetic young people to stimulate innovation and help them become pillars of rural development. Wang also expressed that more global platforms that facilitate exchanges and the sharing of experiences related to rural development among young people should also be created and that new ideas, approaches, and development areas should be pursued.
“Across the globe, young people are increasingly connected, informed, technologically adept, and better educated than any prior generation,” said Tomomi Ishida, FAO Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific Social Protection Officer (Rural Development). However, she also pointed out that youths tend to encounter unique challenges that are often more profound than what their adult counterparts experience when striving to engage in productive and effective involvement. The agendas of youth empowerment and protection thus hold paramount importance in FAO’s strategies.
Wang Yi, Executive Director of the World Youth Development Forum Secretariat’s organizing committee and Executive Director of the All-China Youth Federation’s international department, indicated that it is estimated that 130,000 Chinese young people choose to participate in various rural vitalization projects every year. Wang shared that the WYDF has established a special fund and scholarship program to engage youths in rural revitalization by facilitating the provision of small grants and promoting capacity building, international communication, advocacy, and publicity pertaining to youth leaders around the world.
The Sci-Tech Empowering Rural Transformation: 2023 Youth Innovation and Entrepreneurship report was also released at the forum. It features 15 inspiring stories and case studies related to young innovators and entrepreneurs from China and abroad in areas such as digital agricultural machinery, precision agriculture, the connection of smallholder farmers to markets, financial empowerment and South-South cooperation.
The report was jointly compiled by the IFAD China Office, FAO Representation in China, the WFP China Centre of Excellence, ESCAP-CSAM, and the CIIC, and received support from Robert Walker, professor of sociology at Beijing Normal University and professor emeritus and emeritus fellow of Green Templeton College, University of Oxford.

Professor Walker observed that young people can lead the way by using new technologies to transform traditional agricultural production and distribution, such as drones, field video systems, and smart fisheries to accelerate the SDGs. However, it can only be achieved if they are equipped with financial support, fiscal and tax incentives, on-site support, relevant public services, market access, training, talent introduction, and other forms of support.
As of date, IFAD finances over 35 projects in China worth US$ 3.4 billion. In the most recent projects in Sichuan, Yunnan and Hunan Province, IFAD provides young rural entrepreneurs and investors with small grants for poverty reduction and rural revitalization. Tang Wenwen (1st from the right), one of the youth entrepreneurs who benefited from IFAD’s small grant support, established the rural cooperative, Chushan Agricultural Valley, in her hometown in Sichuan Province. This innovative initiative modernized the local agricultural system, strengthen farmers’ skills and raised farmers’ income.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/252337-second-int%E2%80%99l-forum-sci-tech-empowering-rural-transformation-highlights-youth-innovation-and




Date: 31 October 2023
Title: ‘Inclusion is key’ say experts at education seminar held in Beijing
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
31 October 2023
BEIJING, 31 October – To call for more focus on the importance of literacy and education for social inclusion and sustainable development, the Embassy of Mexico in China, the Embassy of Germany in China and the United Nations in China, co-organized a seminar at the UN Compound in Beijing on 30 October.
Quality education, as one of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in itself and an enabler for achieving other SDGs, is well understood to be pivotal in shaping societies, fostering inclusion and driving sustainable development, with the seminar well attended by representatives of Member States, the Host Country, the UN in China, the World Bank, academia and research institutions.
As acknowledged during the seminar, significant progress has been achieved globally; however, millions of people still face barriers to quality education, with an estimated 773 million adults worldwide lacking basic literacy skills, limiting their ability to realize their potential and participate fully in their societies.
His Excellency Mr. Jesús Seade, Ambassador of Mexico to China, during his remarks, said, “But the fight against poverty cannot possibly be sent to the back seat. It is vital and urgent to address poverty comprehensively. And hand in hand with this need, as both its major cause and its effect, is the absolute need we have to bring and ensure quality, inclusive, and equitable education for all.”
The seminar sought to provide a platform that analyzes and discusses the experiences and lessons learned in literacy and education within China, Mexico and Germany, for participants to gain a broader understanding of strategies that have worked globally to promote inclusion and reduce inequalities.
Her Excellency Ms. Patricia Flor, Ambassador of Germany to China, during her remarks, said, “A gifted child that has to stay home to help or cannot go to school because of fees or other entry barriers is simply a human tragedy. An expression of our failure. A lost chance, especially for many girls. We therefore need universal access to schools and institutions of higher education, individual support where needed and social security systems that promote learning.”
The seminar also aimed to shine a light on the persistent inequalities of access to quality education, including those experienced by those in vulnerable groups such as persons with disabilities, and women and girls, with approximately 129 million girls of primary and secondary school age out of school, all challenging our ability to achieve quality education, the SDGs and leave no one behind.
Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, during his remarks, said, “We must reshape our education systems to equip young people with the skills necessary to navigate the evolving social and environmental landscape, the rapid advancements in technology and innovation, and the changing dynamics of the job market. Importantly, we must end any discrimination and barriers to access quality education.”
As raised during the seminar, China has achieved substantial progress in literacy and education, which has contributed to the development of its workforce and economic growth with many potential lessons for other developing countries; however, more work remains to address lingering disparities.
Dr. Zhang Ran, Associate Professor, Graduate School of Education, Peking University, during her presentation, said, “The Ministry of Education did take up efforts on the ‘Gaokao” examination, making it available with more accommodations to students with disabilities starting in 2015. The State Council also revised its regulation on special education that year. More recently, inclusive education settings of having students with disabilities placed in everyday learning environments with accommodations is becoming a regular model.”
Some of the specific experiences highlighted by speakers and panellists during the seminar include the creation of conducive and holistic learning environments, proper resourcing at schools to ensure students' safety and well-being, and the increasing importance of vocational education programs.
The seminar concluded with remarks from the representatives in China of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), with both UNICEF and UNESCO supporting the organization of the seminar.
---
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China, Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/251165-%E2%80%98inclusion-key%E2%80%99-say-experts-education-seminar-held-beijing




Date: 24 October 2023
Title: SDGs take centre stage at UN Day celebration in China
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
24 October 2023
BEIJING, 24 October – In celebration of the 78th United Nations Day, the UN in China hosted an event yesterday at its compound in Beijing. The event saw the attendance of more than 170 high-level guests, including representatives from the Government of China, Member States, leaders of the UN in China, and invited partners from academia, business, civil society and other relevant sectors.
UN Day, on 24 October, marks the anniversary of the entry into force in 1945 of the UN Charter. Celebrated every year, the occasion offers an opportunity to reaffirm the purposes and principles of the UN Charter that have guided the Organization and the international community for the past 78 years.
Under the theme “Act Now for the SDGs”, this year’s celebration of UN Day aimed to raise awareness, inspire dialogue and mobilize efforts for a new phase of accelerated progress on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), further demonstrating the convening power of the UN across its Three Pillars of peace and security, human rights and development.
Mr. António Guterres, UN Secretary-General, in a global video message played at the event, said, ‘The United Nations is guided by timeless values and principles, but it must never be frozen in time. That is why we must always keep strengthening ways of working and applying a 21st century lens to all we do.”
Representatives of the Government of China, led by His Excellency Mr. Ma Zhaoxu, Executive Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs, who served as the Guest of Honour, attended the event, highlighting China’s support for the Organization.
His Excellency Mr. Ma Zhaoxu, Executive Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs for the People’s Republic of China, during his remarks, congratulated the UN on its 78th anniversary and expressed that the world today needs a robust UN more than ever. He emphasized that China will continue to support UN development agencies in China, in focusing on development and joining China’s endeavour to pursue Chinese modernization, and that China will make every effort to ensure that cooperation between it and the UN achieves new and greater results.
Representatives of the UN in China, led by Resident Coordinator Siddharth Chatterjee, were in attendance at the event. The Resident Coordinator used his remarks to call for renewed multilateralism for the SDGs as well as a healthy planet, better economy, just society and a world working together.
Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, during his remarks, said, “The multilateral system is under duress, with several regional crises and other global challenges threatening to tear us apart. We must not succumb to these differences. Only through international cooperation and a revitalized and reinforced UN and multilateral system will we be able to come together to develop solutions to these issues and begin to address them.”
The work of UN entities in China, including publications, reports and other related material, was made available to guests via a display area at the venue, highlighting their efforts to implement the Cooperation Framework, achieve the SDGs and leave no one behind.
Following remarks at the event, several performances touching on the theme of unity took place, including a recital of “We Are the World” by a children’s choir, pieces that featured Chinese musical instruments such as the guqin and pipa, and a concluding performance of “Ode to Joy”.
The UN in China gratefully acknowledges the efforts of its supporting partners and thanks all guests for their attendance at this year’s UN Day event.
---
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org

Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/250371-sdgs-take-centre-stage-un-day-celebration-china




Date: 15 September 2023
Title: China's path forward highlighted ahead of 2023 SDG Summit
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
15 September 2023
BEIJING, 15 September – The United Nations (UN) in China and the Center for China and Globalization (CCG) cohosted a seminar yesterday at the CCG Headquarters in Beijing titled “Accelerating progress towards the 2030 Agenda: China’s Progress, Challenges, and Path Forward”.
The seminar was organized ahead of the upcoming 2023 SDG Summit taking place on 18-19 September 2023 in New York, with the aim to galvanize local momentum in China and mark the beginning of a new phase of accelerated progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Against the background of exacerbating global challenges and at the midpoint of the 2030 deadline for achieving the SDGs, the event sought to provide a platform for discussions on China’s progress and challenges and to establish a roadmap for the future. The outcomes of the discussions at the seminar will be transmitted to UN Headquarters as an informal input to the 2023 SDG Summit.
During his remarks at the seminar, UN Resident Coordinator Siddharth Chatterjee said, “The UN family has a Cooperation Framework with China, to ensure that around its three pillars of People and Prosperity, Planet and Partnerships, we do everything possible to make sure the country can be a best-in-class exemplar in the achievement of the SDGs. At the same time, we use our knowledge to push for more South-South cooperation and North-South collaboration. Ultimately, it is about resurrecting the spirit of multilateralism.”
In the context of the upcoming SDG Summit, the seminar sought to identify the key transformative actions and commitments that China could take and the need to fully align these efforts with the SDGs.
During his remarks at the seminar, Dr. Henry Huiyao Wang, President of CCG, said, “Due to the multiple interacting crises, climate change, poverty, inequality, and conflicts, the world is facing a critical moment to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the SDGs. China will promote the 2030 Agenda from three aspects: promoting sustainable development of the world economy, advancing the policy of common prosperity, and promoting global infrastructure cooperation. As a loyal supporter and champion of multilateralism, China will support the General Assembly in promoting multilateralism and international cooperation and effectively addressing our global threats and challenges guided by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. I express the hope that participants will contribute their own insights to the upcoming 2023 SDG Summit on 18-19 September 2023.”
The seminar saw the attendance of officials from the Government of China, Member States, the UN system, academia, foundations, the private sector, media and other groups. In the opening session, the Hosts set the stage for the discussions, followed by remarks by the Vice Chairman of the China International Development Cooperation Agency (CIDCA) and a presentation by the Vice President of the Center for International Knowledge on Development.
During his remarks at the seminar. Mr. Zhao Fengtao, Vice Chairman of CIDCA, said, "The Global Development Initiative is China’s initiative, but it is also for the world. China is willing to expand the resources put in global development collaboration, work hand in hand with global partners, and provide steadfast support to all developing countries to accelerate their development progress, so as to realize the Global Development Initiative and the United Nations 2030 SDG agenda, to leave no nation and no one behind."
Experts and representatives of Member States, the UN, research centres, academia and the private sector engaged in two panel discussions on China’s prospects for achieving the SDGs and its role in promoting SDGs achievement overseas, respectively.
Among the key topics raised were the need to realize the full potential of China’s role and contribution through its international engagements, and the opportunity to accelerate global progress on the SDGs and leave no one behind.
---
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Yan LUO, Deputy Director of Media Department, Center for China & Globalization (CCG)
Email: luoyan@ccg.org.cn
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/246057-chinas-path-forward-highlighted-ahead-2023-sdg-summit




Date: 12 August 2023
Title: International Youth Day in China: Engaging youth for a green and sustainable future for all
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
12 August 2023
Beijing, China – In observance of today’s International Youth Day, the United Nations Theme Group on Youth (UNTGY) in China wraps up a four-day celebration of the occasion, recognizing the influential role of young people in shaping a green future.
The theme of this year’s International Youth Day is “Green Skills for Youth: Towards a Sustainable World”. The celebration in China, which started on 9 August, included an online poster campaign to collect insights and information on green skills for youth, and an in-person youth consultation workshop on youth engagement for the green transition.
With the participation of 13 United Nations (UN) entities, their youth partners and young people, the poster campaign has attracted over 1 million views online, demonstrating the potential of empowering young people to drive further change.
The youth consultation workshop held in Beijing on 9 August, saw the participation of a range of youth participants and partners from youth-relevant government institutions, research institutions, academia, youth organizations and networks, and non-governmental organizations.
Lu Shangyang, 16, a youth participant at the workshop, said, “Regarding green skills, I believe that young people can make a difference in two ways. On one hand, we should improve ourselves and consider what we can do individually. On the other hand, we should make a better world and think about how we can inspire and empower more people to understand, learn and acquire green skills.”
She explained that young people may face pressure and challenges, but the ultimate goals always revolve around improving lives by conserving resources, protecting the environment, and raising environmental awareness throughout society. Achieving this requires not only individual actions but also collective efforts from the entire community to contribute to a sustainable future.
As raised during this year’s celebration of International Youth Day, young people in China are already taking action to respond to climate change and protect the planet and vulnerable populations.
For example, Xiong Xiaoquan, a 28-year-old woman working in a local social service centre, is supporting rural women in Qinghai Province to expand their life skills beyond the traditional nomadic life, by developing ecotourism practices and producing Tibetan handicraft products.
Xie Yang, a 16-year-old high school student, is working with his peers in the Student League of Sustainable Development, to raise public awareness of the preservation of biodiversity in the parks of Beijing through field visits and surveys.
“Young people’s perspectives, motivation, enthusiasm, and participation are crucial to creating sustainable change,” said Amakobe Sande, UNICEF Representative to China, adding on behalf of UNTGY, “Their voices and actions guide what our future will look like, and we need them and their commitment to create a green future.”
The UN in China remains committed to working to promote the ability of young people in China to better access climate education and develop skills for the future and green jobs. It acknowledges the pivotal role of young people not only as beneficiaries but as partners and leaders in driving progress towards a sustainable world.
The 2023 celebration marks the second joint UN observance of International Youth Day in China, following the establishment of the UNTGY in 2021. Chaired by UNFPA and co-chaired by UNICEF, the UNTGY brings together 16 UN entities in China. It coordinates the work of UN entities on youth issues whilst involving a dynamic range of youth voices in order to better deliver on their concerns and priorities as one UN.
For more information on the United Nations International Youth Day 2023, please visit: https://social.desa.un.org/issues/youth/events/international-youth-day-2023
For more information on the United Nations in China International Youth Day 2023, please contact:
Shujun Liu, Communications Analyst, UNFPA China, +86-10-6532 0506, sliu@unfpa.org
Liu Li, Communication Specialist, UNICEF China, +86-10-8531 2612, liliu@unicef.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/241327-international-youth-day-china-engaging-youth-green-and-sustainable-future-all




Date: 16 June 2023
Title: Views of Member States heard on UN in China 2023 priorities
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
16 June 2023
BEIJING, 16 June – The United Nations (UN) in China convened a briefing on 14 June to update Member States on the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for the People’s Republic of China 2021-2025 (UNSDCF). More than 80 participants joined the briefing, either online or in person at the UN Compound in Beijing.
The briefing was organized in keeping with the commitment of the UN Resident Coordinator in China to regularly update Member States on the implementation of the UNSDCF. Agreed upon between the Government of China and the UN in China, the UNSDCF represents the strategic and programmatic framework for work in support of the Host Country’s national development priorities, including the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The briefing took stock of current efforts to fulfil the three priority areas of the UNSDCF: People and Prosperity, Planet, and Partnerships. Member States were also updated on the ongoing engagement with the Government of China, and the upcoming initiatives of the UN in China, along with the proposals for joint programmes for 2023.
During his remarks, Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, said, “We will continue to work to strengthen our engagement with the Member States Community here in Beijing…I hope this briefing has deepened your understanding of the work we are doing in China and has also given you some ideas of how we can engage with each of your Embassies on shared priorities moving forward.”
To amplify and support these efforts, the proposal for a “UN in China Pooled Fund for SDGs” was announced at the briefing. The establishment of the fund comes in response to the request made to Resident Coordinators by UN Secretary-General António Guterres. It seeks to catalyze contributions for all stakeholders at the country-level, with a view to address complex challenges, and respond flexibly to emerging needs, to accelerate the achievement of the SDGs.
The briefing provided the opportunity for Member States to provide their guidance and steer on the way forward, including through views from the Representatives of a number of Member States that have worked closely with the UN in China were shared, namely Belgium, Pakistan and Somalia.
During his remarks, Moin ul Haque, Ambassador of Pakistan, said, “Climate threats are global. They require global responses, global objectives and global successes. And the critical step required in this battle against climate change is international cooperation and global solidarity. In this regard, the work of the UN is appreciated.”
During his remarks, Awale Ali Kullane, Ambassador of Somalia, said, “Collaboration and international participation will allow Somalia to realize its potential and accelerate the achievement of the SDGs. Thus, we must seize this opportunity to come together, align our efforts, and cultivate a culture of cooperation.”
During her remarks, Sophie Hottat, Chargé d’affaires a.i, Embassy of Belgium in China, said, “We need to work together to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. The UN in China has an important role to play, in allowing civil society, researchers, domestic audiences and the international community to reflect on China’s development and its implications for the country and the world.”
During the presentation of the 2023 Joint Work Plan at the briefing, Beate Trankmann, UNDP Resident Representative in China and Co-Chair of the Result Group on Partnerships, highlighted how development outcomes were strongly underpinned by the principles of gender equality, disability inclusion, youth engagement and the central promise of the 2030 Agenda to Leave No One Behind.
“I hope that I have given an overview of how we are configured in realizing the Sustainable Development Goals both in China and beyond, and using the UNSDCF and the combined forces of the UN Country Team to take approaches and results to scale”, said Ms. Trankmann.
The briefing also saw the participation of David Mclachlan-Karr, Regional Director at the Office for Asia and the Pacific at the UN Development Coordination Office. His remarks via video link from Bangkok illustrated recent progress in the reinvigorated Resident Coordinator system and the new generation of UN Country Teams following reforms of the UN development system.
“On the programmatic side, Member States have been very positive about the quality of the new generation of UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Frameworks…the Cooperation Frameworks of today really do provide a genuine roadmap for the UN’s concerted action to deliver on development and the SDGs in China”, said Mr. Mclachlan-Karr.
In the ensuing Q&A session, a number of representatives conveyed their support to the work of the UN in China and urged the organization to continue their efforts to implement the Cooperation Framework in pursuit of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the SDGs.
---
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/236639-views-member-states-heard-un-china-2023-priorities




Date: 15 May 2023
Title: UNHCR celebrates resilience through literature and drama event, calling for more solidarity and hope
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
15 May 2023
15 May 2023 Beijing - UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, hosted an arts event titled “The Power of Hope” in Beijing yesterday. The performance invited the audience to experience the peril and trauma of refugees’ journeys, as well as perseverance and survival through a 30-minute dramatized adaptation of the book A Hope More Powerful than the Sea, authored by Melissa Fleming. The book recounts the true story of a young girl named Doaa Al Zamel who fled the Syrian civil war.
Melissa Fleming, United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Global Communications and author of the book said via video message, “Stories like Doaa’s can help us cut through that desensitization and reach out to others across time and distance, uniting people around the world in empathy to seek solutions to the challenges we face. And while conflict, hate and racism threaten dialogue, art and literature can bring us together, to help us empathize with our fellow human beings, and rediscover our common humanity.”
During his official visit to China to meet with Chinese Government counterparts and other key partners on regional refugee issues, the Director of the UNHCR Regional Bureau for Asia and the Pacific, Mr. Indrika Ratwatte, said at the event: “China has an exceptionally rich culture and history of artistic skill appreciated around the world. Art from around the world is highly appreciated in modern China. Literature, painting, dance and music go beyond language and numbers to communicate across borders and cultures, creating solidarity and shared understanding.”
The show was created and delivered by a talented team of Chinese artists. Under the overall art direction of renowned director Mr. Yin Li, the performance was directed by Mr. Zhao Ningyu, dramatized by Ms. Ou Jiayi and performed by five actors and musicians including Ms. Lai Jiayue, Mr. Guo Qi, Mr. Hu Yixiao, Mr. Zhu Jinliang and Mr. Qu Hongchen.
The performance ended powerfully with a video message by Doaa Al Zamel, whose story is featured in the book, saying, “We are human beings just like you, seeking the rights and peace that everyone deserves.” Doaa also thanked Chinese audiences for their support.
Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, highlighted the urgency to act to address forced displacement: “The clock is ticking to achieve our shared ambitions, the Sustainable Development Goals, by 2030 and to ensure that no one – including refugees – is left behind. As the UN Secretary General has stressed, humanity is headed for catastrophe if we do not act and act now. Who can help feeling overwhelmed, panicked and paralyzed in the situation we are facing? Hope is the antidote to helplessness.”
In her speech, UNHCR High Profile Supporter Olympic Gold Medalist Yang Yang acknowledged the connection between sports, arts and humanitarianism: “I think sport, art, and humanitarianism have something in common: they all have the power to inspire hope through creativity and action. Refugee stories are not only about loss, they are also about survival, healing and contributing skills and talents to the communities who welcome people forced to flee.”
Twenty twenty-two marked a sobering milestone of over 100 million people forced to flee their homes. In 2023, the situation is sadly getting worse with new emergencies and natural disasters compounding protracted crises. The plight of Syrian refugees topped headlines again following the devastating earthquake in Türkiye and Syria in February this year, drawing public attention to the crisis 12 years on, as well as forced displacement beyond Syria. As the crisis continues, refugees and people displaced within their own countries are struggling beyond their means and assistance is limited.
With events like this communicating real refugee stories through literature and arts, UNHCR hopes to bring Chinese audiences greater understanding and connection with the human dimension of the refugee experience. Stories like Doaa’s remind us that no one chooses to be a refugee and that with hope and support people forced to flee can rebuild their lives and thrive.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/232156-unhcr-celebrates-resilience-through-literature-and-drama-event-calling-more-solidarity-and




Date: 15 May 2023
Title: South-South Cooperation Knowledge Sharing Forum Strengthens Digital Partnership
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
15 May 2023
On May 15, 2023, the South-South Cooperation Knowledge Sharing Forum was held at the UN Compound in Beijing. Taking the opportunity of the first anniversary of the WFP-China South-South Cooperation Knowledge Sharing Platform, the WFP discussed outcomes associated with the site that have been achieved thus far and relevant future plans, as well as proposed the Joint Initiative on Knowledge Sharing Partnership for South-South Cooperation in collaboration with key partners with the goal of fostering and strengthening SSC-oriented information exchange, technology transfer, capacity building and collaboration.
Nearly 100 representatives from government departments, embassies in China, research institutes and think tanks, NGOs and other international organizations, the private sector, and the media from 18 countries attended in person or online.The event was hosted by the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and China International Communications Group (CICG) and co-organized by the WFP Centre of Excellence for Rural Transformation (WFP China COE) and CICG subsidiary China Internet Information Center (CIIC).
“Promoting knowledge sharing requires the consensus and joint efforts of the international community,” emphasized CICG President Du Zhanyuan in his opening remarks at the South-South Cooperation Knowledge Sharing Forum.
He also encouraged and advocated diverse actors to contribute to this process, reiterating, for example, that as the core of the international system, UN agencies play an important role; governments of developing countries can help improve governance; universities, research institutions, think tanks, and various associations can lend their expertise; and media can provide publicity; and that promotion of knowledge sharing concepts and practices can be strengthened through policy dialogues, academic exchanges, creation and development of various platforms, provision of training courses, and other endeavors.
Qu Sixi, WFP China Representative, highlighted the critical role of the WFP-China South-South Cooperation Knowledge Sharing Platform in responding to growing demands for web-based knowledge sharing in a digitalized world and helping developing countries improve food security and facilitate rural transformation. He also indicated that the wisdom and expertise that technical partners contribute will enable it to function as a hub that promotes South-South knowledge and technology exchange.
“The launch of the South-South Cooperation Knowledge Sharing Platform is an example of digital solutions for South-South agricultural exchanges and cooperation,” stated Ni Hongxing, Counsel (Director-General level), Department of International Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs of the People’s Republic of China (MARA). “We hope that the platform, together with its Cloud School, could better tap into China’s experience in smallholder development, resilient food systems, agricultural value chain, agricultural biodiversity, and climate change responses to help more developing countries improve their capacities in food production and disaster prevention more efficiently and innovatively.”
“China’s development progress can serve as an example for much of the developing world,” remarked Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China. “China currently feeds almost 20% of the world’s population while having less than 10% of the world’s arable land. In addition, in 2020 China announced the remarkable achievement of eliminating extreme poverty nationally, a significant advance towards meeting the targets of SDG 1. China is now focused on advancing rural revitalization to build rural prosperity and to reduce the gaps that exist between rural and urban areas. These experiences can provide important lessons learned for the rest of the world and help to accelerate the achievement of the SDGs.”
“South-South Cooperation is a fundamental development instrument for promoting economic and social advancement in emerging economies and other developing countries,” stated Ashwani K. Muthoo, Director General of New Development Bank’s Independent Evaluation Office. “The forum offers a unique opportunity to further underline that knowledge sharing is critical for meeting the SDGs, and I believe that moving forward, enhanced attention could be devoted to sharing good practices, lessons, and insights on evaluation matters so that emerging economies and developing countries can themselves conduct more robust and methodologically sound evaluations as a basis for improved developed impact and livelihoods.”
“WFP and China have been partners for more than four decades on building a resilient and sustainable food system,” mentioned David Kaatrud, WFP Programme Director of Humanitarian and Development Division. “As WFP continues to address the challenges holding back more systematic South-South and Triangular Cooperation engagement and in responding to emerging SSTC demands, we look forward to aligning and coordinating our knowledge management efforts with various stakeholders within and outside the WFP system and would like to see this knowledge platform play a bigger role in enhancing evidence generation and mutual learning in SSTC.”
Li Xiaoyun, Chair Professor of China Agricultural University, moderated a discussion known as the “High-level Dialogue on the Role of Science and Technology in South-South Cooperation Oriented towards Attaining the Sustainable Development Goals,” which Wu Pute, President of Northwest A&F University; Li Chengwei, President of Henan University of Technology; Du Taisheng, Vice President of China Agricultural University; and Ding Yanfeng, Vice President of Nanjing Agricultural University participated in. Thematic discussions on “Resilient Food System Transformation Against Climate Change” and “Digital Empowerment for Inclusive Development” were also held at the event.
Jia Yan, Head of SSC at WFP China, described some of the outcomes associated with the WFP-China South-South Cooperation Knowledge Sharing Platform that had been achieved over the past year and discusses future plans for the site. She said, the platform serves as a new form of digital SSC and makes it possible to reach greater numbers of people. More than 1,000 knowledge products, including case studies and policy reference materials, have been published, and more than 2.5 million pageviews have been logged by visitors from 84 countries and regions since it was launched.
Wang Xiaohui, Editor-in-Chief of CIIC, observed that the South-South Cooperation Knowledge Sharing Forum had been an inspiring and fruitful communication and exchange journey in his closing speech. He also expected the Joint Initiative on Knowledge Sharing Partnership for South-South Cooperation will promote the deepening of exchanges and cooperation among institutions and make new contributions to global food security and sustainable development.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/232157-south-south-cooperation-knowledge-sharing-forum-strengthens-digital-partnership




Date: 15 May 2023
Title: Food security highlighted as target of new China-Africa-UN partnership initiative
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
15 May 2023
BEIJING, 15 May – Opportunities to build long-term drought resilience in East Africa were at the centre of a half-day Dialogue entitled Toward a more food secure Horn of Africa (HoA), hosted by the UN in China with support of the Food and Agriculture Organization in China on 5 May. Representatives of the HoA countries and the Government of China joined the event, along with members of the UN Country Teams in the region and a number of relevant research institutes, foundations, and financial institutions.
The Dialogue built on strategic discussions held recently under the China-HoA-UN Transformative Partnership Initiative (TPI). The Initiative, developed through the collaboration of the UN in China, UN Country Teams in HoA countries, and the UN Development Coordination Offices based in Africa and Asia and the Pacific, sets out to revitalize opportunities for bold partnerships amongst governments, development partners, foundation and businesses, in support of the national development priorities of HoA countries, and with a view to fulfil the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and implement the African Union’s Agenda 2063.
Discussions focused on the current drought and food security emergency in the HoA region and the resulting impacts on lives and livelihoods. Technology exchanges and investment opportunities were proposed to address these challenges and build drought mitigation and resistance in the region. Here, the TPI hopes to draw upon China’s experience, expertise and resources, to bring them to bear for the benefit of HoA countries in the form of concrete, locally driven projects.
In remarks at the Dialogue, Director-General Wu Peng of the Department of African Affairs at China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said, “Communities in the Horn of Africa have been facing severe challenges, so today, it is highly necessary for us to focus on long-term drought resilience and contribute to food security. As good friends and partners of the Horn of Africa, China highly values agricultural cooperation to address the difficulties in the near-term and long-term needs.”
Director-General Tang Ying of the Global Development Promotion Center of the China International Development Cooperation Agency (CIDCA) also delivered remarks at the Dialogue.
Due to the current two-year drought, 20.9 million people have been classified as highly food insecure in the HoA region, while 7.46 million children under the age of five are estimated to face acute malnutrition, and 23.75 million people face daily household water insecurity, increasing vulnerability to water-borne diseases. Today, country-level appeals remain a primary mechanism for the humanitarian response.
In remarks at the Dialogue, Ambassador Awale Ali Kullane of the Federal Republic of Somalia, said, “We have seen the devastation caused by drought and famine, and we understand that climate change is compounding these problems. As a result, it is incumbent upon us to work together to develop solutions that will enable us to build resilience and ensure food security for all. This is a difficult problem that requires a multifaceted solution that encompasses prevention, readiness, and response. We need to explore opportunities for cooperation and collaboration between China and the Horn of Africa.”
While responding to the urgent needs of the region now remains critical, also shifting from an emergency response to a more proactive, gender-sensitive and transformative approach for preparedness and long-term resilience was frequently emphasized at the Dialogue, along with the need to bring diverse stakeholders, including from the private sector, together to explore solutions for empowering communities and governments who seek to respond to a worsening climate crisis.
In his remarks, UN Resident Coordinator Siddharth Chatterjee said, “This event comes at a critical moment, as progress on the SDGs has stalled, and we must take critical, ambitious steps if we hope to put ourselves on track to achieve the SDGs. China’s increasingly important role in South-South cooperation presents enormous opportunities for technology transfers and assistance, and the creation of meaningful partnerships to address the development challenges in these countries.”
The UN in China looks to continue to use its convening power to catalyze demand-driven SDG partnerships, policy, investment pipelines, financing and technical advisory/support and knowledge transfer to accelerate collaboration between China and HoA countries to achieve food security and to ensure compliance with international norms and standards. These efforts are enabled by the work of UN agencies in China, including the Rome-based Agencies, namely, the Food and Agriculture Organization, the International Fund for Agricultural Development and the World Food Programme, who offer their knowledge, financial and technical expertise on policy issues related to food security, agriculture, and nutrition.
Discussions also included concrete opportunities for project-based cooperation, including potential support for the creation of national drought management policies, field projects aimed at building capacity in drought management, and other initiatives geared toward facilitating a shift toward drought resilience. The importance of giving full consideration to gender equality and social inclusion was widely agreed upon.
The outcomes from this Dialogue will feed into ongoing efforts to support China-Africa cooperation, including the annual event of the China Africa Development Fund to be held in May of 2023, which will focus on accelerating progress on SDG 2 on food security and sustainable agriculture.
---
For further information, please contact:
Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/231141-food-security-highlighted-target-new-china-africa-un-partnership-initiative




Date: 27 April 2023
Title: High-level event sheds light on efforts to accelerate financing for development
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
27 April 2023
BEIJING, 27 April – Last week, the United Nations (UN) in China, at the invitation of the Permanent Mission of the People’s Republic of China to the UN and the China International Development Cooperation Agency (CIDCA), co-hosted a high-level event titled “New Progress of the Global Development Initiative, New Actions to Support the 2030 Agenda”. The event held at UN Headquarters in New York was joined by representatives of the UN System, Member States, Permanent Observers and other relevant entities.
The event was organized during the occasion of the 2023 Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) Financing for Development Forum, where Member States discussed difficult economic policy trade-offs and recent shocks that have threatened to further reverse progress on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and the need for both immediate and longer-term measure to effectively finance responses to multiple overlapping crises while scaling up essential investments in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Given this context, the UN System has welcomed the potential of China’s Global Development Initiative (GDI), announced by President Xi Jinping during his address to the 76th Session of the UN General Assembly in September 2021, while encouraging its alignment with the SDGs and supporting its implementation through the offer of technical assistance to ensure compliance with international norms and standards.
In closing remarks, Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, said, “We are here today to learn more about and explore the potential of GDI, CIDCA and China’s development cooperation efforts. There is enormous opportunity for them to help us deliver on the SDGs. Multilateral engagement, learning and collaboration are essential, and the UN stands ready to support China in these efforts.”
Whilst taking place in the United States, the event intends to form part of country-level programming and results between the UN in China and the Government of China.
In opening remarks, Zhang Jun, Permanent Representative of the People’s Republic of China to the UN, said, “As we speak, the world today is fraught with intertwined challenges and crises, and is faced with a new normal of instability and uncertainty. The international community must come together to tide over the trying times and bring the implementation of the SDGs back on track.”
The event sought to inform participants of results achieved through China’s foreign aid and international development cooperation, including the GDI, and how CIDCA and other relevant stakeholders can address the gap in development financing needed to achieve the SDGs while ensuring that vulnerable groups benefit from actions that are demand-driven and based on national priorities, in order to leave no one behind.
In keynote remarks, Luo Zhaohui, Chairman of CIDCA, said, “According to UN statistics, more than 800 million people still go hungry, and 350 million people need humanitarian assistance. The development agenda is drifting away, and the momentum of the SDGs is fading away. We should cherish the global consensus on the SDGs, and act jointly for common development.”
During the event, participants engaged in an interactive discussion, which saw speakers from the Global Development Promotion Center at CIDCA, the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, and the Rockefeller Foundation raise points regarding progress in the implementation of the GDI, the UN Peace and Development Trust Fund and other international development cooperation efforts.
During the discussion, Elizabeth Yee, Executive Vice President of Programs at The Rockefeller Foundation, said, “The world needs public-private-philanthropic partnerships and bold leadership to help emerging and developing economies achieve their sustainable development goals. We need to coordinate our investments and actions across countries and sectors to end energy poverty, ensure food security, improve people’s health, and cultivate sustainable growth, even as we continue to combat climate change.”
At the event's conclusion, participants joined a reception and a following exhibition introduced by the Chairman of CIDCA on efforts thus far regarding the GDI.
---
For further information, please contact:
Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/228975-high-level-event-sheds-light-efforts-accelerate-financing-development




Date: 13 April 2023
Title: UNFPA launches a youth photography exhibition that highlights the lives of older women in China
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
13 April 2023
BEIJING, China, 13 April 2023 - UNFPA China is launching a youth photography exhibition in Beijing today to promote intergenerational solidarity and active ageing.
Titled “Ripples on a pond - the power of women through their lives and stories,” the exhibition includes about 50 of the best photographs chosen from thousands of submissions to a photography competition held in 2022. Through the eyes of young people, they capture the different roles women play in their everyday lives, as well as their contribution to their families and communities.
“Women’s empowerment is at the heart of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. To achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and its central promise to ‘leave no one behind,’ it is paramount that we recognise the participation and contribution of women in our societies,” says Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, the UN Resident Coordinator in China.
Among the exhibition, there are images of fisherwomen working hard to make a living, widows supporting one another, self-employed women facing life with optimism, and grandmothers caring for the younger generation.
“My photographs came from a small village in Guizhou. Through daily communication with local women, especially elderly women, I learned many issues, including women’s health, intergenerational connections and rural education. I hope more people can pay attention to the development situation of women in China,” says Mr. Li Jiarun, one of the award winning photographers.
“Population ageing may come along with problems like generational conflict. We need to address it through understanding cultural diversity and promoting solidarity among different generations, as well as showing respect to others. This photography competition is a good practice for it,” comments Dr. Li Zhihong, Director-General of China National Committee on Ageing.
The exhibition represents UNFPA's innovative approach to engaging young people in achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, particularly in areas connected to good health and wellbeing, gender equality, and positive ageing, and promoting social development through art.
“Young people can be a driving force for global development and achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. They need to realise that cooperation and dialogue with other generations are as important as their peers,” emphasised Ms. Liu Kai, Deputy Secretary-General of All-China Youth Federation.
“UNFPA is committed to working with youth and for youth, and we are happy to see the power of youth in supporting women through this photography practice. We welcome more young people to join us in addressing population ageing and promoting gender equality in China and globally,” concluded Dr. Justine Coulson, Representative of UNFPA.
Over 80 people from government, academia, civil society, the private sector, women and youth groups, media, embassies, and international organisations attended the exhibition in Beijing. The event was organised with the support of the Yanching Institute of Technology and the Beijing Contemporary Art Foundation.
Note to editors
On 11 July 2022, the World Population Day, UNFPA China launched a youth photography competition: Unlocking the Power of Women. Thousands of individual and group photographs were received and the winning entries formed the basis for the exhibition.
To select the best photographs, UNFPA formed an evaluation panel consisting of professional artists and experts on ageing and gender and photography. Five photographers received the award of Best Submission for their groups of photographs.
About UNFPA
UNFPA is the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency. UNFPA's mission is to deliver a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person's potential is fulfilled. In a rapidly ageing society, UNFPA advocates for healthy ageing through a life-cycle approach, by addressing the specific needs of women and investing in each stage of life, starting from before a girl's birth to her childhood, adolescence, and adulthood.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/227983-unfpa-launches-youth-photography-exhibition-highlights-lives-older-women-china




Date: 05 April 2023
Title: Experts convene in Beijing to discuss effective multilateralism in a changing world
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
05 April 2023
Beijing, China, 5 April 2023 - The Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia and the United Nations in China jointly hosted the seminar "On Multilateralism Today," on the occasion of the visit of H.E. Danilo Türk, former President of Slovenia and Mr. Xu Bu, President of the China Institute of International Studies, both members ofthe UN Secretary-General’s High-Level Advisory Board on Effective Multilateralism (HLAB), on 4 April in Beijing. The event saw the participation of over 80 guests representing diplomatic missions, international organizations, and academic institutions in China, both online and in person, at the UN Compound.
The seminar aimed to update participants on the work of the High-Level Advisory Board, while seeking to further inform its efforts. Established in 2020 in response to Member States' request to provide recommendations to advance a common agenda that addresses current and future challenges, the HLAB comprises representatives from different constituencies and stakeholders in global decision-making.
In her opening remarks, H.E. Ms. Alenka Suhadolnik, Ambassador of Slovenia to China, said, “Rules-based multilateralism, underpinned by the UN Charter, is fundamental to promoting and supporting the three pillars of UN activities, peace and security, development and human rights… Slovenia holds a strong belief that UN framework needs to be supported, as it provides stability and predictability through UN Charter, international law, human rights and the defence of human dignity… Multilateralism, with the UN at its core is written in our country’s DNA… Through multilateralism and international cooperation, different voices and different perspectives can be heard, seen, and taken into account.”
In their keynote remarks, the HLAB members spoke of the need to explore how multilateralism can more effectively contribute to the provision of global public goods, including the environment and the global financial architecture. They also engaged with a panel of experts from the diplomatic community, international organizations and academia on how effective multilateralism can help address international crises faced across the environmental, social, and economic dimensions of sustainable development. Panellists highlighted the need for global solutions to create more inclusive institutions and greater momentum on shared challenges, such as climate action and gender equality.
“Our time calls for transformative shifts in global policy-making. Rebuilding trust in multilateralism is imperative. Humankind has lost balance with nature and multilateral institutions have the responsibility to enable regaining it,” said President Türk.
“We need to follow the principles of dialogue on an equal footing and consensus-building through consultation… we need to make global development more inclusive, resilient and beneficial for all,” said Mr. Xu Bu.
In his closing remarks, Mr. Stephen Kargbo, UNIDO Representative and UN Resident Coordinator in China ad interim, said, “I sincerely hope that the discussion we had today can serve as an additional input to the work of the Advisory Board and that the final report and recommendations can serve as a springboard towards creating more effective multilateralism, one that is based on full respect of the UN Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and all agreed international norms and standards.”
The HLAB’s final report is expected to be completed later this month. Its recommendations will inform the preparations for the Summit of the Future scheduled in September 2024.

For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China,
Tel: +86 10 8 532 0725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Slovenian Embassy
Tel.: +86 10 8 532 6191, Email: sloembassy.beijing@gov.si
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/226388-experts-convene-beijing-discuss-effective-multilateralism-changing-world




Date: 09 February 2023
Title: Momentum in China gathers ahead of UN 2023 Water Conference
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
09 February 2023
Overview of main messages during Joint Briefing on the UN 2023 Water Conference
BEIJING, China, 9 February 2023 – The Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Embassy of the Republic of Tajikistan, and the United Nations (UN) in China co-hosted a Joint Briefing on the UN 2023 Water Conference, with over 130 people from national and international organizations in China, diplomatic missions in Beijing, and press outlets attending the event in person at the UN Compound and online.
The UN General Assembly, with support from the Governments of the Netherlands and Tajikistan, will convene the UN 2023 Water Conference in New York from 22 to 24 March 2023. The Conference, the most important water event in a generation, aims to raise awareness of the global water crisis and decide on concerted action to achieve internationally agreed water-related goals and targets, as emphasized with Chinese authorities during the recent visit of the President of the UN General Assembly, Csaba Kőrösi to China.
As noted during the Joint Briefing, with many of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) off track, progress on Goal 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation) is key to the achievement of other SDGs, particularly on health, food, gender equality, education, livelihoods, industry, climate and the environment. Thus, the Joint Briefing sought to galvanize local momentum on the need for accelerating water action for a sustainable future and better inform preparations for the upcoming Conference.
“The 2023 UN Water Conference is the highest profile and most influential water related thematic conference at the UN level in the past 50 years, which has attracted great response and widespread attention globally. It is a conference of milestone significance, and will anchor the direction and clarify the path for accelerating the achievement of the water related goals of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. China will send a high-level representative to lead a delegation to participate in the conference and actively fulfil its role as co-chair of the interactive dialogue "Water for Sustainable Development". China is ready to work with all parties to find transformative measures and make due contributions to solve the water crisis faced by all humankind by promoting the achievement of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals,” said Tian Xuebin, Vice Minister, Ministry of Water Resources of the People’s Republic of China, who delivered remarks at the Joint Briefing as the Guest of Honour.
Following remarks in the opening session from the Ambassadors of the Netherlands and Tajikistan, and the UN Resident Coordinator, audience members were invited to ask questions of the speakers on the significance of the upcoming Conference.
“Since water and its challenges touch upon so much more than water experts alone can cover, we must gather everyone committed to real and meaningful Water Action,” said Wim Geerts, Ambassador, Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
“I believe that one of the important outcomes of the UN Conference will be on the Agenda for Action in the field of water resources adopted within the framework of the Dushanbe Water Conference, which involves four times to an upsurge our efforts and actions to achieve the SDGs and other goals related to water problems. Only by joint efforts, we will be able to make the Conference a watershed moment for the whole world,” said Saidzoda Ozod, Ambassador of the Republic of Tajikistan in the People's Republic of China.
During the Joint Briefing, a panel discussion on water issues occurred in which high-level speakers and a youth advocate shared views on the significance of the Conference, best practices from different countries, youth perspectives and actions on water and climate change and the way ahead for enhanced collaboration in this area.
The Joint Briefing follows a series of similar events facilitated by the UN in China to engage with all Member States present in Beijing to seek their guidance and support on shared priorities, with journalists also present to cover the occasion.
“As expressed by today’s speakers, water is not only essential for all forms of life, but the most basic of human rights. Water is everyone’s business…I look forward to seeing pragmatic and concrete pledges, commitments, and actions coming out of the event that allows us to ensure a water secure world, for all, by all,” said Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China.
The Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Embassy of the Republic of Tajikistan, and the UN in China thank those in attendance for their participation at the Joint Briefing and look forward to outcomes from the upcoming Conference.
---
For further information and to verify quotes, please contact:
Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China,
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org

Rosaline Lantink, Press & Media Affairs, Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands,
Tel: +86 137 0127 9154, Email: rosaline.lantink@minbuza.nl

Amriddin Nosirov, Attaché, Embassy of the Republic of Tajikistan in PRC
Tel: +86 18514270747 (WeChat), Email: anosiri@mail.ru

Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/218271-momentum-china-gathers-ahead-un-2023-water-conference




Date: 30 November 2022
Title: UN Agencies Advocate for the Achievement of the SDGs at the 2022 UN China Sustainable Procurement Workshop
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
30 November 2022
Co-organised by the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the China Center for International Economic and Technical Exchanges and the Shanghai Qingpu District People’s Government, the 2022 UN China Sustainable Procurement Workshop brought together a number of UN Agencies to advocate for the advancement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in China and highlight how sustainable procurement can accelerate the transition to a greener and more inclusive future.
Held in Shanghai’s Qingpu District, the event was attended by UN procurement specialists from UNGC, UN Women, UNGM, UNEP, UNICEF, WFP, UNFPA, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNDP and UNOPS, representatives from the China Chamber of Commerce, including the China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Products (CCCME) and the China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Medicines and Health Products (CCCMHPIE), as well as leaders from the private sector, including SinoCarbon Innovation & Investment, China Environmental United Certification Center, McKinsey & Company, EY Greater China, North Carbon Future, CarbonStop, TÜV Rheinland (Guangdong), Bureau Veritas China, China Environmental United Certification Center, Intertek China，SGS China and etc.
The two day hybrid-event saw over 900 participants coming together to share initiatives and guidance on sustainable procurement and present best practices on greening the supply chain. Opening remarks were delivered by Zhang Yi, Deputy Director General of the People's Government of Shanghai Qingpu District, James George, Deputy Resident Representative of UNDP, Anne-Claire Howard, Director of the UNOPS Procurement Group, and Chen Yu, Deputy Party Secretary, Xujing Town, Qingpu District & Director of the UN Procurement Project Office.
In his introductory remarks, Deputy Director Zhang Yi said, "Sustainable public procurement has become a new trend in public procurement systems and policies, which require the fulfilment of economic and social benefits, and environmental targets through public procurement. It is important to note that the core requirement of sustainable development is meeting the needs of the present without jeopardising the ability of future generations to meet their needs".
The workshop served as an important building block for the UNDP and UNOPS-led ‘Knowledge Sharing, Capacity Building and Supporting Service Programme on Sustainable Procurement of UN/International Organisations’, aimed at connecting Chinese suppliers - in particular Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and Women-Owned Businesses (WOBs) - with the UN Procurement Market and helping businesses align their procurement services with sustainable best practices, including promoting decarbonization as part of China’s 2060 net zero emissions target.
Sustainable Procurement is also one of the key factors in accelerating progress on the Sustainable Development Goals. And with less than 8 years left to meet the SDGs, it is imperative that countries come together to help realise their achievement.
“Sustainable procurement is a critical component and a game changer”, said James George, Deputy Resident Representative of UNDP in China. “Indeed, SDG Goal 12 includes a target to promote public procurement practices that are sustainable. By supporting businesses in China to adopt greener, more sustainable practices we also hope to lower their carbon footprint – helping them to play a role in reaching China’s 2030 carbon-peaking and 2060 carbon neutrality targets”.
Speaking on behalf of the UNOPS Procurement Group, Director Anna-Claire Howard addressed the key question - why does sustainability matter? “It’s not just about doing the right thing, it’s also about good business sense. Sustainable procurement can achieve many things - reducing risks in supply chains, bolstering reputations, decreasing costs, promoting revenue growth, but most importantly, it future-proofs us.”
Since 2020, Qingpu District has served as the project base, due to its strong linkages to the entire Yangtze River Delta Manufacturing Cluster, as well as the District’s commitment to building a "global buying" and "global selling" trade gathering platform. Speaking at the event, Deputy Secretary of the Party Committee and Director of the UN Procurement Project Office Chen Yu highlighted Qingpu District’s role in leading the integrated development of the Yangtze River Delta and reaffirmed the UN Procurement Project Office’s commitment to realising the UN 2030 Agenda, through the cultivation of quality suppliers for the UN and other international organisations, as well as the provision of more high-quality goods for international public procurement.
As part of the event, two panel discussions were held; the first featured experts from UNDP, UNOPS, the Stockholm Environment Institute, McKinsey China and TÜV China outlining the objectives value, future trends and potential challenges in sustainable procurement, as well as how SMEs can strengthen their own sustainable procurement capacity. The second saw industry experts spotlighting the invisible carbon burden and the steps suppliers can take to reduce the carbon footprint of global trade in the future. In addition, the event saw valuable perspectives from the government and academic sectors, with Zhang Yulin, Deputy Director of the Government Procurement Management Division, introducing the mechanisms through which the Chinese Government aims to promote sustainable development and achieve the goals of carbon neutrality and China’s Carbon Peak, and Zhou Chenghu, an academic from the Chinese Academy of Sciences, sharing insights on how a digital credit system for global trade can boost the development of international public sustainable procurement.

Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/209774-un-agencies-advocate-achievement-sdgs-2022-un-china-sustainable-procurement-workshop




Date: 25 November 2022
Title: Member States invited to offer guidance on efforts of UN System in China
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
25 November 2022
BEIJING, 25 November – The United Nations (UN) in China convened a briefing to update Member States in Beijing on the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for the People’s Republic of China 2021-2025 (UNSDCF). Around 60 Member States were in attendance, either online or in person, half of which at the Ambassador or Chief of Mission level.
The briefing was organized further to the commitment of the UN Resident Coordinator in China to regularly update Member States on the work of the UN in the country. Agreed upon between the Government of China and the UN in China, the UNSDCF represents the strategic and programmatic framework for work in support of the Host Country’s national development priorities, including the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
With the UNSDCF about to enter its third year of implementation, the agenda of the briefing covered UN efforts to fulfil the framework’s three strategic priorities: People and Prosperity, Planet, and Partnerships. Member States were briefed on ongoing efforts, to improve China’s social and public services; accelerate efforts toward environmental protection and the transition to a people-centred, inclusive, low carbon, and circular economy; and inform China’s international financing, investments, and business engagements, as well as its development and humanitarian cooperation efforts, in line with SDGs.
In his remarks, Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, said, “At the mid-point of our programme cycle, it is vital for the UN in China to take stock of our progress and chart the way forward. As the UN Resident Coordinator in China, I commit to lead by convening, connecting and catalyzing upon our role as the UN in China, to fully deliver on the UNSDCF, strengthen joint planning and programming of our Country Team, make the UN system fit for purpose in China and fully aligned with the Secretary-General’s bold reforms of the UN development system.”
The briefing provided the opportunity for Member States to provide their guidance and steer on the way forward, including through a well-participated interactive session with the Resident Coordinator and Heads of UN agencies in the country. The discussion underscored the primacy of safeguarding the key pillars that underpin the SDGs, including peace and security, universal human rights, and development, in line with agreed international norms and standards.
As part of the briefing, Member States had the opportunity to hear from the Chairs of the Results Groups and Theme Groups, the interagency mechanisms established to lead the work of implementing the UNSDCF.
In her presentation, Ms. Justine Coulson, United Nations Population Fund Representative to China, said, “As China is an upper-middle income country, we do not deliver programmes in the field on the scale that you would see in less developed countries. But we are still focused on ensuring that we deliver concrete results for targeted beneficiaries, and much of our downstream work in China is focused on addressing the specific needs of the most left-behind groups.”
In her presentation, Ms. Beate Trankmann, United Nations Development Programme Resident Representative in China, said, “In addition to data and research for evidence-based policymaking and practice, we are also providing policy analysis and advisory services to inform policy formulation, so that design and implementation aligns with UN Conventions as well as with international best practice, norms and standards.”
As a way to illustrate the programmatic efforts and their focus on vulnerable groups and leave no one behind, attendees were invited to view a short video titled “Voices from the People We Serve”, which highlighted the experiences of beneficiaries of UN projects on the ground.
After the briefing, H.E. Mr. Assem Hanafi, Ambassador of the Arab Republic of Egypt to the People’s Republic of China, said, “I would like to thank the UN Resident Coordinator in China, Siddharth Chatterjee and his able team for the comprehensive briefing on the UN’s accomplishments in China over the last two years. I would also like to refer to the valuable role that the UN has played during the negotiations that took place during the COP27 conference in Sharm El Sheikh, leading to the best possible outcomes. Egypt is committed and willing to offer the utmost support to the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in Beijing, particularly in areas related to combating climate change and poverty reduction which remain amongst the priorities of Egypt and developing countries, and where partnership with UN – China and other developing partners and stakeholders is crucial.”

For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/208546-member-states-invited-offer-guidance-efforts-un-system-china




Date: 15 November 2022
Title: UN Partnership on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNPRPD) Induction Workshop in China Kicked Off in Beijing
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
15 November 2022
On 15 November 2022, the Induction Workshop under the UN Partnership on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNPRPD) Fourth Funding Call Inception Phase was kicked off at the UN Compound in Beijing.
With full support from the China Disabled Persons’ Federation (CDPF), this Workshop is jointly organized by UNESCO Beijing Cluster Office together with the ILO, UNFPA, UN Women, and WHO offices in China, under the coordination by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in China.
The Workshop is held on the basis of the shared vision of ensuring the rights of persons with disabilities are fully respected, protected and fulfilled, and all persons with disabilities can fully and equitably participate in society, while supporting China in accelerating the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) and of disability-inclusive Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and at the same time fulfilling the commitment to “Leave No One Behind” as outlined in the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) for China 2021-2025, and in response to China’s 14th Five-Year Plan for the Protection and Development of Persons with Disabilities.
With a localized programme and an all-round coverage on key elements such as the connection between CRPD and SDGs, equality and non-discrimination, accessibility, meaning participation, inclusive data, and gender equality, this Workshop aims to provide national stakeholders with crucial and foundational knowledge on the implementation of the CRPD and of disability-inclusive SDGs in practice, responding to China’s obligations.
Over 30 participants (around 80 per cent are women) representing UN agencies, government institutions, organizations of persons with disabilities, academia, and civil society organizations attended the first day of the Workshop. Prof. Shahbaz Khan, Director of UNESCO Beijing Cluster Office and UNESCO Representative to China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Japan, Mongolia and Republic of Korea delivered opening remarks.
As Chair of the UN Theme Group on Disability (UNTGD), Prof. Shahbaz Khan highlighted in his opening remarks that 2022 marks an important year for the advancement of the rights of more than 85 million persons with disabilities and accessibility development in China. However, major challenges still remain in many aspects of life for persons with disabilities, but “with the right policy support and knowledge base which this Induction Workshop provides, these are opportunities where we can make meaningful changes for all”. He further reassured that the UN in China stands ready to continue cooperating closely with all stakeholders to advance disability inclusion in China, and called for collaborative effort amongst all partners.
On behalf of the UNTGD and UNESCO, Prof. Khan particularly expressed his gratitude towards the CDPF for its support, especially in providing insightful knowledge and expertise through sharing sessions, and to all of the participants at the Workshop.
This capacity building workshop, which will continue to be held on 15-18 November and 8-9 December 2022, is part of a 10-month inception phase of the UNPRPD programme in China that aims to advance CRPD implementation at the country level by focusing on the essential preconditions for disability inclusion across sectors, and improve and increase the implementation of disability-inclusive SDGs at the country level in addressing national priorities and gaps concerning persons with disabilities in national planning.
UNESCO Beijing Cluster Office, as Chair of the UNTGD in China, is positioned to lead the implementation of the UNPRPD programme in China. The UNTGD was established in 2015 as a unique, comprehensive, multi-stakeholder platform for dialogue and advocacy on the needs and rights of persons with disabilities in China. Members of the UNTGD include UN agencies, CDPF, OPDs, CSOs, international and local NGOs, embassies/multilateral and bilateral organizations, and private sector partners.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/207367-un-partnership-rights-persons-disabilities-unprpd-induction-workshop-china-kicked-beijing




Date: 15 November 2022
Title: Promoting Gender-just Green Transitions Online Workshop Held in Beijing
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
15 November 2022
Beijing, China — On 15 November, the Gender-just Green Transitions workshop was held online by UN Women, UNDP and GIZ to tackle the gender gap in climate action. Women are more vulnerable than men to the negative impacts of climate change and climate disasters, especially women living in rural and poor areas. However, in most countries and regions, strategies to address climate change focus more attention on technological innovation for energy restructuring and less attention on the way climate change affects women and men. Gender differences, in terms of access to natural resources and participation in policymaking and economic activities, remain underappreciated as subjects of climate action.
Women’s participation, experience and voice are critical to develop innovative solutions and drive green, low-carbon transitions. Gender-just green policy measures can remove structural barriers to women’s participation in energy sector transformation, foster women’s career development and economic empowerment, and ensure that women are included in the green sector in the future.
The workshop convened representatives and stakeholders to discuss challenges and opportunities for women to meaningfully participate and lead in green transitions, and the potential for gender mainstreaming in relevant policies and practices. Representatives of governments, financial institutions, industrial associations, private sector stakeholders, civil society, think tanks, and bilateral and multilateral organizations exchanged their experiences from different perspectives.
In his opening speech, Thorsten Giehler, Country Director of GIZ China, emphasized women’s participation in generating innovative solutions and the importance of gender equality and diversity in energy transition.
Smriti Aryal, Country Representative of UN Women China, spoke of structural inequalities in addition to climate change and its impact. She said, “Effective measures are needed to tackle the gender gap in current climate action, including through collecting and using gender-disaggregated data, enhancing coordination and gender mainstreaming across sectors and all levels of government, strengthening the resilience of women, especially women who work in the informal sector and those who are most vulnerable to socioeconomic shocks, and unleashing women’s real and potential capabilities in green transitions.”
Beate Trankmann, Resident Representative of UNDP China, said UNDP is working to support countries around the world to connect the dots between climate action, social inclusion, gender equality and sustainable development. “A green economy transition is at the heart of reaching net-zero emissions. However, if not managed well, it risks widening social inequalities.”
Ge Chazhong, Professor and Chief Scientist of the Chinese Academy for Environmental Planning, Ministry of Ecology and Environment shared that "Chinese women are actively engaged in the cause of ecological and environmental protection, but the current environmental and climate policies still lack gender perspectives.” He suggested incorporating “gender perspectives into the ecological, environmental protection and climate change laws and policies, ensure the equal and legitimate rights and interests of women, including rural women, and strengthen women's decision-making and participation in ecological and environmental protection and climate response.”
Irene Giner-Reichl, founding member and Senior Advisor of the Global Women’s Network for Energy Transition (GWNET), emphasized “the energy transition requires not only behaviour change, innovation and integration across sectors, but also a large diverse talent pool.”
The workshop included panel discussions on integrating gender perspectives into policies, programmes and financing in green transition processes, and supporting women’s equal participation, promotion and leadership in green industries and enterprises. This event was a follow-up activity to the Women in Green Energy initiative, which was launched by GIZ in cooperation with various institutions in the framework of the Sino-German Energy Partnership and with support from the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action of Germany (BMWK).
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/208273-promoting-gender-just-green-transitions-online-workshop-held-beijing




Date: 10 November 2022
Title: UN Agencies Spotlight How Sustainable Procurement Can Accelerate SDGs and Combat Climate Change
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
10 November 2022
Beijing, 10 November 2022 - The 2022 China International Public Procurement Forum (CIPPF 2022) saw a number of UN Agencies coming together to champion sustainable procurement and share their existing initiatives, programs, and efforts to promote sustainable development, as part of this year’s theme - “Sharing the Future of the Public Procurement Market”.
With a number of important political, economic and social leaders from around the world in attendance, the Forum provided a platform for discussing dynamic trends and identifying potential market opportunities in the international public procurement market. As an important supporting event to the 5th China International Import Expo, the hybrid-event saw opening remarks from Xu Hongcai, Vice Minister of Finance, Wu Qing, Vice Mayor of Shanghai Municipal People’s Government, and Anabel González, Deputy Director-General of the World Trade Organization, as well as keynote speeches from representatives from the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR), the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT), the Embassy of South Africa in China and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB).
The forum also invited representatives from the World Bank, the Global Fund, the Asian Development Bank, the New Development Bank, the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) to present their progress on sustainable procurement and economic recovery, as well as to advise Chinese enterprises on how to better access the international procurement market.
Nenad Radonjic, Deputy Representative Operations of UNICEF, highlighted the procurement accomplishments that Chinese suppliers have achieved at UNICEF’s global tenders at a historical record of 1.3 billion USD in 2021. He reiterated Sustainable Procurement as a critical enabler to realize important SDGs and encouraged enterprises from manufacturing industries to further explore collaboration opportunities with UNICEF and UN, in China and beyond.
Vanno Noupech, Representative of UNHCR in China, noted the unprecedented increases in global forced displacement as well as the increasing volume of UN procurement in China. He said: “China’s share of total UN procurement continues to increase: it went up by 4.5% in 2020 and increased even more, by nearly 6%, in 2021”.  In his keynote speech, Noupech highlighted how China’s strengths represent an opportunity for the UN humanitarian system. He said China’s manufacturing capacity, competitive pricing, technological innovation, and logistics capacity can help us ensure that we remain ready and agile to deliver humanitarian assistance rapidly and effectively to people who are desperately in need. Noupech also emphasized how climate change and the environment are bringing new impacts and complexity to humanitarian response, noting that UNHCR is hoping through partnership “To leverage China’s experience and expertise to find solutions to making humanitarian action and supply greener and more sustainable.”
Speaking at the event, Simonetta Siligato, UNOPS Senior Advisor to the Regional Director for Asia, emphasized the significance of sustainable procurement: “We believe there is a huge potential in using public procurement to accelerate progress on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). More sustainable and resilient procurement models can strengthen supply chains, enhance transparency, and fight corruption. Diversifying supply chains can give businesses owned by women, young people, people with disabilities, and ethnic minorities a chance to prosper. Greater effectiveness in public spending can help to address social inequalities, increase resilience to shocks such as from a changing climate or pandemic, and lay foundations for a cleaner, more sustainable world.”
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/206871-un-agencies-spotlight-how-sustainable-procurement-can-accelerate-sdgs-and-combat-climate




Date: 02 November 2022
Title: Embassy of Belgium and UN in China celebrate 30 years of Belgium-China maternal health collaboration
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
02 November 2022
BEIJING, China, 2 November 2022 – Yesterday, the Embassy of Belgium in China and the United Nations (UN) in China hosted a joint event at the UN Compound to celebrate the 30th anniversary of Belgium-China cooperation in maternal health and women’s rights. Both parties used the occasion to emphasize that universal access to healthcare for women and the rights over their own bodies are central to the realization of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), requiring partnerships between all countries.
Over 100 people from national and international organizations in China and Belgium, academia, diplomatic missions in Beijing, and the public and private sectors attended the event in person and online. The event featured six experts from Belgium and China who shared their research and practices in promoting women’s health and rights, covering topics of maternal health care, HIV prevention, gender-based violence, sexual and reproductive health services provision during emergencies, and women’s empowerment.
During his speech, Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, highlighted past successes and remaining challenges: “Over the last century, there have been remarkable achievements concerning women’s social, economic, political, and cultural progress. However, in many parts of the world, there are girls and women who still lack the knowledge and tools to help them understand their rights and take charge of their bodies. Here, it is clear that in achieving SDG 3 and SDG 5, we will need to see political will and public policy working in tandem with new partnerships, including public-private partnerships, to ensure that we leave no one behind.”
During his speech, H.E. Dr. Jan Hoogmartens, Belgian Ambassador to China and Mongolia, pointed out the following statement: “Whenever a conflict or crisis occurs, women are vulnerable. We are still far from a world free of forced marriages, child pregnancies, unsafe abortions, sexual violence, discrimination, and gender stereotypes. It is important to set an example and demonstrate that a gender-equal world is a better world for all of us. We cannot waste half of the population on our planet.”
Belgium has listed sexual and reproductive health and rights as one of its global health priorities [1]. It has been at the forefront of SheDecides, a global movement calling on action for a world where every woman, girl, and young person, in all their diversity, can decide what to do with their bodies, lives and future. As highlighted during the event, Belgium and China have also achieved a fruitful partnership in sexual and reproductive health and rights over the past three decades.
The International Centre for Reproductive Health, established by the Belgian gynecologist and Professor Marleen Temmerman at Ghent University in 1994, is one of the largest academic units in Europe in the field of sexual and reproductive health. It has been active in China for over 30 years and developed a network of collaborators across 30 Chinese provinces including universities, research institutes and healthcare institutions. The collaboration has been furthered through the establishment of a Joint Laboratory for Global Health between universities of the two countries toward scientific research and technological innovation on global health [2].
During the event, attendees recognized both the achievements and disparities in terms of access to maternal healthcare along with the remaining gaps in achieving gender equality. The event further served to emphasize the need for integrated and gender-responsive public health approaches toward ensuring sexual and reproductive health and rights for all.
[1] WHO contributors web page, “A champion of good donorship”: https://www.who.int/about/funding/contributors/belgium.
[2] ICRH website, “Joint Laboratory for Global Health between Ghent University and Hebei Medical University”: https://www.icrhb.org/en/news/joint-laboratory-for-global-health-between-ghent-university-and-hebei-medical-university.

For more information, please contact:
Johan Van hove, Public Diplomacy Counsellor, Embassy of the Kingdom of Belgium in China
Email: johan.vanhove@diplobel.fed.be, Phone: 186 1115 4031, WeChat id: johanvanhove
Shujun Liu, Communications Analyst, UNFPA China
Email: sliu@unfpa.org, Phone: 010-6532 0506
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/205714-embassy-belgium-and-un-china-celebrate-30-years-belgium-china-maternal-health-collaboration




Date: 28 October 2022
Title: A beacon of hope and global solidarity raised at UN Day ceremony
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
28 October 2022
BEIJING, 28 October – As part of its celebrations for the 77th United Nations Day, the United Nations in China hosted a formal ceremony at Prince Jun’s Mansion in Chaoyang District in observance of the occasion. The ceremony saw the attendance of more than 100 guests, comprising representatives from the Government of China, Ambassadors, and invited partners from academia, business, and civil society.
The UN in China used the ceremony to acknowledge a time of increasing global challenges whilst placing focus on youth and their hopes and aspirations for the future. The ceremony, held under the theme, “A Beacon of Hope”, sought to underscore the importance of intergenerational solidarity in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), with youth as the torchbearers of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
UN Day, on 24 October, marks the anniversary of the entry into force in 1945 of the UN Charter. Celebrated every year, the occasion offers an opportunity to reaffirm the purposes and principles of the UN Charter that have guided the Organization and the international community for the past 77 years.
Mr. António Guterres, UN Secretary-General, in a video message played at the ceremony, said, “Today our organization is being tested like never before. But the United Nations was made for moments like this. Now, more than ever, we need to bring to life the values and principles of the UN Charter in every corner of the world.”
Representatives of the Government of China, with Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Ma Zhaoxu serving as the Guest of Honour, made prominent appearances at the ceremony, thereby highlighting China’s support as an important contributor to the work of the Organization over the past decades.
His Excellency Ambassador Ma Zhaoxu, Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs for the People’s Republic of China, during his remarks, said, “Over the past four decades and more, the UN development system in China has actively shared with us development experience of other countries and mobilized international development resources to contribute actively to China's reform and opening-up and high-quality development. We hope UN development agencies will keep to the development-first approach, take an active part in Belt and Road cooperation and the GDI, focus on the practical, urgent needs of developing countries, and help them better respond to global challenges and accelerate the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. China will continue to support and facilitate UN development agencies in forming synergy with China's development priorities and bring China-UN cooperation to a new level.”
Representatives of the UN in China, led by Resident Coordinator Siddharth Chatterjee, were in attendance throughout the ceremony. The Resident Coordinator used his remarks to stress the need for solidarity and international cooperation in the face of interconnected threats, including the climate crisis, conflict, rising inequalities, and the COVID-19 pandemic, while emphasizing the centrality of youth and their concerns and participation in forging new solutions to accelerate global progress on the SDGs.
Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, during his remarks, said, “We need to find strength and solutions in multilateralism—by rekindling old partnerships and forging new ones, by focusing on the issues that bring us together, rather than solely on those that divide us. This is our only path to survival and to peace, dignity and equality on a healthy planet for future generations. We have to work together and prove the value of global solidarity as we redouble our efforts to rescue the SDGs and give human development and humanity a fighting chance.”
During the ceremony, youth representatives from around the world took the stage to add their voices and offer a call to action in several key areas, including climate change, health, education, employment and entrepreneurship, and youth empowerment and engagement. This segment follows recent momentum from a youth dialogue hosted at the UN Compound in Beijing on 24 October.
In a symbolic moment, guests were asked to raise a number of solar lanterns towards the conclusion of the event, in a nod to the theme of the ceremony. During this, the Resident Coordinator and youth representatives were joined on stage by the President of the Chinese People’s Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries, His Excellency Ambassador Mr. Lin Songtian. The ceremony also featured other performances and other activities choreographed and organized by The Poem for You.
The UN in China gratefully acknowledges the efforts of the supporting organization, the Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries and the organizing partner, The Poem for You, towards hosting this ceremony.

For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/204983-beacon-hope-and-global-solidarity-raised-un-day-ceremony




Date: 25 October 2022
Title: Youth views placed front and centre at UN Day Dialogue
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
25 October 2022
BEIJING, 25 October – As part of celebrations for the 77th United Nations Day, the United Nations in China convened the “Dialogue on Youth Solidarity and Engagement to Accelerate the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)” yesterday. Celebrated every year, UN Day marks the anniversary of the day in 1945 when the UN Charter entered into force, offering an opportunity for the international community to reaffirm the purposes and principles of the Organization.
The UN in China, in collaboration with the All-China Youth Federation and Center for China and Globalization, used the occasion to create a space that puts youth at the centre, to share their hopes and aspirations for the future, while underscoring the importance of intergenerational solidarity in realizing the vision of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and achieving the SDGs.
The youth-led Dialogue, in part, focused on how digital technologies can help deliver on the key commitments outlined in the SDGs, while highlighting the innovative work of related youth-led organizations working in the public interest. More than 160 participants attended the event in person and online, including youth representatives from several regions of the globe, representatives from the international community in China, the Host Government, and development partners with a mandate on youth engagement and empowerment.
Mr. Fu Zhenbang, Vice President of the All-China Youth Federation, shared opening remarks, noting: “The emergence of digital tools and platforms provides a convenient path for young people to participate in rural revitalization, act on environmental protection and help vulnerable groups, but also brings new challenges. We look forward to working with the UN system to help youth better adapt to the digital age and digital technologies.”
Youth from across the globe, as part of the Youth Leaders for the SDGs group, kicked off the event with flash presentations and offered their perspectives on solutions that cross the digital divide and ensure a youth voice in emerging technologies that shape a better future and address pressing issues, including in the areas of accessible education, decent work, and growing misinformation.
Presentations were followed by a panel discussion and Q&A with Chinese youth who have been leaders in their respective fields in developing technologies that help accelerate progress toward achievement of the SDGs, including in the areas of climate change, gender equality, and ending hunger, among others. Panellists emphasized the need to harness emerging innovations in a manner that addresses global challenges while taking care to mitigate potential consequences for vulnerable groups, in order to Leave No One Behind.
Mr. Zhao Chen, UNICEF Youth Advocate on digital accessibility and inclusion, said to the audience: “I am visually impaired. I am aware of the concerns of people with disabilities, and I understand what kind of supports are in need. From my experience working for the social community, I still see issues to be addressed, and I hope that more efforts can be made so that society can see the challenges faced by people with disabilities, and treat us as regular members of the society.”
The event concluded with an interactive fair featuring the work of organizations working for and with youth across a number of the SDGs. Participating organizations used the opportunity to present their work, share relevant publishing material, and connect with attendees and other like-minded groups.
Dr. Mabel Lv Miao, Co-Founder and Secretary-General of the Center of China and Globalization, said, “As the UN Secretary-General mentioned, the UN is the product of hope. Young people are also the hope of humanity. So today should serve as a lesson for us to learn about how we can unite and engage with more young people, and the importance of solidarity in accelerating the SDGs.”
In his closing remarks, Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, said, “Youth are the torchbearers of a sustainable future, but to accomplish the daunting task of realizing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and all 17 SDGs, we must all come together, overcome age-related barriers, and foster intergenerational solidarity to promote our common agenda. We can only ‘build back better’ when we leverage all generations’ knowledge and strengths.”
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/204434-youth-views-placed-front-and-centre-un-day-dialogue




Date: 29 September 2022
Title: Global Actors Add to Growing Calls for Global Action on Food Security
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
29 September 2022
BEIJING, 29 September – As part of a joint initiative, the Embassy of the Czech Republic in China (in its role as the Presidency of the Council of the European Union) and the United Nations (UN) in China held an event titled, “Roundtable on Food Security: Call for Global, Regional and Country Level Actions”. The roundtable sought to maintain the momentum of different streams of work towards achieving global food security, including recent efforts made at the 77th Session of the UN General Assembly in New York, through a substantive, expert-level discussion to enhance dialogue and cooperation in this area.
With less than eight years left to deliver on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the combined impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, the climate emergency, new and existing conflicts, and rising inequalities have reversed and jeopardized global progress on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As a result, as many as 828 million people may have suffered hunger last year, with countries in regions such as Africa still bearing the heaviest burden, as highlighted by UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina J. Mohammed at this month’s Meeting of Friends of Food Security and Nutrition.
These tragic outcomes put a further strain on the global economy, triggering poverty that threatens to place people in more vulnerable situations, especially women, who were already 27 per cent more at risk of severe food insecurity than men before the pandemic. Given these circumstances, instability in global food and energy markets, and tightened financing, the roundtable set out to collectively map the needs and gaps in food security, while cataloguing relevant global, regional and Member State initiatives, in order to identify overlaps, gaps and opportunities for further joint efforts.
The roundtable brought together a diverse range of stakeholders to call for further action on global food security, while highlighting possible avenues for enhanced collaboration, including through established mechanisms such as South-South and triangular cooperation, North-South partnerships, and the potential of Public-Private partnerships. Participants in the roundtable included diplomatic representatives to China, notably comprising those representing Member States of the European Union, the United States, and the African Union, relevant Chinese ministries, international organizations, development partners, global foundations, academia, the private sector and UN representatives.
His Excellency Vladimír Tomšík, Ambassador of the Czech Republic to the People’s Republic of China, said, “The Czech Republic, and its predecessor Czechoslovakia, has never been a colonial power; rather, it was occupied several times. It was a highly developed industrial economy before World War II and in the 1990s it proudly transformed back to a free market and rules-based economy. … In 1996, before becoming an EU member, it joined the OECD and, despite not being as rich as other countries, it became an Official Development Assistance donor. We have experience with dozens of development projects in Africa, Central Asia, other Asian regions as well as the Balkans. Those are not big projects, but they fit local conditions. Many were later replicated by UN agencies or by the EU as they reflected local conditions, prevented typical problems, such as lack of expertise, and were not expensive to implement... We need to all to come to one table, lay down our cards (i.e. existing initiatives, projects and funds) and see how we can utilize them to help people from suffering, in an efficient and timely manner.”
Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, also thanked his Czech counterpart for their initiative and leadership in promoting more engagement on this critical global challenge. Reiterating the UN in China’s priorities in providing ongoing support for this work, he said, “We know that the world is moving backwards in efforts to eliminate hunger and malnutrition. The global community must rally behind efforts to address these profound needs. At the regional and Member State-level, several initiatives are aimed at enhancing global and regional food security, including those undertaken by the European Union and those led by China and the United States. Here, the UN in China stands ready to provide technical assistance, facilitate partnerships and coordination, and amplify these efforts.”
The roundtable continues a series of strategic activities held throughout the year in which the UN in China has provided its technical assistance in support of South-South and North-South cooperation efforts, to offer best practices while ensuring alignment with recognized international norms and standards to allow for accelerating global progress on the SDGs. The UN in China will carry on offering a platform to convene, connect and catalyze ideas and action, including to advance food security and further efforts to end hunger and malnutrition.
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/201419-global-actors-add-growing-calls-global-action-food-security




Date: 22 September 2022
Title: China, The United Nations And Horn Of Africa Ambassadors Forge New Partnership To Accelerate Food Security
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
22 September 2022
BEIJING, 22 September – At the request of representatives of Horn of Africa (HoA) countries, the United Nations (UN) in China supported an event today themed, “Dialogue on Agricultural Cooperation and Food Security: Toward a more resilient and sustainable Horn of Africa”.
The Greater HoA Region continues to face a dire food security crisis driven by several evolving factors, including conflicts, the COVID-19 pandemic, and extreme weather events such as floods and droughts. The number of people at risk of starvation in the region has increased to 22 million, according to the UN’s World Food Programme. Insufficient rainfall across countries such as Kenya, Somalia, and Ethiopia has caused the worst drought in 40 years and famine-like conditions in the hardest-hit areas.
The dialogue sets out to convene, connect and catalyze action from relevant stakeholders to address this dire humanitarian situation, the catastrophic levels of hunger and starvation, and to be an inflection point that encourages the needed political will, public policies, and new partnerships, including Public-Private partnerships, to leapfrog the green revolution in Africa. The dialogue serves as an important pillar of the UN in China’s South-South Cooperation and learning efforts.
The dialogue brought together diverse stakeholders to explore concrete areas for project-based cooperation toward greater food security in HoA countries. Participants in the dialogue included Ambassadors to China from the HoA region and beyond, the African Union, Chinese ministries and departments, academia, UN representatives from China and Africa, research institutes, Multilateral Development Banks, foundations, American and British Chambers of Commerce, as well as businesses.
The dialogue is the first in a series of targeted activities through which the UN in China will promote technical assistance in support of South-South Cooperation efforts, with the aim of achieving a strong and balanced partnership between China and Africa, one that places African countries’ needs at the centre and adopts the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as the blueprint for cooperation.
Abdallah Abdillahi Miguil, Ambassador of the Republic of Djibouti to the People’s Republic of China, expressed his deep interest in ongoing collaboration with the UN in China to address some of the most pressing issues facing African countries today, including the food security issues discussed at length during today’s dialogue, as well as climate change. His Excellency said, “The question is how can we embrace cooperation and compromise, rather than maintain the old narrative of conflicts, large-scale displacement, and humanitarian catastrophe. We have to flip the orthodoxies, and in this spirit, the reason of our discussion today must be the transformation of the Horn of Africa, through a transformative partnership. In view of the growing importance of agricultural development and food security, we have appropriately identified the theme of today’s dialogue."
Wu Peng, Director-General of the Department of African Affairs for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, offered his sincere thanks to the African Ambassadors Group for its partnership in his address during the dialogue. In also thanking the UN in China for its ongoing support, he said, “China, while upholding the spirit of China-Africa friendship and cooperation, is always ready to strengthen cooperation with regional countries, the UN development agencies and all international partners who truly care about Africa’s development, and make joint contributions to regional development.”
Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, in his welcoming remarks, also thanked the African and Chinese Chairs for their leadership in promoting sustained engagement on these critical issues. In reiterating the UN in China’s commitment to providing ongoing support for this work, he said, “At this critical juncture in history for the countries and people of the Horn of Africa, the Sustainable Development Goals remain an essential blueprint for achieving a more sustainable and just future that leaves no one behind, and international cooperation remains key to implementing that blueprint.”
At the dialogue, both the African and Chinese Chairs took part in the launch of the Joint Summary publication, titled “Towards a Greener, More Prosperous, and Healthier Future Together- A Joint Summary of the Symposium Following the 8th FOCAC Ministerial Conference held in Dakar in November of 2021.” The Joint Summary, the development of which was supported by the UN in China with financial support from the Rockefeller Foundation, takes stock of the work done on this thus far and provides important guidance on the way forward.
The Joint Summary also aims to capture the efforts of the UN in China as a strategic partner that is able to bring knowledge and technical expertise and fuel momentum towards the attainment of the SDGs, in line with international norms and standards.
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/200287-china-united-nations-and-horn-africa-ambassadors-forge-new-partnership-accelerate-food




Date: 19 August 2022
Title: A Shared Longing for Home in A Changing World: A Refugee-Themed Book Exhibition by the UN Refugee Agency launched on the World Humanitarian Day tells refugee stories
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
19 August 2022
19 August 2022, Beijing, China – Today UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, re-launches their refugee-themed book exhibition titled “A Shared Longing for Home in a Changing World” at an iconic new location. The exhibition focuses on literature related to refugees and is re-launched to commemorate World Humanitarian Day at a time when 100 million people worldwide - one percent of humanity - have been forcibly displaced. The exhibition will be on display at PAGEONE’s Beijing Fun bookstore for the next month.
Siddharth Chatterjee, United Nations Resident Coordinator in China said at the opening ceremony of the exhibition, “UNHCR is a frontline humanitarian member of the UN family responding to the most human dimension of these emergencies: people forced to flee violence, conflict and persecution. On World Humanitarian Day, we reflect on the importance, effectiveness and positive impact of the UN’s humanitarian work, to which UNHCR contributes.”
UNHCR’s refugee-themed book exhibition was initially launched to mark World Book Day on 23 April and has now been redesigned at the new location. It features a curated list of 22 books written by, for and about refugees. These books reveal how refugees struggle, survive and thrive. Some refugee writers including Khaled Hosseini, author of “The Kite Runner”, and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Malala Yousafzai, are well known to Chinese readers. Their talent as storytellers alongside their own stories of fleeing war, conflicts and persecution bring us bring readers insight into the lives and perspectives of refugees.
“UNHCR hopes that literature can help us in our outreach to step beyond statistics and into stories that reveal human portraits of the refugee experience. We hope the people who visit our exhibition and read these books will find a connection somewhere that will inspire them to keep learning more and do something to support.” said Vanno Noupech, UNHCR Representative in China.
Featured books are complemented by images, videos and a display of 12 items refugees often mentioned bringing when they fled home. The exhibition is an opportunity for the public to immerse themselves in the plight and hope of refugees. Visitors will be able to see why and how refugees flee home, how they survive and start new lives as well as the many ways they contribute to their host countries and communities. Through the exhibition, the audience can feel and connect to their lasting longing for home, something everyone can identify with.
“I am rarely aware of the existence of refugees in the environment of my life. But whenever I realize they share this same planet with me, I feel unsettled. They remind me of the fragility of our life. I think I need to do something for them,” said Professor Xi Chuan, a Chinese contemporary poet.
Through literature, UNHCR hopes to help public audiences understand and connect with the human side of the refugee experience. The book exhibition at PAGEONE’s Beijing Fun location will close on 19 September 2022.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/195584-shared-longing-home-changing-world-refugee-themed-book-exhibition-un-refugee-agency-launched




Date: 18 August 2022
Title: UNDP and UNOPS co-host the UN China International Procurement Conference 2022
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
18 August 2022
In collaboration with the China International Centre for Economic and Technical Exchanges (CICETE) and the Shanghai Qingpu District People’s Government, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) jointly organized the UN China International Procurement Conference 2022.
The second UN China International Procurement Conference was held on 16 August 2022, with representatives from UNDP, UNOPS, UNICEF, WFP, UNPD, UNHCR, UNFPA and UN Women presenting the key trends in international public procurement across the different UN agencies and international organizations - as outlined in the 2021 Annual Statistical Report on United Nations Procurement released by UNOPS in July 2022. This year’s conference also welcomed representatives from the World Bank and Médecins Sans Frontières, who presented key procurement data from their respective organizations.
With an in person event at the UN China compound in Beijing, as well as an on-line event open to the public, the Conference sought to provide suppliers with information on the 2022 procurement priorities for the various UN agencies, as well as available tools and platforms to help vendors - particularly Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) and Women-Owned Businesses (WOBs) - gain better access to international procurement markets.
Opening remarks were delivered by Mr. Weihua Shen, Deputy Director of Shanghai Municipal Commission of Commerce, Ms. Beate Trankmann, Resident Representative of UNDP, Mr. Fuan Kong, Deputy Director of Shanghai Hongqiao International Central Business District Management Committee, Mr. Yi Zhang, Deputy Director of CICETE, Mr. Junfeng Jin, Deputy Magistrate of National Project Director Shanghai Qingpu District People's Government and Ms. Samina Kadwani, Director of Thailand Multi-Country Office UNOPS.
Each agency presented their procurement data, the categories of goods and services procured and new trends & statistics for procurement in China. In addition, UN Women hosted a session on ‘Becoming a Gender-Responsive Vendor’, highlighting the importance of gender equality in procurement, and what UN agencies and vendors can be doing to promote gender equality in the international public procurement market.
The Conference was hosted as part of the UNDP and UNOPS-led ‘Knowledge Sharing, Capacity Building and Supporting Service Programme on Sustainable Procurement of UN/International Organisations’, aimed at helping businesses align their procurement services with sustainable best practices and promoting decarbonization as part of China’s 2060 net zero emissions target. In particular, the project focuses on supporting SMEs and WOBs enhance their ability to participate in international organisations’ procurement processes and access the UN procurement market.
Since the launch of the Sustainable Procurement Project, substantial progress has been made. Around 200 local SMEs and WOBs have registered on the UN Global Marketplace (UNGM) - a first step to doing business with the United Nations. By identifying and translating over 300 suitable UN tenders into Chinese, the project has also facilitated higher market engagement of local businesses.
Ms. Beate Trankmann, Resident Representative of UNDP China, said, “By linking public procurement with sustainable development outcomes and aligning public spending with government objectives, we can not only generate value for money but also benefits for society, the economy and minimize environmental damage.”
As the largest development agency in the UN system, UNDP currently procures more than US$3 billion worth of goods and services each year globally, to ensure that developing countries have access to life-saving medicines, emergency relief supplies and a host of other much-needed items. “Embedding sustainability across our procurement operations is a crucial part of our commitment to supporting sustainable development,” said Ms. Trankmann.
UNOPS, as a pioneer in advancing sustainable procurement within the United Nations system and beyond, was a key contributor during the conference - with five teams from across the organisation invited to share their work, elaborate on their procurement needs and explain how to better engage with UNOPS from a more detailed and practical perspective. The presentations included an introduction to the work of UNOPS Sustainable Procurement Team; the work of the Asia Regional Health Cluster and the associated requirements of procurement in the healthcare sector; the key projects and procurement plans of the Thailand Multi-Country Office and the Sri Lanka Multi Country Office and a demonstration of the UN Web Buy Plus Platform, a UNOPS-built E-commerce solution used by UN agencies to ensure efficient and sustainable procurement.
Speaking at the event, Ms. Samina Kadwani, Director of UNOPS Thailand Multi-Country Office (THMCO) said: “Through this project, we are working to address the challenges faced by Chinese suppliers in the international public procurement space and encourage more sustainable procurement practices. In particular, we look to support Small and Medium Enterprises and Women-Owned Businesses to improve their access to international procurement markets to help them align with sustainable standards and best practices.”
The event saw significant participation within the industry, with over 350 companies registering, more than 2,200 viewers attending the online session and 39.4k clicks.
ENDS
Press contact details:
About UNOPS:
UNOPS mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. We help the United Nations, governments and other partners to manage projects, and deliver sustainable infrastructure and procurement in an efficient way. We respond to our partner’s needs in the world’s most challenging environments, by combining the best of the UN and the private sector, as we build foundations for countries to achieve sustainable development. Read more: www.unops.org
About UNDP:
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has been a leading development agency in the United Nations (UN) system for nearly half a century, and the largest multilateral agency for technical assistance in the world. UNDP is committed to promoting sustainable development, supporting countries to eradicate poverty, reduce inequalities and exclusion within planetary boundaries. It works in more than 170 countries and territories to help cope with global and domestic development challenges. Read more: https://www.undp.org/
About CICETE:
CICETE is a specialized project management agency for promoting multilateral and bilateral economic and technical exchanges and international development cooperation, improving self-development capacity of assisted countries and building a community with a shared future for mankind, to support
China’s economic and social development and the achievement of all-round Xiao Kang Society and UN Sustainable Development Goals. In the past 4 decades, CICETE has cooperated with UN agencies to implement over 1000 cooperation programs/projects in the field of industry, education, health, poverty alleviation, environment protection, climate change etc. Read more: http://www.cicete.org.cn/en/
About Shanghai Qingpu:
Qingpu District is located in the southwest of Shanghai, the lower reaches of the Taihu Lake and the upper reaches of the Huangpu River, and is the center of Yangtze River Delta economic circle. It is the permanent site of China International Import Expo (CIIE), and also the carrier of national strategies such as the demonstration zone of Yangtze River Delta Integrated Development and Hongqiao International Open Hub.
Visit the official website of People's Government of Qingpu District of Shanghai Municipality: https://www.shqp.gov.cn/english/
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/195577-undp-and-unops-co-host-un-china-international-procurement-conference-2022




Date: 21 July 2022
Title: UN Women and Ant Foundation launch “Together Digital” to empower women entrepreneurs in the digital economy
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
21 July 2022
The programme will run for five years, starting with 27-month projects in China and Indonesia.
Lake Toba, Indonesia – UN Women and Ant Foundation, today jointly announced the launch of “Together Digital”, a five-year programme to support women-led micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) and empower them to participate and thrive in the digital economy.
“The Together Digital programme will leverage UN Women’s vast expertise in women’s economic empowerment, as well as the Ant Foundation’s wide network and track record in entrepreneurship and digital empowerment, said Sarah Knibbs, Deputy Regional Director of UN Women Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific. “We are pleased to enter this partnership with the Ant Foundation, with whom we share a mutual interest in the digital empowerment of women.”
“Entrepreneurial spirit is about being positive and resilient, solving problems and achieving dreams. Women entrepreneurs are always facing greater challenges and having an entrepreneurial spirit is essential to overcome them,“ said Sabrina Peng, Executive Vice Chairwoman of Ant Foundation. “Together with UN Women, we hope to expand the development opportunities available to women entrepreneurs and support them to reach their full potential on a global scale.”
According to the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, Women entrepreneurs account for up to a third of all businesses operating worldwide.[1] However, UN Women has found that the majority of those in developing and transitioning economies stay confined to small businesses often operating in the informal economy.[2] The World Bank notes that in 2021,women make up 54 percent of those financially excluded from the digital economy, and women entrepreneurs also face more difficulties than men in accessing markets and finance.[3]
Against this backdrop, the Together Digital programme aims to help narrow the gender gap in access to digital technology, and to support the digital empowerment of women. Through training, access to markets and resources such as funding and knowledge exchange opportunities, the programme will support women entrepreneurs in MSMEs to establish, maintain and expand their businesses in the digital era.
The programme has started projects in China and Indonesia that will run for 27 months. It will also establish a regional network of thought leaders in the digital sector,  including three main areas of work: (i) enhance the capacity of women entrepreneurs in China to access markets and financial services; (ii) improve the capacity of women entrepreneurs from MSMEs in Indonesia through training and mentoring and increase access to funding opportunities; and (iii) establish a cross-cutting regional network of champions and thought leaders to facilitate knowledge exchange, skills transfer, and mentorship opportunities for the promotion of digital empowerment of women in Asia and the Pacific region.
At the regional level, a network within the Together Digital programme will convene champions and thought leaders from the technology, innovation, and finance sectors to facilitate knowledge exchange, skills transfer, and mentorship opportunities to support the digital empowerment of women. Network members will be recruited under the three pillars of Leadership, Finance, and Innovation. With UN Women’s support, they will make programmatic, policy-driven, philanthropic, or advocacy-based commitments to support women’s digital empowerment.
In China, the programme will equip women entrepreneurs from MSMEs with capacities to better access gender-sensitive entrepreneurial and digital skills development, markets and financial services. Smriti Aryal, Country Representative of the UN Women China office stated: “UN Women China is pleased to join hands with the Ant Foundation to support women-led MSMEs, a driving force that should not be neglected in the digital economy.  China’s 14th Five-Year Plan provides us with a tremendous opportunity towards bring transformative changes in the lives of women and girls. This is part of our commitment to support the country’s efforts to strengthen women entrepreneurship and foster inclusive high-quality development. Piloting in Chengdu and Changsha, we will also join efforts with strategic partners to establish two women-led MSME promotion centres to enhance peer-to-peer exchange opportunities in the country and abroad.”
In Indonesia, the programme will provide entrepreneurial and digital skills training opportunities to women owners and entrepreneurs of ultra-micro, micro, and small businesses. Piloting the programme initially in greater Jakarta and Lombok, UN Women Indonesia will work in close partnership with the public and private sector, UN sister agencies and civil society to strengthen an ecosystem for some of the most disadvantaged women entrepreneurs, including those with disabilities, to access skills development and seed funding, and better access to markets. The programme aims to strengthen women’s agency and entrepreneurial capacity building as part of the national recovery plan for COVID-19.
“Technology is a great enabler providing growing opportunities for women to be economically active, particularly in this increasingly digital world, said Jamshed Kazi, UN Women Indonesia Representative and Liaison to ASEAN. “However, the persistent digital gender divide has hindered women from benefiting and participating meaningfully in the digital economy."
“Through the partnership with Ant Foundation, we will empower more women by equipping them with the knowledge and skills necessary to adapt with existing challenges, while at the same time providing access to opportunities that open new pathways in the digital economy. This is well aligned with one of the priorities of Indonesia’s G20 Presidency, which UN Women looks forward to continue supporting.”

About UN Women
UN Women is the United Nations entity dedicated to gender equality and the empowerment of women. A global champion for women and girls, UN Women was established to accelerate progress on meeting their needs worldwide.
About Ant Foundation
Established by Ant Group in 2019, the Ant Foundation is a private charitable foundation approved by the Zhejiang Provincial Department of Civil Affairs. The Foundation promotes technological innovation to solve social problems and bring more inclusive developmental opportunities to communities around the world. The Ant Foundation’s five areas of focus are: digital inclusion, green sustainable development, rural revitalization, innovation, and emergency and disaster relief.
Media Inquiries
UN Women
Zhao Wenting
Communications Officer, UN Women China
wenting.zhao@unwomen.org
Radhiska Anggiana
Advocacy and Communications Analyst, UN Women Indonesia
radhiska.anggiana@unwomen.org
Ant Foundation
Wang Lingling
Deputy Secretary General
press_inquiry@antfoundation.org.cn

[1]  Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (2021), “2020/21 Women’s Entrepreneurship Report: Thriving through Crisis”, https://www.gemconsortium.org/report/gem-202021-womens-entrepreneurship…
[2] UN Women (2020), “From insights to action: Gender equality in the wake of COVID-19”, https://www.unwomen.org/en/digital-library/publications/2020/09/gender-equality-in-the-wake-of-covid-19. See also UN Women (2017) “Women in informal economy”, https://www.unwomen.org/en/news/in-focus/csw61/women-in-informal-economy
[3] World Bank, (2022) “The Global Findex Database 2021 – Financial Inclusion, Digital Payments, and Resilience in the Age of AOVID-19”  p.31.,  https://www.worldbank.org/en/publication/globalfindex/Report#sec1
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/191040-un-women-and-ant-foundation-launch-%E2%80%9Ctogether-digital%E2%80%9D-empower-women-entrepreneurs-digital




Date: 23 June 2022
Title: Embassy of UAE in Beijing and UN in China co-host dialogue to emphasize importance of Women’s Empowerment
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
23 June 2022
BEIJING, 23 June 2022 – Today, the Embassy of the United Arab Emirates in Beijing and the United Nations in China co-hosted a high-level dialogue in Beijing, to address the importance of women’s and girls’ economic empowerment through education and skills development.
Participants included UN agencies, key stakeholders in China, members of the diplomatic community, and international organizations, with a shared interest in advancing Goal 5 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls.
Gender equality and women’s empowerment are a necessary foundation for a peaceful, prosperous, and sustainable world, with education key in attempting to reverse the gendered patterns of discrimination. From 2000 to 2021, the gender gap in out-of-school rates has greatly diminished in all three stages of education, although regions have progressed at different rates. Globally more girls are going to and staying in school than ever before; however, as many as 48.1 per cent of girls remain out of school in some regions.
The dialogue saw opening remarks from H.E. Dr. Ali Obaid Al Dhaheri, the UAE Ambassador to China, and Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, with both emphasizing the importance of women and girls having the opportunity to complete all levels of education, and acquire the knowledge and skills to compete in the labour market.
“The UAE believes in the unique and fundamental role women and girls play in achieving development and prosperity in their communities, and the only way a society can aspire to sustainable economic growth and development is through education, especially the education of women and girls,” said H.E. Dr. Ali Obaid Al Dhaheri, the UAE Ambassador to China.
“Today, the UAE has committed to ensuring women’s inclusion in its foreign aid policy. Its prioritized themes are aligned with the UN SDGs and gender equality, the empowerment of women, in particular, are at the core of the UAE’s foreign aid programming and projects.”
“Education and skills development is the foundation of human development and women's empowerment. UNESCO estimates that just one additional year of schooling can increase a girl’s earnings by 20% when she grows up. On the contrary, a World Bank study shows that limited educational opportunities for girls could cost countries between 15 to 30 trillion dollars in lost lifetime productivity and earnings. Unfortunately, too many girls are still held back from acquiring their desired education,” said Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China.
“Greater action and investment are needed in the field of education and skills development for women. The dialogue today forms part of our efforts to reinforce the advocacy and work of the UN and our stakeholders, including Member States like the UAE, to accelerate the global progress on the SDGs, and leave no one behind.”
In responding to these challenges, the dialogue saw guest remarks from Ms. Reem Ketait, Deputy Assistant Minister for Political Affairs at the United Arab Emirates Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, and Ms. Li Ying, Dean of the School of International Education, China Women’s University and All-China Women’s Federation Executive Leadership Academy.
“As a founding member of the Women Entrepreneurs Financing Initiative, the UAE has contributed USD 50 million in support of 300,000 women gaining access to finance, market, and networks throughout different regions in the world,” said Ms. Reem Ketait, Deputy Assistant Minister for Political Affairs at the UAE Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.
“China's investment in education, especially in women and girls' education, is one of the fundamental reasons and prerequisites for China's unprecedented achievements in poverty alleviation and development,” said Ms. Li Ying, Dean of the School of International Education, China Women’s University and All-China Women’s Federation Executive Leadership Academy.
The dialogue also featured a panel discussion on the topic of “Accelerating SDGs progress: education and skills development for women’s economic empowerment”, with insights shared by Ms. Mei Ruo, Director of Beijing Hongyan Social Work Service Center, Ms. Ching Tien, founder of Educating Girls of Rural China, Ms. Lin Liu, Rural Commissioner of Alibaba Group to Qinglong, Ms. Lin Jialei, Program Manager of Women’s Economic Empowerment, UN Women China Office, Dr. Mouza Al Shehhi, Director of the UN Women-UAE Liaison Office for the GCC, and Ms. Anna D’Addio, Senior Policy Analyst from UNESCO.
---
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Annie, Media Researcher, Embassy of the United Arab Emirates in Beijing
Tel: +8610-65327650-660, Email: annieangran@outlook.com
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/187392-embassy-uae-beijing-and-un-china-co-host-dialogue-emphasize-importance-women%E2%80%99s-empowerment




Date: 14 June 2022
Title: China and the UN’s International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) commemorate 40 years of collaboration
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
14 June 2022
Beijing, 14 June 2022 - China and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) held an online event to commemorate 40 years of cooperation today. Yu Weiping, Vice Minister of Finance and Gilbert F. Houngbo, President of IFAD, delivered the keynote speeches at the event. Representatives of nearly 100 international organizations, embassies, government agencies and research institutions in China also participated.

For users in mainland China, please click this link.
Yu Weiping stated that over the past 40 years, China and IFAD have shared the same goals of eliminating rural poverty and promoting agricultural and rural development, working together to innovate and implement best practices. IFAD has collaborated on China's agenda focusing on agriculture, farmers and rural areas. China has also contributed actively to IFAD’s rural development objectives at the global level. China and IFAD have become partners in multiple areas, and set a model of win-win cooperation in agriculture and rural development. President Xi Jinping's global development initiative shares many priorities consistent with IFAD’s mandate on agricultural transformation, rural development, and food security.
Facing the future, China looks forward to the solid partnership in order to promote China's rural revitalization, poverty reduction and rural development and contribute to global agricultural development.
China welcomes IFAD's active participation in the Global Development Initiative to make new contributions to China's improved economic and social development, to the implementation of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and the construction of a community with a shared future for mankind.
Gilbert Houngbo expressed that the cooperation between China and IFAD has achieved remarkable results and effectively supported the poverty elimination and development of China's agriculture and rural areas. China has become one of the largest contributors to IFAD, a highly active member of the IFAD Executive Board, a staunch supporter of IFAD’s institutional reform and a champion of South-South Cooperation. IFAD has benefited greatly from the cooperation between the two sides and will continue to firmly support China's sustainable development. IFAD supports the continued close cooperation adapted to the evolving contexts; strengthening cooperation in strategic engagement and policy dialogue, partnership building;, knowledge sharing and South-South cooperation; andcontribute to the global development agenda.
Ambassador Guang Defu, Permanent Representative to the UN Agencies for Food and Agriculture, Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, and other guests reviewed the history and fruitful results of cooperation between China and IFAD from their perspectives, affirming the positive role played by bilateral cooperation in helping China eliminate rural poverty, and believing that the cooperation between the two sides provides a useful reference for international poverty reduction and rural development. The event also released a commemorative publication "Forty Years of Working Together to Promote Rural Poverty Reduction and Development", jointly compiled by the Ministry of Finance and IFAD.
Founded in 1977 with 177 member countries, IFAD is one of the three United Nations agencies in the field of food and agriculture, and is the world's only International Financial Institution dedicated to agricultural development, rural transformation and food security.  China officially joined IFAD in 1980. Up to now, IFAD has carried out 33 loan projects in China, covering 22 provinces and regions, benefiting 20 million smallholder farmers.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/186085-china-and-un%E2%80%99s-international-fund-agricultural-development-ifad-commemorate-40-years




Date: 06 June 2022
Title: Case for greater global ocean action made at Beijing Blue Talks
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
06 June 2022
Beijing, 6 June 2022 – Ahead of the upcoming 2022 UN Ocean Conference (UNOC) to be held from 27 June to 1 July in Lisbon, Portugal, the United Nations in China, the Embassy of Kenya in Beijing, and the Embassy of Portugal in Beijing co-hosted the Beijing Blue Talks last Friday, 3 June, to highlight the importance of Ocean-related issues.
The UN Ocean Conference, co-hosted by the Governments of Kenya and Portugal, comes at a critical time as the world is seeking to address the deep-rooted problems of our societies laid bare by the COVID-19 pandemic and which will require major structural transformations and common shared solutions that are anchored in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The Beijing Blue Talks were held under the theme “Leveraging Interlinkages Between Sustainable Development Goal 14 (Life Below Water) and other Goals Towards the Implementation of the 2030 Agenda” in recognition of the importance of oceans, seas, and marine resources to sustainable development and to enhance active participation from public institutions and the private sector in the UN Ocean Conference.
“Oceans matter. They underpin poverty eradication and food security, are a source of employment and livelihoods and support the well-being of humans and the planet…I hope that the Beijing Blue Talks can humbly contribute locally to that aim, raising awareness in China to the highly important subjects and goals of the UNOC and, with that, trigger the debate and strengthen the interest in China about Ocean-related issues,” said José Augusto Duarte, Ambassador of Portugal to China, in his welcoming remarks at the Blue Talks.
Attendees and speakers from government, diplomatic missions in China, international and intergovernmental organizations, academia, and think tanks joined the Blue Talks, held in a primarily online format and moderated by Shahbaz Khan, Director and Representative of UNESCO Beijing Cluster Office.
“It is my firm belief that SDG 14 and the sustainable blue economy are crucial for humanity's future on this planet. The ocean's health is vital to us all…and the oceans health is measurably in decline. 2022’s highlight opportunity for SDG 14 progress will be the UN Ocean Conference in Lisbon. There we will launch a great fleet of science-based solutions heavily powered by innovation and partnerships, and I urge you all to bring the best of your ideas, solutions, and resources to the Conference,” said Peter Thomson, UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy for the Ocean, in a video message at the Blue Talks.
Partnerships and solutions for a sustainably managed Ocean involving green technology and innovative uses of marine resources were frequently highlighted by speakers at the Beijing Blue Talks as necessary to address the interconnected global challenges of the health, ecology, economy, and governance of the Ocean, along with the implementation of the entire 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
“We in Kenya have been extremely pleased with the amount of energy and engagement that has been generated by the Blue Talks globally…somehow, we have to make the investments around science to make sure that science itself becomes part of that transformative change we need to save our oceans,” said Macharia Kamau, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kenya, in a video message at the Blue Talks.
Attendees at the Blue Talks were later invited to listen to a panel discussion with speakers from China, Kenya, Portugal, and the UN to discuss further linkages between SDG 14 & other Goals, along with the potential for scaling up of ocean action based on science and innovation in China.
“With the rapid development of human civilization, countries, whether developed or developing, have to deal with an important balance. The ocean is an important space for the development of human society. The basic principle is to balance between marine conservation and human wellbeing, which should be adhered to for green development,” said JIANG Xiaoyi, Director, Marine Information Department, National Marine Data and Information Service.
Following the panel discussion, the Ambassadors of Bangladesh, Iran, and Sri Lanka to China expressed their countries’ commitment to the Ocean agenda while highlighting the challenges they face, before the UN Resident Coordinator delivered a vote of thanks to participants at the Blue Talks.
“China’s efforts are critical if we are to realize SDG 14. With its many thousand kilometres of coastline and numerous islands, China has a vibrant Ocean economy and thus has a crucial role to play in the reduction of Ocean pollution and Ocean ecosystem protection. Moreover, as one of the world’s most advanced technology powerhouses, China has much to offer for data sharing and research in the advancement of SDG 14,” said Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China.

For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org

Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/185024-case-greater-global-ocean-action-made-beijing-blue-talks




Date: 02 June 2022
Title: UN Global Compact launches new strategy to increase engagement in China
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
02 June 2022
UNITED NATIONS, New York, 2 June 2022 — The UN Global Compact today launched its China strategy aiming to accelerate and scale the collective impact of business in China to drive progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). China is home to the largest number of Fortune 500 companies and more than 44 million small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs).
Greater engagement with Chinese companies and stakeholders supports the UN Global Compact Global Strategy 2021–2023 which aims to accelerate and scale the global collective impact of business by upholding the Ten Principles and delivering the SDGs through accountable companies and ecosystems that enable change. It also represents the next step in the UN Global Compact’s ambition to enhance its reach and collaboration with the global South.
Recognizing Chinese companies as important contributors to advance the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and working with national partners through its Liaison Office in China, the UN Global Compact aims to increase its impact by:
●  Engaging key stakeholders in China to maximize their collective impact to achieve the SDGs both in China and globally through thought leadership, policy dialogues, capacity building activities, action-oriented projects, and innovative partnerships.
●  Mobilizing Chinese companies’ collective action and impact in supporting China’s development priorities as reflected in China’s 14th Five-Year Plan (FYP 2021–2025) and the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2021–2025 for China.
Specifically, the China strategy identifies seven key areas, covering all Ten Principles of the Global Compact through which the UN Global Compact will maximize its impact: combat climate change; reduce inequalities; advance decent work; take collective action against corruption; engage the private sector through the Belt and Road Initiative to advance 2030 Agenda; strengthen South-South cooperation through China-Africa business collaboration on the SDGs and foster business innovation and SDG partnerships through the Global Development Initiative.
Launching the China strategy at the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit, Sanda Ojiambo, Assistant Secretary-General and CEO of the UN Global Compact said: “The Sustainable Development Goals cannot be achieved without China and the engagement of Chinese companies. As the fastest-growing market for the UN Global Compact in the Asia Pacific region, we have seen a rapidly growing number of companies from China stepping up to address regional and global challenges. We know that China’s development path is closely linked with other countries. With this strategy we have committed to maximizing our impact in China through long-term investment and constructive collaboration with the private sector and key stakeholders. At the UN Global Compact, we stand ready to collaborate and support the Global Development Initiative, helping the private sector to fully align with recognized international norms and standards embedded in the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact.”
His Excellency Ambassador Zhang Jun, Permanent Representative of the People's Republic of China to the United Nations said: "China stands ready to strengthen exchanges and cooperation with the UN Global Compact. We look forward to enhanced ambition and actions by its members for the 2030 Agenda. Let’s jointly take actions to make greater contributions to global recovery and sustainable development."
Board member of the UN Global Compact and Vice Chairman of State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council of China, Ren Hongbin, said: “I am happy to witness today’s launch of the UN Global Compact China strategy. It is a clear roadmap, led by Ms Sanda Ojiambo, to support China’s development priorities and mobilize enterprises and stakeholders from China to positively contribute to the world.”
Siddharth Chatterjee, United Nations Resident Coordinator in China noted: “China is a critical market for growth, innovation, and the impact of the UN Global Compact in this Decade of Action. Given China’s spectacular efforts to lift over 750 million people out of absolute poverty over the last four decades, we must consider its unique context when developing new strategies and partnerships towards the achievement of the SDGs in China and redouble our efforts for more South-South cooperation as well as North-South knowledge sharing and partnerships. Success for the Sustainable Development Goals globally is success for all of humanity.”
Notes to Editors
About the United Nations Global Compact
As a special initiative of the UN Secretary-General, the United Nations Global Compact is a call to companies everywhere to align their operations and strategies with Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our ambition is to accelerate and scale the global collective impact of business by upholding the Ten Principles and delivering the Sustainable Development Goals through accountable companies and ecosystems that enable change. With more than 15,000 companies and 3,000 non-business signatories based in over 160 countries, and 69 Local Networks, the UN Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative — one Global Compact uniting business for a better world.
For more information, follow @globalcompact on social media and visit our website at unglobalcompact.org.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/184531-un-global-compact-launches-new-strategy-increase-engagement-china




Date: 24 May 2022
Title: Ministry of Commerce and United Nations in China co-host the Inaugural Meeting of the Joint Steering Committee of UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
24 May 2022
24 May, BEIJING - The inaugural meeting of the Joint Steering Committee (“JSC”) of the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for China (2021-2025) (“UNSDCF”) was held yesterday under the joint chairmanship of the Vice Minister of Commerce and the UN Resident Coordinator. The meeting saw the strong participation of representatives of the Government of China and the UN Country Team in China.
In their opening remarks, Vice Minister of Commerce and Deputy China International Trade Representative Wang Shouwen and UN Resident Coordinator Siddharth Chatterjee reiterated the importance of the JSC as the highest governing structure for the implementation of UNSDCF in China. They highlighted the opportunity provided by the Committee to strengthen the UN-China collaboration and guide the programmatic work of the Organization in the country.
“Under the guidance of the UNSDCF, China and UN development agencies will further deepen cooperation, support China’s economic development, and help the world better achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. MOFCOM is willing to continue coordinating with relevant Chinese government departments and work with the UN development system for the effective implementation of the UNSDCF.” said Wang Shouwen, Vice Minister of Commerce and Deputy China International Trade Representative.
Vice Minister Wang put forward three proposals to enhance China-UN collaboration, including: i) to deliver on commitments and enhance demonstration effect under the three priorities of the Cooperation Framework, including People and Prosperity, Planet, and Partnerships; ii) to innovate more and harvest more, tapping into UN’s expertise, experts and global networks, and scaling up collaboration with China in digital economy, climate change, renewable energy, etc.; and iii) to strengthen experience sharing and promote common development between China and other developing countries.
“The UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed has said that ‘we have to flip the orthodoxy’ for the repositioning of the UN. This is the core spirit of the UN development system reforms. It is the core mandate of the JSC to identify areas and new opportunities to ensure our work remains relevant and adds value to what China and others are doing already in the development area.” said Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China.
The inaugural meeting also featured panel discussions during which the chairs of the Results Groups and the Thematic Groups under the UNSDCF reported on the progress on the implementation of the Cooperation Framework. Speakers highlighted the results achieved over the course of the past year under the three priorities of the framework. Representatives of the Government of China, including from the Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, National Health Commission, All-China’s Women’s Federation and Ministry of Ecology and Environment provided their guidance for the work of the UN in China going forward.
In closing the event, Director-General Yu Benlin of the Department of International Trade and Economic Affairs at the Ministry of Commerce and the UN Resident Coordinator Chatterjee agreed that the UN and the Government of China will continue to work in lockstep to implement the Cooperation Framework. They also underscored the opportunity to leverage China’s resources and experiences to the benefit of other developing countries, in response to their needs, with a view to support them in meeting the Sustainable Development Goals and realize a more sustainable and just future.
The next JSC meeting will take place in the spring of 2023.

For further information, please contact:
Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/183048-ministry-commerce-and-united-nations-china-co-host-inaugural-meeting-joint-steering




Date: 28 April 2022
Title: UNDP And UNEP Co-Host Policy Dialogue On Environmental Protection In China And Around The World Ahead Of Stockholm+50 International Meeting
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
28 April 2022
28 April, Beijing– A two-day high-level policy dialogue convening key stakeholders, both online and offline, to discuss critical issues on environmental protection in China and around the world kicked off today at the UN Compound in Beijing with participation from three different generations of China’s top environmental leadership.
Jointly organized by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), this high-level policy dialogue is the second part of the wider three-day (27th-29th) Stakeholder Consultation, which began with yesterday’s business roundtable event examining how companies in China can adopt sustainable business practices, leverage green finance opportunities, and lower carbon emissions.
This Stakeholder Consultation is one of many national consultations being held around the world in the lead up to the international meeting "Stockholm+50: a healthy planet for the prosperity of all - our responsibility, our opportunity" taking place in Stockholm (Sweden) on 2-3 June. The meeting will mark the 50th anniversary of the 1972 United Nations conference on the Human Environment and the adoption of the Stockholm Declaration, the first document to put the interconnections between development, poverty, and the environment at the forefront of the international agenda.
“The Stockholm+50 consultations around the world, including this event, bring together thought leaders, policy makers and practitioners to influence, to build a shared vision and to take that vision forward together, with the money, policies and institutions it requires,” said Kanni Wignaraja, UN Assistant Secretary General and UNDP Regional Director for Asia and Pacific in her opening remarks during the policy dialogue.
Dechen Tsering, Regional Director, UN Environment Programme Regional Office for Asia-Pacific stated, “this national consultation will also inform and feed into the outcome of the international meeting in Sweden. We hope to contribute by yielding clear and concrete recommendations for action at all levels, including through strengthened cooperation.”
The high-level policy dialogue is convening some of China’s key policy makers and leaders to share knowledge and lessons learned from China’s historical achievements in environmental protection.
“Humanity only has one earth. It is the common responsibility for all countries to protect the ecology and environment. Building on our previous achievements, let’s join hands to forge ahead for a clean and beautiful world, and pass the azure sky, blue ocean, clear water and green mountains to the coming generations,” stated Huang Runqiu, China’s Minister of Ecology and Environment.
Keynote speakers offered insights on the future outlook for environmental protection in China and globally, and the need for multilateral action to halt the degradation of nature moving forward, and keep the Paris Agreement’s goal of limiting temperature increases to 1.5 degrees Celsius alive.
“In the course of human environmental protection, China is transforming from a passive recipient and active participant to a major player. The world and China are interdependent and interconnected,” said Professor Qu Geping, Former Chairman of the Committee on Environment and Natural Resources of the National People’s Congress and Former Administrator of the National Environmental Protection Agency in his keynote address. “The Earth's environment and its diverse ecosystems are the cornerstone of a community of shared future for mankind. "Only one Earth" must be firmly remembered by all people around the world.”
“We commemorate the 50th anniversary of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment to revisit the spirit and intention of the Conference, and adhere to and implement the consensus reached by the international community through tangible actions and cooperation.” said Special Envoy for Climate Change and Former Director of the State Environmental Protection Administration, Xie Zhenhua.
Day one of the policy dialogue included a panel discussion exploring the nexus between climate, biodiversity, and prosperity in the Chinese context, with a focus on ensuring a just and inclusive transition towards a low carbon economy. It concluded with a commemoration of both China and Sweden’s efforts in environmental protection highlighted by the presentation of the book “Ocean Currents are Still Protecting Us” co-authored by Professor QU Geping, Dr LI Lailai, and Mr. Måns Lönnroth, exploring the significance the 1972 Stockholm conference.
“A 50-year anniversary represents a historic milestone for the UN and China’s partnership in environmental cooperation, and this is only the beginning,” said Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China. “If we raise up our head and look towards the horizon, the need for this environmental multilateralism will only grow and strengthen, just like the title of the book presented today: “Ocean Currents are Still Protecting Us”.
“The 1972 Conference and the subsequent outcomes were by no means a foregone conclusion, but in the end helped to place environmental concerns at the forefront on the international agenda,” said Helena Sångeland, the Ambassador of Sweden in China. “Fifty years on we are faced with new global challenges, with an even greater urgency.”
The policy dialogue’s second day will center on specific actions for SDG attainment, focusing on nature-positive solutions, the circular economy, as well as looking at the impact of greenhouse gas emissions beyond CO2.
Discussions and takeaways from the two-day event are expected to inform impactful decision-making that will accelerate achievement of the SDGs as well as climate and environmental agendas in China and around the world.

About Stockholm+50:
Stockholm+50: a healthy planet for the prosperity of all – our responsibility, our opportunity” (Stockholm+50) is an international meeting, hosted by the Government of Sweden, convened by the United Nations General Assembly to be held in Stockholm, Sweden, from 2-3 June 2022. It will commemorate 50 years since the 1972 UN Conference on the Human Environment, which made the environment a pressing global issue for the first time. Some 113 countries attended, and participants adopted a series of principles on the environment, including the Stockholm Declaration and Action Plan for the Human Environment. The UN Environment Programme (UNEP) was created as a result of the conference.
For more information, please contact:
Ms. Zhao Yue, Innovation and Communications Officer, UNDP China, yue.zhao@undp.org
Ms. Liu Sijia, Project Officer, UNEP China, sijia.liu@un.org
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) partners with people at all levels of society to help build nations that can withstand crisis, and drive and sustain the kind of growth that improves the quality of life for everyone. On the ground in nearly 170 countries and territories, we offer global perspective and local insight to help empower lives and build resilient nations. www.undp.org.
United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) is the leading global voice on the environment. It provides leadership and encourages partnership in caring for the environment by inspiring, informing and enabling nations and peoples to improve their quality of life without compromising that of future generations. www.unep.org.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/180960-undp-and-unep-co-host-policy-dialogue-environmental-protection-china-and-around-world-ahead




Date: 27 April 2022
Title: UNDP Co-Hosts Business Roundtable On Advancing Sustainability Among Chinese Enterprises Ahead of Stockholm+50 International Meeting
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
27 April 2022
27TH APRIL, Beijing – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) jointly kicked off a three-day Stockholm+50 Stakeholder Consultation - today with a Business Roundtable and Youth Consultation Workshop. The Stakeholder Consultation is one of many nationwide consultations being held around the world in the lead up to the 50th anniversary of the UN Stockholm Declaration taking place in Stockholm, Sweden, from 2-3 June.
The Business Roundtable, held in partnership with the China International Chamber of Commerce (CCOIC) with support from the Swedish Embassy, Business Sweden and PwC, exchanged insights on how China’s business sector can adopt sustainable business practices, leverage green finance opportunities and lower carbon emissions.
Improving sustainability among the business sector is essential for achieving net-zero carbon emissions and building a greener future for all. The roundtable therefore convened business leaders in various sectors, policymakers and academics to share their experiences, and discuss the opportunities and challenges to ensure a low carbon and just transition.
The roundtable is part of a series of regional consultations taking place globally ahead of June’s Stockholm+50 international meeting in Stockholm. The meeting will commemorate the 1972 United Nations conference on the Human Environment – the first time in history the environment, poverty and sustainable development were recognized as interconnected.
Stockholm +50 aims to serve as a springboard to accelerate the implementation of the UN Decade of Action to deliver the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including the 2030 Agenda, Paris Agreement on climate change, the post-2020 global Biodiversity Framework, and encourage the adoption of green post-COVID-19 recovery plans.
“Business-as-usual cannot continue,” said Beate Trankmann, UNDP Resident Representative, in China. “To keep the 1.5 degrees Paris target for global temperature rises alive – widely seen as the only safe limit – we must urgently decarbonize our economies, transform our societies and fundamentally reshape our relationship with nature”.
As one of the world’s largest economies, businesses in China adopting greener practices would have a significant impact on achieving global climate agendas. The roundtable therefore served as an important opportunity for businesses to further understand sustainable best practices, composing effective net-zero strategies and ensuring they take the right steps to meet both national and international goals.
“Achieving the carbon peak and carbon neutrality goals is a tough battle that needs to be addressed by all stakeholders,” said Mr. Sun Xiao, Secretary-General of CCOIC. “First, we should adhere to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and practice true multilateralism. Second, we should strengthen research in and promote carbon-neutral technology innovation and third, we should strengthen multi-party cooperation and the decarbonization of industrial supply chains.”
Mr. Joakim Abeleen, Trade and Invest Commissioner & Market Area Director Greater China, Business Sweden remarked, “many Swedish companies have global CO2-neutrality goals, many of which are ahead of the national 2045 target. Here in China, Team Sweden has launched our ‘Pioneer the possible’ platform, which focuses on supporting Swedish enterprises in China to become role models of sustainable development”.
The third annual report on the SDG practices of enterprises in China was also announced today and businesses were invited to participate in this year’s study. The report, produced by UNDP in collaboration with PwC and CCOIC, seeks to help the corporate world better understand and integrate the SDGs into business plans and activities, while at the same time inform policy and decision making. This year’s report is set to be released towards the end of 2022.
Finally, during the Youth Consultation Workshop, 30 selected young climate activists from government, research institutions, private sector and NGOs shared their opinions and recommendations for combating climate change and protecting the planet. The consultation provided a platform for youth engagement and civic participation in climate issues, amplifying their voices for more inclusive decision making.
****
MEDIA CONTACTS:
Ms. Zhao Yue, Innovation and Communications Officer, UNDP China, yue.zhao@undp.org
Ms. Liu Sijia, Project Officer, UNEP China, sijia.liu@un.org
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) partners with people at all levels of society to help build nations that can withstand crisis, and drive and sustain the kind of growth that improves the quality of life for everyone. On the ground in nearly 170 countries and territories, we offer global perspective and local insight to help empower lives and build resilient nations. www.undp.org.
United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) is the leading global voice on the environment. It provides leadership and encourages partnership in caring for the environment by inspiring, informing and enabling nations and peoples to improve their quality of life without compromising that of future generations.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/180959-undp-co-hosts-business-roundtable-advancing-sustainability-among-chinese-enterprises-ahead




Date: 21 April 2022
Title: ILO welcomes China’s move towards the ratification of two forced labour Conventions
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
21 April 2022
Once these ratifications take place, the total number of ILO Conventions ratified by China will rise to 28, including six of the eight Fundamental Conventions
The International Labour Organization (ILO) has welcomed the decision by the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China to approve the ratification of the Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29) and the Abolition of Forced Labour Convention, 1957 (No. 105).
Ratification of these two instruments, which are classified as Fundamental Conventions, will bring the total number of ILO Conventions ratified by China to 28, including six of the eight Fundamental Conventions.
By approving these ratifications, China reinforces its commitment to eliminate all forms of forced labour within its jurisdiction, realize work in freedom for its 1.4 billion people, and respect the ILO’s fundamental principles and rights at work.
Convention No. 29 prohibits the use of forced labour in all its forms and requires State parties to make forced labour practices punishable as penal offences. This instrument is supplemented by Convention No. 105, which specifically calls for the immediate abolition of forced or compulsory labour in five specific circumstances listed in its article 1..  These Conventions will enter into force in China one year after their instruments of ratification are deposited with the ILO.
ILO Director-General Guy Ryder, said “I  welcome the ratification by China of these two ILO Fundamental Conventions on forced labour. The move demonstrates China’s strong support for ILO values and reflects its commitment to protect any female or male workers from being trapped into forced labour practices, which have no place nor justification in today’s world. This is a milestone on the road towards universal ratification of the forced labour Conventions and the realization of Sustainable Development Goal 8, Target 7.”
“I expect theses ratifications to create renewed momentum and further efforts by the government and the social partners in China to support human-centred development and decent work in the second largest economy in the world, in line with the ILO Centenary Declaration on the Future of Work.”
The ILO stands ready to further its collaboration with China’s government and social partners for the full implementation of these two Conventions and the full realization of principles under the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
According to the latest global estimates,  about 25 million people globally are forced to work under threat or coercion. Many other workers, who were hard hit by the economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, have become more vulnerable to being trapped into forced labour.
There are eight ILO Fundamental Conventions covering four core principles: forced labour, child labour, discrimination, and freedom of association and collective bargaining.  All ILO Member States are expected to respect and promote these principles and rights, regardless of whether or not they have ratified the relevant Conventions.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/178907-ilo-welcomes-china%E2%80%99s-move-towards-ratification-two-forced-labour-conventions




Date: 15 April 2022
Title: South-South Cooperation Knowledge Sharing Platform Goes Live
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
15 April 2022
BEIJING, 15 APRIL 2022 - The World Food Programme (WFP)-China South-South Cooperation (SSC) Knowledge Sharing Platform (www.wfpchinacoe.net) launch ceremony was held at the UN Compound. More than 100 representatives from the Government of China, foreign missions in China, international organizations and academia, attended the event either online or in person.
The platform was supported by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs of the People's Republic of China (MARA), and jointly developed by WFP Centre of Excellence for Rural Transformation (WFP China COE) and China Internet Information Center (CIIC).
Visitors can access information on the platform about China's experiences and solutions in the following four thematic areas: Value Chain Development for Smallholders, Post-harvest Loss Management and Food Systems, Disaster Risk Reduction and Climate Change Resilience, and Innovative Poverty Alleviation Initiative. These can help empower them to enhance food security in their local areas.
The platform also offers Cloud School, an inclusive digital education space, which features programmes that are tailored to the needs of participants of all levels. It is a response to the rising demand for China's vetted knowledge about food security, nutrition improvement, poverty alleviation and rural transformation. Courses offered in Cloud School reflect WFP China COE's work on the four thematic areas, as well as the value chain development in rice, Juncao and cassava. Certificates of completion are awarded to those who successfully finish them.
Xie Jianmin, Counsel (Director-General Level) of Department of International Cooperation, MARA, noted that the WFP-China SSC Knowledge Sharing Platform, as a knowledge hub, will make contributions to food security and nutrition improvement by enabling visitors to learn about experiences and practices related to China’s agricultural and rural development.
Du Zhanyuan, President of China International Communications Group (CICG), said CICG will take new formats such as digital media and publishing as an important developing direction to provide digital support for South-South cooperation projects, promote capacity-building and knowledge sharing for development in developing countries, and promote more inclusive and sustainable digital economic cooperation with partners together.
Cao Yingjun, Acting Director General of China’s National Food and Strategic Reserves Administration’s Department of International Cooperation, emphasised that the Administration is willing to share and exchange China’s experience with other countries in ensuring food security and advancing the transformation of the food system, and make joint contributions to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Rahamtalla Osman, Representative of the African Union to China, observed that the website’s educational programmes will enhance South-South and triangular cooperation between China and Africa.
Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, remarked that China has an important opportunity and responsibility to lead and guide other developing countries, leveraging its experience, expertise, and resources to serve and benefit the Global South.
Qu Sixi, Representative of WFP China, concluded in his video remarks that the Knowledge Sharing Platform provides a digitalised space for WFP China COE to boost operational engagement related to South-South and triangular cooperation. It’s a viable pathway to address common challenges and to accelerate progress towards zero hunger.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/177943-south-south-cooperation-knowledge-sharing-platform-goes-live




Date: 15 April 2022
Title: Seminar on Digital South-South Cooperation Boosts Innovation and Transformation
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
15 April 2022
BEIJING, APRIL 15, 2022 – WFP Centre of Excellence for Rural Transformation (WFP China COE) and China Internet Information Center (CIIC) co-organized a Seminar on Digital South-South Cooperation at the UN Compound, exploring feasible ways of promoting digital innovation and transformation related to South-South cooperation. The seminar was supported by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs of China (MARA).
More than 100 representatives from the Government of China, foreign missions in China, international organizations and academia, attended the event either online or in person.
Du Zhanyuan, President of China International Communications Group (CICG), stated in his opening remarks at the seminar that we should grasp the important opportunities brought by digitisation, and make digital transformation an indispensible force to accelerate economic and social development. This is an unavoidable topic of our times and an important part of strengthening South-South Cooperation in the digital era. Du said, utilizing formats such as digital media and publishing will serve as an important development direction that helps CICG provide digital support for South-South cooperation projects, assist with development capacity building and knowledge sharing in developing countries, and promote more inclusive and sustainable digital economic cooperation with partners.
A memorandum of understanding on strengthening South-South cooperation was signed between WFP and CICG by Qu Sixi, Representative and Country Director of WFP China, and Gao Anming, Vice President and Editor-in-Chief of CICG. Wang Xiaohui, Editor-in-chief of CIIC, presided over the signing ceremony.
The two parties pledged to develop South-South Cooperation knowledge products, provide training, and share China's technical solutions, best practices, experiences, and development approaches with other developing countries. Focusing on UN SDG 2 - Zero Hunger, WFP and CICG will promote the development of South-South Cooperation-oriented knowledge products by conducting research, organizing online and real-world knowledge sharing and exchange activities, building South-South Cooperation websites and publishing in other media, engaging in advocacy, and taking other actions together.
The WFP-China South-South Cooperation Knowledge Sharing Platform was also launched at the seminar. The platform was supported by MARA, and jointly developed by WFP China COE and CIIC. Visitors can access information on the platform about China's experiences and solutions in the following four thematic areas: Value Chain Development for Smallholders, Post-harvest Loss Management and Food Systems, Disaster Risk Reduction and Climate Change Resilience, and Innovative Poverty Alleviation Initiative. These can help empower them to enhance food security in their local areas.
The platform also offers Cloud School, an inclusive digital education space, which features programmes that are tailored to the needs of participants of all levels. It is a response to the rising demand for China's vetted knowledge about food security, nutrition improvement, poverty reduction and rural transformation. Courses offered in Cloud School reflect WFP China COE's work on the four thematic areas, as well as the value chain development in rice, Juncao and cassava. Certificates of completion are awarded to those who successfully finish them.
Xie Jianmin, Counsel (Director-General Level) of Department of International Cooperation, MARA, said in his speech that the knowledge sharing platform and Cloud School will use digital technology to disseminate and share knowledge, technology and experience in a more effective way in the development of small farmers, the value chain of agricultural products, post-harvest loss management, disaster risk reduction to help more developing countries improve their food production capacity and disaster resilience.
Rahamtalla Osman, Representative of the African Union to China, emphasised that people are living in a digitalised world that is experiencing remarkable technological transformations and that it is important that these digital tools are used for activities that save lives and protect people from the threats of hunger and malnutrition.
Jin Nuo, Former Secretary of the Communist Party of China Committee, Renmin University of China said that as the largest developing country in the world, China has solved the food problem of 20 percent of the global population with 8 percent of the world's cultivated land. China should promote its agricultural development experience and technology to help other developing countries to ensure food security in these countries and the rest of the world.
Siddharth Chatterjee, United Nations Resident Coordinator in China, noted in his speech that South-South Cooperation and humanitarian cooperation will serve as the foundation for all of the UN System's work in and with China over the next five years and will support China's high-quality development and provide the basis for cooperation with the nation in assisting other developing countries around the world in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
David Kaatrud, Director of Programme, Humanitarian and Development, WFP, observed in his video speech that the Platform responds to the increasing need of host governments to engage with SSC providers from China, enhances access to forward-looking insights from a network of experts, and promotes SSC experience sharing around the globe.
Wang Xiaolin, Deputy Dean of Institute for Six-Sector Economy, Fudan University, pointed out that at present, the way of generation and sharing of knowledge has undergone profound changes with the widespread use of new digital technology, especially mobile terminals. The high penetration of the digital technology makes it possible to share knowledge at the grass-roots level. Wang mentioned that the construction of the website is a key step in the digital transformation of WFP South-South cooperation as well as an important milestone for digital South-South cooperation globally. We look forward to contributing to zero hunger.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/177942-seminar-digital-south-south-cooperation-boosts-innovation-and-transformation




Date: 22 March 2022
Title: UN in China and UK in China emphasize gender equality for a healthier future
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
22 March 2022
Beijing, 22 March 2022 – Yesterday, the United Nations in China and the British Embassy in Beijing jointly held a dialogue titled “Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment in Health”, as part of a series of events in March to recognize women’s achievements and potential towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The COVID-19 pandemic is forecast to impact the development landscape for years to come, and there is a high risk that the gender inequalities and gender-based discrimination we have seen play out will increase further. However, women have also been crucial in leading the fight on the frontlines against COVID-19, accounting for 70% of the global health workforce.
“We celebrate their contributions to ending the COVID-19 pandemic. Their ideas, innovations and activism that are changing our world for the better. And their leadership across all walks of life. But we also recognize that in too many areas, the clock on women’s rights is moving backwards,” said Mr. António Guterres, UN Secretary-General, in his International Women’s Day message.
Participants, including representatives from the UN Country Team in China comprised of UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women, and WHO, in addition to government officials and relevant stakeholders from academia, international organizations, the diplomatic community, and the private sector, joined the dialogue in person at the UN Compound in Beijing and remotely via video link.
“It is evident that COVID-19 has reinforced traditional social and cultural gender norms. Women have always borne a greater domestic burden as compared to men, and this has been exacerbated by the pandemic, forcing many to leave the workforce in order to support unpaid domestic care at home. Among the millions of populations pushed back into poverty, women and girls are the hardest-hit in the economic fallout of the pandemic,” said Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China.
“Indeed, female healthcare workers have played crucial roles in pandemic response and management, not only exposing themselves at the frontlines to higher risks of infection at the cost of their physical wellbeing, but also coping with the risks to mental health and stress. More significant action and investments are urgently needed to ensure that women and girls truly count and to realize Good Health and Well-Being (SDG 3) and Gender Equality (SDG 5) as we strive together to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.” said Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee.
Following welcoming remarks, panel discussions on “The impact of COVID-19 and crises on Women in Health” and “South-South Cooperation: Gender Equality and Health” respectively saw participants highlight the need for inclusion in achieving Good Health and Well-Being (SDG 3) and Gender Equality (SDG 5).
“Health is a critical issue for humankind. Global health challenges have tremendous implications for social equality and place significant obstacles against achieving gender equality. The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the weaknesses in health systems globally, widening existing inequalities and impacting developing countries. This has, in particular, disproportionately impacted women,” said Ms. Danae Dholakia, Minister Counsellor, Global Challenges, British Embassy Beijing.
“Female representation and diversity in leadership are crucial in this day and age. COVID-19 has impacted us all and has reversed much of the work done in promoting women’s rights globally, due to greater burdens placed on the female workforce and at home. This is why forums such as this one are so brilliant in promoting awareness and continuing such important conversations.” said Ms. Danae Dholakia.
“Ensuring significant or higher numbers of women representation in decision-making positions is what will see the world overcoming a wide range of health challenges facing communities.” said H.E Mr. James Kimonyo, Ambassador of Rwanda to China.
The UN in China and British Embassy Beijing thank participants for their presence at yesterday’s event and look forward to furthering engagement on gender equality, including at the UK-hosted event on Women in Climate on March 29.

For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Ms. Maya Yu, Communication Officer, British Embassy Beijing
Email: Maya.Yu@fcdo.gov.uk
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/175380-un-china-and-uk-china-emphasize-gender-equality-healthier-future




Date: 25 February 2022
Title: UN in China and CIKD offer new insight on China’s economic policy-making process
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
25 February 2022
Beijing, 25 February 2022 – On Friday, 25 February 2022, the United Nations in China and the Center for International Knowledge on Development (CIKD) jointly organized a salon to discuss the formation process of China’s economic policies and the outcomes of the 2021 China Annual Central Economic Work Conference.
Participants at the salon were provided with an insight into how China’s economic policies are formulated, the discussions and outputs seen from the 2021 Central Economic Work Conference, and their implications to the UN’s work in China, in relation to the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for China.
“In the past year, both China and the world have struggled with the pandemic, which continues to deteriorate the global economy and threaten the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). But through its successful management of the pandemic, China led the world in economic recovery during 2021,” said Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China.
“After four decades of rapid growth, China is now transitioning to high-quality development, aiming to address social and environmental challenges while pursuing growth. Through the conference, China has set the tone for its development in 2022, with many priorities highly relevant to the UN’s work in China. I think it’s important and helpful for the UN Country Team in China to have a robust perspective on the Conference.” said Mr. Chatterjee.
After remarks from the Resident Coordinator, participants both in-person at the UN Compound in Beijing and remotely joined the two sharing sessions, on “The Logic and Process of China’s Economic Policy Making” and the “Interpretation of the 2021 Annual Central Economic Working Conference”.
“Since reform and opening-up, China's economic decision-making has been continuously improved and innovated in practice, and the scientific, democratic, and institutionalized nature has been continuously enhanced. Especially since the 18th National Congress, the government has been actively playing the function of economic regulation, market supervision, social management, public services providing, environmental protection, etc., and attaching great importance to the effective combination of short-term policies and medium- and long-term development strategies.” said Dr. Wang Yiming, Vice Chairman of the China Center for International Economic Exchange.
“China's economy is resilient, although the short-term demand is facing triple pressures of contraction, supply shock, expectations weakening, and the long-term developments have not changed fundamentally. In 2022, China's economy will continue to make steady progress in recovery.” said Dr. Zhao Changwen, President of CIKD.
The Central Economic Work Conference is an annual high-level meeting that sets the national agenda for the economy of China.
Following these discussions, a Q&A session was moderated by Ms. Jiang Xiheng, Vice President of CIKD, joined by colleagues from the UN Country Teams in China, Mongolia, and Pakistan. The participants conducted in-depth exchanges on topics around post-epidemic economic recovery and sustainable development, economic and social green transformation under the goal of carbon peaking and carbon neutrality, high-quality development and common prosperity, rural revitalization, and industrial development.
The UN in China and CIKD look forward to furthering cooperation between the two sides, including collaboration on China’s Global Development Initiative to support the achievement of the SDGs.
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Dr. JIANG Yu, Deputy Director of Division of Information Management, CIKD
Tel: +8613810001906, Email: jiang.yu@cikd.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/173280-un-china-and-cikd-offer-new-insight-china%E2%80%99s-economic-policy-making-process




Date: 23 February 2022
Title: More than half of parents and pregnant women exposed to aggressive formula milk marketing – WHO, UNICEF
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
23 February 2022
New report details exploitative practices employed by $55 billion formula industry, compromising child nutrition, violating international commitments
GENEVA/NEW YORK, 22 February 2022 – More than half of parents and pregnant women (51 per cent) surveyed for a new WHO/UNICEF report say they have been targeted with marketing from formula milk companies, much of which is in breach of international standards on infant feeding practices.

The report, How marketing of formula milk influences our decisions on infant feeding, draws on interviews with parents, pregnant women and health workers in eight countries. It uncovers systematic and unethical marketing strategies used by the formula milk industry – now worth a staggering US$55 billion – to influence parents’ infant feeding decisions.

The report finds that industry marketing techniques include unregulated and invasive online targeting; sponsored advice networks and helplines; promotions and free gifts; and practices to influence training and recommendations among health workers. The messages that parents and health workers receive are often misleading, scientifically unsubstantiated, and violate the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes (the Code) – a landmark public health agreement passed by the World Health Assembly in 1981 to protect mothers from aggressive marketing practices by the baby food industry.

“This report shows very clearly that formula milk marketing remains unacceptably pervasive, misleading and aggressive,” said Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General. “Regulations on exploitative marketing must be urgently adopted and enforced to protect children’s health.”

According to the report – which surveyed 8,500 parents and pregnant women, and 300 health workers in cities across Bangladesh, China, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, South Africa, the United Kingdom and Viet Nam – exposure to formula milk marketing reaches 84 per cent of all women surveyed in the United Kingdom; 92 per cent of women surveyed in Viet Nam and 97 per cent of women surveyed in China, increasing their likelihood of choosing formula feeding.

“False and misleading messages about formula feeding are a substantial barrier to breastfeeding, which we know is best for babies and mothers,” said UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell. “We need robust policies, legislation and investments in breastfeeding to ensure that women are protected from unethical marketing practices -- and have access to the information and support they need to raise their families.”

Across all countries included in the survey, women expressed a strong desire to breastfeed exclusively, ranging from 49 per cent of women in Morocco to 98 per cent in Bangladesh. Yet the report details how a sustained flow of misleading marketing messages is reinforcing myths about breastfeeding and breast-milk, and undermining women’s confidence in their ability to breastfeed successfully. These myths include the necessity of formula in the first days after birth, the inadequacy of breast-milk for infant nutrition, that specific infant formula ingredients are proven to improve child development or immunity, the perception that formula keeps infants fuller for longer, and that the quality of breast-milk declines with time.

Breastfeeding within the first hour of birth, followed by exclusive breastfeeding for six months and continued breastfeeding for up to two years or beyond, offers a powerful line of defense against all forms of child malnutrition, including wasting and obesity. Breastfeeding also acts as babies’ first vaccine, protecting them against many common childhood illnesses. It also reduces women’s future risk of diabetes, obesity and some forms of cancer. Yet globally, only 44 per cent of babies less than 6 months old are exclusively breastfed. Global breastfeeding rates have increased very little in the past two decades, while sales of formula milk have more than doubled in roughly the same time.

Many socio-cultural, physiological, psychological and economic factors drive low rates of breastfeeding, but the marketing of formula milk has been shown to negatively affect breastfeeding practices, and the active promotion of formula milk continues to be a substantial global barrier to breastfeeding.

To address these challenges, WHO, UNICEF and partners are calling on governments, health workers, and the baby food industry to end exploitative formula milk marketing and fully implement and abide by the Code requirements. This includes:

·         Passing, monitoring and enforcing laws to prevent the promotion of formula milk, in line with the International Code, including prohibiting nutrition and health claims made by the formula milk industry.

·         Investing in policies and programmes to support breastfeeding, including adequate paid parental leave in line with international standards, and ensuring high quality breastfeeding support.

·         Requesting industry to publicly commit to full compliance with the Code and subsequent World Health Assembly resolutions globally.
·         Banning health workers from accepting sponsorship from companies that market foods for infants and young children for scholarships, awards, grants, meetings, or events.

In China, 15 government sectors have released a five-year Breastfeeding Promotion Action Plan in late 2021 with a set of comprehensive interventions to promote breastfeeding. Implementation of this action plan along with a review and updating of related legislation to regulate formula milk marketing should be China’s priorities in protecting and promoting breastfeeding.

# # #

Notes to Editors
Download the report here.

About the research
This ‘first of its kind’ systematic and cross-regional research was commissioned by WHO in Bangladesh, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, South Africa, the United Kingdom and Viet Nam, and by UNICEF in China, with the study designed and implemented by a specialist research division within M&C Saatchi.

A comprehensive analysis was conducted in each country to assess the volume and dynamics of formula milk marketing and to map various types of advertisements, messengers, content and forms of dissemination. Research ethics approvals were granted by relevant ethics committee in each country. As well as interviews with parents and health workers and focus groups, the research included a sub-set of in-depth interviews with marketing executives in China, providing insight into the evolving tactics of formula milk companies in a key emerging market.

Formula milk and tobacco are the only two products for which international recommendations to prohibit marketing exist, in this instance, through the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes.

The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation provided funding to support the research.

For further information, please contact:
Helen Wylie, UNICEF New York, Tel: +1 917 244 2215, hwylie@unicef.org
Sonia Yeo, UNICEF China, Tel: +86-10-8531-2610, syeo@unicef.org
Liu Li, UNICEF China, Tel: +86-10-8531-2612, liliu@unicef.org

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.

For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube

Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/176846-more-half-parents-and-pregnant-women-exposed-aggressive-formula-milk-marketing-%E2%80%93-who-unicef




Date: 18 February 2022
Title: Member States briefed on recent developments of UN System in China
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
18 February 2022
Beijing, 18 February 2022 – The United Nations in China convened a briefing yesterday afternoon to update Member States on recent progress with the work of the UN in China. More than 100 countries took part in the event online or in person, most at the Ambassador and Chief of Mission level, with 46 Ambassadors and Chiefs of Mission attending the briefing in person at the UN Compound in Beijing.
The agenda at the briefing covered the recent visit of the UN Secretary-General, Mr. António Guterres, to Beijing on the occasion of the XXIV Olympic Winter Games, the FOCAC follow-up symposium held as a joint event with the African Ambassadors Group in China on 18 January, and an update on recent discussions with the Host Country on the governance and monitoring of the Cooperation Framework implementation.
“In line with the UN Secretary-General’s reforms of the UN’s development system, the UN in China is working hard towards fulfilling its responsibility to be ‘fit for purpose’ to support China in its development aspirations and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Through China’s Global Development Initiative (GDI), we see enormous opportunities to leverage its resources, expertise, knowledge and experiences beyond its national borders. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected the development gains the world has made, and I feel the GDI has great potential to accelerate the SDGs in the developing world.” said Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China.
During his visit, the UN Secretary-General met with H.E. Mr. Xi Jinping, President of the People's Republic of China, and expressed the wish for enhanced cooperation between the United Nations and the People’s Republic of China in all the pillars of the Organization’s work – peace and security, sustainable development, including climate change and biodiversity, and human rights.
H.E. Mr. Abdallah Abdillahi Miguil, Ambassador of Djibouti to China and Dean a.i. of the African Ambassadors Group in China, was invited by the Resident Coordinator to preside over the briefing on the FOCAC follow-up symposium, with Results Group Chairs from the UN Country Team also in attendance.

For users in mainland China, please click this link to watch the "Towards a greener, more prosperous, and healthier future together" symposium - video summary.
“Our ambition is to amplify this initiative, better deepen, reflect on how to cooperate, and benefit from the assistance, technical support, and expertise of the UN in China in terms of capacity building of African States and achievement of the SDGs.” said H.E. Mr. Abdallah Abdillahi Miguil, Ambassador of Djibouti to China.
"I would like to commend the UN Resident Coordinator for the comprehensive briefing on the UN's activities in China. As the Ambassador of a fellow developing country committed to South-South Cooperation, I am particularly excited at the facilitative role that the UN is playing connecting China more closely with Africa. Africa is well on the road to development in all aspects, and the experiences of China are very useful and relevant. This is a demonstration of how the UN is making itself relevant to today's situation, particularly for the developing world." said H.E. Mr. Raja Nushirwan Zainal Abidin, Ambassador of Malaysia to China.
A key partner to the UN in China, the Rockefeller Foundation joined the meeting online. Ms. Deepali Khanna, the Managing Director, Asia Regional Office, The Rockefeller Foundation said that “By lifting nearly 800 million people out of abject poverty, China has important lessons to share with the world. Especially now, as all efforts move towards and must move towards a just and green economic recovery. We value our partnership with the UN Resident Coordinator’s office in China to advance the SDGs. We recognize the UN’s important role as a convener, connector, and catalyzer for sustainable development for all."
Following the briefing, the Resident Coordinator opened the floor for questions from the audience before inviting attendees to a reception in acknowledgement of the start of the Year of the Tiger.
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/172325-member-states-briefed-recent-developments-un-system-china




Date: 18 January 2022
Title: Symposium continues momentum of FOCAC towards strengthened China-Africa development cooperation
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
18 January 2022
Beijing, 18 January 2022 – Today, the African Ambassadors Group in China and the United Nations in China co-hosted a symposium in Beijing, initiated by Abdallah Abdillahi Miguil, Ambassador of the Republic of Djibouti to the People’s Republic of China and Acting Dean of the African Ambassadors Group in China, at the Embassy of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia as a follow-up to the 8th Ministerial Conference of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC).
Following the discussions held in Dakar, Senegal, from 29-30 November 2021, the symposium, held under the theme, “Towards a greener, more prosperous and healthier future together”, aims to provide an opportunity for stakeholders to build on the outcomes of the Conference and strengthen the growing partnership between China and Africa.
The symposium featured four panel discussions centred on the following topics: clean energy transition and carbon neutrality, China-Africa Cooperation in rural revitalization, Public Health System Reform, and China-Africa cooperation in finance, investment, and SMEs.
“Africa’s population is expected to reach 2.5 billion by 2050, and as the world’s youngest population, it is in this continent where the future economic engines will drive global prosperity. COVID-19 has been a setback, but through concerted partnership, we can overcome the setbacks to accelerate the race towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The key to this is harnessing big data, technology, and innovation. The UN family in China and in Africa stand ready to convene, connect, and catalyse these partnerships to help Africa reap a demographic dividend, reach the SDGs, and propel Africa towards the grand vision of Agenda 2063.” said Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China.
During the symposium, the Resident Coordinator also shared updates on two flagship UN in China initiatives, the SDG Partnership Platform and the International Center of Excellence for Applied Sustainable Development, both with an African focus, to provide guidance, technical support and strengthen cooperation between China and Africa towards the achievement of the SDGs.
“The 8th Ministerial Conference of FOCAC is a new milestone for China-Africa relations. President Xi Jinping’s announcement of the Nine programs and the four outcome documents was a significant result and provided new inputs for enhanced cooperation,” said Wu Peng, Director-General, Department of African Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the People’s Republic of China.
“I commend the UN Country Team and the African Ambassadors Group in China for today’s symposium, in continuing the momentum of FOCAC and in strengthening the growing partnership between China and Africa.”
Participants to the symposium include Chinese ministries and departments, not limited to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Commerce, represented by Director-General Jiang Wei, the China International Development Cooperation Agency, represented by Director-General Liu Junfeng, African Diplomatic Missions, the African Union, the UN Country Team, the private sector, and research institutes and foundations from China and abroad.
“The entire world of today is facing serious challenges related to COVID-19, economic constraints, poverty, security, terrorism, climate change and many others. However, China and Africa have proven to the world our resilience, commitments, seriousness, and success in facing these challenges. Therefore, I would like to reiterate our full support and commitment to FOCAC, the One-China policy and to continue working closely with the Government of China and other partners for the best benefit of China-Africa relations and the interest of our Governments and People.” said Abdallah Abdillahi Miguil, Ambassador of the Republic of Djibouti to the People’s Republic of China and Acting Dean of the African Ambassadors Group in China.
“Despite the surrounding challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, our event is a great achievement for China-Africa relations and demonstrates a strong commitment towards further cooperation on sustainable development. Africa is one of the richest continents in terms of natural resources, tourism, cultural exchanges, and investment opportunities. It is our sincere wish that China and Africa can open a new page towards addressing issues relating to public health, women’s and youth empowerment, agriculture, and financing.”
Topics of conversation brought up during the panels include infrastructure pledges made at FOCAC, the proposed opening of “green lanes” for African agricultural exports to China, China’s recent commitment to provide one billion doses of COVID-19 vaccine to African countries, and the challenges currently faced by SMEs in Africa often led by women in accessing affordable credit.
“The wealth of information, the diversity of views and experiences shared, the lessons learned, as well as our determination garnered during the symposium are extremely useful not just to facilitate the implementation of the FOCAC follow up actions but also the implementation of both Agenda 2063 and the SDGs,”, said Osman Rahamtalla, Ambassador of the African Union to China.
“I commend the African Ambassadors Group in China, the Government of China, and the UN in China for accepting to co-organize this important event. Let us rise to the challenge, the responsibility, and the confidence that the materialization of these initiated projects/programmes can bring tangible results to our cooperation.”

For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/168438-symposium-continues-momentum-focac-towards-strengthened-china-africa-development-cooperation




Date: 13 December 2021
Title: Unleashing the Potential of Cities for a Net-zero Future: UNDP Re:Think 2021 conference held in Beijing and Chengdu to pursue innovative development pathways for climate action
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
13 December 2021
13 December - Re:Think 2021, a UNDP-led conference was held today in parallel in the cities of Beijing and Chengdu to spark ideas and galvanize actions to unleash the potential of cities in pursuit of a net-zero future.
Re:Think 2021 was hosted by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Management Committee of Chengdu High-tech Zone, supported by the China International Center for Economic and Technological Exchanges (CICETE) under the Ministry of Commerce, and the Institute for Sustainable Development Goals of Tsinghua University as an academic partner. This is the second Re:Think conference, an annual multi-stakeholder innovation event initiated by UNDP’s SPARK SDG innovation Lab in Chengdu.
“Decarbonizing cities is critical. With 70% of emissions coming from cities, they will determine whether we realize a low-carbon future, and mend our relationship with the planet”, said Beate Trankmann, UNDP Resident Representative in China in her opening remarks.
“Following the COP26 climate summit, accelerated action is needed in order to keep global warming within 1.5°C by the end of the century. Ensuring that cities are low-carbon will be critical for countries around the world to meet climate commitments, including in China where the government has set ambitious targets of carbon peaking before 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060,” she added.
Re:Think 2021 was themed “Innovative Pathways Towards Net-zero Cities”, designed as a platform for policy makers, the business community, and academia to come together and discuss innovation in policy, technologies, and financing that can catalyzes climate actions, as well as the leading role that hi-tech industrial zones and enterprises within them can play in developing and piloting low-carbon solutions.
During his keynote speech, Liu Yanhua, former minister of science and technology, noted that 6 provinces, 81 cities, and 52 industrial zones have been designated as low-carbon pilot zones in China. “This is a systematic approach that requires interactions between the government, private sector and society, as well as transformation in manufacturing and lifestyles,” said Liu.  He also highlighted the value of global cooperation between countries and cities highlighting specific areas for collaboration to build on the momentum from COP26 including low-carbon design in industrial development and the utilization of low-energy resources.
George Ronald Gray, Chief Economist, and Head of the Strategic Policy Engagement Unit at UNDP emphasized the importance of continuing to raise ambition levels following COP26. “The bigger ambition reflected in carbon neutral pledges will need to be matched with equal ambition in implementation,” stated Gray.
“Cities are battlefronts for climate action and green growth,” he added. “It is great to see coalitions emerging, and a lot of innovative thinking on what the cities of the future look like and how we build partnerships on the ground to get there.”
Sir Danny Alexander, Vice President at the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank also highlighted the importance of following-through on updated climate pledges. “Operationalizing these commitments requires laws, regulations, policies, action plans, and investment opportunities that need to be created,” stated Alexander. He added that, “High-level leadership is key towards effectively financing climate and development objectives and managing co-benefits and trade-offs, and China has shown considerable leadership in this regard.”
The first panel of the conference looked at the role of local governments in decarbonization and scaling-up green technologies. In particular, leading corporate executives and researchers of emerging technologies discussed how cities can support the private sector and hi tech zones to reduce emissions and accelerate a low-carbon transition. Recommendations included leveraging green technologies and building long-term mechanisms to encourage decarbonization through tax incentives, financial support, and other policy innovations.
In her keynote in the afternoon, Fabienne Michaux, Director of UNDP SDG Impact Initiative, recognized the importance of integrating the SDGs into decision-making at all levels, both in government and enterprises. “Better transparency & reporting is necessary and important, but just one piece of the puzzle – on its own it’s insufficient to achieve the change we need to see,” Michaux stated.
“There must be a shift from thinking about sustainability as an “add-on” to business, to using SDGs strategically to make decisions,” Michaux added. “SDG Impact helps business and investors put sustainability and the core of management decisions and direct capital to where it can make the most difference to people and planet.”
The second panel discussion focused on how carbon trading can help to support efforts to achieve net-zero. Top experts and executives of Shanghai, Beijing, and Sichuan carbon exchanges shared lessons learned and discussed the critical role of green finance in China’s green transition. In particular, panelists emphasized the need for action on further strengthening emission trading systems to effectively reduce carbon emissions, as well as how enterprises should adapt and participate in carbon markets to facilitate their own low-carbon transition.
During the conference, the second edition of a pioneering baseline study series looking how enterprises in China taking actions to align business strategies and operations with the SDGs was also launched as a joint effort by UNDP, PwC, and China Chamber of International Commerce (CCOIC).
Titled Pathway to Net Zero: SDG Practices of Enterprises in China, this year’s edition of the study has a special focus on how China’s recent climate commitments have encouraged companies to pursue low carbon initiatives and reexamine their operations. Following the launch event, researchers and business executives from a variety of sectors came together in a panel to share their practices in integrating SDGs into corporate governance and discuss how they are adapting to the changing policy environment following China’s dual carbon goal.
At the same time, the launch ceremony of the INSPIRO Fellowship, was held during a parallel session in Chengdu. The one-year program is bringing together more than fifty outstanding tech entrepreneurs from China and Europe across various industries including biotech, hardware, green tech, and digitalization. During the ceremony, extensive discussions on topics such as cross-border partnership, women in the tech industry, and tech for social good took place among fellows from various cultural backgrounds.
The first cohort of INSPIRO will last until September 2022, forming a community to share ideas and spark conversations about business and technology, promote technologies that generate positive social impact, and create opportunities for business partnership between China and Europe in the post-pandemic era.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/169396-unleashing-potential-cities-net-zero-future-undp-rethink-2021-conference-held-beijing-and




Date: 07 December 2021
Title: Embassy of the United Arab Emirates in Beijing and United Nations in China Co-host Dialogue on Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment in Achieving the SDGs through Promoting Women’s Participation in STEM
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
07 December 2021
Beijing, 7 December 2021 - To promote women’s participation and success in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics), the UN in China and the Embassy of the United Arab Emirates in Beijing co-hosted the Dialogue on Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment in Achieving the SDGs through Promoting Women’s Participation in STEM, together with participation from government, research institutes, international organizations, diplomatic community, and the private sector.
The event was welcomed by opening remarks from H.E. Dr. Ali Obaid Al Dhaheri, the UAE Ambassador to China and Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China. It also featured two panel discussions with insights shared on the progress of empowering women in STEM in the UAE, shared by Dr. Saeeda Al Marzooqi, Associate Professor at the Department of Pathology from the UAE University, Hajer Ali Rashed Alyammahi, PhD Student at Khalifa University, and Noora Alsaeed, PhD Candidate at the University of Colorado, Boulder.
Women’s equality and empowerment is one of the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It is a necessary foundation for a peaceful, prosperous, and sustainable world, as women and girls represent half of the world’s population, hence half of its potential. In the face of the challenges presented by COVID-19, which exacerbates the existing inequalities, the UAE is committed to creating a progressive, moderate society where women already hold leadership roles in all sectors and industries.
“Of the UAE government ministers, 29 percent are women, as are 50 percent of our Federal National Council. According to the IMF, the UAE ranked first in female parliamentary representation in 2020,” said H.E. Dr. Ali Obaid Al Dhaheri, the UAE Ambassador to China. “Not only have Emirati women led in government or business, but in the sciences as well. Over 90 percent of the Emirates Mars Mission scientific team is composed of women.”
Mr. Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China said that greater efforts are needed from the international community. “Immediate actions are required from us to ensure that women and girls are included, as active leaders in the development of all social sectors. This is especially important in the fields of STEM development.”
Concurrent to the 50th anniversary of the restoration of the PRC's lawful seat in the United Nations, the event aimed to promote awareness across a diverse audience base. Exchanges and insights sparked during the dialogue were shared by participants from ILO, UN Women, UNDP, UNESCO, UNFPA, All China Women’s Federation, Alibaba Foundation, China Women’s University and more.

For further information, please contact:
UAE Embassy to China, Culture Section, +86 106532 7650
Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/163830-embassy-united-arab-emirates-beijing-and-united-nations-china-co-host-dialogue-gender




Date: 06 December 2021
Title: Tsinghua AI Forum: Multilateral and Multistakeholder Global Platform Needed to Build a Balanced and Inclusive AI Governance Framework
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
06 December 2021
6 December, Beijing – A multilateral and multistakeholder global platform is needed to build a balanced and inclusive AI governance system, agreed world-leading experts at the 2021 Tsinghua AI International Cooperation and Governance Forum, which concluded yesterday.
Hosted by Tsinghua University, and with UNDP as the international supporting partner, the two-day forum convened thought leaders and practitioners from across the world, including top officials from government and international organizations, prominent academics, and executives from the tech sector.
Though AI presents myriad opportunities and is increasingly integrated into our everyday lives, it also poses risks and governance challenges which remain to be addressed. This year’s forum advanced the global conversation around the equitable use of AI, examined AI’s role in international cooperation and sustainable development, and discussed building global policy frameworks around fast emerging technologies such as the Metaverse.
Qiu Yong, president of Tsinghua University emphasized the role of universities in advancing AI governance. “As an important source of scientific advancement, universities don’t only strive for theoretical and technological breakthroughs of AI, we also adhere to the principle of ‘AI for good’ and seek to build an AI global governance system that is both scientific and well-grounded,” he said.
Inclusive AI governance is in line with United Nations Secretary-General’s Roadmap for Digital Cooperation, of which the objective is to ‘bring together all stakeholders to build a more open, free, and secure digital future for all.’ Maria-Francesca Spatolisano officer in charge of the office of the United Nations Secretary-General’s Envoy on Technology emphasized this point saying, “it is through our collective efforts that we can promote artificial intelligence that is trustworthy, human rights based, safe and sustainable, and promotes peace.”
“I applaud the idea of building an international mechanism of cooperation within the UN system, in order to pool ideas from people from all countries, different fields of study and all walks of life, so that we may move swiftly forward in AI global cooperation and governance through shared consultation,” said Xue Lan, dean of the Institute for AI International Governance of Tsinghua University (I-AIIG).
Haoliang Xu, United Nations Assistant Secretary-General and Director of Bureau for Policy and Programme Support of UNDP drew attention to the societal risks posed by AI, algorithms and their inherent biases, calling for multi-stakeholder cooperation to ensure that AI applications are co-governed and inclusive. “AI is not a silver bullet. It is only as good as the humans that deploy it, the data on which it is based, and the standards that govern its use.”
The forum included multiple panel discussions on a wide range of topics related to AI governance. During the forum’s first day, UNDP helped lead sessions on bridging the divide between countries in the development and use of AI technologies, leveraging AI to accelerate climate action, and tackling algorithmic bias for social justice.
In the panel on closing the divide in AI capabilities between countries, panelists agreed on the need for greater representation from developing countries. The UN was highlighted as a critically important international institution to lead and facilitate a multilateral and multistakeholder approach to creating an inclusive AI governance framework
The AI and climate action panel looked at how AI applications have immense potential to address climate-related challenges, both in terms of mitigation and adaptation. While panelists discussed the use of AI to measure and curb carbon emissions, they also elaborated on the climate impact of AI technologies themselves, such as through massive energy consumption of data-centers and the exacerbation of environmental exploitation.
During the panel on AI and social justice, discussion revolved around the societal challenges posed by AI algorithms, including the risk of introducing digital discrimination based on gender, ethnicity and other social groups. The panel explored opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and ways to address and manage biases and exclusion so that AI applications can benefit everyone in line with the Sustainable Development Goals.
The second day of the forum transitioned to looking at the future frontiers of AI to aid policymakers in preparing for future challenges.
In particular, UNDP led a panel looking at the future of AI governance in the Metaverse, and the implications of a virtual world on the relationships between both countries and individuals. Panelists touched on a variety of issues brought on by the integration of digital technologies in the Metaverse that redefine power, rights, and relations in a virtual space, and consequently reconstruct societal  structures and orders in the real world.  A key topic was how to ensure such cutting-edge technologies do not further widen existing digital divides and exacerbate inequalities.
With AI technologies presenting such diverse challenges and multiple areas of potential socio-economic disruption, Beate Trankmann, Resident Representative, UNDP China reflected that “to keep up with the rapid pace of innovation at the forefronts of technology, policy makers must be forward-looking. We can’t simply address the problems of today but must also anticipate the challenges of tomorrow.” She added, “if we do not, we will always be one step behind.”
***
For more information on the Tsinghua University International AI Cooperation and Governance Forum 2021, please visit:
https://www.tsinghuaaiforum.org
For more information or to request an interview, please contact:
Ms. PuNa ZHAO Yue, Innovation and Communications Officer, UNDP China
Yue.zhao@undp.org | +86-10-85320797
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) partners with people at all levels of society to help build nations that can withstand crisis, and drive and sustain the kind of growth that improves the quality of life for everyone. On the ground in nearly 170 countries and territories, we offer global perspective and local insight to help empower lives and build resilient nations. www.undp.org.
The Institute for AI International Governance of Tsinghua University (I-AIIG) is a university-level research institute approved by Tsinghua University in April 2020. Leveraging Tsinghua 's existing resources and interdisciplinary advantages in AI and international governance, I-AIIG conducts research on major theoretical issues and policy needs of AI international governance, aims to enhance Tsinghua University's global academic influence and policy leadership in this field, and provides intellectual support for China's active participation in AI international governance.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/169395-tsinghua-ai-forum-multilateral-and-multistakeholder-global-platform-needed-build-balanced




Date: 20 November 2021
Title: World Children’s Day Unites Voices and Lights Up for Children
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
20 November 2021
Children, young people, partners from all sectors, celebrities and the public in China came together to mark World Children’s Day.
Beijing, 20 November 2021 – Children, young people, partners from all sectors, celebrities and the public in China came together to mark World Children’s Day, 20 November. World Children’s Day is a global day of action for children, by children. This year, as the COVID-19 pandemic and the climate crisis continue to inequitably affect children worldwide, UNICEF is working to ensure that the voices of children and young people are heard, and that they can participate in solving the issues that matter most to them. In doing so UNICEF is calling for all of society to unite for girls’ and boys’ rights to health, education, protection and participation.
The impact of COVID-19 altered but did not prevent World Children’s Day celebrations, with UNICEF China engaging people across China through a livestream event. This child-led event saw the announcement of two new UNICEF Youth Advocates and the release a World Children’s Day theme song by UNICEF Ambassador Wang Yuan, titled ‘In the Future’. A total of 23 cities lit up in blue iconic buildings and monuments, including a section of the Great Wall of China, to symbolize their commitment to upholding children's rights, with many of them connecting in real time during the livestream. Hosted in a UNICEF studio in Beijing, children took over the event.
UNICEF Representative to China Ms Cynthia McCaffrey said, “We unite on this World Children’s Day to recognize progress made for children and to commit to doing even more to realize the rights of every child. Let’s listen to children, hear their ideas and build on their creativity. Children and youth themselves are powerful advocates for the issues that are most important to them.”
During the livestream, Ms McCaffrey announced the appointment of two new UNICEF Youth Advocates, Zhao Chen (20) and Yu Xinwei (19). Zhao Chen, who has a visual impairment, has been advocating for digital accessibility and inclusion for children and young people who have disabilities. “I have always wanted to work with more people to inspire creativity and raise awareness on digital inclusion in a different way,” Zhao Chen said, adding, “I would like to call for all young people to speak up and join me in creating a more inclusive digital space.”
Yu Xinwei is an advocate for adolescent mental health and has been working to set up peer support groups in her community to help young people cope with anxiety and academic stress. She has also been a leading voice in an adolescent mental health campaign that UNICEF launched in October this year. Yu Xinwei said, “I hope that my efforts will encourage more young people to join us, to pay attention to adolescent mental health, and to use the power of the youth to promote the healthy development of the younger generation.”
UNICEF Ambassador Wang Yuan joined the livestream and launched the World Children’s Day theme song written by him, ‘In the Future’. Inspired by the ambassador’s hopes for the future of children and young people, the song emphasizes children’s potential and a hope that they will be empowered to shape their own futures. Wang Yuan also invited children and young people to participate in a challenge by submitting their own recordings of the song. A selection of these videos will feature in a choir version of the World Children’s Day theme song, which will be released around the New Year.
Wang Yuan said, “Children are creative and curious. They should be valued, protected and respected. They should be provided with knowledge, love and care, and a safe and friendly environment to grow up in. Their voices should be heard and acted upon. Together, we will build a better society, a better world.”
In collaboration with the Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries and the China Friendship Foundation for Peace and Development, the cities and landmarks that lit up in blue as a commitment to children’s rights included Chongqing, Guangzhou, Guiyang, Shenyang, Taiyuan, Wuhan, Zhengzhou. Other cities or counties that lit up include Baoding, Changsha, Chengdu, Chongzhou, Dazhou, Dongming, Gu’an, Haikou, Heze, Huzhu, Maduo, Nanjing, Shenzhen, Suzhou, Weihai and Zhoushan. Many cities also held online and offline light up events, with a drone demonstration dedicated to World Children’s Day at Beijing WTown. A virtual light up was held online through a UNICEF-hosted H5 page.
UNICEF and Xinhua News Agency co-launched an interactive feature through their respective digital platforms to amplify children’s voices and their aspirations for a better future. Around World Children’s Day, the CCTV Children of Sports and Children’s Programme Centre of China Media Group broadcast a special programme for World Children’s Day with children empowered to participate in media. Their studio was also taken over by a child moderator on the day.
UNICEF Ambassadors Chen Kun, Ma Yili and Jeremy Lin joined UNICEF’s World Children’s Day digital campaign to amplify the message “Unite our Voices, Light up for Children” through UNICEF’s channels and their own accounts on Weibo.
With the support of the Chinese Athletics Association many Chinese athletes, including Su Bingtian and Gong Lijiao, shared their own photos framed for World Children’s Day on Weibo to speak up for children's rights. Other celebrities who joined the online campaign include Olympic champions Zhang Yufei (swimming) and Zhang Jiaqi (diving); dance blogger Liao Zhi; and singers Shang Wenjie and A Duo.
Children and young people, their families and friends are encouraged to join the World Children’s Day theme song challenge on Weibo, which is jointly supported by Weibo Gongyi, Sina Entertainment, Sina News, Weibo Tianxia, Weibo Sticker, Weibo Music and Sina Music. They can also share their own photos framed for World Children’s Day and use a magic emoji to go blue on Kuaishou. On Bilibili, UNICEF will release a sign language version of the theme song for people with hearing impairments.
Corporate partners that supported World Children’s Day celebrations include Huatie Media Group Co., which made World Children’s Day public service announcements for one month on high-speed trains administered by the China Railway Wuhan Bureau.
World Children’s Day commemorates the adoption on 20 November 1989 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which China ratified in 1992. UNICEF and partners are calling for a united world where no child is left behind, where their rights are protected, and where their voice makes a path for their future.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/176841-world-children%E2%80%99s-day-unites-voices-and-lights-children




Date: 08 November 2021
Title: UNDP launches campaign highlighting urgency of taking climate action as world leaders meet in Glasgow for COP26
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
08 November 2021
November 8, Beijing – To emphasize the urgency of the climate crisis facing the world and the importance of taking immediate action, UNDP has produced an engaging short film as part of a new campaign in which one of the world’s most well-known extinct animals, the dinosaur, gives a speech to the UN General Assembly with a clear message: "Don't Choose Extinction."

Led by a cast of celebrity voices from around the world, the Don’t Choose Extinction campaign aims to raise public awareness of critical issues surrounding climate change and the disastrous consequences of the planet exceeding 1.5 degrees of warming.
In China, UNDP calls for voiceover publicly. The first dinosaur is voiced by ZHU Yawen. LUO Yunxi, MAO Xiaotong, Xiao Yang and many participants including a scientist and child support the call in a short time. They join global stars like Jack Black, Eva Mendes, Stephen Fry and more, in a global effort to speak out against the use of fossil fuels.
In particular, the campaign spotlights the hugely negative effects fossil fuel subsidies have on people and planet. "The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed outdated aspects of the global economy. It includes the fact that the world continues to spend billions of dollars on fossil fuel subsidies, while hundreds of millions of people live in poverty and the climate crisis accelerates. Against this backdrop, we must ask ourselves: is subsidizing fossil fuels a rational use of public money?" said Achim Steiner, UNDP Administrator.
Fossil fuel subsidies are both inefficient and inequitable. Across developing countries, about half of the amount of public resources spent to support fossil fuel consumption benefits the richest 20 percent of the population, according to the IMF.
In addition to eliminating fossil fuel subsidies, it will also be critical for countries to take urgent action to peak carbon emissions and set targets for reaching net-zero emissions. In China, the Government has committed to carbon peaking before 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality by 2060.
“China’s climate targets have been a critical step and a welcome commitment in the global fight against climate change,” said Beate Trankmann, UNDP Resident Representative in China. “As with all countries, it will be key to peak emissions as early as possible, as recommended by climate experts, in order to keep the target of 1.5 degrees within reach.”
China has also recently released its 1+N strategy which offers a concrete roadmap for the country to achieve its climate goals and puts forward emissions targets for key sectors including steel, energy, and transport. “Building on the more detailed plans of the 1+N strategy, China has the opportunity to accelerate further progress towards carbon peaking and neutrality and UNDP stands ready to help in this transition,” said Trankmann.
Globally, the energy sector accounts for 73 percent of human-caused greenhouse gas emissions, making the transition to clean and renewable energy of paramount importance. China’s current energy mix is still fossil-fuel based, but this is changing. China currently accounts for nearly a third of global renewable energy installed capacity[1] and aims to reach 50% of non-fossil energy share in its power generation by 2030.
“Reform is not easy and the transition to clean energy presents a range of difficult challenges in many countries,” added Achim Steiner. “Indeed, each country needs to take their own path. But we also know that we must move away from these energy sources that are contributing to our planet’s decline. The recent IPCC report, which the UN Secretary-General described as a ‘code red’ for humanity, shows that only the most ambitious climate action will limit global warming to 1.5 degree Celsius. This is what science dictates is needed to avoid a climate catastrophe.”
The Don’t Choose Extinction campaign features a collective intelligence platform, the Global Mindpool, to help tackle the most important issues of our time. Linking insights from around the world - on the climate emergency, the crisis in nature and inequality – the Global Mindpool will support UNDP to better inform and equip policy makers in government, civil society, and the private sector.
For more information on the ‘Don’t Choose Extinction’ campaign, visit www.dontchooseextinction.com
For more information or to request an interview, please contact:
Ms. PuNa ZHAO Yue, Innovation and Communications Officer, UNDP China
Yue.zhao@undp.org | +86-10-85320797
UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality, and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and planet.
Learn more at cn.undp.org
[1] IRENA, 2021 https://www.irena.org/publications/2021/Aug/Renewable-energy-statistics…
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/169394-undp-launches-campaign-highlighting-urgency-taking-climate-action-world-leaders-meet-glasgow




Date: 04 November 2021
Title: UN-Habitat and China Host the 5th Chengdu Forum for Park Cities Towards Carbon Neutrality
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
04 November 2021
Chengdu, 4 November 2021 – Mayors, scholars, experts and representatives from the Chinese Government, international institutions and private sector discussed ideas on how to cooperate on zero-carbon development projects.
The Forum was organized by UN-Habitat, the China Center for Urban Development (CCUD), and the Chengdu Municipal Government. The yearly event – hosted five times since 2017 – was this year co-hosted with Liverpool, Seoul, and Vienna.
In his keynote address, Mr. Ning Jizhe, Vice Chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission of China, said zero-carbon development projects should be implemented with localized sustainability goals and focus on concrete actions in support of sustainable development pathways.
Cities are vital to the implementation of climate action. UN-Habitat supports the Cities Race to Zero and the Cities Race to Resilience, two global campaigns towards carbon-neutrality and adaptation. In China, Chengdu has taken the lead in the implementation of carbon-neutrality and innovation. Chengdu’s “Park Cities” strategy emphasizes green corridors and belts, which act as carbon sinks and strengthen resilience.
Three reports were also launched during the plenary session. The Belt and Road Cities Connectivity Index Report was presented by Gou Zhengli, Executive Vice Mayor of Chengdu Municipal Government. The Energy Foundation (China) released The Green Urbanization Consensus of the Belt and Road Sustainable Cities Alliance. Meanwhile, UN-Habitat China and Chengdu’s HighTech District introduced The Sustainable Planning Guidelines for Chengdu Future Science and Technology City.
The Forum also held a Roundtable on green urban transition and carbon neutrality and three parallel sub-sessions. Vienna co-hosted a session on Switching to Green Manufacturing and Value Chains and Seoul co-convened one on Promoting Green Lifestyles for Quality City. The session on Greening Urban Regeneration for Sustainable Development was co-led by Liverpool.
The International High-Level Forum on Sustainable Urban Development is convened each year under an Action Plan on Jointly Promoting the Construction of the Belt and Road Initiative agreed in 2019 between the Government of the People’s Republic of China and UN-Habitat. The conferences have so far reached out to 40 city mayors from China and abroad, as well as to over 30 international organizations and 110 major companies.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/156893-un-habitat-and-china-host-5th-chengdu-forum-park-cities-towards-carbon-neutrality




Date: 02 November 2021
Title: Climate change, inequality, and sustainable development top of agenda at UN in China/CCG symposium
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
02 November 2021
Beijing, 2 November 2021 – The United Nations in China and the Center for China and Globalization (CCG) co-hosted a symposium to celebrate the 50th Anniversary of the restoration of the lawful seat of the People’s Republic of China in the UN today in Beijing.
This year marks 50 years since the General Assembly adopted Resolution 2758, deciding to “restore all its rights to the People’s Republic of China and to recognize the representatives of its Government as the only legitimate representatives of China in the United Nations.”
“In the decades since, China has become an increasingly important contributor to the work of the Organization and a major pillar of international cooperation,” said UN Secretary-General António Guterres on the occasion.
Since the introduction of reform and opening-up in 1978, China has experienced remarkable economic and social transformations, rising to become the world’s second-largest economy and an upper-middle-income country over just four decades.
With China and the world now striving to recover from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and “build back better” in the Decade of Action to achieve the SDGs, leading experts from government, international organizations, think tanks, and academia met today to discuss the road ahead.
Participants to the symposium took part in two roundtable discussions entitled “Towards a new development model for common prosperity” and “Towards 2030 and 2060: sustainable development and climate”.
“The UN has been a trusted development partner of China, with the first UN office in China opened back in 1979. In the four decades following that year, the role of the UN in China has shifted from that of a traditional donor to that of a partner providing technical expertise and support, both within and beyond its national boundaries, including in its activities under the framework of South-South Cooperation,” said UN Resident Coordinator Siddharth Chatterjee in his opening remarks at the symposium.
“As we celebrate the great progress achieved, we also need to focus on the big challenges ahead. Climate change poses an existentialist threat to humanity and inequality threatens progress towards the SDGs.”
Topics covered during these roundtable discussions also included the importance of rural development, childhood development, and biodiversity, and the role of public-private partnerships and international development cooperation, with a particular focus on the China-Africa relationship.
“50 years in, amid constant changes and shifts in the global context, China’s participation to the UN system has made significant advancements; improved its status in the international community; contributed to global unity and initiatives with resilience. It has been a story of changemaking,” said President of CCG Wang Huiyao.
“Facing unprecedented changes and challenges in today’s world owing to the pandemic, climate change, widening inequalities, the rise of populism and deglobalization, the reinvigoration of multilateralism is urgently needed. China and the UN are the forefront of this endeavour.”
The symposium also featured remarks from leading figures including Wu Hongbo, Special Representative of the Government of China on European Affairs, Rahamtalla Mohammed Osman, Ambassador of the African Union to China, Mamadou Ndiaye, Ambassador of Senegal to China and Tian Lin, Director-General of the International Department of the China International Development Cooperation Agency.
The UN in China and CCG wishes to thank today’s participants for the constructive discussions, and both look forward to furthering cooperation in future on shared priorities.
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Ms. Liang Chen, Media Department in Center for China and Globalization
Tel: +8618500565085, Email: liangchen@ccg.org.cn
About The UN in China
The United Nations (UN) in China has been a trusted development partner of China for over 40 years. It has witnessed the profound economic and social transformations that have taken place in the country since the introduction of reforms in the late 1970s.
In the four decades since, the role of the UN in China has shifted from that of a traditional donor to that of a partner providing technical expertise and support, both within and beyond its national boundaries, including in its activities under the framework of South-South Cooperation. In all of these endeavours, the role of the UN in China is to add value, contribute expertise and ensure compliance to international norms and standards.
The UN in China values its engagement with national stakeholders, including Government, bilateral and multilateral donors, non-governmental organizations, civil society organizations and businesses in both the public and private sectors. The UN in China seeks to consistently build up on its position as a key partner, most notably by creating and reinforcing partnerships for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in line with national development priorities.
About Center for China and Globalization
The Center for China and Globalization (CCG) is a Chinese non-governmental think tank based in Beijing. CCG has been granted the official special consultative status by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations (ECOSOC) as a non-governmental organization. In the “2020 Global Go To Think Tank Index” by the University of Pennsylvania Think Tank and Civil Society Program (TTCSP), CCG ranked 64th of the top think tanks worldwide and among the top 50 global independent think tanks. CCG has also been recognized as a “4A non-governmental organization” by Beijing Municipal government civil affairs department.
Founded in 2008 and headquartered in Beijing, the Center for China and Globalization (CCG) is China’s leading global non-governmental think tank. It has more than ten branches and overseas representatives and over 100 full-time researchers and staff engaged in research on globalization, global governance, international economy and trade, international relations and global migration. CCG is also a national Postdoctoral Programme Research Center certified by the Chinese Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/156418-climate-change-inequality-and-sustainable-development-top-agenda-un-chinaccg-symposium




Date: 22 October 2021
Title: The UN in China celebrates UN Day and the 50th Anniversary of the restoration of China’s lawful seat in the UN
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
22 October 2021
Beijing, 22 October 2021 – Today, the United Nations in China celebrated UN Day and the historic milestone of the 50th Anniversary of the restoration of the lawful seat of the People’s Republic of China in the UN at a ceremony in Beijing.
UN Day, on 24 October, marks the anniversary of the day in 1945 when the UN Charter entered into force. UN Day, celebrated every year, offers the opportunity to amplify the working agenda, and reaffirm the purposes and principles of the UN Charter that have guided the Organization since its founding.
“Seventy-six years ago, the United Nations was created as a vehicle of hope for a world emerging from the shadow of catastrophic conflict. Today, the women and men of the UN carry this hope forward around the globe.”, said UN Secretary-General António Guterres in a global video message shared at the occasion.
For this year’s celebration, the UN in China, in collaboration with The Poem for You, curated a unique program, entitled “Moonrise: An Autumn of Poetry, Music, and Harmony”, featuring cultural and poetry performances to share a message of hope and understanding for a world striving to build a more sustainable, peaceful, and just future.

“Today as we celebrate UN Day and reflect on the historic milestone of the 50th Anniversary of the restoration of China’s lawful seat in the UN, it is time to reimagine, reinvigorate, and renew our hard work in building lasting peace and prosperity for the people of China and the world.”, said UN Resident Coordinator Siddharth Chatterjee.

The program featured remarks from distinguished guests, including Luo Zhaohui, Chairman of the China International Development Cooperation Agency, and poetry readings from the UN Resident Coordinator and the Ambassadors of Cambodia, Ireland, Lebanon, and Russia.
"The next step in China's international development cooperation will be to focus on the fight against epidemics, public health, economic recovery, improvement of people's livelihood, and coordination and cooperation with the UN system in Beijing," said Chairman Luo Zhaohui.
Over 120 attendees from UN agencies, the government, diplomatic community, international organizations, foundations, private sector, and media joined the event, which included a reception held in the gardens of the UN Compound in Beijing.
At a social media corner for the event, attendees also viewed photos and videos in support of the global UN campaign, #ActNow, highlighting the importance of climate action and how individuals can contribute to a greener, more sustainable planet.
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
About The UN in China
The United Nations (UN) in China has been a trusted development partner of China for over 40 years. It has witnessed the profound economic and social transformations that have taken place in the country since the introduction of reforms in the late 1970s.
In the four decades since, the role of the UN in China has shifted from that of a traditional donor to that of a partner providing technical expertise and support, both within and beyond its national boundaries, including in its activities under the framework of South-South Cooperation. In all of these endeavours, the role of the UN in China is to add value, contribute expertise and ensure compliance to international norms and standards.
The UN in China values its engagement with national stakeholders, including Government, bilateral and multilateral donors, non-governmental organizations, civil society organizations and businesses in both the public and private sectors. The UN in China seeks to consistently build upon its position as a key partner, most notably by creating and reinforcing partnerships for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in line with national development priorities.
About United Nations Day
United Nations Day marks the anniversary of the entry into force in 1945 of the UN Charter – the founding document of the UN. The UN Charter was drafted at the Conference on International Organisation in San Francisco. 24 October has been celebrated as United Nations Day since 1948 in honour of this anniversary.
About The Poem for You
The Poem for You, founded in 2013, is devoted to promoting poetry and traditional Chinese culture among the public, particularly younger generations, conducting relevant international cultural exchanges. We have invited guests from all walks of life to read poetry, including heads of states of foreign countries, industry leaders, super idols, and ordinary people, reaching Chinese users of over 30 million and overseas users across more than 40 countries and regions. Through audio and video programs, performances, courses and publications, the platform links poetry, nature, art, and life together in a most miraculous way, in the hope of providing the audience with a spiritual home for console and inspiration.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/152682-un-china-celebrates-un-day-and-50th-anniversary-restoration-china%E2%80%99s-lawful-seat-un




Date: 14 October 2021
Title: Global transport at a crossroads: UN Conference to advance action on zero emission vehicles, boost economy and reduce inequalities
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
14 October 2021
Move to sustainable transport can deliver savings of US$70 trillion by 2050
Beijing, China, 14 October — To ensure the rapid development and deployment of new and innovative transport solutions to meet the climate crisis and spearhead action towards affordable and accessible transport for all, the UN Sustainable Transport Conference in Beijing, China, will begin today with government leaders, industry experts, and civil society groups charting a sustainable pathway forward.
While science shows that urgent action is needed to keep the 1.5°C temperature limit within reach to prevent greater climate impacts, the world is still grappling with COVID-19, which has disrupted global supply chains, reversed years of development progress and has pushed around 120 million people back into poverty. The UN Sustainable Transport Conference, taking place from 14 to 16 October will seek to provide concrete solutions for how we plan and design transport systems to ensure the pathway to achieving sustainable transport — transport that is safe, accessible, green and resilient — is at the scale and speed required.
While there is increasing recognition that sustainable transport can spur economic growth and protect the environment — global sales of electric vehicles grew from 1.3 million in 2015 to 5.1 million in 2018 — progress has been slow and unequal.
According to the World Bank, a transition to sustainable mobility could deliver savings of US$70 trillion by 2050, when considering full transport costs, including vehicles, fuel, operational expenses, and losses due to congestion. Better access to roads could help Africa become self-sufficient in food and create a regional food market worth $1 trillion by 2030.
“Efforts to accelerate the sustainable transformation of the transport sector are essential to reduce climate-causing emissions and improve the lives and livelihoods of people everywhere,” said Liu Zhenmin, Under Secretary-General of the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs and the Conference Secretary-General. “The Sustainable Transport Conference in Beijing will sharpen our focus on transport, an area where global efforts can make a deep impact across the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development.”
While transport is a core driver for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and provides communities with an opportunity to access employment, health care services and attend schools, current systems of mobility present a number of challenges.
Transport is one of the single largest contributors to air and carbon pollution emissions globally, also accounting for about 64% of total oil consumption and 27% of all energy use. Over 1 billion people worldwide still lack adequate access to an all-weather road, especially in developing countries, including countries in special situations. In Africa, 450 million people, more than 70% of the total rural population, remain unconnected to transport infrastructure and systems. Whereas road traffic injuries are the leading cause of death among young people aged 15 to 29.
The UN Sustainable Transport Conference comes at a pivotal moment in the lead up to the Climate Change Conference in Glasgow. The Sustainable Transport Conference will provide an opportunity to stress the urgency of overhauling transport systems to respond to the climate crisis as well as the criticality of sustainable transport for spurring economic growth and empowering vulnerable populations through better access to healthcare, education, and jobs. Governments, businesses, and experts in the transport field will gather at the Conference to discuss the challenges and opportunities as well as solutions that exist to supercharge the transition to sustainable transport.
Countries, businesses and communities are using the power of technology and innovation to improve their transport systems and make them more sustainable. From the volocopter, an all-electric air taxi in Germany to electrified bus networks in China to the rapid sale growth of electric vehicles in the United States, a transport revolution has begun. The COVID-19 pandemic has also prompted many cities to build more bicycle lanes and G20 countries have committed over $284 billion to the mobility industry.
However, the transition to sustainable transport in some places risks leaving many other countries and vulnerable communities behind. To ensure sustainable transport benefits everyone would require investments in technology and innovation, especially for developing countries. Enabling policy environments, measures that promote road safety infrastructure and proper city design planning would also be key to paving the way for sustainable transport globally.
All modes of transport — road, rail, aviation and waterborne — will be discussed at the Conference, which will be a hybrid of online and in-person events. It will consist of plenary sessions, a Ministers Forum, a Business Forum and a Science, Engineering and Technology Forum. Its six thematic sessions will include discussions on the contributions sustainable transport can make to economic recovery, creating livelihoods and to climate change mitigation. The Conference will culminate in new partnerships, commitments and initiatives to further advance sustainable transport.
Transport essential to achieve Sustainable Development Goals
Sustainable transport, covered in several SDG targets, acts as a cross-cutting facilitator, critical for the achievement of many, if not all, of the Sustainable Development Goals.
This led to the first UN Sustainable Transport Conference, held in 2016 in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan, and the Beijing Conference is expected to advance action to achieve the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on climate change.
Website: https://www.un.org/transport2021
Link to the Interagency Report on Sustainable Transport: bit.ly/transportreportUN
Hashtag: #SustainableTransport
Sharon Birch, UN Department of Global Communications , T: +1 212-963-0564 / E: birchs@un.org
Dan Shepard, UN Department of Global Communications, T: +1 212-963-9495 / E: shepard@un.org
Louise Xi Li, United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office (Beijing) T: +8610-8532 0725 / E: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/151510-global-transport-crossroads-un-conference-advance-action-zero-emission-vehicles-boost




Date: 12 October 2021
Title: UN DESA Chief outlines the road ahead in Beijing for upcoming Sustainable Transport Conference
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
12 October 2021
Beijing, 12 October 2021 — Journalists convened at the UN Compound in Beijing were provided with an opportunity to learn about the significance of the upcoming UN Sustainable Transport Conference and the desired outcomes for the event at a curtain raiser press conference led by the UN Under-Secretary-General of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN DESA) and Conference Secretary-General, Liu Zhenmin, joined by Officer-in-Charge of the Division for Sustainable Development Goals, Alexander Trepelkov and moderated by the UN Resident Coordinator in China, Siddharth Chatterjee.
With the transport sector contributing approximately 25% of all direct greenhouse gas emissions, there is a renewed sense of urgency for achieving sustainable transport globally– transport that is safe, green, efficient, and accessible. As we head towards COP26 in November, the UN Sustainable Transport Conference, hosted by the People’s Republic of China from 14 to 16 October, is an opportunity to highlight concrete solutions for developing transport systems that will effectively respond to the climate crisis.
“The clock is ticking on our 2030 timeline to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, and for meeting the objectives of the Paris Climate Change Agreement,” Mr. Liu said. “The forthcoming second Global Sustainable Transport Conference will be a landmark moment for stakeholders from across the world to discuss challenges and opportunities, good practices and solutions.”
The UN Sustainable Transport Conference will provide a roadmap for achieving transport systems that are designed to help protect the environment, while opening economic opportunities and improving health and well-being. The Conference will focus on the opportunities and challenges for all modes of transport – road, rail, aviation and waterborne – and provide concrete solutions for achieving sustainable transport worldwide.
The 3-day Conference will be hybrid and will consist of plenary sessions, a Ministers’ Forum, a Business Forum and a Science, Engineering and Technology Forum. At the heart of discussions will be the links between achieving sustainable transport and economic recovery, climate mitigation and other issues.
“I wish to commend the diligent preparations made by UN DESA, led by Mr. Liu Zhenmin, working closely with the Government of China to ensure the upcoming conference’s success,” Mr. Chatterjee said. “We continue to rely on DESA to uphold the development pillar of the UN, and help countries translate their global commitments into national action in the economic, social, and environmental spheres.”
Discussed at the curtain raiser press conference was the release of a new United Nations multi-agency report launched today that provides a guide to achieving sustainable transport.
According to the new report, there is urgent need for transformative action that will accelerate the transition to sustainable transport globally. Transport solutions exist that can help achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement, although the report cautions that without the right policies and investments, they will not bring change to where it is needed most, particularly to people in developing countries.
The report, launched just before the second UN Global Sustainable Transport Conference begins in Beijing, China, on 14 October 2021, was prepared by the UN DESA in close collaboration with 14 other UN agencies.
Website: bit.ly/transportreportUN
Hashtag: #SustainableTransport
For further information about the Curtain Raiser Press Conference, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/151508-un-desa-chief-outlines-road-ahead-beijing-upcoming-sustainable-transport-conference




Date: 22 September 2021
Title: New WHO Global Air Quality Guidelines aim to save millions of lives from air pollution
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
22 September 2021
Air pollution is one of the biggest environmental threats to human health, alongside climate change.
New World Health Organization (WHO) Global Air Quality Guidelines (AQGs) provide clear evidence of the damage air pollution inflicts on human health, at even lower concentrations than previously understood. The guidelines recommend new air quality levels to protect the health of populations, by reducing levels of key air pollutants, some of which also contribute to climate change.
Since WHO’s last 2005 global update, there has been a marked increase of evidence that shows how air pollution affects different aspects of health. For that reason, and after a systematic review of the accumulated evidence, WHO has adjusted almost all the AQGs levels downwards, warning that   exceeding the new air quality guideline levels is associated with significant risks to health. At the same time, however, adhering to them could save millions of lives.
Every year, exposure to air pollution is estimated to cause 7 million premature deaths and result in the loss of millions more healthy years of life. In children, this could include reduced lung growth and function, respiratory infections and aggravated asthma. In adults, ischaemic heart disease and stroke are the most common causes of premature death attributable to outdoor air pollution, and evidence is also emerging of other effects such as diabetes and neurodegenerative conditions. This puts the burden of disease attributable to air pollution on a par with other major global health risks such as unhealthy diet and tobacco smoking.
Air pollution is one of the biggest environmental threats to human health, alongside climate change. Improving air quality can enhance climate change mitigation efforts, while reducing emissions will in turn improve air quality. By striving to achieve these guideline levels, countries will be both protecting health as well as mitigating global climate change.
WHO’s new guidelines recommend air quality levels for 6 pollutants, where evidence has advanced the most on health effects from exposure. When action is taken on these so-called classical pollutants – particulate matter (PM), ozone (O₃), nitrogen dioxide (NO₂) sulfur dioxide (SO₂) and carbon monoxide (CO), it also has an impact on other damaging pollutants.
The health risks associated with particulate matter equal or smaller than 10 and 2.5 microns (µm) in diameter (PM₁₀ and PM₂.₅, respectively) are of particular public health relevance. Both PM₂.₅ and PM₁₀ are capable of penetrating deep into the lungs but PM₂.₅ can even enter the bloodstream, primarily resulting in cardiovascular and respiratory impacts, and also affecting other organs. PM is primarily generated by fuel combustion in different sectors, including transport, energy, households, industry, and from agriculture. In 2013, outdoor air pollution and particulate matter were classified as carcinogenic by WHO’s International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC).
The guidelines also highlight good practices for the management of certain types of particulate matter (for example, black carbon/elemental carbon, ultrafine particles, particles originating from sand and dust storms) for which there is currently insufficient quantitative evidence to set air quality guideline levels. They are applicable to both outdoor and indoor environments globally, and cover all settings.
“Air pollution is a threat to health in all countries, but it hits people in low- and middle-income countries the hardest,” said WHO Director-General, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “WHO’s new Air Quality Guidelines are an evidence-based and practical tool for improving the quality of the air on which all life depends. I urge all countries and all those fighting to protect our environment to put them to use to reduce suffering and save lives.”
An unequal burden of disease
Disparities in air pollution exposure are increasing worldwide, particularly as low- and middle-income countries are experiencing growing levels of air pollution because of large-scale urbanization and economic development that has largely relied on the burning of fossil fuels.
“Annually, WHO estimates that millions of deaths are caused by the effects of air pollution, mainly from noncommunicable diseases. Clean air should be a fundamental human right and a necessary condition for healthy and productive societies. However, despite some improvements in air quality over the past three decades, millions of people continue to die prematurely, often affecting the most vulnerable and marginalized populations,” said WHO Regional Director for Europe, Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge. “We know the magnitude of the problem and we know how to solve it. These updated guidelines give policy-makers solid evidence and the necessary tool to tackle this long-term health burden.”
Global assessments of ambient air pollution alone suggest hundreds of millions of healthy life years of life lost, with the greatest attributable disease burden seen in low and middle-income countries. The more exposed to air pollution they are, the greater the health impact, particularly on individuals with chronic conditions (such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and heart disease), as well as older people, children and pregnant women.
In 2019, more than 90% of the global population lived in areas where concentrations exceeded the 2005 WHO air quality guideline for long term exposure to PM₂.₅. Countries with strong policy-driven improvements in air quality have often seen marked reduction in air pollution, whereas declines over the past 30 years were less noticeable in regions with already good air quality.
The road to achieving recommended air quality guideline levels
The goal of the guideline is for all countries to achieve recommended air quality levels. Conscious that this will be a difficult task for many countries and regions struggling with high air pollution levels, WHO has proposed interim targets to facilitate stepwise improvement in air quality and thus gradual, but meaningful, health benefits for the population.
Almost 80% of deaths related to PM₂.₅ could be avoided in the world if the current air pollution levels were reduced to those proposed in the updated guideline, according to a rapid scenario analysis performed by WHO. At the same time, the achievement of interim targets would result in reducing the burden of disease, of which the greatest benefit would be observed in countries with high concentrations of fine particulates (PM₂.₅) and large populations.
Note to editors
Whilst not legally-binding, like all WHO guidelines, AQGs are an evidence-informed tool for policy-makers to guide legislation and policies, in order to reduce levels of air pollutants and decrease the burden of disease that results from exposure to air pollution worldwide. Their development has adhered to a rigorously defined methodology, implemented by a guideline development group. It was based on evidence obtained from six systematic reviews that considered more than 500 papers. The development of these global AQGs was overseen by a steering group led by the WHO European Centre for Environment and Health.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/145658-new-who-global-air-quality-guidelines-aim-save-millions-lives-air-pollution




Date: 13 July 2021
Title: UNICEF signs supply agreement for Sinopharm COVID-19 vaccine
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
13 July 2021
NEW YORK/COPENHAGEN, 12 July 2021 - UNICEF and Sinopharm have signed a long-term agreement for the supply of the BBIBP-CorV inactivated virus vaccine against COVID-19 on behalf of the COVAX Facility.
Through the agreement, UNICEF will have access to up to 120 million doses of the vaccine by the end of 2021 to supply participating countries and territories in the COVAX Facility’s Advance Market Commitment (AMC), as well as self-financing participants.
This is the 7th supply agreement UNICEF has signed for COVID-19 vaccines on behalf of COVAX. Previous agreements have been announced with the Serum Institute of India, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Human Vaccine, Moderna and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV.
The Sinopharm COVID-19 vaccine received a WHO Emergency Use Listing (EUL) in May. On 12 July, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance announced that it had signed an Advance Purchase Agreement with Sinopharm on behalf of the COVAX Facility for the purchase of up to 60 million doses to be made available from July through October 2021. The agreement also includes an option to purchase a further 60 million doses in Q4 2021 and 50 million more doses in the first half of 2022, if necessary. This totals a potential 170 million doses of the Sinopharm vaccine available to COVAX participants.
Deliveries could start as early as August providing countries are ready to receive them. The COVAX Allocation Framework will determine the dose allocations to COVAX participants taking into consideration access, country readiness, vaccine supply through COVAX to date, operating and supply aspects, and other parameters.
The goal of the COVAX Facility is to help address the acute phase of the global pandemic by the end of 2021 by providing rapid, fair and equitable access to safe and effective vaccines for all participating countries and territories regardless of income level.
The COVAX Facility, co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and WHO, together with UNICEF, aims to provide access to quality-assured COVID-19 vaccines, enabling the protection of frontline health care and social workers, as well as other high-risk and vulnerable groups.
######
Notes for editors:
Multimedia materials available here.
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit www.unicef.org. For more information about COVID-19, visit www.unicef.org/coronavirus. Find out more about UNICEF’s work on the COVID-19 vaccines here, or about UNICEF’s work on immunization here.
Follow UNICEF on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube
About the COVAX Facility
COVAX is the vaccines pillar of the Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator, a ground-breaking global collaboration to accelerate the development, production, and equitable access to COVID-19 tests, treatments, and vaccines. COVAX is co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and WHO. Its aim is to accelerate the development and manufacture of COVID-19 vaccines, and to guarantee fair and equitable access for every country in the world. www.who.int/initiatives/act-accelerator/covax. UNICEF, in collaboration with the PAHO Revolving Fund, is leading efforts to procure and supply doses of COVID-19 vaccines on behalf of the COVAX Facility
For more information please contact:
Joe English, UNICEF New York, +1 917 893 0692, jenglish@unicef.org
Anne Sophie Bonefeld, UNICEF Copenhagen, +45 2469 4676, abonefeld@unicef.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/136037-unicef-signs-supply-agreement-sinopharm-covid-19-vaccine




Date: 14 April 2021
Title: UN Resident Coordinator Siddharth Chatterjee presents credentials to President Xi
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
14 April 2021
Siddharth Chatterjee, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in China, has presented credentials to the President of the People’s Republic of China, Xi Jinping, at a ceremony held at the Great Hall of the People today.
Beijing, 14 April 2021 -- Siddharth Chatterjee, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in China, has presented credentials to the President of the People’s Republic of China, Xi Jinping, at a ceremony held at the Great Hall of the People today.
Mr Siddharth Chatterjee took office as the UN Resident Coordinator in China on 16 January 2021. The Resident Coordinator (RC) is the highest-ranking representative of the UN Development System. He is the designated representative of - and reports to - the UN Secretary-General.
The arrival of the new UN Resident Coordinator in China coincides with the first year of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) for the People’s Republic of China 2021-2025, jointly signed between the Government of China and the UN in China. The new UNSDCF will help China meet and respond to new opportunities and challenges presented by its post-2020 development landscape, while preserving gains in the following areas.
The UN in China congratulates China on its’ achievement in the eradication of extreme poverty and stands ready to support China in achieving rural revitalization in coming years. Commending China’s robust public health measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the UN in China also welcomes China’s commitment to make COVID-vaccines a global public good.
Describing China’s recent pledge to achieve peak carbon emissions by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060 as an ambitious agenda, the UN in China assures continued support and cooperation in fulfilling these targets. Understanding the impact of China’s international development cooperation, the UN in China now desires to share China’s development lessons through South-South Cooperation, focusing on Africa.
With this year marking the 50th Anniversary of the Restoration of the Lawful Seat of China in the UN, both sides understand the historical importance of the UN-China relationship and remain committed to the principles of multilateralism, as the two strive towards the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals.
---
Mr Chatterjee has more than 25 years of experience in international cooperation, sustainable development, humanitarian coordination, and peace and security, which he has acquired at the United Nations and externally.
Most recently, he served as United Nations Resident Coordinator in Kenya after holding other leadership positions across the organization, including Resident Representative of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Representative of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) in Kenya, Regional Director for the Middle East and Europe for the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) in Denmark and Chief of Staff in the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI). He also held leadership positions with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in Indonesia, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, and United Nations peacekeeping operations with the United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina (UNMIBH).
Mr Chatterjee has also served in the Red Cross Movement (IFRC) as the Chief Diplomat and Head of Resource Mobilization in Switzerland.
Mr Chatterjee holds a master’s degree in public policy from Princeton University in the United States and a bachelor’s degree from the National Defence Academy in India.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/126792-un-resident-coordinator-siddharth-chatterjee-presents-credentials-president-xi




Date: 30 March 2021
Title: China’s leadership in sustainable development is ‘essential’, says economist Jeffrey Sachs
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
30 March 2021
March 29, 2021 - The United Nations in China hosted a conversation with SDG Advocate Professor Jeffrey Sachs together with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) titled “The SDGs Decade of Action and the Shifting Global Landscape”.
High-level attendees from government, the diplomatic community, think tanks and business convened both in-person and virtually to discuss China’s remarkable economic and social progress, and China’s commitment to share these gains and lessons with the international community. Organizers aimed to encourage a better understanding of China’s implementation of the 2030 Agenda at home and abroad, especially with the African continent.
“China shows a path for how it is possible to make profound transformations for wellbeing in a short period of time. China can and should be a decisive leader in the Sustainable Development Goals”, said Sachs during his keynote remarks.

Sachs emphasized the need for China to focus on the remaining challenges, including protecting the gains of poverty reduction, closing gaps between rural and urban areas, and the necessary transformations required to achieve China’s pledge of carbon neutrality by 2060.
“The agenda is enormous, to keep inequalities restrained, to ensure no one is left behind, and to attend to the manifold environmental crises. We need a new kind of development strategy, one that is more holistic, more goal-based, and taking in long-term objectives. I can’t think of a country better than China at this approach”, said Sachs.
The conversation also sought to examine how the UN should redefine its cooperation with China in this rapidly evolving context, the opportunities to be seized and the challenges to be addressed.
“We are in a race for the Sustainable Development Goals. This is an important moment for us to converge and connect for the prospects that lie ahead”, said Siddharth Chatterjee, UN Resident Coordinator in China, at his opening remarks for the event.
Highlighting his past work as UN Resident Coordinator in Kenya on maternal mortality in collaboration with companies such as Huawei, Merck USA, Phillips, GlaxoSmithKline, Safaricom Foundation and Kenya Healthcare Federation, Chatterjee stressed the importance of partnerships with the public and private sector in spurring human development as part of the China-Africa relationship.
“The new frontier of change is going to be Africa”, said Chatterjee.
Attendees mentioned China’s increasing role on the global stage, prominently displayed by its support in international financing and infrastructure projects such as the Belt and Road Initiative.
“When China wants to do something, it will get it done. China practices multilateralism by deeds, not by words”, said Jin Liqun, President of AIIB.
“The SDGs are of great importance, and we hope that AIIB can play a role in boosting the 2030 Agenda alongside our core values as a lean, clean and green institution.” Added Jin in his remarks.
Following remarks from Sachs, attendees were invited to join a moderated discussion on the issues raised and the importance of international cooperation in the context of the 2030 Agenda.
“COVID-19 has shown us that going it alone does not work. Multilateralism remains the way forward. We share one planet, we share one future, we must stand and act as one”, said Li Baodong, Secretary-General of the Boao Forum for Asia.
“Moving in the spirit of South-South Cooperation can not only reap benefits for Africa at large, but benefit China too on a win-win basis. Here the UN can be the connector”, said Martin Mpana, Ambassador of Cameroon to China.
“No country can achieve the 2030 Agenda on its own. This is not just a task for government, but for the whole of society”, said Signe Brudeset, Ambassador of Norway to China.
Representatives from the Government of China were in attendance, with officials from the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA) participating in the moderated discussions.
“MOFCOM hopes to team up with the UN in China in line with its development framework and strengthen South-South Cooperation”, said Yu Benlin, Director General of the Department of International Trade and Economic Affairs, MOFCOM.
“Together we have a lot to achieve”, said Huang Yiyang, Deputy Director General of the Department of International Economic Affairs, MOFA.
Participating attendees from the Government of China also include the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, the National Food and Strategic Reserves Administration, the China International Development Cooperation Agency, and the China International Council for the Promotion of Multinational Corporations.
The United Nations in China and the Asian Infrastructure Development Bank wishes to thank Professor Jeffrey Sachs and attendees for the fruitful discussion and look forward to facilitating similar conversations in the future on these important issues.

About Jeffrey D. Sachs
Jeffrey D. Sachs is a University Professor and Director of the Center for Sustainable Development at Columbia University, where he directed the Earth Institute from 2002 until 2016. He is also Director of the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network and a commissioner of the UN Broadband Commission for Development. He has been advisor to three United Nations Secretaries-General. He spent over twenty years as a professor at Harvard University, where he received his B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees. He has authored numerous bestseller books, most recently A New Foreign Policy: Beyond American Exceptionalism (2018). Sachs was twice named as Time magazine’s 100 most influential world leaders and was ranked by The Economist among the top three most influential living economists.
About SDG Advocates
The SDG Advocates are 17 inspiring, influential people raising global awareness of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the need for accelerated action.  They use their unique global platforms to raise ambition around the SDGs and reach the most vulnerable first. SDG Advocates are strong public figures dedicated to peace, prosperity and the planet, rallying behind the vision of a better world and inspiring others to do the same.
About UN System in China
The UN System in China consists of over 20 UN entities in China. All UN entities in China work in partnership with governmental and non-governmental organizations at various levels to support the Government to implement its national development objectives as well as Internationally Agreed Development Goals. The UN System will continue to support China to realise the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and to realise innovation-driven, coordinated, green, open, and shared development.
About Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank
The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) is a multilateral development bank whose mission is financing the Infrastructure for Tomorrow—infrastructure with sustainability at its core. AIIB began operations in Beijing in January 2016 and have grown to 103 approved members worldwide. AIIB is capitalized at USD100 billion and Triple-A-rated by the major international credit rating agencies. Working with partners, AIIB meets clients’ needs by unlocking new capital and investing in infrastructure that is green, technology-enabled and promotes regional connectivity.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129523-china%E2%80%99s-leadership-sustainable-development-%E2%80%98essential%E2%80%99-says-economist-jeffrey-sachs




Date: 16 December 2020
Title: Secretary-General appoints Siddharth Chatterjee of India as UN Resident Coordinator in China
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
16 December 2020
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres has appointed Siddharth Chatterjee of India as the United Nations Resident Coordinator in China, with the host Government’s approval.
Beijing, 16 December, 2020 – United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres has appointed Siddharth Chatterjee of India as the United Nations Resident Coordinator in China, with the host Government’s approval. Mr. Chatterjee will arrive in Beijing before the end of January 2021 and will assume the function shortly after his presenting of credentials to the government.
Mr. Chatterjee has more than 25 years of experience in international cooperation, sustainable development, humanitarian coordination and peace and security, which he has acquired at the United Nations and externally. Most recently, he served as United Nations Resident Coordinator in Kenya after holding other leadership positions across the Organization, including Resident Representative of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Representative of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) in Kenya, Regional Director for the Middle East and Europe for the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) in Denmark and Chief of Staff in the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI). He also held leadership positions with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in Indonesia, Somalia, South Sudan and Sudan and in United Nations peacekeeping operations with the United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina (UNMIBH).
Mr. Chatterjee also served in the Red Cross Movement (IFRC) as the Chief Diplomat and Head of Resource Mobilization in Switzerland and before joining the United Nations in 1997, he was a commissioned officer in the Indian Army. A TEDx speaker, he is a regular opinion contributor on humanitarian and development issues for a range of local, regional and international media outlets and journals.
Mr. Chatterjee holds a master’s degree in public policy from Princeton University in the United States of America and a bachelor’s degree from the National Defence Academy in India.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/126849-secretary-general-appoints-siddharth-chatterjee-india-un-resident-coordinator-china




Date: 15 December 2020
Title: Chinese Premiere of SDG Film Inspires Action to Build a Better World
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
15 December 2020
On December 15, the Guangzhou International Documentary Film Festival (GZDOC) with support from the United Nations system in China hosted a special screening of “Nations United: Urgent Solutions for Urgent Times” at Guangzhou Library.
The event provided Chinese audiences with the first opportunity to see the film in person, with organizers aiming to encourage a better understanding of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and promote discussion on China’s efforts and achievements on these subjects.
Produced in partnership with 72 Films, Project Everyone and directed by UN SDG Advocate Richard Curtis, “Nations United” was released to mark the UN’s 75th anniversary and the 5th year since the adoption of the SDGs.
The ‘first of its kind’ film features activists and celebrities who walk audiences through global challenges, from COVID to poverty, inequality, gender discrimination and climate change. “Nations United” uses the SDGs as a blueprint and seeks to focus on the solutions and practical evidence-based actions needed to build a brighter future.
“In these unprecedented times, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals are more relevant than ever”, said Amakobe Sande, interim UN Resident Coordinator in China at her opening speech at the screening. “I hope the film inspires you to join us in this fight. The UN in China stands ready to walk hand in hand with the people of China in equal partnership as we achieve the SDGs together”.
“Nations United” was aired as part of “Imagine2030”, a program launched by GZDOC to promote public awareness and dialogue on critical global issues. “Imagine2030” uses the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development as its framework, hosting film screenings, forums, and educational program in several Chinese cities this year.
Joy Jia Yi, the initiator of the Imagine 2030 from GZDOC explains that documentaries like “Nations United” can move people hearts, turning these issues into vivid stories, visible characters and perceptible media.
In a post-screening panel session for “Nations United”, experts were invited to join an in-depth discussion on the film, the issues that it raises, and the implications in China.
“To achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, we still have a lot to do. We have eliminated absolute poverty, but we still have relative poverty, and our absolute poverty is also a very low standard. This requires all of us to take responsibility and work hard to achieve these goals”, said Tang Min, Deputy Director of the Expert Committee of the State Council Poverty Alleviation Officer, at the panel.

Nations United
“Nations United: Urgent Solutions for Urgent Times” is produced by 72 Films, an award-winning production company which creates innovative, ambitious projects that aim to inspire, entertain and make a positive contribution to the cultural landscape. The company has had previous commissions from the BBC, Netflix and National Geographic, and recently produced “The Rise of the Murdoch Dynasty.”
Project Everyone
Project Everyone was co-founded by writer, director, and SDG Advocate Richard Curtis, Kate Garvey and Gail Gallie with the ambition to help achieve the Global Goals through raising awareness, holding leaders accountable, and driving action. Find out more at www.project-everyone.org.
72 Films
72 Films is an award-winning production company which produces ground-breaking, powerful, sensitively handled and thought-provoking content. Their projects have been nominated for Grierson, Royal Television Society, Broadcast and BAFTA Awards and have won three RTS Awards.
72 Films was founded by David Glover and Mark Raphael who met when they were commissioning editors at Channel 4. They are widely acknowledged as some of the most original programme-makers in British television.
Together they have built a reputation as one of the UK’s leading creative forces, being named as one of Realscreen’s Global 100 production companies of 2019 and nominated for best independent production company at the Broadcast Awards in 2020
Sustainable Development Goals
On 25 September 2015, at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, 193 world leaders committed to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (or Global Goals). These are a series of ambitious objectives and targets to end extreme poverty and hunger, fight inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change, by 2030.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129524-chinese-premiere-sdg-film-inspires-action-build-better-world




Date: 11 December 2020
Title: The United Nations Country Team in China and its partners discuss policy recommendations for Improved food systems amid recovery from the pandemic
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
11 December 2020
Beijing – The UN Country Team in China gathered with its partners to discuss policies and actions to address the complexity and importance of food systems, in particular amid the recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic.
On 11 December, a Policy Dialogue titled ‘China’s Experience in Strengthening Food Systems amid the Response to COVID-19’ took place at the UN Compound in Beijing. Under the auspices of the Resident Coordinator, nine UN entities coordinated by ESCAP’s Centre for Sustainable Agricultural Mechanization (CSAM) invited partners from central and local government, academia, private sector, and think tanks, for a reflection on how to address the fragility of food systems that has been highlighted across the world by the pandemic.
Mr. Li Jinxiang, State Chief Veterinary Officer of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, pointed out that China coordinated the prevention and control of the epidemic while making efforts to ensure the stable production and supply of grain and agricultural products. He also said that China is willing to work with other countries to promote agricultural cooperation, especially South-South cooperation, to a wider range and deeper level under the framework of the United Nations.
Given the particular situation of China, where the recovery from the pandemic’s impacts started remarkably early, the focus of the UN Country Team has also shifted from immediate response to the design of recovery interventions that ‘build back better’, establishing better conditions for ending poverty and accelerating the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
For this purpose, “the whole agricultural value chain – from production to processing and retail – must be put back on a sustainable track and rejuvenated” said Ms. Amakobe Sande, interim UN Resident Coordinator in China, adding that “we must maintain essential food and nutrition services ensuring no one is left behind and that vulnerable segments of the agricultural workforce, elderly workers and women farmers have the capacities and access to solutions such as agricultural machinery and ICT-enabled distribution platforms.”
Much of the attention this year has been focused on health protection as well as the pandemic’s socio-economic impacts and on inclusive recovery, and the dialogue highlighted how these are closely linked to food systems, which also encompass the need to protect ecosystems, biodiversity and heritage agriculture. The event identified recommendations on how to restore robust and resilient food systems, ensure food security for the most vulnerable, and protect ecosystems and food systems. These are meant to be the stepping stone for the work of the United Nations in China towards the global Food Systems Summit in 2021.
For more information, visit:
http://www.un.org.cn/info/6/1115.html
https://www.un.org/en/food-systems-summit
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129525-united-nations-country-team-china-and-its-partners-discuss-policy-recommendations-improved




Date: 25 November 2020
Title: UN-Habitat and China host the 4th High-Level International Forum on Sustainable Urban Development, for Future Cities
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
25 November 2020
On 16 to 17, November, 2020, the Fourth High-Level International Forum on Sustainable Urban Development and Belt and Road Sustainable Cities Alliance Roundtable were successfully held in Chengdu, hosted by the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), China Center for Urban Development (CCUD), and Chengdu Municipal People’s Government, P.R. China.
The forum was guided by National Development and Reform Commission, P.R. China (NDRC), and supported by ICLEI – Local Governments for Sustainability, Energy Foundation China, and United Cities and Local Governments Asia-Pacific. Participants include leaders from the Thirteenth CPPCC National Committee, NDRC, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development, and Ministry of Ecology and Environment, Chinese and foreign cities, international institutions, renowned scholars, and representatives of multinational enterprises. With the theme of " Promoting High-quality Sustainable Development for Open and Sharing Cities of the Future", and the approach of "Chengdu Main Venue + Online Cloud Venue", the forum invited participants to exchange the new demands for sustainable development of future cities under the new circumstance, discuss new models and paths for cities to achieve sustainable development in terms of economic growth, social development, resource utilization and environmental protection, share the latest ideas and best practices of sustainable development of global cities, and build a platform for communication among governments, cities and enterprises.
At the opening ceremony on 16, November, Mr. Wang Fengchao, Deputy Secretary of CPC Chengdu Municipal Committee & Mayor of Chengdu Municipality, P. R. China, delivered a welcome speech. Mr. Su Wei, Deputy Secretary General of the NDRC, and Ms. Maimunah Mohd Sharif, Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations and Executive Director of UN-Habitat, made opening remarks. Mr. Shi Yulong, Director General of the CCUD, moderated the opening ceremony.
On behalf of the Chengdu Municipal People’s Government, Mr. Wang Fengchao extended warm congratulations to the forum. He said that in recent years, Chengdu has deeply engaged in the development of "Belt and Road Initiative", highlighting its sustainable feature of ecology, high quality, people-orientation and resilience, and focusing on the natural and orderly urban growth. These efforts contributed to the exploration of a new era of urban transformation and development paths, and opening a new chapter of sustainable urban development. Chengdu city sincerely expects to strengthen the exchanges and cooperation with international partners to explore new models of sustainable urban development, looks forward to deepening the economic and trade exchanges with the rest of the world to innovate new paths of sustainable urban development, and stays eager to share development opportunities with all sectors of society, and jointly promote the high quality transformation of ecological value, so that urban development and progress can create more value and benefit to the people.
Ms. Maimunah Mohd Sharif, Executive Director of UN-Habitat, delivered an opening remark via video message. She stated that “UN-Habitat are looking forward to continue the collaboration with the Government of China, where we want to see more urban SDGs being accomplished during this Decade of Action. China ability to contain the Pandemic allows it to reinforce its endeavours, with all stakeholders, towards the goal of healthy cities. At the same time, she called upon the Chinese government and the UN-Habitat to work together to pursue high-quality, sustainable urban development and to build open and shared cities of the future.
Mr. Shi Yulong, Director General of the CCUD, pointed out that the forum was held after China has achieved significant strategic progress in fighting against COVID-19. This brought a huge impact on the stable development of global economy and society. At this critical moment, it is particularly important to focus on the city where the progress of human civilization has been achieved and to discuss the way to sustainable development of human society. On the premise of ensuring the safety of the prevention and control of the pandemic, the forum was decided to be held online joint with offline, reflecting the sincere desire to adhere to principles of openness, cooperation and sharing, and to promote the sustainable development of global cities.
After the opening ceremony, Mr. Yang Weimin, Member of Standing Committee of the Thirteenth CPPCC, and Deputy Director General of Subcommittee of Economy of CPPCC, and Mr. Edward Glaeser, Professor of Harvard University and a world-renowned urban economist, offered the keynote speeches on "Promoting High Quality Sustainable Development for Open and Shared Cities of the Future".
The Forum also included the Presentation on Garden City & Sustainable Development. During the presentation, Mr. Xie Ruiwu, Member of the Standing Committee of CPC Chengdu Municipal Committee & Executive Vice Mayor of Chengdu Municipality, shared with the guests the latest ideas and practical experience in building a Garden City demonstration area in Chengdu, elaborated on the strategy from Chengdu City of "How to Build a Modern City and What Kind of Modern City to Build" in new historical conditions, and shared great opportunities brought by the development of the Garden City demonstration area with domestic and foreign cities under the principles of openness and win-win cooperation.
UN-Habitat and CCUD selected Zunyi City, Guizhou Province as the third batch of International Pilot Cities Project on Sustainable Development.
On 17 November, the Belt and Road Sustainable Cities Alliance Roundtable was held under the theme of "Create A New Dual Development Pattern of Internal and External Circulations through Openness and Connectivity". Representatives from co-founders of the Belt and Road Sustainable Cities Alliance, including the UN-Habitat, WHO, ICLEI – Local Governments for Sustainability, and Energy Foundation, together with mayors from international and domestic cities, engaged in discussions and best cases sharing, moderated by Mr. Wang Jinsong, Deputy Director General of CCUD. Four parallel sessions were successfully organized in the forum, which were Foster New Urban Growth Drivers with Innovation and Intelligent Technologies, Strengthen Cities’ Comprehensive Carrying Capacity through Coordination and Cooperation, Enhance Urban Resilience in Green and Healthy Approaches, and Improve Citizens’ Sense of Fulfilment through Sharing and Engagement. Mr. Zhang Zhenshan, UN-Habitat Programme Manager for China moderated the session of Innovation and Intelligent Technologies, and Mr. Ying Sheng, National Officer shared the Future Cities Advisory Outlook 2020-Urban Technologies in China, the first report developed by UN-Habitat China Future Cities Council.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129526-un-habitat-and-china-host-4th-high-level-international-forum-sustainable-urban-development




Date: 30 October 2020
Title: 2020 UN Day: Shaping Our Future Together
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
30 October 2020
Beijing, 30 October 2020 – Today the United Nations in China celebrates the entry into force of the UN Charter. With its ratification in 1945, the United Nations came into being. 24 October has been marked as UN Day since 1948. For 75 years, the UN has worked tirelessly to fulfil the enduring vision of the Charter; to protect peace, promote cooperation and create the conditions to achieve higher standards of living for all. At today’s reception in Beijing, guests came together for the special anniversary.
This year’s anniversary takes place at a time of colossal challenges brought about by COVID-19.  As countries around the world work to safeguard lives and livelihoods, the UN is resolved to build a fairer, more sustainable post-COVID world. “The case for re-invigorated multilateralism has never been stronger but so too is the call for getting back on course in this Decade of Action, to deliver on the Sustainable Development Goals.  We must use recovery efforts to examine how we build back better and in so doing ensure that we leave no one behind, and also that we leave no country behind.”, said Amakobe Sande, UN Resident Coordinator ad interim in China in her welcoming remarks. She commended China for two important developments in its pursuit of the SDGs: its tremendous achievements on rural poverty alleviation and its commitment to climate action and achieving carbon neutrality by 2060. She underscored the UN’s unwavering commitment to work with the Government of China towards SDG achievement.
Around 200 participants from UN agencies, government, the diplomatic corps, international organizations, the private sector and the media joined the event. H.E. Ma Zhaoxu, Vice Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China, delivered a video address to attendees.
“China advocates sustainable development; more importantly, we put the vision into practice. We have integrated the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development into our long-term development strategy so that while pursuing China’s own development, we can contribute to and generate momentum for global prosperity.”, said H.E. Ma Zhaoxu.
In 2020, the UN launched the global UN75 initiative. People from all walks of life were asked about their hopes and fears for the future. More than one-million people from all UN member states responded to the question “The Future We Want, The UN We Need”. Also in China, activities were organized such as the UN75 Youth Dialogue series hosted by 12 UN entities in China and viewed almost 50 million times online. More recently, the UN in China launched the “Post Your 2045” campaign on social media also promoting the one-minute survey found at cn.un75.online This campaign encourages the public to express their vision of the future they want in just one minute.
Installations on site enabled attendees to observe visions shared by the public for the “Post Your 2045” campaign as well as the UN75 photo gallery, “The World We Want”. Exhibition stands in the venue set-up by UN agencies in China allowed guests to see the work of the UN on the ground.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129527-2020-un-day-shaping-our-future-together




Date: 18 September 2020
Title: United Nations Launches 2020 Class of 17 Young Leaders for the Sustainable Development Goals
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
18 September 2020
18 September 2020, UN Headquarters, New York — The United Nations today announced the names of the latest class of 17 Young Leaders for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
On a biennial basis, the Office of the Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth recognizes 17 young change- makers who are leading efforts to combat the world's most pressing issues and whose leadership is catalyzing the achievement of the SDGs.
“As the UN marks its 75th anniversary during unprecedented times, the 2020 Young Leaders for the SDGs are a clear example of how young people are leading the way in shaping a more sustainable and inclusive future for all,” said Jayathma Wickramanayake, the UN Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth. ”Despite being disproportionately impacted by COVID-19, young people around the world continue to demonstrate immense resilience, resourcefulness and leadership in finding innovative solutions to recover better and achieve the SDGs.”
These young leaders — between the ages of 18 and 29 years old — represent the diverse voices of young people from every region of the world, and are collectively responsible for activating millions of young people in support of the SDGs. This group will come together as a community to support efforts to engage young people in the realization of the SDGs both through strategic opportunities with the UN and through their existing initiatives, platforms and networks.
The 2020 Young Leaders for the SDGs are:
●  AY Young, 29, United States
●  Hadiqa Bashir, 18, Pakistan
●  İlayda Eskitaşçıoğlu, 26, Turkey
●  Jichen Liu, 23, China
●  Lester Philipp Vargas Angeles, 24, Peru
●  Loay Radwan, 21, Egypt
●  Mariama Djambony Badji, 22, Senegal
●  Martin Karadzhov, 27, Bulgaria
●  Oluwaseun Ayodeji Osowobi, 29, Nigeria
●  Ralf Toenjes, 28, Brazil
●  Satta Sheriff, 22, Liberia
●  Siena Castellon, 18, Ireland
●  Tania Rosas, 29, Colombia
●  Tim Lo Surdo, 26, Australia
●  Udit Singhal, 18, India
●  Vanessa Nakate, 23, Uganda
●  Zahin Razeen, 22, Bangladesh
More information on the 2020 Young Leaders for the SDGs, including the full profiles of the Young Leaders and their commitments to advancing the SDGs, is available at un.org/youthenvoy/about-the-young-leaders-for-the-sdgs.
About the Office of the UN Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth
In 2017, the UN Secretary-General appointed Jayathma Wickramanayake of Sri Lanka as his Special Envoy on Youth and as the youngest senior official in the history of the organization.
Ms. Wickramanayake's mandate is to harmonize the UN system efforts on youth development, enhance the UN response to youth needs, advocate for the development needs and rights of young people, as well as to bring the work of the United Nations on youth closer to them. The Envoy on Youth also acts as the advisor to and the representative of the Secretary-General on youth related matters.
For more information, follow @UNYouthEnvoy on social media and visit our website at un.org/youthenvoy.
Media Contact
Office of the Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth Matthew Hunter
+1 (631) 829-4275
matthew.hunter@un.org

Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129528-united-nations-launches-2020-class-17-young-leaders-sustainable-development-goals




Date: 10 September 2020
Title: ESCAP-CSAM’s ReCAMA Initiative Cited among “Good Practices in South-South and Triangular Cooperation for Sustainable Development”
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
10 September 2020
10 September 2020 - The ‘Regional Council of Agricultural Machinery Associations in Asia and the Pacific’ (ReCAMA), an initiative of the Centre for Sustainable Agricultural Mechanization of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP-CSAM), has been selected by the United Nations Office for South-South Cooperation (UNOSSC) as a good practice in its latest compilation of good practices from across the globe.
ReCAMA has been cited in the third volume of the publication “Good Practices in South-South and Triangular Cooperation for Sustainable Development” launched by UNOSSC in New York on 10 September 2020 to commemorate the United Nations Day for South-South Cooperation. Close to 200 good practices contributed by Member States, United Nations agencies and other development partners have been included in the publication following a screening process. This publication is the biggest compilation of the series to date which significantly expands the South-South knowledge base across all SDGs, highlighting innovation solutions, and showcasing a greater diversity of partners now leveraging South-South and triangular cooperation for development.
The publication is available at https://www.unsouthsouth.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/Good-Practices-in-SSTC-for-Sustainable-Development-Vol.-3-2020-Digital-Light-FINAL.pdf (please see “Private Sector Engagement in Sustainable Agricultural Mechanization for the Sustainable Development Goals ” from ESCAP-CSAM on p. 71-72).
ReCAMA seeks to strengthen the engagement of the private sector in sustainable agricultural mechanization for attainment of the SDGs. At its core, it represents a network of private sector agricultural machinery associations in the Asia-Pacific region including manufacturers, distributors and other relevant stakeholders. Launched in 2014, and currently having 20 members from 14 countries, ReCAMA has been working to strengthen the capacity of national agricultural machinery associations, facilitate exchange of knowledge and information and enhance business connections and regional trade and investment. Under the initiative, training, study tours, research, and business matching events are undertaken to facilitate knowledge exchange and regional trade among the members. According to a recent survey conducted in 2020, as a result of connections established through various targeted activities, ReCAMA has facilitated regional trade valued at around USD 30,000,000 among the members. More information about ReCAMA is available at http://recama.un-csam.org/.
This is the second time that an ESCAP-CSAM initiative has been selected as a good practice by UNOSSC, following inclusion of the Centre’s ‘Asian and Pacific Network for Testing of Agricultural Machinery’ (ANTAM) initiative in the second volume of the same publication in 2018.

Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129939-escap-csam%E2%80%99s-recama-initiative-cited-among-%E2%80%9Cgood-practices-south-south-and-triangular




Date: 27 August 2020
Title: Digital Finance, a Lifeline during COVID-19 Crisis, Can Deliver Long-term Financing of the Sustainable Development Goals
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
27 August 2020
Unleashing potential of digital finance could have transformational impact on sustainable development says group of financial, business, government and development leaders convened by the UN Secretary-General
New York City, 26 August - The unprecedented social and economic crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has put a spotlight on the role of digital finance in providing relief for millions around the world, supporting businesses and protecting jobs and livelihoods.
While the pandemic demonstrates the immediate benefits of digital finance, the disruptive potential of digitalization in transforming finance is immense. Mobile payment technologies have transformed mobile phones into financial tools for more than a billion people. Digital is supporting big data and artificial intelligence in advancing cryptocurrencies and crypto-assets, peer-to-peer lending, crowdfunding platforms, and online marketplaces. Banks have invested over US$1 trillion in developing, integrating and acquiring emerging technologies. In 2018, ‘fintech’ investment reached US$120 billion, one third of global venture capital funding.
Today a new report, “People’s Money: Harnessing Digitalization to Finance a Sustainable Future”, by the UN Secretary-General’s Task Force on Digital Finance sets out an ambitious, practical Action Agenda. Centrally, it spells out how digital finance can be harnessed in ways that empower citizens as tax-payers and investors in envisaging a digital transformation at scale that better aligns people’s money with their needs, collectively expressed by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The report highlights how billions of people around the world are responding to the COVID-19 pandemic using digital tools to work, spend and socialize. It argues there is an historic opportunity to harness digitalization in placing citizens, the ultimate owners of the world's financial resources, in control of finance to ensure that it meets their needs, today and in the future.
The Task Force identifies five catalytic opportunities for harnessing digitalization in aligning financing with the SDGs. Together they cover much of global finance:
·       Aligning the vast pools flowing through global capital markets with the SDGs.
·       Increasing the effectiveness and accountability of public finance that makes up a major part of the global economy.
·       Channeling digitally-aggregated domestic savings into long-term development finance.
·       Informing citizens how to link their consumer spending with the SDGs.
·       Accelerating the lifeblood financing for the employment and income-generating world of small and medium-sized businesses.
The Task Force’s Action Agenda is a call to action to businesses, policy-makers and those governing finance to do what it takes to deliver on these opportunities. It spells out not only the ‘what’ but also the ‘how’: investments, new capabilities and governance innovations can get the job done.
The Task Force concludes that harnessing digitalization for the good is a choice, not an inevitability driven by technology.  Its Action Agenda points to actions needed to overcome digital risks that, unmitigated, could deepen exclusion, discrimination and inequalities, and separate finance further from the needs of an inclusive, sustainable development.
Leadership Quotes
UN Secretary-General, António Guterres said: “Digital technologies, which are revolutionizing financial markets, can be a game-changer in meeting our shared objectives. The Task Force on Digital Financing of the Sustainable Development Goals provides leadership to harness the digital revolution.“
Maria Ramos, Co-Chair of the UN Secretary-General’s Task Force on Digital Finance said: “We have an historic opportunity to accelerate and expand the transformative impact of digitalization. In particular, digital finance, which in this crisis became the lifeline for millions across the world, extends the boundaries of financial inclusion by empowering citizens as savers, investors, borrowers, lenders and tax-payers in a way that gives them choice and power over their money.”
Achim Steiner, Administrator of UNDP and Co-Chair of the UN Secretary-General’s Task Force on Digital Finance said: “Digital finance's dramatic potential for transformative impact is being revealed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Digital transfers enable governments to get support to people in need, crowdfunding platforms have mobilized funds for medical supplies and emergency relief, and algorithmic lending means small businesses have quicker access to funds. The speed of the recent spread of these technologies is astonishing, but progress is not automatic. For digitalization to be a true force for delivering on the Sustainable Development Goals, technological advances must combine with sound policy that empowers citizens and enables our financial system to meet the urgent investment challenges that must be overcome to build forward better.”
The Report
An embargoed copy of the summary report is available to journalists (download here). Please note the report and all media materials are under strict embargo until 10:00am EDT, 26th August 2020
The full report and summary will be available at www.digitalfinancingtaskforce.orgfrom 10am EDT on 26th August 2020.
Media Contacts
For more information or to schedule an interview:
In New York
Dylan Lowthian dylan.lowthian@undp.org +1 646 673 6350
Duygu Celik duygu.celik@uncdf.org +1 646 939 6645
In Geneva
Sarah Bel sarah.bel@undp.org +41 79 934 11 17
Editors’ Notes
The report will be launched in New York City by the UN Secretary-General António Guterres. and the two Task Force Co-Chairs Achim Steiner, UNDP administrator and Maria Ramos, until recently CEO of ABSA Group.
They will be joined by four Task Force members, in a discussion moderated by Simon Zadek, head of the Task Force Secretariat:
·       Patrick Njoroge, Governor, Central Bank of Kenya
·       Natalie Jabangwe, Chief Executive Officer, EcoCash
·       Eric Jing, Executive Chairman, Ant Group
·       Ceyla Pazarbasioglu, Vice President for Equitable Growth, Finance and Institutions at the World Bank Group
About the Task Force
The Task Force was established by the UN Secretary General to recommend and catalyse ways to harness digitalization in accelerating financing of the SDGs. It brought together 17 leaders from across finance, technology, policy, regulation and international development and engaged in dozens of countries with hundreds of financial institutions, governments and regulators, civil society organizations, think tanks and expert groups.
It is co-chaired by Achim Steiner (UNDP Administrator) and Maria Ramos (until recently CEO of ABSA Group). Its members are Maiava Atalina Emma Ainuu-Enari (Governor and Chair of the Board of the Central Bank of Samoa) Henrietta H. Fore (Director of UNICEF), Mats Granryd (Director General of the mobile communications industry association GSMA), Piyush Gupta (CEO DBS Bank), Natalie Jabangwe (CEO of EcoCash), Eric Jing (Executive Chairman, Ant Group) Bradley Katsuyama (Founder and CEO IEX), Pooma Kimis (Director , Autonomous Research), Liu Zhenmin (Under Secretatry General UN DESA), Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka (UN Under-Secretary-General, UN Women), Ambareen Musa (Founder and CEO, Souqalmal), Patrick Njoroge (Governnor Central Bank of Kenya), Ceyla Pazarbasioglu (Vice-President, World Bank), Richard Samans (Managing Director and Member of the Managing Board, WEF) Aurelie Adam Soule Zoumarou (Minister of Digital Economy and Communications, Government of Benin) .
Task Force members are acting in a personal capacity.
We thank Germany, Italy and Switzerland for their generous funding and support to the Task Force.
A number of Pathfinder Initiatives have been initiated in association with the Task Force that exemplify ambitious action in implementing the Action Agenda.
·       Bangladesh is exploring how to harness digitalization to channel domestic
micro-savings into investments in sustainable infrastructure, such as roads or bridges, sanitation systems or hospitals. The approach could deliver significant reductions in the cost of capital, as well as economic multiplier effects as dividends flow to poorer Bangladeshi citizens, alongside the benefit of improvements to their area.
·       Zimbabwe’s leading payments platform, EcoCash, with inputs from the digital investor exchange IEX and UNCDF, has launched a world-first stock exchange that draws on automatically generated payments data from businesses to provide robust due diligence and credit ratings for prospective listings. It hopes to provide a much-needed debt and equity financing window for fast growing and innovative Zimbabwean SMEs.
·       The Gambia Pathfinder Initiative is focused on advancing financial inclusion by ensuring a supportive policy environment and promoting private sector investment in digital infrastructure and citizen-centric, innovative digital financing products and services. The initiative is driven by Task Force members EcoCash, UN Women and the mobile telecoms industry group GSMA with support from UNCDF.
·       The Central Bank of Kenya is working to foster a regional digital financing ecosystem to encourage digital financing innovation by strengthening local demand and offering access to larger markets. The Central Bank has promoted international cooperation and established strong ties with MAS, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, to advance Singapore-East Africa cooperation.
·       Refinitiv is taking forward a Digital Governance of Infrastructure initiative ‘Infrastructure 360’. It provides trusted information and insight on over 60,000 projects, integrating data on project finance, deals, loans, due diligence, risk profiles and macroeconomic, geopolitical and operational risk with ESG metrics  to help investors, governments and citizens make sustainable investment decisions.
·       The Green Digital Finance Alliance has developed a measurement framework which assesses infrastructure, policy and investments enabling sustainable digital finance. Information gathered helps shape policy and regulatory design aimed at aligning digital finance with national SDG priorities and generate knowledge around sustainable digital finance practices.
·       The International Dialogue on Global Digital Finance has been developed through the leadership of the governments of Kenya and Switzerland.  It seeks to facilitate a balanced and more inclusive dialogue, particularly involving developing nations, on SDG- aligned governance of global digital finance platforms.
Key facts and figures
·       The aggregate global pool of domestic savings is around US$23.3 trillion.
·       There is more than US$200 trillion in private capital invested in global financial markets, often at negligible rates of return
·       Over a third (35%) of US public equities trades are already run by computer-managed funds.
·       Over the past decade informed citizens have driven demand for sustainable investments reaching over US$30 trillion in 2018, green bonds so far issued for over US$770 billion and impact investing estimated at US$715 billion in 2019.
·       A recent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau study found that digitally enhanced scoring resulted in 27% more loan approvals with 16% lower interest rates across all customer segments.
·       The IMF has estimated the value from digitalizing government payments in developing countries at US$220-$320 billion annually or 1.5% of revenues. Switching from cash to electronic delivery of government benefits generates roughly 40% in savings per transaction.
·       In Brazil, switching from cash to electronic cards for distributing the Bolsa Familia (social welfare payments) led to a seven-fold reduction in administrative costs of from 14.7%to nearly 2.6%.
·       The Alipay Ant Forest platform has 550 million users who have collectively reduced carbon emissions by almost 11 million tons by March 2020.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129940-digital-finance-lifeline-during-covid-19-crisis-can-deliver-long-term-financing-sustainable




Date: 13 August 2020
Title: Young People in China Leading the Charge on the Sustainable Development Goals - 2020 International Youth Day Dialogue on Youth Engagement for Global Action
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
13 August 2020
Beijing, 12 August 2020 – In celebration of International Youth Day, an event hosted by the United Nations in China together with Xinhua News Agency’s Voices in China programme and Tencent broadcasts today, titled the “2020 International Youth Day Dialogue”.
Organized as a key part of UN China’s work towards the UN75 initiative, the dialogue invited six Chinese Youth Advocates for the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to share their experience in an open forum and discuss their vision for a sustainable future. This dialogue seeks to promote broader youth participation in China on the achievement of the SDGs adopted in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Since its first commemoration in 2000, International Youth Day has sought to champion the unique voices, issues and action of young people, as well as call for their inclusion in the global decision-making process. Today’s dialogue discussed the theme of this year’s International Youth Day, “Youth Engagement for Global Action”, which seeks to highlight how the engagement of young people can occur at the local, national and global level in order to drive lasting change. In his statement for International Youth Day, Secretary-General António Guterres said, “realizing the promise of this generation means investing far more in young people’s inclusion, participation, organizations and initiatives.”
In 2020, the UN marks its 75th anniversary in a time where the lives of young people in China and across the world continue to be upended by the COVID-19 pandemic. With only ten years remaining to make the 2030 Agenda reality, the UN75 initiative was launched to build the world’s biggest conversation on these global challenges and promote greater international cooperation. Listening to the voices of all during such challenging times has required greater online engagement of youth audiences and has been a key global priority for UN75. For its part, UN China has undertaken several efforts to involve the citizens of China in this global conversation, including the digital promotion of the one-minute survey.
Since pre-launched in May, a series of innovative discussions were hosted by 12 UN entities in China with young people as part of UN75 in the “Chinese Youth Dialogue on the Future”. These dialogues saw selected youth representatives showcase their creativity and ingenuity in designing solutions to address the world’s challenges and interacting with UN representatives and national experts and key opinion leaders. The diverse array of issues and formats featured include a debate on youth innovation and entrepreneurship, a poetry contest on the need for comprehensive sexuality education, and the presentation of proposals that reduce food waste and explore food sustainability. Participating UN entities in China include IFAD, ILO, UNAIDS, UNDP, UNEP, UNFPA, UN-Habitat, UNICEF, UNOSSC, UNV, UN Women and WFP. The “2020 International Youth Day Dialogue” is the culmination of these efforts and sees UN China building on these successes, by partnering with young individuals who are innovators in their fields to share their perspectives on the SDGs for an event that will be seen in the millions, with the hope to inspire a new generation of young leaders.
During the event, 19-year-old Zhao Chen, who participated in the “Chinese Youth Dialogue on the Future”, spoke from his own experience to highlight the everyday difficulties faced by more than 17 million visually impaired people in China. He noted that the increasing availability of accessibility-based technologies warms his outlook on the future and hoped that one day with the greater use of tech for good, he and others would no longer feel or be “physically challenged”.
Participating Youth Advocates who also discussed their ideas at the dialogue include naval marine Song Xi, government official Jin Dafu, author Yuan Ye, actor Yu Haoming and singer Curley Gao. Ms Gao also performed towards the conclusion of the event with a SDG-themed song titled “2030, I Want to Tell You”.
“The SDGs remain a significant priority for the UN and for the many brilliant young people here with us today who will inherit the planet of tomorrow. I’m glad to see Xinhua News Agency and Tencent join hands with the UN in China, to champion the unique voices of young people on the SDGs.”, stated Dr. Babatunde Ahonsi, interim UN Resident Coordinator in China.
"We are delighted to join hands with the United Nations in China in providing a stage for Chinese youth to express their ideas to the world. On 4 May the Chinese Youth Day, we invited all Chinese youth aged 15-24 to submit their initiatives - 700,000 applications and 10,361 initiatives were received within just one month. I hope to see these new ideas aiming at solving global issues will attract more attention and translate into concrete actions." said Li Hang, General Manager of Corporate Marketing and Public Relations of Tencent and Vice Chairman of the Tencent Youth Development Committee.
Video of the “2020 International Youth Day Dialogue” will be jointly released by Xinhua News Agency’s “Voices in China” and Lichun Studio of Tencent News, and be available on the Xinhua News Agency app, its website, Weibo and other platforms as well as on Tencent Video and Tencent News.
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi Li, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in China
Tel +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Ms. Lin Wen, Senior Brand Manager of Corporate Marketing and Public Relations of Tencent
Tel+ 86755-86013388，Email: ninawlin@tencent.com
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129941-young-people-china-leading-charge-sustainable-development-goals-2020-international-youth-day




Date: 24 July 2020
Title: UN-African Ambassadors’ Dialogue on the UN Framework for the Immediate Socio-economic Response to COVID-19
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
24 July 2020
Beijing, 22 July 2020 – A Dialogue between the UN in China and the African Ambassadors in Beijing was held today about the UN Framework for the Immediate Socio-economic Response to COVID-19.

It was organized in partnership with the African Union Mission in China and the UN Economic Commission for Africa (ECA). Dr. Vera Songwe, Under Secretary-General of the United Nations and Executive Secretary of the UNECA, Mr. Rahamtalla M. Osman, African Union Representative, Dr. Babatunde Ahonsi, UN Resident Coordinator in China a.i. and over 40 ambassadors and senior officials from African countries and UN Country Team joined the meeting online and in person at the UN Compound.
The world is now grappling with the devastating consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic: the tens of thousands of lost lives; the broken families; the overwhelmed hospitals; the overworked essential workers and the soaring unemployment rate. Across the world , the pandemic has deepened inequalities within and between countries, exacerbated, and reversed the progress of poverty reduction.
As the first country to suffer the impact of COVID-19 and as one of the first to emerge from the worst period of socioeconomic shock, China is well positioned to provide expertise for recovery, through actions including tight epidemic control and containment, phased loosening of control measures, and a staggered return to production and work. These measures could offer potential lessons for countries in Africa, to be adapted to fit local contexts and capacities. China’s recovery has not been complete, and the health and socio-economic challenges that remain, particularly in regard to vulnerable population groups, will be of great relevance to partner countries.
The dialogue offered a timely opportunity for UN and African officials to exchange views on how China’s experience in the pandemic period could be adapted by countries in Africa; what role could China play to help Africa in combating COVID-19 apart from providing medical supplies; and how could China, UN and Africa could work together under the widely adopted UN Socioeconomic Framework to prioritize and sequence policy responses to COVID-19 and post-pandemic recovery.
Dr. Vera Songwe recognized China’s contributions to Africa through donation of critical medical supplies and the debt service suspension initiative (DSSI). She stated in her remarks that the UN family will continue its contributions to support ‘building back better’ and noted that UNECA has already initiated important avenues of collaboration between the UN and Chinese entities on the African continent. The African Union Representative highlighted the need for a comprehensive multi-sectoral set of interventions that goes into the medium- and long-term, incorporating the involvement and expertise from both private and public sectors, to equalise opportunities and ensure human security.
“There is a real need for coordinated global response, especially on debt sustainability for low and lower middle-income countries” stressed Dr. Babatunde Ahonsi, UN Resident Coordinator in China a.i., who also added “We will keep to the commitments we have made and follow up on sharing best practices and ideas for engagement on adapting the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) action plan, going down to country-level impacts.”
Participating embassies and UN agencies shared recent findings of impact studies from respective specialized fields and discussed the priority areas for China, UN and Africa to work together in response to COVID-19 and the aftermath recovery.
For further information, please contact:
Ms. Louise Xi LI, Head of Communications, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office
Tel: +8610-85320725, Email: xi.li@un.org
Mr. Marco Silvestri, Head of Office, a.i., UN Resident Coordinator’s Office
Tel: +8610-85320712, Email: silvestrim@un.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129952-un-african-ambassadors%E2%80%99-dialogue-un-framework-immediate-socio-economic-response-covid-19




Date: 22 April 2020
Title: New IFAD Fund Launched to Help Prevent Rural Food Crisis in Wake of COVID-19
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
22 April 2020
Rome, 20 April 2020 - With the COVID-19 pandemic and economic slowdown threatening the lives and livelihoods of the world’s most vulnerable people, the UN’s International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) today committed US$40 million, and launched an urgent appeal for additional funds, to support farmers and rural communities to continue growing and selling food.
IFAD’s new multi-donor fund, the COVID-19 Rural Poor Stimulus Facility, will mitigate the effects of the pandemic on food production, market access and rural employment.  As part of the broader UN socio-economic response framework, the Facility will ensure that farmers in the most vulnerable countries have timely access to inputs, information, markets and liquidity. On top of its own contribution, IFAD aims to raise at least $200 million more from Member States, foundations and the private sector.
“We need to act now to stop this health crisis transforming into a food crisis,” said Gilbert F. Houngbo, President of IFAD. “The fallout from COVID-19 may push rural families even deeper into poverty, hunger and desperation, which is a real threat to global prosperity and stability. With immediate action, we can provide rural people with the tools to adapt and ensure a quicker recovery, averting an even bigger humanitarian crisis.”
With their movements restricted to contain further spread of the virus, many small-scale farmers are unable to access markets to sell produce or to buy inputs, such as seeds or fertilizer. Closures of major transport routes and export bans are also likely to affect food systems adversely. As entire production chains are disrupted and unemployment rises, the most vulnerable include daily labourers, small businesses and informal workers, who are very often women and young people. The return of workers from cities affected by lockdowns will put further strain on rural households, which will also stop receiving much needed remittances.
About 80 percent of the world’s poorest and most food insecure people live in rural areas. Even before the outbreak, more than 820 million people were going hungry every day. A recent United Nations University study warned that in a worst-case scenario, the economic impact of the pandemic could push a further half-billion people into poverty.
“This pandemic is threatening the gains we have made in reducing poverty over the past years. To avoid serious disruption to rural economies, it is essential to ensure agriculture, food chains, markets and trade continue to function,” said Houngbo.
“A majority of the world’s most impoverished people are already suffering the consequences of climate change and conflict. An economic downturn in rural areas could compound these effects, generating more hunger and increasing instability, especially in fragile states.”
The Rural Poor Stimulus Facility will focus on the following activities:
IFAD has significant experience in working in fragile situations improving the resilience of rural populations. For example, in Sierra Leone during the Ebola outbreak, IFAD-supported banks were the sole providers of banking and financial services in affected areas. They provided timely assistance during the outbreak and supported the renewal of the rural economy after the crisis passed.
Even before the COVID-19 pandemic, IFAD was already stepping up its programmes and calling on member states to increase investments in rural development to achieve Sustainable Development Goal 2 – ending hunger.
“A timely response to the pandemic is an opportunity to rebuild the world’s food systems along more sustainable and inclusive lines and build the resilience of rural populations to crisis, whether related to health, climate or conflict,” said Houngbo.
IFAD has received requests from governments in more than 65 countries to help respond to the impact of the pandemic. It has already adapted its projects and diverted funds to support this.
PR/20/2020
IFAD invests in rural people, empowering them to reduce poverty, increase food security, improve nutrition and strengthen resilience. Since 1978, we have provided US$22.4 billion in grants and low-interest loans to projects that have reached an estimated 512 million people. IFAD is an international financial institution and a United Nations specialized agency based in Rome – the United Nations food and agriculture hub.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129953-new-ifad-fund-launched-help-prevent-rural-food-crisis-wake-covid-19




Date: 26 March 2020
Title: China’s Global Business and Disability Network ready to establish its first Inclusive Employment Resource Centre
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
26 March 2020
The 20 enterprise members of the ILO GBDN-China have decided to establish the first inclusive employment resource center to promote the employment of persons with disabilities and mitigate the impact on persons with disabilities by COVID-19.
25 March 2020, BEIJING (ILO News) – While the COVID-19 is posing new challenges to persons with disabilities, the 20 enterprise members of the ILO Global Business and Disability Network – China Chapter (GBDN-China) have decided to steer up their efforts in promoting the employment of persons with disabilities by establishing the first inclusive employment resource center.
The Center, an interactive online platform named CREATIVE, is scheduled to open on May 1 to fulfill four main functions. First, it will help enterprises find the persons they need. Second, it will conduct evidence-based research on business and disability including on coaching skills and career development systems for persons with disabilities. Third, it will organize training programmes for business HR management, service providers, job coaching teams and persons with disabilities. Lastly, it will offer opportunities for youth with disability to increase their skills and experience through internships, job shadowing and on-the-job training.
The establishment of this new Center follows a number of initiatives recently undertaken by GBDN-China. Last December, a new project entitled “Path to success: Create a strong eco-system for persons with disabilities” was launched. Funded by Standard Chartered Global Business Services and implemented by GBDN-China, the project was adapted to mitigate the COVID-19 risks faced by persons with disabilities and improve their ability to recover after the epidemic. Already more than 50,000 youth with disabilities took part in the proposed on-line courses and webinars, and the e-platform has already gathered 2,627 home-based employment opportunities from the GBDN partners.
As always, GBDN-China works in alliance with more than 50 like-minded organisations throughout China, including organizations of people with disabilities, and together they recently launched the campaign “Working Hard to Fight Covid-2019 & Assist the Blind”. Despite its tragic impact, the epidemic has brought people together and it is on that spirit of unity and solidarity that the Resource Center will rely.
For more information please contact: Celine HUANG from GBDN-China Secretariat
Phone：86-18500361742
Email：huangshuling@easyinclusionchina.com
WeChat：guiling2012forever
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129955-china%E2%80%99s-global-business-and-disability-network-ready-establish-its-first-inclusive




Date: 15 March 2020
Title: WFP Provides Lifesaving Medical Equipment Supporting China’s Response to COVID-19
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
15 March 2020
BEIJING, 15 MARCH 2020- The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) is providing lifesaving medical equipment worth US$500,000 to help China’s frontline hospitals in Hubei support the Government’s effort to combat COVID-19.
Supporting the Government in the treatment of severe cases of COVID-19, WFP is providing extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) equipment and non-invasive ventilators (NIV) for treating critically-ill patients. The first batch of 50 NIV was delivered from Beijing and handed over to Hubei Charity Federation today. ECMO equipment is scheduled to arrive in Wuhan on 18 March.
“WFP is working closely with the Chinese Government to ensure assistance is aligned with the country’s national priorities, including mitigating the long-term consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic on the livelihoods of smallholder farmers in rural areas,” said WFP’s Country Director in China, Sixi Qu.
WFP stands ready to support the Government of China and the office in Beijing is in close contact with relevant authorities to provide emergency support and assist with the procurement of much needed medical equipment.
“In addition to medical equipment, WFP is also providing strategic air transport of critical items.  Our expertise and tools will also be used for a joint assessment of COVID-19,” said Qu.
The COVID-19 outbreak has been devastating and requires an unprecedented response. In February, the heads of the UN Rome-based agencies - the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the UN, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and WFP - issued a statement to express solidarity with China and pledge support.
The United Nations World Food Programme - saving lives in emergencies and changing lives for millions through sustainable development. WFP works in more than 80 countries around the world, feeding people caught in conflict and disasters, and laying the foundations for a better future.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Media and on Weibo and Wechat:  @联合国世界粮食计划署
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129963-wfp-provides-lifesaving-medical-equipment-supporting-china%E2%80%99s-response-covid-19




Date: 14 March 2020
Title: FAO Donates Medical Supplies to China to Combat COVID-19
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
14 March 2020
14 March 2020, Beijing — The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has donated critical medical supplies to the Chinese government to support its response to the COVID-19 pandemic. In total, two batches of supplies were sent from Beijing and Shanghai to Wuhan – the epicenter of the outbreak in Hubei Province – on 12 and 13 March.
As of 12 March, in Hubei Province, there were still more than 13,000 confirmed cases of COVID-19 patients receiving hospital treatment. The medical supplies, which include non-invasive ventilators, patient monitoring systems and infusion pumps, will be used for the treatment of patients with COVID-19 in Hubei Province.
The FAO China office is in close contact with the relevant Chinese authorities to ensure that supplies can be delivered to the hospitals as soon as possible. The Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA), the National Health Commission, and the Hubei Charity Federation are providing coordination and delivery support for the donations.
"In these recent months, we have seen the expression of human values, solidarity, people proactively willing to help each other, and the joining of hands with the Chinese Government to control the spread of this disease. It was a ‘whole-of-society’ effort to overcome the epidemic,” said Vincent Martin, the FAO Representative in China and DPR Korea.
“Although there are still new cases and patients being treated in China, we believe that the epidemic – now a pandemic globally – will soon be fully under control in this country, and we hope that our donation and follow-up work will contribute to the emergency and recovery efforts,” Martin added.
In addition to donating medical supplies, FAO will also conduct surveys and technical consultations with MARA and other relevant national institutions, with a particular focus on reviewing and understanding the emergence of the virus at the animal-human interface and its impact on people’s livelihood. Since the outbreak began, FAO has been actively promoting hygiene practices and epidemic updates on its Website, as well as through social media and other platforms, in order to contribute to the prevention and control of the spread of the coronavirus.
Last month, a letter was sent to China’s President Xi Jinping, written jointly by the heads of the three UN food agencies — FAO Director-General QU Dongyu, President of International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) Gilbert Houngbo and the World Food Programme (WFP) Executive Director David Beasley. It paid tribute to the resilience of the Chinese people and the country’s efforts to deal with the emergency. The joint letter also pledged readiness to provide support to China's efforts to alleviate the impact of COVID-19 on the population, particularly in rural areas.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/129964-fao-donates-medical-supplies-china-combat-covid-19




Date: 03 March 2020
Title: Fighting against COVID-19: the Importance of Building Long-Term Resilience in Rural People
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
03 March 2020
BEIJING, March 3, 2020 /PRNewswire/ -- An opinion article from Matteo Marchisio, the Country Director and IFAD Representative (China, Republic of Korea, and DPRK) and Head of East Asia Regional Hub and South-South Cooperation Center, presented by China.org.
Two months have passed since the beginning of the new coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak in Hubei. It seems thus an appropriate time to share some initial reflections on the impact of the outbreak, and emerging lessons. In my function as Country Representative of an international organization mandated to improve the livelihoods and resilience of rural populations, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), my reflections would focus on the impact of COVID-19 on rural communities in China, and on the importance of investing in rural people in order to build long-term resilience to shocks.
Let me first of all express my most profound solidarity to the people of Hubei province. I have in fact a special connection with Hubei. In my role of IFAD Representative in China, Hubei was one of the first provinces I visited back in 2014, when I took over the responsibility of the IFAD portfolio in China. Since then I visited Hubei, and particularly the Shiyan prefecture in the northwest part of the province, several times. The seven counties of the Shiyan prefecture in the Qinba mountain poverty block were in fact the target area of an IFAD-funded project which aimed at improving the income of poor rural households by increasing their participation to high-value commodity markets (the Shiyan Smallholder Agribusiness Development Project), which was implemented from 2014 to 2019. The project benefited about 260,000 rural households, i.e. more than 1 million people, contributing to a drastic drop in poverty incidence in the project area.
I was immensely relieved to learn soon after the outbreak that none of the project staff or their families was affected by the new coronavirus. I was also relieved to learn that,amongst 672 confirmed cases of novel coronavirus infection in Shiyan Municipality, more than half of the infected patients had been discharged from hospital by March 2.
The sudden outbreak of the new coronavirus has legitimately raised questions on the impact of such an outbreak on the most vulnerable part of the population, namely the rural poor. Although, in fact, the new coronavirus outbreak - as any other epidemic - may equally infect everyone, the most vulnerable have less capacity to cope with the impact of such infection, and are thus more vulnerable. Poor rural households are less able to reach or afford medical care, and the availability and capacity of health systems in poor remote areas is limited. Moreover, poor rural households have less capacity to cope economically with the consequences of an outbreak. The lockdown of almost all cities in Hubei and the implemented movement restrictions prevented in fact many people, particularly migrant workers whose income many rural households depend from, from working, depriving them for several weeks from their main source of income. Similarly, the closure of roads, limitation of transports, etc. delayed or reduced the sale of agricultural products, or affected many small businesses in rural areas.
To the credit of China, several measures have been implemented over the past few weeks to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 in the rural areas. The Hubei government for instance mobilized more than 70 new medical facilities to rural areas in the region amid the novel coronavirus epidemic. The Agricultural Development Bank of China has approved emergency loans worth more than 10 billion yuan (i.e. about US$1.5 billion) to counter the coronavirus outbreak. The China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission has extended the terms for the repayment of the microloans by six months. The private sector also played an active role in reducing the impact of the outbreak on the rural population: e-commerce giant Alibaba set up a dedicated online agricultural retail platform to support agricultural producers to sell their products. As a result, 12,000 tons of overstocked fruits and vegetables have been delivered within five days. Similarly, a number of logistical companies launched 'green' and 'quick' channels to transport farmers' products in the region. Lastly, individual creativity has also resulted in new, 'out-of-the-box' solutions: for instance, drones are being increasingly used to prevent social gathering. Overall, special attention is being given to poor villages.
There is no doubt that the potential high costs and impact of the outbreak on the rural population are being minimized by the many measures that have been put in place. However, these measures counter the immediate, short-term impacts of the crisis, but do not address the root causes of vulnerability in rural areas.
To avoid or prevent that the same vulnerable group of people is affected by the next crisis - be it a new outbreak, an unexpected drop in commodities' prices, or a poor harvest due to unfavorable weather events or to a pest infestation, the resilience and the capacity of the rural people to cope with shocks need to be built and strengthened. It is thus critical to invest in rural areas and in rural people: building roads that reduce travel time and costs, developing irrigation systems that reduce the reliance on increasingly variable rainfall, improving access to clean water and sanitation to reduce waterborne diseases, strengthening the capacity of people to save, diversify livelihoods opportunities, access information, etc. These are critical elements to strengthen rural communities' capacity to cope with shocks and other unforeseen events.
Building on the 40-year strategic partnership with China to promote rural development, IFAD would continue to support China' strategic focus on rural areas and rural people as an integral part of its rural revitalization strategy, whereas building a population increasingly resilient to shocks should be one of the long-term objectives.
Matteo Marchisio is the Country Director and IFAD Representative (China, Republic of Korea, and DPRK) and Head of East Asia Regional Hub and South-South Cooperation Center.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/131011-fighting-against-covid-19-importance-building-long-term-resilience-rural-people




Date: 01 March 2020
Title: UNICEF Flies in Additional 12 Tons of Supplies to Support China’s Response to COVID-19
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
01 March 2020
Engaging and raising awareness among population also key to overcome outbreak.
SHANGHAI, CHINA, 1 March 2020 – The latest UNICEF shipment of medical supplies for health workers, weighing more than 12 tons, was delivered to the Government of China in Shanghai today to support its response to the COVID-19 virus outbreak.
The 100 cubic meter consignment, procured by UNICEF from Germany, includes masks, protective clothing, goggles, medical gloves, thermometers, sample collection kits, and hand sanitizers, to help bridge the gap of essential supplies required for those working to curb the virus. The supplies will be dispatched to Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak since the end of December 2019, and other regions in Hubei Province.
The latest shipment brought the total worth of UNICEF-donated supplies to nearly USD 1 million, with a combined weight of more than 30 tons. The first batch of supplies arrived in Wuhan on 30 January, while the second batch was delivered to Beijing just days after.
“With tens of thousands being treated for COVID-19, there are still shortfalls in supplies among health workers in China. UNICEF is helping bridge the immediate gap by providing personal protective equipment and medical/hospital equipment. We are here with China every step of the way to help address the outbreak,” said Cynthia McCaffrey, UNICEF Representative to China, upon handover of the supplies to the Government of China at the Pudong International Airport in Shanghai.
In addition to providing emergency supplies, UNICEF is also working with the World Health Organization, the National Health Commission and other partners to strengthen risk communication and tackle misinformation so that children, pregnant women and their families know how to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
Working alongside the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, UNICEF helped develop online training modules for health workers across the country on the prevention and treatment of the disease. A set of frequently asked questions and health guidance for pregnant women and children were also developed and circulated.
UNICEF is also partnering with the Department of the Protection of the Rights of Youth under the Central Committee of the Communist Youth League of China to provide mental health and psychosocial support to adolescents who have been staying at home over recent weeks, with school reopening postponed due to the outbreak.
“UNICEF is working with government and UN partners to equip people with information that helps them stay healthy and stay safe,” said McCaffrey. “With health workers and other people in related areas, parents and children themselves, we are promoting healthy behaviours and strengthening public health capacity in communities across China.”
In addition to meeting children and women’s immediate needs, UNICEF is looking at the outbreak’s wider implications, focusing on the safe delivery of essential health and social services, education, child protection services, as well as psychosocial support and stigma prevention for affected children and families.
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org.
Visit UNICEF Global website: www.unicef.org
Visit UNICEF China website: www.unicef.cn
Follow us on Sina Weibo http://weibo.com/unicefchina
                      Tecent Weibo http://t.qq.com/unicef
                      WeChat: unicefchina
For more information, please contact: 
Sonia Yeo, UNICEF China, Tel: +8610 8531 2610, Email: syeo@unicef.org
Liu Li, UNICEF China, Tel: +8610 8531 2612, Email: liliu@unicef.org
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/131012-unicef-flies-additional-12-tons-supplies-support-china%E2%80%99s-response-covid-19




Date: 25 February 2020
Title: UNFPA Delivers Medical Equipment, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and Sanitary Items to Hubei in Support of the National Response to the Coronavirus Outbreak
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
25 February 2020
Beijing, China, 24 February 2020 – As part of the United Nations response to support the Government of China’s efforts to contain and mitigate the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak in China, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) is delivering critical medical supplies and sanitary items such as sanitary napkins and diapers for the frontline health workers, women - particularly pregnant women - and girls in Hubei Province, the epicenter of the epidemic.
By 23 February, the first batch of 262,200 pieces of sanitary napkins have arrived in Wuhan, Huanggang and Xiaogan, three cities of Hubei province that are among the most affected areas. In the coming days, 315,200 pieces of adult diapers will also be delivered to Hubei. The supplies will be given to the frontline service providers, female health workers and patients to protect their health, maintain their hygiene and dignity during this special period of time. Thirty-three pieces of eight types of life-saving medical equipment, as well as 639 pieces of accessories, are on the way to Hubei to be distributed to hospitals and health facilities looking after patients infected with the virus.
“The protection needs of women and girls must be at the center of response efforts. Part of why we are doing this is to ensure there is a focus on sustaining the accessibility of vulnerable women and girls to quality sexual and reproductive health services as part of the response,” said Dr. Babatunde Ahonsi, UNFPA Representative in China.
The China Ministry of Commerce, National Health Commission, All-China Women’s Federation and local authorities are providing coordination and delivery support.
In view of the evolving COVID-19 situation in China and safety and health of the frontline health workers, UNFPA will donate more personal protective equipment in the coming weeks. The estimated value of total UNFPA donated supplies will be around USD480,000.
Early in February, Dr. Natalia Kanem, the UNFPA Executive Director sent a letter of solidarity and support to the Government of China, and committed UNFPA’s support to complement the Government of China’s current efforts to contain and control the epidemic. On 6 February, UNFPA Asia and the Pacific Regional Office issued a guidance document on 2019 novel coronavirus. It highlighted the importance of providing integrated sexual and reproductive health information and services, as an essential service package during the outbreak.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/131013-unfpa-delivers-medical-equipment-personal-protective-equipment-ppe-and-sanitary-items-hubei




Date: 19 February 2020
Title: UNAIDS and China Working Together during the COVID-19 Outbreak to Ensure that People Living with HIV Continue to Get Treatment
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
19 February 2020
GENEVA, 19 February 2020—A survey of people living with HIV has found that the current coronavirus disease outbreak, known as COVID-19, is having a major impact on the lives of people living with HIV in the country.
In the survey, nearly a third (32.6%) of people living with HIV reported that, because of the lockdowns and restrictions on movement in some places in China, they were at risk of running out of their HIV treatment in the coming days—of these, almost half (48.6%) said they didn’t know where to collect their next antiretroviral therapy refill from. However, a close partnership between the government and community partners is determined to ensure that access to life-saving HIV treatment is not interrupted as the country fights to get COVID-19 under control.
The Chinese National Center for AIDS/STD Control and Prevention has directed local authorities to ensure that non-resident people living with HIV can collect their medication wherever they are and has published and disseminated lists of antiretroviral therapy clinics. The UNAIDS China Country Office is working with the BaiHuaLin alliance of people living with HIV and other community partners to urgently reach those people living with HIV who are at risk of running out of their medicines in the next 10–14 days and will offer support as necessary. UNAIDS will also be donating personal protective equipment to civil society organizations serving people living with HIV, hospitals and others to help improve the quality of care for people in health facilities and to prevent coinfection of people living with HIV with COVID-19.
“People living with HIV must continue to get the HIV medicines they need to keep them alive,” said Winnie Byanyima, UNAIDS Executive Director. “I applaud the efforts of the Chinese National Center for AIDS/STD Control and Prevention to support people living with HIV affected by the lockdowns to get their medicines—we must ensure that everyone who needs HIV treatment gets it, no matter where they are.”
The COVID-19 outbreak in China has resulted in an unprecedented response, resulting in hospitals and health-care workers being overwhelmed as they look after COVID-19 patients. Lockdowns in cities have resulted in people living with HIV who had travelled away from their hometowns not being able to get back to where they live and access HIV services, including treatment, from their usual health-care providers.
While the vast majority of the respondents (82%) said that they had the information they need to assess personal risk and take preventive measures against COVID-19, almost 90% said that they wanted more information on specific protective measures for people living with HIV. Similar to the general population, many of the respondents (more than 60%) said that they didn’t have enough personal and household protective equipment, such as face masks, soap or disinfectant, medical alcohol or gloves. Nearly a third reported being anxious and needing psychosocial support during the COVID-19 outbreak.
“We need to know how many people living with HIV are contracting COVID-19, whether people living with HIV are at greater risk of contracting COVID-19 and, if they contract it, whether they are in greater danger from it—at this stage of the COVID-19 outbreak there are so many unknowns. We must fill in the gaps in our knowledge, and fill those gaps in rapidly,” added Ms Byanyima.
The survey was devised and launched jointly by UNAIDS and the BaiHuaLin alliance of people living with HIV,with the support of the Chinese National Center for AIDS/STD Control and Prevention. UNAIDS mobilized community support for the survey and promoted the survey online in order to maximize the responses to it—more than 1000 people living with HIV replied. Responses were collected from 5 to 10 February 2020. A follow-up in-depth survey is to be carried out in partnership with the School of Medicine at Zhongshan University, which will go beyond community needs and will look at health systems issues that have a direct impact on HIV services.
Contact  UNAIDS Media | tel. +41 22 791 4237 | communications@unaids.org
UNAIDS
The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) leads and inspires the world to achieve its shared vision of zero new HIV infections, zero discrimination and zero AIDS-related deaths. UNAIDS unites the efforts of 11 UN organizations—UNHCR, UNICEF, WFP, UNDP, UNFPA, UNODC, UN Women, ILO, UNESCO, WHO and the World Bank—and works closely with global and national partners towards ending the AIDS epidemic by 2030 as part of the Sustainable Development Goals. Learn more at unaids.org and connect with us on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/131014-unaids-and-china-working-together-during-covid-19-outbreak-ensure-people-living-hiv-continue




Date: 14 February 2020
Title: UNIDO to Provide Emergency Assistance to China to Help Contain the Outbreak of Coronavirus
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
14 February 2020
VIENNA, 14 February 2020 – The United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) will provide emergency response assistance to China to help fight the outbreak of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19). A related project document was signed today by Ambassador WANG Qun, Permanent Representative of China to the United Nations in Vienna, and LI Yong, Director General of UNIDO.
UNIDO will quickly deliver 100,000 medical masks and 20,000 protective suits to China. It will also provide medical waste decontamination equipment, with capacity to deal with four tonnes of medical waste per day, for a newly established hospital. Videos and other remote training materials will educate staff in hospitals and disposal centres in both cities and in rural areas on the safe management of medical waste.
Wang noted that Director General Li also wrote to President Xi Jinping last week, in which he expressed UNIDO’s readiness to provide full support to the Chinese government in addressing the epidemic. “There is an old saying in China that, misfortune tests the sincerity of friends. UNIDO’s precious support for China’s counter epidemic efforts is a classic case in point, which reflects the robust cooperative relationship between China and UNIDO. We thank UNIDO for its strong support.”
“The outbreak of Covid-19 brings new challenges to China, as the confirmed and suspected cases are still increasing,” said UNIDO’s Li. “New infections need to be minimized, including among medical staff who are the backbone of the fight against Covid-19. For this, protective equipment for medical staff is needed; but also ways to manage safely the hazards posed by medical waste. This is where UNIDO will make a difference with the support agreed today.”
“Currently, China’s anti-epidemic fight has entered the most critical stage. UNIDO's donation is most timely, and will help China in its combat against the epidemic. We will strictly follow the relevant procedures and make sure the supplies be delivered back to China’s health facilities and people with priority needs. It is our conviction that, with the strong leadership of the Communist Party of China, with the advantages of the Chinese socialism system, with all the Chinese people united as one, with the solid scientific, technological and material foundation accumulated since the founding of the People’s Republic of China 70 years ago, especially since the reform and opening up 40 years ago, with the past experiences in responding to public health emergencies, and with the vigorous support of the international community, including UNIDO, China has full confidence and capability to win the battle against the epidemic eventually.” said Wang.
Since 2008, UNIDO has assisted China in managing medical waste in a safe, environmentally sound manner. “Our transformative activities, implemented in cooperation with the Ministry of Ecology and Environment, have systematically enhanced capacity on medical waste in more than 170 disposal centres and over 1,500 hospitals across the whole country,” said the UNIDO Director General.
For more information, please contact:
Stephan Sicars
Director, Department of Environment
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/131015-unido-provide-emergency-assistance-china-help-contain-outbreak-coronavirus




Date: 12 February 2020
Title: UNDP Donates Critical Medical Supplies to Combat the Novel Coronavirus
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
12 February 2020
Beijing, February 12 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is donating critical medical supplies, through initial emergency funding of half a million US$, to help China’s frontline health personnel combat the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) epidemic.
The first batch of supplies was handed over to the Ministry of Commerce for distribution today at the UN Compound in Beijing. Included in the initial shipment are patient monitoring systems, infusion pumps, and other medical equipment. In addition, much needed shipments of personal protective equipment (PPE) will also be arriving soon, which are vital to reduce the infection risk facing the frontline health personnel.
“UNDP and the United Nations system stand firmly with the Government and the people of China during this critical time. Our UNDP country office in Beijing is in close touch with relevant authorities to provide emergency support and assist with the procurement of critical medical supplies,” said UNDP Administrator Achim Steiner in a letter of support sent directly to Chinese President Xi Jinping.
The supplies will be delivered to health facilities with priority needs which are experiencing shortages due to unprecedented demand as a result of the outbreak.
Currently, there are over 40,000 confirmed infections of the novel coronavirus across 25 countries, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).[1] The vast majority of these cases are in Hubei, China, the epicenter of the outbreak, where health personnel have been working tirelessly to treat patients and control the spread of the virus.
“I am heartened by the efforts that the Government of China is making, to rein in this challenging threat to public health in China and around the globe,” said Steiner. “The contribution that frontline health and emergency services at the epicenter of the epidemic in China are making, and the determination of the Chinese people, deserve our admiration,” he added.
UNDP is working closely with the Government of China to ensure that assistance is aligned with the country’s national priorities and response strategies. In addition, UNDP is communicating regularly within the United Nations System to coordinate response efforts. It is also looking at different ways of helping personnel on the ground, who are fighting to stem the epidemic.
“UNDP stands together with everyone on the frontline of the battle against this epidemic,” said Beate Trankmann, UNDP Resident Representative in China, in a video statement issued last Friday. “With international solidarity and China’s strong resolve, we are confident that together we will win this fight.”
[1] WHO 2019-nCoV Situation Dashboard, http://who.maps.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/c88e37cfc43b4ed3baf977d77e4a0667.
For more information and interview requests, pls contact:
Beijing: Yue Zhao, yue.zhao@undp.org, +86 185 1111 0464
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/131016-undp-donates-critical-medical-supplies-combat-novel-coronavirus




Date: 30 January 2020
Title: UNICEF Ships 6 Metric Tons of Supplies to Support China’s Response to Novel Coronavirus Outbreak
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
30 January 2020
NEW YORK, 29 January 2020 – A UNICEF shipment of respiratory masks and protective suits for health workers landed in Shanghai, China, today to support China’s response to the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak.
Weighing 6 metric tons, the supplies were sent from UNICEF’s global supply hub in Copenhagen and will be dispatched to Wuhan. UNICEF will be sending more items in the coming days and weeks.
“This coronavirus is spreading at a breakneck speed and it is important to put all the necessary resources into halting it,” said UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore. “We may not know enough about the virus’s impact on children or how many may be affected – but we do know that close monitoring and prevention are key. Time is not on our side.”
Nearly 6,000 people have been infected so far, and the numbers are rising rapidly. Most cases are in China and there have been reports of infections among children.
UNICEF is in close contact with the Chinese authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce and the National Health Commission, the World Health Organization (WHO), and other UN agencies to monitor developments and needs as the situation further unfolds.
UNICEF is also working with WHO and partners for a coordinated multi-sectoral response in China and other affected countries.
Coronaviruses are transmitted through direct contact, respiratory droplets like coughing and sneezing, and touching surfaces contaminated with the virus. Symptoms include fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death.
To avoid the risk of transmission, people should:
Wash their hands frequently using alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water;
Cover their mouth and nose when coughing or sneezing;
Avoid close contact with anyone who has a fever and cough;
Seek medical care early if they have fever, cough and difficulty breathing, and share previous travel history with their health care provider;
Avoid direct unprotected contact with live animals and surfaces in contact with animals.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/131017-unicef-ships-6-metric-tons-supplies-support-china%E2%80%99s-response-novel-coronavirus-outbreak




Date: 16 January 2020
Title: UNAIDS Hosts First High-level Meeting of UN Joint Programme on HIV in China
Content: Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund
16 January 2020
BEIJING, 13 January 2020 — UNAIDS China Office organized the first high-level meeting of the UN Joint Programme on HIV in China to review the main endeavours in the AIDS response in 2018 and 2019 and discuss working priorities in the new year.
The UN agencies of the joint programme were joined by the partners in China including the government, community organizations, academia and the private sector. Thanks to joint efforts, China has made commendable progress in the following five priority areas in the past two years: HIV testing and treatment, eMTCT (Elimination of mother-to-child transmission), HIV prevention among young people and key populations (gay men and other men who have sex with men, sex workers, transgender people, people who inject drugs and prisoners and other incarcerated people), human rights protection, stigma, discrimination and gender inequality reduction, and South-South cooperation.
Nicholas Rosellini, UN Resident Coordinator in China, spoke highly of the achievements and the strong partnership between the UN agencies and the Chinese partners. He said, “UNAIDS and the Joint Programme have served as an exemplary, pioneering model within the UN system with the coordination and implementation structures it has developed across 11 UN agencies and the multi-sectoral partnership across government departments, the private sector and community groups to deliver for people living with and affected by HIV.”
He said the partnership between UN and China will be further strengthened in the new year as 2020 marks the UN’s 75th anniversary and as a new Cooperation Framework (2021 to 2025) with the Government of China will be signed.
Han Mengjie, Director of Center for STD and AIDS Prevention and Control, China Center for Disease Control and Prevention (NCAIDS) co-chaired the meeting together with the UN Resident Coordinator. In resonance with Rosellini he said, China will need UN’s continuous support for AIDS prevention and treatment because challenges still remain despite the progresses made. “We expect the UN Agencies in China to gather and introduce good practices from other countries to China according to our demand and in line with China’s current situation of AIDS control and prevent work and provide more support in experience sharing and technical expertise,” Han said.
The participants also discussed priorities for 2020 and beyond to ensure the UN Sustainable Development Goal of ending AIDS by 2030 will be achieved. Proposed priorities includestrengthening of the evaluation of joint work, expansion of eMTCT programmes, promotion of PrEP especially for key populations, more efforts on innovation, priority on the youth, etc.
Amakobe Sande, Country Director of UNAIDS China Office, said she was impressed by the strong commitment from the UN and Chinese colleagues and UNAIDS Secretariat will continue to play the key role in coordinating and facilitating the Joint Programme. “China has made great strides in controlling the HIV epidemic,” she said. “We can build on our collective progress so far to achieve even greater success, particularly in preventing new HIV infections and ending stigma and discrimination.”
About the UN Joint Programme on AIDS in China
The UN Joint Programme in China was initiated in 1996 and is staffed by members of a “Joint Team” composing focal points from each of the cosponsor agencies including the UNAIDS Secretariat, WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, UN Women, UNDP, ILO, UNHCR, UNESCO, and IOM. Coordinated by the UNAIDS Country Director and reporting to the UN Country Team, the Joint Team works in an efficient and coherent way through an agreed joint plan with regular meetings to oversee and monitor implementations.
Address: No.2 Liang Ma He Nan Lu, Beijing, China, 100600
URL: https://china.un.org/en/131018-unaids-hosts-first-high-level-meeting-un-joint-programme-hiv-china




