Date: 05 June 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- SPECIAL ADDRESS ON CLIMATE ACTION “A MOMENT OF TRUTH”   New York, 5 June 2024   [as delivered]
Content: 05 June 2024
The truth is … almost ten years since the Paris Agreement was adopted, the target of limiting long-term global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius is hanging by a thread.

The truth is … the world is spewing emissions so fast that by 2030, a far higher temperature rise would be all but guaranteed.

Dear friends of the planet,

Today is World Environment Day.

It is also the day that the European Commission’s Copernicus Climate Change Service officially reports May 2024 as the hottest May in recorded history.

This marks twelve straight months of the hottest months ever.

For the past year, every turn of the calendar has turned up the heat.

Our planet is trying to tell us something.  But we don't seem to be listening.

Dear Friends,

The American Museum of Natural History is the ideal place to make the point.

This great Museum tells the amazing story of our natural world. Of the vast forces that have shaped life on earth over billions of years.

Humanity is just one small blip on the radar.

But like the meteor that wiped out the dinosaurs, we’re having an outsized impact.

In the case of climate, we are not the dinosaurs.

We are the meteor.

We are not only in danger.

We are the danger.

But we are also the solution.

So, dear friends,

We are at a moment of truth.

The truth is … almost ten years since the Paris Agreement was adopted, the target of limiting long-term global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius is hanging by a thread.

The truth is … the world is spewing emissions so fast that by 2030, a far higher temperature rise would be all but guaranteed.

Brand new data from leading climate scientists released today show the remaining carbon budget to limit long-term warming to 1.5 degrees is now around 200 billion tonnes.

That is the maximum amount of carbon dioxide that the earth’s atmosphere can take if we are to have a fighting chance of staying within the limit.

The truth is… we are burning through the budget at reckless speed – spewing out around 40 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide a year.

We can all do the math.

At this rate, the entire carbon budget will be busted before 2030.

The truth is … global emissions need to fall nine per cent every year until 2030 to keep the 1.5 degree limit alive.

But they are heading in the wrong direction.

Last year they rose by one per cent.

The truth is… we already face incursions into 1.5-degree territory.

The World Meteorological Organisation reports today that there is an eighty per cent chance the global annual average temperature will exceed the 1.5 degree limit in at least one of the next five years.

In 2015, the chance of such a breach was near zero.

And there’s a fifty-fifty chance that the average temperature for the entire next five-year period will be 1.5 degrees higher than pre-industrial times.

We are playing Russian roulette with our planet.

We need an exit ramp off the highway to climate hell.

And the truth is… we have control of the wheel.

The 1.5 degree limit is still just about possible.

Let’s remember – it’s a limit for the long-term – measured over decades, not months or years.

So, stepping over the threshold 1.5 for a short time does not mean the long-term goal is shot.

It means we need to fight harder.

Now.

The truth is… the battle for 1.5 degrees will be won or lost in the 2020s – under the watch of leaders today.

All depends on the decisions those leaders take – or fail to take – especially in the next eighteen months.

It’s climate crunch time.

The need for action is unprecedented but so is the opportunity – not just to deliver on climate, but on economic prosperity and sustainable development.

Climate action cannot be captive to geo-political divisions.

So, as the world meets in Bonn for climate talks, and gears up for the G7 and G20 Summits, the United Nations General Assembly, and COP29, we need maximum ambition, maximum acceleration, maximum cooperation - in a word maximum action.

So dear friends,

Why all this fuss about 1.5 degrees?

Because our planet is a mass of complex, connected systems.  And every fraction of a degree of global heating counts.

The difference between 1.5 and two degrees could be the difference between extinction and survival for some small island states and coastal communities.

The difference between minimizing climate chaos or crossing dangerous tipping points.

1.5 degrees is not a target.  It is not a goal.  It is a physical limit.

Scientists have alerted us that temperatures rising higher would likely mean:

The collapse of the Greenland Ice Sheet and the West Antarctic Ice Sheet with catastrophic sea level rise;

The destruction of tropical coral reef systems and the livelihoods of 300 million people;

The collapse of the Labrador Sea Current that would further disrupt weather patterns in Europe;

And widespread permafrost melt that would release devastating levels of methane, one of the most potent heat-trapping gasses.

Even today, we’re pushing planetary boundaries to the brink – shattering global temperature records and reaping the whirlwind.

And it is a travesty of climate justice that those least responsible for the crisis are hardest hit: the poorest people; the most vulnerable countries; Indigenous Peoples; women and girls.

The richest one per cent emit as much as two-thirds of humanity.

And extreme events turbocharged by climate chaos are piling up:

Destroying lives, pummelling economies, and hammering health;

Wrecking sustainable development; forcing people from their homes; and rocking the foundations of peace and security – as people are displaced and vital resources depleted.

Already this year, a brutal heatwave has baked Asia with record temperatures – shrivelling crops, closing schools, and killing people.

Cities from New Delhi, to Bamako, to Mexico City are scorching.

Here in the US, savage storms have destroyed communities and lives.

We’ve seen drought disasters declared across southern Africa;

Extreme rains flood the Arabian Peninsula, East Africa and Brazil;

And a mass global coral bleaching caused by unprecedented ocean temperatures, soaring past the worst predictions of scientists.

The cost of all this chaos is hitting people where it hurts:

From supply-chains severed, to rising prices, mounting food insecurity, and uninsurable homes and businesses.

That bill will keep growing.  Even if emissions hit zero tomorrow, a recent study found that climate chaos will still cost at least $38 trillion a year by 2050.

Climate change is the mother of all stealth taxes paid by everyday people and vulnerable countries and communities.

Meanwhile, the Godfathers of climate chaos – the fossil fuel industry – rake in record profits and feast off trillions in taxpayer-funded subsidies.

Dear friends,

We have what we need to save ourselves.

Our forests, our wetlands, and our oceans absorb carbon from the atmosphere.  They are vital to keeping 1.5 alive, or pulling us back if we do overshoot that limit.  We must protect them.

And we have the technologies we need to slash emissions.

Renewables are booming as costs plummet and governments realise the benefits of cleaner air, good jobs, energy security, and increased access to power.

Onshore wind and solar are the cheapest source of new electricity in most of the world – and have been for years.

Renewables already make up thirty percent of the world’s electricity supply.

And clean energy investments reached a record high last year – almost doubling in the last ten [years].

Wind and solar are now growing faster than any electricity source in history.

Economic logic makes the end of the fossil fuel age inevitable.

The only questions are:  Will that end come in time?  And will the transition be just?

Dear friends,

We must ensure the answer to both questions is: yes.

And we must secure the safest possible future for people and planet.

That means taking urgent action, particularly over the next eighteen months:

To slash emissions;

To protect people and nature from climate extremes;

To boost climate finance;

And to clamp down on the fossil fuel industry.

Let me take each element in turn.

First, huge cuts in emissions.  Led by the huge emitters.

The G20 countries produce eighty percent of global emissions – they
have the responsibility, and the capacity, to be out in front.

Advanced G20 economies should go furthest, fastest;

And show climate solidarity by providing technological and financial support to emerging G20 economies and other developing countries.

Next year, governments must submit so-called nationally determined contributions – in other words, national climate action plans.  And these will determine emissions for the coming years.

At COP28, countries agreed to align those plans with the 1.5 degree limit.

These national plans must include absolute emission reduction targets for 2030 and 2035.

They must cover all sectors, all greenhouse gases, and the whole economy.

And they must show how countries will contribute to the global transitions essential to 1.5 degrees – putting us on a path to global net zero by 2050; to phase out fossil fuels; and to hit global milestones along the way, year after year, and decade after decade.

That includes, by 2030, contributing to cutting global production and consumption of all fossil fuels by at least thirty percent; and making good on commitments made at COP28 – on ending deforestation, doubling energy efficiency and tripling renewables.

Every country must deliver and play their rightful part.

That means that G20 leaders working in solidarity to accelerate a just global energy transition aligned with the 1.5 degree limit.  They must assume their responsibilities.

We need cooperation, not finger-pointing.

It means the G20 aligning their national climate action plans, their energy strategies, and their plans for fossil fuel production and consumption, within a 1.5 degree future.

It means the G20 pledging to reallocate subsidies from fossil fuels to renewables, storage, and grid modernisation, and support for vulnerable communities.

It means the G7 and other OECD countries committing: to end coal by 2030; and to create fossil-fuel free power systems, and reduce oil and gas supply and demand by sixty percent – by 2035.

It means all countries ending new coal projects – now.  Particularly in Asia, home to ninety-five percent of planned new coal power capacity.

It means non-OECD countries creating climate action plans to put them on a path to ending coal power by 2040.

And it means developing countries creating national climate action plans that double as investment plans, spurring sustainable development, and meeting soaring energy demand with renewables.

The United Nations is mobilizing our entire system to help developing countries to achieve this through our Climate Promise initiative.

Every city, region, industry, financial institution, and company must also be part of the solution.

They must present robust transition plans by COP30 next year in Brazil – at the latest:

Plans aligned with 1.5 degrees, and the recommendations of the UN High-Level Expert Group on Net Zero.

Plans that cover emissions across the entire value chain;

That include interim targets and transparent verification processes;

And that steer clear of the dubious carbon offsets that erode public trust while doing little or nothing to help the climate.

We can’t fool nature.  False solutions will backfire.  We need high integrity carbon markets that are credible and with rules consistent with limiting warming to 1.5 degrees.

I also encourage scientists and engineers to focus urgently on carbon dioxide removal and storage – to deal safely and sustainably with final emissions from the heavy industries hardest to clean.

And I urge governments to support them.

But let me be clear: These technologies are not a silver bullet; they cannot be a substitute for drastic emissions cuts or an excuse to delay fossil fuel phase-out.

But we need to act on every front.

Dear Friends,

The second area for action is ramping up protection from the climate chaos of today and tomorrow.

It is a disgrace that the most vulnerable are being left stranded, struggling desperately to deal with a climate crisis they did nothing to create.

We cannot accept a future where the rich are protected in air-conditioned bubbles, while the rest of humanity is lashed by lethal weather in unliveable lands.

We must safeguard people and economies.

Every person on Earth must be protected by an early warning system by 2027. I urge all partners to boost support for the United Nations Early Warnings for All action plan.

In April, the G7 launched the Adaptation Accelerator Hub.

By COP29, this initiative must be translated into concrete action – to support developing countries in creating adaptation investment plans, and putting them into practice.

And I urge all countries to set out their adaptation and investment needs clearly in their new national climate plans.

But change on the ground depends on money on the table.

For every dollar needed to adapt to extreme weather, only about five cents is available.

As a first step, all developed countries must honour their commitment to double adaptation finance to at least $40 billion a year by 2025.

And they must set out a clear plan to close the adaptation finance gap by COP29 in November.

But we also need more fundamental reform.

That leads me onto my third point: finance.

Dear friends,

If money makes the world go round, today’s unequal financial flows are sending us spinning towards disaster.

The global financial system must be part of the climate solution.

Eye-watering debt repayments are drying up funds for climate action.

Extortion-level capital costs are putting renewables virtually out of reach for most developing and emerging economies.

Astoundingly – and despite the renewables boom of recent years – clean energy investments in developing and emerging economies outside of China have been stuck at the same levels since 2015.

Last year, just fifteen per cent of new clean energy investment went to emerging markets and developing economies outside China – countries representing nearly two-thirds of the world’s population.

And Africa was home to less than one percent of last year’s renewables installations, despite its wealth of natural resources and vast renewables potential.

The International Energy Agency reports that clean energy investments in developing and emerging economies beyond China need to reach up to $1.7 trillion a year by the early 2030s.

In short, we need a massive expansion of affordable public and private finance to fuel ambitious new climate plans and deliver clean, affordable energy for all.

This September’s Summit of the Future is an opportunity to push reform of the international financial architecture and action on debt. I urge countries to take it.

And I urge the G7 and G20 Summits to commit to using their influence within Multilateral Development Banks to make them better, bigger, and bolder. And able to leverage far more private finance at reasonable cost.

Countries must make significant contributions to the new Loss and Damage Fund. And ensure that it is open for business by COP29.

And they must come together to secure a strong finance outcome from COP this year – one that builds trust and confidence, catalyses the trillions needed, and generates momentum for reform of the international financial architecture.

But none of this will be enough without new, innovative sources of funds.

It is [high] time to put an effective price on carbon and tax the windfall profits of fossil fuel companies.

By COP29, we need early movers to go from exploring to implementing solidarity levies on sectors such as shipping, aviation, and fossil fuel extraction – to help fund climate action.

These should be scalable, fair, and easy to collect and administer.

None of this is charity.

It is enlightened self-interest.

Climate finance is not a favour. It is fundamental element to a liveable future for all.

Dear friends,

Fourth and finally, we must directly confront those in the fossil fuel industry who have shown relentless zeal for obstructing progress – over decades.

Billions of dollars have been thrown at distorting the truth, deceiving the public, and sowing doubt.

I thank the academics and the activists, the journalists and the whistleblowers, who have exposed those tactics – often at great personal and professional risk.

I call on leaders in the fossil fuel industry to understand that if you are not in the fast lane to clean energy transformation, you are driving your business into a dead end – and taking us all with you.

Last year, the oil and gas industry invested a measly 2.5 percent of its total capital spending on clean energy.

Doubling down on fossil fuels in the twenty-first century, is like doubling down on horse-shoes and carriage-wheels in the nineteenth.

So, to fossil fuel executives, I say: your massive profits give you the chance to lead the energy transition. Don’t miss it.

Financial institutions are also critical because money talks.

It must be a voice for change.

I urge financial institutions to stop bankrolling fossil fuel destruction and start investing in a global renewables revolution;

To present public, credible and detailed plans to transition [funding] from fossil fuels to clean energy with clear targets for 2025 and 2030;

And to disclose your climate risks – both physical and transitional – to your shareholders and regulators. Ultimately such disclosure should be mandatory.

Dear friends,

Many in the fossil fuel industry have shamelessly greenwashed, even as they have sought to delay climate action – with lobbying, legal threats, and massive ad campaigns.

They have been aided and abetted by advertising and PR companies – Mad Men – remember the TV series - fuelling the madness.

I call on these companies to stop acting as enablers to planetary destruction.

Stop taking on new fossil fuel clients, from today, and set out plans to drop your existing ones.

Fossil fuels are not only poisoning our planet – they’re toxic for your brand.

Your sector is full of creative minds who are already mobilising around this cause.

They are gravitating towards companies that are fighting for our planet – not trashing it.

I also call on countries to act.

Many governments restrict or prohibit advertising for products that harm human health – like tobacco.

Some are now doing the same with fossil fuels.

I urge every country to ban advertising from fossil fuel companies.

And I urge news media and tech companies to stop taking fossil fuel advertising.

We must all deal aso with the demand side.  All of us can make a difference, by embracing clean technologies, phasing down fossil fuels in our own lives, and using our power as citizens to push for systemic change.

In the fight for a liveable future, people everywhere are far ahead of politicians.

Make your voices heard and your choices count.

Dear friends,

We do have a choice.

Creating tipping points for climate progress – or careening to tipping points for climate disaster.

No country can solve the climate crisis in isolation.

This is an all-in moment.

The United Nations is all-in – working to build trust, find solutions, and inspire the cooperation our world so desperately needs.

And to young people, to civil society, to cities, regions, businesses and others who have been leading the charge towards a safer, cleaner world, I say: Thank you.

You are on the right side of history.

You speak for the majority.

Keep it up.

Don’t lose courage. Don’t lose hope.

It is we the Peoples versus the polluters and the profiteers. Together, we can win.

But it’s time for leaders to decide whose side they’re on.

Tomorrow it will be too late.

Now is the time to mobilise, now is the time to act, now is the time to deliver.

This is our moment of truth.

And I thank you.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/270706-secretary-general-special-address-climate-action-%E2%80%9C-moment-truth%E2%80%9D-new-york-5-june-2024




Date: 05 June 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  -- MESSAGE FOR WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY   5 June 2024
Content: 05 June 2024
The theme of this year’s World Environment Day is “land restoration, desertification, and drought resilience.”

Humanity depends on land. Yet, all over the world, a toxic cocktail of pollution, climate chaos, and biodiversity decimation are turning healthy lands into deserts, and thriving ecosystems into dead zones. They are annihilating forests and grasslands, and sapping the strength of land to support ecosystems, agriculture, and communities.

That means crops failing, water sources vanishing, economies weakened, and communities endangered – with the poorest hit hardest. Sustainable development is suffering. And we are trapped in a deadly cycle – land use is responsible for eleven percent of the carbon dioxide emissions heating our planet. It’s time to break free.

Countries must deliver on all their commitments to restore degraded ecosystems and land, and on the entire Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework.  They must use their new national climate action plans to set out how they will halt and reverse deforestation by 2030. And we must drastically scale-up finance to support developing countries to adapt to violent weather, protect nature, and support sustainable development.

Inaction is too costly. But swift and effective action makes economic sense. Every dollar invested in ecosystem restoration creates up to thirty dollars in economic benefits.

We are Generation Restoration. Together, let’s build a sustainable future for land, and for humanity.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/270643-secretary-general-message-world-environment-day-5-june-2024




Date: 04 June 2024
Title: 3rd Arab Forum for Equality Tackles Escalating Inequality Amid Multiple Crises
Content: 04 June 2024
Beirut-Cairo, 4 June 2024 — The Arab region faces a daunting challenge as poverty rates continue to climb, marking it as the only region globally with such a trend. Wealth inequality has also worsened since 2020, with the richest 1% now holding 44% of the wealth.
In response to these pressing issues, the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) has launched the third Arab Forum for Equalityin Cairo. Held under the patronage of Egypt’s Ministry of Social Solidarity, the event is organized in partnership with the Sawiris Foundation, Pathfinders for Peaceful, Just and Inclusive Societies at New York University, and the International Monetary Fund’s Middle East Regional Technical Assistance Center (METAC).

Nivine El-Kabbag, Egypt's Minister of Social Solidarity, opened the Forum by saying that the human conscience, international laws and moral obligations are challenged by the dire international and regional circumstances under which the third AFE is held. She noted that the Ministry has worked since 2014 on building an integrated responsive and inclusive social protection system for all groups in society to achieve not only sustainable development, but also an equitable development.

Themed “Addressing Inequalities in Times of Multiple Crises,” the two-day forum gathers Arab ministers, senior officials, representatives from UN agencies, regional organizations, civil society networks, and international think tanks. Participants will examine how the convergence of various crises is intensifying inequality within countries.

ESCWA Executive Secretary Rola Dashti highlighted the role of ending inequality in strengthening the social fabric, boosting economic prosperity, and moving the sustainable development forward. “Our mission is clear: we build partnerships, we inspire renewed policies and we commit ourselves to defeat all obstacles. We do not exaggerate when we say that our mission is a priority, it is time to work hard for the change we are seeking,” she stressed.

A new report by ESCWA, the Sawiris Foundation, and Pathfinders, titled “Inequality in the Arab Region: Crisis upon Crisis,” underscores the gravity of the situation. The report notes increasing youth inequality and disparities in food access, with the number of individuals living in extreme poverty rising by 42 million between 2015 and 2023.

These report’s findings, which offer a strategic road map to address and reduce inequality in the Arab region, will inform the discussions in the forum.

Executive Director of Sawiris Foundation Noura Selim emphasized: “The Sawiris Foundation for Social Development has been driven by a commitment to humanitarian work for nearly 23 years, emerging as a key player in Egypt’s sustainable development landscape. Our unwavering goal is to evolve into a dynamic learning foundation, guided by a knowledge-centric approach and best practices in development. We prioritize evidence-based interventions that are measurable and undergo thorough evaluation to maximize our impact.”

The Forum will also discuss immediate solutions, such as emergency humanitarian aid and disaster risk responses, to mitigate the impact of crises and prevent further inequality. Additionally, policy solutions to ensure long-term sustainable development through regional and international cooperation will be explored.

A special session in the Forum launched the “Josour” initiative’s chapter in Egypt, featuring prominent Egyptian singer Abu, who supports this initiative aimed at enhancing opportunities and employability for young people since its inception in 2022.

For the agenda and more details, click here.

****
About ESCWA
One of five United Nations regional commissions, ESCWA supports inclusive and sustainable economic and social development in Arab States, and works on enhancing regional integration.

For more information and to arrange interviews:
-Ms. Rania Harb, Public Information Assistant, +961-70-008879 - harb1@un.org;
-Ms. Maryam Sleiman, Public Information Assistant, +961-81-769888 - sleiman2@un.org.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/270707-3rd-arab-forum-equality-tackles-escalating-inequality-amid-multiple-crises




Date: 28 May 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL DAY OF UNITED NATIONS PEACEKEEPERS   29 May 2024
Content: 28 May 2024
Today we pay tribute to the more than 76,000 United Nations peacekeepers who embody humanity’s highest ideal: peace.



Hailing from over 120 countries, our Blue Helmets serve in 11 peace operations in conflict-affected areas in Africa, Asia, Europe and the Middle East.

Day in and day out, at great personal risk, these women and men bravely work in some of the most dangerous and unstable places on earth to protect civilians, uphold human rights, support elections and strengthen institutions.

They are part of a long tradition. For over 75 years, United Nations peacekeepers have supported communities rocked by conflict and upheaval across 71 missions.

More than 4,300 have paid the ultimate price while serving under the UN flag. We will never forget them.

In order for our peacekeepers to respond to the challenges of today and tomorrow, they need the world’s support.

September’s Summit of the Future will be a moment for countries to carry ideas forward through a New Agenda for Peace, which links peacekeeping with all efforts to prevent and end conflict.

Achieving peace takes hard work.

On this important day, and every day, let’s re-commit to supporting those who work for peace: The UN peacekeepers.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/269831-secretary-general-message-international-day-united-nations-peacekeepers-29-may-2024




Date: 27 May 2024
Title: Statement by UN Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process, Tor Wennesland, on Rafah
Content: 27 May 2024
Jerusalem, 27 May 2024
“I condemn last night’s Israeli airstrikes which hit tents for displaced people in the southern Gaza city of Rafah and have tragically led to the reported loss of more than 35 Palestinian lives, including women and children, and dozens of injuries.


While the IDF said it struck a Hamas installation and killed two senior Hamas militants in the strikes, I am deeply troubled by the deaths of so many women and children in an area where people have sought shelter.

I call upon the Israeli authorities to conduct a thorough and transparent investigation into this incident, hold those responsible for any wrongdoing to account, and take immediate steps to better protect civilians.

All parties in the conflict must refrain from actions that set us further away from achieving an end to hostilities and further jeopardize the already fragile situation on the ground and the broader region.

I reiterate the Secretary-General's call for an immediate ceasefire and for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages to end the suffering of civilians.

The United Nations remains steadfast in its commitment to supporting all efforts aimed at ending the hostilities, reducing tensions, and advancing the cause of peace.”

[ENDS]
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/269756-statement-un-special-coordinator-middle-east-peace-process-tor-wennesland-%C2%A0rafah




Date: 25 May 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON THE OCCASION OF AFRICA DAY 2024   New York, 25 May 2024
Content: 25 May 2024
On Africa Day, we celebrate this dynamic and diverse continent and the contributions of Africans to our world. The continent’s young and growing population, its rich natural resources, its breathtaking beauty and cultural diversity give it outsize potential.
Initiatives like the African Continental Free Trade Area and the African Union’s Agenda 2063, along with Africa’s growing voice, including leadership in renewable energy, can help realize that potential.

But a bright future for Africa’s 1.2 billion people means addressing the challenges blocking Africa’s progress — from the effects of climate change, to deadly conflicts and unconstitutional changes of government, to hunger, poverty, inequality and crushing debt burdens.

We need to rescue the Sustainable Development Goals. This will require, among other actions, that we reform the international financial architecture so developing countries can access the resources they will need to invest in the future of their people — including strengthening education systems, this year’s African Union theme.

We must work side by side with Africa to build green economies anchored in renewable energy, and ensure that the continent’s critical mineral resources benefit Africans first and foremost.

We must strengthen our collaboration to safeguard human rights, counter terrorism and violent extremism, and — finally — silence the guns across Africa. The UN Security Council’s recent resolution to support African-led peace operations is an important step.

Throughout, Africa must have a seat at every multilateral forum — including the UN Security Council, the international financial system, and other global norm-setting structures. September’s Summit of the Future in New York will be a moment to create momentum and progress.

On Africa Day, let’s renew our pledge to stand with all Africans in their quest to lead their continent — and our world — into a peaceful and prosperous future for all.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/269613-secretary-general-message-occasion-africa-day-2024-new-york-25-may-2024




Date: 23 May 2024
Title: FROM JAPAN TO UNRWA: EMERGENCY AID TO ADDRESS HUMANITARIAN NEEDS IN GAZA
Content: 23 May 2024
CAIRO, In a reaffirmation of its longstanding commitment to supporting Palestine Refugees, and to UNRWA’s indispensable role in the Gaza Strip, the Government of Japan has  donated essential emergency aid, including blankets, water containers, plastic sheets, and sleeping mats, for the Agency’s humanitarian response in Gaza.
In a handover event hosted by his country’s Embassy in Cairo, Ambassador Oka Hiroshi said:  "Since the outbreak of the current crisis in Gaza last October, UNRWA has consistently been at the forefront of humanitarian assistance activities."
The event underscored the robust partnership between Japan and UNRWA and highlighted the grave humanitarian crisis caused by the war in Gaza. This crisis has been exacerbated by significant barriers to aid delivery, leading to intensified food and water insecurity, malnutrition, and severe disruptions to health and sanitation services.
Sahar Al-Jobury, Chief of the UNRWA Representative Office in Cairo, expressed profound gratitude for Japan's support and partnership, and deeply regretted the challenges in delivering the aid. "Rafah Crossing remains closed, and Karem Abu Salem is unsafe to access as it is located near or in combat zones. As a result, the flow of supplies into southern Gaza has been severely restricted. Since 6 May, only 143 aid trucks have made it through," she said.
Al-Jobury also commended Japan’s resumption of its funding to UNRWA with a recent contribution of US$ 35 million from the government’s supplementary budget for this year.
Also present was Yasuhiko Uekusa, Director of the International Peace Cooperation Headquarters, who traveled from Tokyo specifically for the occasion. He reiterated Japan’s commitment to alleviating the humanitarian situation in Gaza, saying, "In close cooperation with UNRWA, as well as relevant countries and international organizations, Japan will continue to make utmost efforts to improve the humanitarian conditions in the Gaza Strip."

UNRWA is the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East. The United Nations General Assembly established UNRWA in 1949 with a mandate to provide humanitarian assistance and protection to registered Palestine refugees in the Agency’s area of operations pending a just and lasting solution to their plight.
UNRWA operates in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, The Gaza Strip, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria.
Tens of thousands of Palestine refugees who lost their homes and livelihoods due to the 1948 conflict continue to be displaced and in need of support, nearly 75 years on.
UNRWA helps Palestine Refugees achieve their full potential in human development through quality services it provides in education, health care, relief and social services, protection, camp infrastructure and improvement, microfinance, and emergency assistance. UNRWA is funded almost entirely by voluntary contributions.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/269476-japan-unrwa-emergency-aid-address-humanitarian-needs-gaza




Date: 22 May 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  -- MESSAGE TO INTERNATIONAL DAY FOR BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY   22 May 2024
Content: 22 May 2024
The world’s complex web of biological diversity sustains all life on earth. Yet it is unravelling at alarming speed – and humanity is to blame.
We are contaminating land, oceans, and freshwater with toxic pollution, wrecking landscapes and ecosystems, and disrupting our precious climate with greenhouse gas emissions. Decimating biodiversity damages sustainable development today, and creates a dangerous and uncertain tomorrow.

The Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework offers a pathway to reverse loss and restore biodiversity – while creating jobs, building resilience, and spurring sustainable development.

Governments must lead. But as this year’s International Day for Biological Diversity reminds us, we are all “Part of the Plan” – we all have a role to play. Indigenous Peoples, business, financial institutions, local and regional authorities, civil society, women, young people, and academia must work together to value, protect and restore biodiversity in a way that benefits everyone.

As we mark this Day for Biological Diversity, let us commit to be Part of the Plan. Let us act urgently to put biodiversity on a path to recovery. And let us build ambition to CBD COP16 in October to protect the planet and create a more sustainable future for us all.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/269300-secretary-general-message-international-day-biological-diversity-22-may-2024




Date: 16 May 2024
Title: Secretary-General's video message to the 2024 ECOSOC Operational Activities for Development Segment
Content: 16 May 2024
The SDG Summit in September called for a rescue plan.
And the UN is shifting gears to accelerate action.
Excellencies,
This annual ECOSOC discussion is more important than ever.
We stand at a pivotal moment in our journey towards the 2030 deadline for the Sustainable Development Goals.
And the UN development system, led by our Resident Coordinators, is critical to getting us there.
Excellencies,
The SDG Summit in September called for a rescue plan.
And the UN is shifting gears to accelerate action.
We are ensuring support across the six targeted areas where urgent transitions are most needed.
We are supporting the capacity development of countries, including efforts to strengthen policy and regulatory environments.
The development system is increasingly the last bastion of UN support when missions close or draw down, such as those in Mali, Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The UN continues to stay and deliver.
And our Resident Coordinators are building new partnerships and tapping into innovative financing mixes to achieve results.
My latest report on the Quadrennial Comprehensive Policy Review clearly shows that our work across the system and with governments is becoming more joined-up and coordinated every year.
96 per cent of governments agree that our Teams are aligned with their national priorities, and responding to their SDG-delivery needs through the Cooperation Frameworks.
90 per cent have affirmed that the UN development system provides adequate support in securing SDG financing.
And 94 per cent find that the UN provides adequate evidence-based policy support.
Notably, our Resident Coordinators are now more diverse than ever —50 per cent are women and 54 per cent are from host countries.
The report also shows a remarkable return on investment — $553 million in efficiency gains last year alone — an increase of 37 per cent over the previous year.
We’re also enhancing our focus on results through the system-wide evaluation office, which is now up and running.
But we must — and we will — continue seeking improvements.
And we welcome your guidance in the resolution from this segment and in the fall.
At the same time, I’m deeply concerned about the system’s funding — especially as we increase the pace and scale of our work to reach the SDGs.
Core funding for development entities has plunged to 16.5 per cent of total funding, with some agencies declining to 12 per cent.
Voluntary contributions for the Resident Coordinator system also fell short last year.
This jeopardizes our ability to deliver at a critical moment.
That’s why I submitted a proposal to the General Assembly to provide funding from the regular budget for the Resident Coordinator system.
As I said to you last year, this is the only logical and principled solution.
Securing sustainable and predictable funding is my main priority for the system this year.
I count on Member States to consider my proposal and provide the system with the vital resources needed.
Above all, we need solidarity — with countries more able to provide support helping those less able to do so.
The re-energized Funding Compact I presented provides an important new push for Member States to raise and align their funding ambitions to meet countries’ needs.
And it raises the bar for UN entities to report on greater impact and results like the ones we’re discussing today.
Excellencies,
As we embark on the next QCPR cycle, now is the time for ambition.
In this new era of SDG acceleration, let’s redouble our efforts for all people and the world we share.
Thank you for being part of this essential work.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/268811-secretary-generals-video-message-2024-ecosoc-operational-activities-development-segment




Date: 16 May 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  --  REMARKS AT THE SUMMIT OF THE LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES   Manama, Bahrain, 16 May 2024
Content: 16 May 2024
as delivered



As salaam alaikum.

Your Majesty,  Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa, King of Bahrain, thank you for your kind invitation and your warm hospitality.

Your Majesties, Your Royal Highnesses, Excellencies, Secretary-General Aboul Gheit,

I was born in Lisbon – a city that for centuries was part of Al-Andalus.

This was at a time when Cordoba was the centre of culture and civilization of the Iberian peninsula, just as Baghdad was the centre of culture and civilization of the world – reaching out from the Chinese border to the Atlantic coast.

History moved on.  And a number of transformations -- cultural, economic, technological and military -- changed the world to the detriment of the Arab people.

The majority of Arab countries were colonized.

It took decades of struggle for liberation – sometimes bloody wars – often with long periods of exploitation – and a legacy of lines arbitrarily drawn in the sand.

But, today, once again, the world is changing and I see enormous potential in the Arab region.

You have the resources.  You have the culture.  You have the people.

But there is one core condition for success in today’s world:  unity.

Time and again, history has shown that divisions allow outsiders to intervene -- promoting conflicts, stoking sectarian tensions and inadvertently fueling terrorism.

These are obstacles to peaceful development and the well-being of your peoples.

Overcoming those obstacles requires breaking the vicious circle of division and foreign manipulation – and moving forward together to build a more peaceful and prosperous future for the people of the Arab world and beyond.

Excellencies,

We gather as hearts are breaking for Palestinians in Gaza.

The war in Gaza is an open wound that threatens to infect the entire region.

In its speed and scale, it is the deadliest conflict in my time as Secretary-General – for civilians, aid workers, journalists, and our own UN colleagues.

Of course, nothing can justify the abhorrent 7 October terror attacks by Hamas.

I reiterate my call for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages.

And nothing can justify the collective punishment of the Palestinian people.

Yet the toll on civilians continues to escalate.

Entire families wiped out.  Children traumatized and injured for life.  People denied access to the very basics for human survival.  A looming famine.

Any assault on Rafah is unacceptable.  It would inflict another surge of pain and misery when we need a surge in life-saving aid.

It is time for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire and unimpeded access for humanitarian assistance throughout Gaza.

UNRWA remains the backbone of our operations in Gaza and a lifeline for Palestine refugees across the region.  It needs full support and funding.

I am also deeply troubled by tensions in the occupied West Bank including East Jerusalem, with a spike in illegal Israeli settlements, settler violence, excessive use of force by Israeli Defense Forces, demolitions and evictions.

The only permanent way to end the cycle of violence and instability is through a two-state solution, Israel and Palestine living side-by-side in peace and security, with Jerusalem as the capital of both states.

The demographic and historical character of Jerusalem must be preserved, and the status quo at the Holy Sites must be upheld, in line with the special role of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.

Excellencies,

Turning to Sudan, a devastating war has thrown half the country’s population into a humanitarian freefall.  One year on, thousands have been killed, and 18 million people are staring down the terrifying threat of famine.

I urge the international community to intensify its push for peace, and call on the warring parties to agree on a lasting ceasefire.

This should be followed by a political process that includes women’s and youth groups.

I pledge the full support of the United Nations.

We must also protect the fragile political processes in Libya and Yemen.

As High Commissioner for Refugees, I witnessed the enormous generosity of the Syrian people.  I am pained to see Syria now, with so much suffering and with parts of its territory occupied with several external actors involved.

I call on all Syrians to come together in a spirit of reconciliation, honouring the diversity of the Syrian people and respecting the human rights of all.

Excellencies,

We face other serious global crises.

The climate emergency; rising inequalities, poverty and hunger; crushing debt; and new technology – including artificial intelligence -- that is running ahead of governance and guardrails.

We need deep reforms to the global multilateral system -- from the Security Council to the international financial architecture -- so they are truly universal and representative of today’s realities.

The upcoming Summit of the Future is a pivotal opportunity to create momentum for a more networked and inclusive multilateralism.

I look forward to welcoming you to the Summit in New York in September.

Excellencies,

There is no better moment for the Arab region to come together.

Unity and solidarity throughout the Arab world would amplify the vital voice of the region and further boost your influence on the global stage.

It can help this region find peace, make the most of its enormous potential, and further contribute to the global good.

In all this work, you can count on the United Nations, and on me personally, for our support and partnership.

Shukran.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/268803-secretary-general-remarks-summit-league-arab-states-manama-bahrain-16-may-2024




Date: 10 May 2024
Title: Security Council Press Statement on mass graves in Gaza
Content: 10 May 2024
The members of the Security Council expressed their deep concern over reports of the discovery of mass graves, in and around the Nasser and Al Shifa medical facilities in Gaza, where several hundred bodies, including women, children and older persons, were buried.
The members of the Security Council expressed their deep concern over reports of the discovery of mass graves, in and around the Nasser and Al Shifa medical facilities in Gaza, where several hundred bodies, including women, children and older persons, were buried.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need for accountability for violations of international law and called for investigators to be allowed the unimpeded access to all locations of mass graves in Gaza to conduct immediate, independent, thorough, comprehensive, transparent and impartial investigations to establish the circumstances behind the graves.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their demand that all parties scrupulously comply with their obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law and international human rights law, in particular regarding the protection of civilians and civilian objects.

The members of the Security Council reaffirmed the importance of allowing families to know the fate and whereabouts of their missing relatives, consistent with international humanitarian law.
The members of the Security Council emphasized the imperative of all parties to immediately and fully implement resolutions 2728 (2024), 2720 (2023) and 2712 (2023).

10 May 2024
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/268340-security-council-press-statement-mass-graves-gaza




Date: 10 May 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  --  PRESS CONFERENCE AHEAD OF THE CLOSING UNITED NATIONS CIVIL SOCIETY CONFERENCE     Nairobi, 10 May 2024
Content: 10 May 2024



Dear members of the media,

It is a pleasure to be back in Nairobi.

Kenya is a critical partner of the United Nations, a powerful force on the global stage, and a pioneer of peace regionally and internationally.

I am particularly grateful to Kenya for agreeing to lead international efforts to quell the violence in Haiti.

But this visit comes at a very difficult time for the country.

I extend my deepest condolences to all those affected by the devastating floods that have swept through Kenya and neighbouring countries.

The United Nations stands in solidarity with the Kenyan people.

And we will continue working hand-in-hand to support government relief efforts in any way that we can.

Dear members of the media,

I am here for the United Nations’ Civil Society Conference, focussed on September’s Summit of the Future in New York.

Civil society is central to the Summit’s aims: advancing sustainable development; unlocking finance; and reshaping multilateralism for the 21st century.

I am delighted by the diverse participation at this conference, including many young people and representatives from African countries.

Their contribution is vital.

Because our world is facing multiple crises.

And Africa is suffering – disproportionately.

This continent is being blasted by extreme weather, turbocharged by a climate crisis it has done next to nothing to create: From lethal floods in the East, to deadly droughts in the South.

Africa could be a renewables giant.

It is home to thirty percent of the minerals critical to renewables, and sixty percent of the world’s best solar resources.

Yet, in this unfair world, in recent decades, it received just two percent of the investments in  renewables.

And too often, countries and communities with critical energy transition minerals are exploited, and relegated to the bottom of the value chain. Others take the profits somewhere else.

The United Nations is fighting for climate justice:

Our new Panel on Critical Energy Transition Minerals – co-chaired by Ambassador Nozipho Joyce Mxakato-Diseko of South Africa – will develop voluntary principles to ensure developing countries receive maximum benefit.

We are calling for developed countries to honour their promises on climate finance – including funding to help countries prepare for the worst of climate chaos;

For significant contributions to the new Loss and Damage Fund;

For action to reform the multilateral development banks so that finance flows to climate action;

And for the G20 to lead efforts to slash emissions and accelerate a just global phase-out of fossil fuels.

I ask African leaders to support these efforts.

And I urge all governments to create ambitious new national climate plans by next year.

Plans that drive sustainable development, attract investment, and align with limiting global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius to avoid the worst of climate chaos.

Africa’s fate rests on meeting that limit.

Dear members of the media,

Conflicts are raging around the world, causing enormous pain and suffering.

The fate of Palestinians, Israelis and the entire region hangs in the balance.

I reiterate my appeal for the Government of Israel and the leadership of Hamas to demonstrate political courage and spare no effort to reach agreement to stop the bloodshed – and to free the hostages.

The situation in Rafah is on a knife’s edge, as airstrikes continue throughout southern Gaza. Over one million Palestinians, half of whom are children, have crowded in the Rafah Governate for shelter.

We are actively engaging with all involved for the resumption of the entry of life-saving supplies – including desperately needed fuel – through the Rafah and Kerem Shalom crossings.

Meanwhile, our health partners tell us that all the key medical facilities in Rafah could soon become inaccessible or inoperable – including the only dialysis department still operating in Gaza.

Around 100,000 Palestinians are moving north from Rafah, yet humanitarian partners have no tents or food stores left in south Gaza.

A massive ground attack in Rafah would lead to an epic humanitarian disaster and pull the plug on our efforts to support people as famine looms.

International humanitarian law is unequivocal:  civilians must be protected.

In particular, vulnerable people unable to relocate from active fighting must be protected wherever they seek shelter – pregnant women, children, the injured, the sick, and older people, and people with disabilities.

International humanitarian law is a must. It must be respected by all parties.

And, of course, what happens in Gaza has profound repercussions in the occupied West Bank, where we see a deeply disturbing spike in settler violence, excessive use of force by the Israeli Defense Force, demolitions and evictions.

All of this speaks to the need for the international community to speak with one voice for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza, the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages, and a massive surge in life-saving aid.

Dear members of the media,

The conflicts raging on African continent are tearing lives and communities apart.

The United Nations fully supports the African Union’s work to silence the guns.

We are ready to cooperate and mobilise the international community to support peace from the Sahel, to the Horn of Africa, the Great Lakes and beyond.

I am particularly concerned about the ongoing war in Sudan where we are witnessing indiscriminate attacks against civilians, grotesque sexual violence against women and girls, and humanitarians blocked, attacked, and killed.

Close to nine million people have fled their homes.

And the World Food Programme warns that the window of time to prevent starvation in Darfur is closing rapidly.

Violent clashes in El Fasher are preventing aid getting through.

An attack on the city would have devastating consequences for civilians. And would likely see the conflict tear across Darfur.

I am also very concerned by reports of escalating violence in North and South Kordofan and Al Jazirah States.

I call on all parties to abide by international humanitarian law, protect civilians, and facilitate full and unrestricted humanitarian access.

Ultimately, we know that there is no military solution to this conflict.

We need an urgent, coordinated international effort to deliver a political process that can get Sudan back on track.

I welcome the steps taken to end the conflict in including efforts by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development -IGAD-, the African Union, the League of Arab States, and through the Jeddah process.

The United Nations – particularly my Personal Envoy, Ramtane Lamamra – will continue working closely with all parties to advance coordinated efforts towards an inclusive and lasting peace:

A peace spearheaded by the region, and owned by the Sudanese people.

And I call on all countries to use their influence to get the warring parties to the negotiating table.

Members of the media,

The crises we face demand international solutions.

The United Nations will never stop fighting to deliver – for Africa and for all humanity.

And I thank you.

Moderator: first question from The Standard.

Question: Good evening, everyone. My name is Gatwiri Purity from the standard. And my question today is why was Kenya chosen to host this event? What is the significance of choosing Kenya to host this event for the very first time?

Secretary-General: For a very simple reason. Kenya is today a fundamental partner of the United Nations. In Kenya, we have the only country that hosts two UN agencies: UN-Habitat and UNEP, the United Nations Environment Programme.

Kenya is the country that has volunteered to assume responsibilities in one of the most dramatic situations we are living in the world, Haiti. And soon, Kenya police will be in Haiti protecting those that are victims of the most horrible violence of gangs.

Kenya is a partner in all United Nations activities, from sustainable development to climate - I was here recently, in the African Climate Summit- from peace and security in the region, as a mediator, always available, to human rights and to all other aspects of our activity.

We felt it was very important that the meeting will take place in Africa, because Africa is in the center of our concerns when we look into reforms of multilateralism.

If the present multilateralism has failed anywhere in the world, it has failed in Africa.

This must be corrected.

So, we should do this in Africa. And doing it in Africa, it makes all sense to do it in Kenya as a privileged partner of the United Nations.

Moderator: Thank you, [inaudible] from Nigeria. You can stand up.

Question: Thank you Mr. SG. My question is beyond Nairobi, post Nairobi, what are you doing?

What is your commitment towards ensuring that the various issues that have been discussed in this conference, there is a kind of meaningful engagement and follow up on the issues as we move towards the Summit of the Future, because oftentimes, we come to these kinds of conferences and we talk, but then, not much happens beyond the conference. Thank you.

Secretary-General: I was following from far away, but following very closely the work in this conference.

And I have to say that from this conference is coming a very strong message for the member states that will be in the Summit of the Future.

And the message that is clear. The multilateral institutions that we have today are the multilateral institutions created after the second world war: The Security Council of the United Nations, the Bretton Woods system, and others.

They reflect the world of that time, not the world of today.

There is not one single African permanent member in the Security Council. That is unacceptable.
And the Bretton Woods institutions still reflect the economy of the post second world war situation, and doesn't take into account that the large majority of the African countries were not even represented then because they were under still colonial domination.

So, these institutions must be renewed in order to have justice, equity, and to have the capacity to respond to the dramatic needs of the peoples in Africa, with countries that are drowning in, not only with the floods, but drowning in debt, because the international financial system has not worked in favour of them.

Countries that have not received the financial support that was needed in order to invest in adaptation to climate change. And we see the results in the impacts of devastating floods in different African countries.

Countries in relation to which there is not enough support to investment in the sustainable development goals. There are many African countries that spend more, paying interest of their debt than paying for education and health.

So, there is a basic unfairness in today's world. And our systems are outdated, are unfair, and are dysfunctional.

And, there was a very strong voice from this conference, from the civil society saying this must change.

And at the same time, we must be much better equipped to deal with the problems of peace and security, to invest much more on prevention of conflicts. And prevention of conflicts means development, human rights. This is where we must invest much more in the international community.

A very strong message about the need for gender equality. A very strong message about the needs to support developing countries to create the emergency platforms able to respond to dramatic impacts, like the ones of the recent droughts.

So, there is a lot that needs to be changed in our international multilateral system to make it equitable, to make it fair, to make it correspond to the needs of the people of the 21st century. And the voice of the civil society here was very clear, telling the government: time to move.

We cannot go on postponing decisions. We cannot go on resisting change. We need to change dramatically. The skeleton of all the international community creates the force that is necessary to provide the support that developing countries require to face the enormous challenges of our time.

At the same time, a very strong message on the use of digital technologies, not as a privilege of the rich, but as something that will help developing countries to catch up more quickly, and to be able to provide to their citizens the same rights that richer countries are able to provide.

Moderator: Thank you, EFE?

Secretary-General: In Spanish, if you want.

Question: Yes, good afternoon, everybody, Secretary General, my name is Mercedes Ortuno, from the Spanish News agency EFE. Thank you for being here and answering our questions. I have two of them. After the recent unsuccessful negotiations about the ceasefire in Gaza, do you think we will see a ceasefire soon, at least a temporary one?

And, is Israel committing a genocide against Palestinians in Gaza some countries and human rights organizations have denounced? Thank you very much.

Secretary-General: First of all, we have been asking for a ceasefire, a humanitarian ceasefire, independently of any negotiations.

We think that a ceasefire is necessary, as we think the release of hostages are necessary.
And I strongly hope that it will be possible to go the extra mile and come to an agreement that would allow at least for an end of the bloodshed and for the release of the hostages, and for unimpeded humanitarian access.

Now, it's for the courts to qualify the legal concepts. But I don't need, in relation to that, to say more than what I'm going to say.

The number of civilians that were killed in Gaza is unprecedented.

You have more civilians killed in Gaza during a few months, much more, more than double, than the civilians killed after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, in more than two years. And there you have two of the most powerful armies in the world, using the most sophisticated weapons with bombardments all over.

And this has caused much less civilian casualties than the civilians in Gaza, which means that something is fundamentally wrong in the way this military operation has been conducted.

Question: Thank you, Secretary General. My name is Nyaradzo Mashayamombe. I am a gender advocate and a storyteller from Zimbabwe. My question is pertaining to the outcomes of the Civil Society conference with the feminist lens. As we speak, there is a petition from the global feminist that they are not happy with the with the outcome document. Which is it? The impact coalition. Yes. As we move forward, the impact coalition, they believe that they may not be as inclusive, they are not acknowledging what is already existing, the structures that have been existing, they may not be as inclusive, as I mentioned for everyone. So, I don't know what you think about that, is there a room to re-look, is the women speaking out?

Secretary-General: Civil society is by nature diverse. This conference is not a conference in which we believe it would be possible that all members of the civil society would think exactly the same about all issues that are on the table.

So, it's natural that different opinions exist in relation to several issues.

But I must say that, beyond the questions that you raised, and others of the same nature, there was a fundamental movement in this civil society gathering, a fundamental movement claiming for justice and equity in the world, and for reforms of the international system to provide that justice and equity in the world.

So, I fully respect that in some aspects, there are differences of opinion, we will take all into account.

But, we are extremely encouraged by the very dynamic contribution that the civil society is giving in this conference.

Question: Thank you very much, Secretary-General. My name is Injuruki Wanjiku, from the Mount Kenya Times. And my question for you, it's in light of the leave nobody behind in life, and the question is, what's your assurance to the being left behind African nations, where over 690 million people do not have access to water and sanitation. And 453 are living below the poverty line. And the speculation that gender equity could take about 300 years.

Thank you.

Secretary-General: Well, I cannot give you the assurance that I will solve that problem, because I have not the power to solve that problem. But I can give you the assurance that the United Nations will be fighting hard to make it happen, for all Africans to have access to energy, and for the impact of poverty in Africa to be dramatically reduced, with the extinction of extreme poverty.

And that is the reason why we committed to the Sustainable Development Goals.

That is the reason why we are claiming for the reform of international financial architecture.

That is the reason why we are claiming for debt relief.

That is the reason why we are claiming for fairness, in trade, and in other aspects of international economic relations.

So, we have not the power to give those things to the African continent. But we have the convening power to bring together, as much as possible, governments and societies to claim for the needs, for those that are still in the strongest position in the international institutions to understand that things have to change, that power must be better distributed, that wealth must be better distributed, and that fairness and justice must prevail in international relations.

Question: Thank you so much. My name is Enock Sikolia, from CGTN Africa. I know you've talked about your concerns on the issue in Sudan, but of concern to Africa is the level of attention. When you look at the attention that is given to other conflicts across the world -we're talking about the Gaza, the Russia-Ukraine conflict. But in Africa, we have decades-long conflicts where people are still dying: Democratic Republic of Congo, the Sahel region, and even the Sudan one that you've talked about. And yet, the attention that is being given by the United Nations, by the powerful nations that form the UN Security Council. So, the question is, and among Africans, is why little attention is given to African conflicts, as compared to other conflicts across the world?

Secretary-General: The UN does not give less attention to the African conflicts. We have peacekeeping operations in Africa. We have practically no peacekeeping, or very small peacekeeping operations out of Africa. And we have had many, many UN members of those peacekeeping that have given their lives for peace in Africa. We have several political missions in Africa, we have regional offices in Africa dealing with conflicts, and we are permanently, permanently mobilizing the international community to be able to support populations victim of those conflicts, and at the same time to facilitate the capacity of these conflicts to ends.

Let's be honest. Many of the conflicts are not only the responsibility of the Africans. Many of the conflicts are also the responsibility of those that, from outside Africa, have a negative influence in the way things are moving. And if you look at several situations that you've mentioned, you recognize that that is true.

We give total priority to our engagement in the African conflicts, and they correspond to a permanent, central, concern of the United Nations. It is evident that the way the global media exists, and the different impact of the areas of the global media makes naturally stronger impact in relation to European media, or in relation to American media, or in relation to media conglomerates in the developed world, more attention to conflicts in the Global North than to conflict in the Global south. It is true.

It is also true that many political leaders tend to look more to the conflicts that are close and forget those that are a little bit more far away, not being wise enough to understand that the conflicts that are more far away, can have a big influence in the peace and security situation of their own countries, even if they are in the Global North.

And so, my appeal for the political leaders, and my appeal for the media organizations, is to give to the African conflicts of today the same level of priority that is given to other conflicts, because they represent the same kind of threat to global peace and security, and they are causing a volume of suffering that is unparalleled in the international community.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/268339-secretary-general-press-conference-ahead-closing-united-nations-civil-society-conference




Date: 09 May 2024
Title: Egypt faces mounting socio-economic strain from the Gaza war, says UNDP
Content: 09 May 2024
Rapid assessment warns that Egypt may lose up to 5 years in human development
Cairo, Egypt - May 8, 2024 - The Egyptian economy, which relies heavily on tourism, remittances, Suez Canal revenues, foreign debt, and capital flows, is experiencing the repercussions of the Gaza war in various areas, straining Egypt's economic reform and development trajectory, according to a new rapid assessment released today by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
The new analysis titled "Potential Socio-Economic Impact of the Gaza War on Egypt: A Rapid Assessment” sheds light on the multiple impacts of the ongoing Gaza war on the Egyptian economy and society and provides insights for policy makers and stakeholders to mitigate the risks. The assessment estimates the impacts with projections for low-intensity (six-months), medium-intensity (nine-months) and high-intensity (one-year) scenarios.
The authors estimate that Egypt’s GDP would be lower by 2.6 percent than the business-as-usual levels in the fiscal year 2023–24 and 1.3 percent in the fiscal year 2024–25 in a medium-intensity scenario; and by 3.0 percent in fiscal year 2023–24 and 2.6 percent in fiscal year 2024–25 in a high-intensity scenario. Unemployment rate is expected to increase due to the Gaza war, with lasting effects, from 7.8 percent to 8.7 percent in the medium-intensity scenario and 9.1 percent in the high-intensity scenario.
"The Gaza war is putting Egypt's resilience and its ability to deal with these turbulent times to test, particularly challenges associated with external shocks,” said Alessandro Fracassetti, UNDP Resident Representative in Egypt, emphasizing the urgency of addressing the socio-economic impact of the Gaza war. “This study underscores the urgent need for coordinated efforts to alleviate the adverse effects on the Egyptian economy and ensure a sustainable recovery."
The study highlights the profound economic challenges facing Egypt where the country’s key sources of revenue, tourism and the Suez Canal, have been hit hard as a result of the attacks in the Red Sea and ensuing repercussions on maritime transit, exacerbating the economic distresses, and necessitating swift recovery measures.
UNDP estimates the decline in tourism and the Suez Canal revenues in the two fiscal years 2023-24 and 2024-25 to be around $9.9 billion in a medium intensity scenario, and $13.7 billion if the war intensifies with the involvement of other regional actors (high intensity).
In addition, the projections indicate possible setbacks in Egypt's Human Development Index (HDI), which would fall back to the levels of previous years and reverse progress made in the post-COVID period. The simulations show that the HDI would fall from 0.728 in 2022 to 0.726 in the low and medium-intensity scenarios while in the high intensity scenario, it would decrease to 0.720, pushing human development in Egypt back to the 2021 level in the first two scenarios and to the level observed in 2018 in the third scenario, representing a loss of up to five years in human development gains.
The assessment highlights that there is an urgent need for targeted measures and policy reforms to ensure Egypt's socio-economic stability. To restore macro-financial stability, the Egyptian government has already signed several new agreements that have increased the inflow of foreign currency and capital. Along with the implementation of prudent macroeconomic policies and recovery measures, the government is working to mitigate the problems and smooth-out the negative impact of the Gaza war. The study proposes policy recommendations that include strengthening mechanisms to support vulnerable populations, implementing labour market reforms and promoting regional economic cooperation.
The full report will be available online on May 15, 2024. For the executive summary, available now on: https://go.undp.org/ZGe
For more information and to arrange interviews, please contact:
UNDP | Fatma Elzahraa Yassin |    Communication Lead |    UNDP in Egypt | fatma.yassin@undp.org
https://www.undp.org/egypt/press-releases/egypt-faces-mounting-socio-economic-strain-gaza-war-says-undp
Note to Editors
A team of economists, comprising experts from UNDP within the region and beyond, were involved in the preparation of this study. The CGE modelling exercise was conducted by Dr. City El Deep Radwan and Dr. Mariam Raouf. External peer review was provided by Dr. Mahmoud Mohieldin, Dr. Alia El Mahdy, and Dr. Sara El Khishin.
An early draft of the rapid assessment has been validated by key stakeholders from the Government of Egypt and various research institutions.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/268211-egypt-faces-mounting-socio-economic-strain-gaza-war-says-undp




Date: 07 May 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  --   REMARKS TO THE PRESS - ON THE MIDDLE EAST  New York, 7 May 2024
Content: 07 May 2024
I reiterate my appeal for both parties to show the political courage and spare no effort to secure an agreement now.
To stop the bloodshed.  To free the hostages.  And to help stabilize a region which is still at risk of explosion.
This is a crucial opportunity that the region – and indeed the world – cannot afford to miss.

We are at a decisive moment for the Palestinian and Israeli people and for the fate of the entire region.
An agreement between the Government of Israel and the leadership of Hamas is essential to stop the unbearable suffering of Palestinians in Gaza and of the hostages and their families.
It would be tragic if weeks of intense diplomatic activity for peace in Gaza, yield no ceasefire.  No release of hostages.  And a devastating offensive in Rafah.
I reiterate my appeal for both parties to show the political courage and spare no effort to secure an agreement now.
To stop the bloodshed.  To free the hostages.  And to help stabilize a region which is still at risk of explosion.
This is a crucial opportunity that the region – and indeed the world – cannot afford to miss.
Yet things are moving in the wrong direction.
I am disturbed and distressed by the renewed military activity in Rafah by the Israeli Defence Forces.

The closure of both the Rafah and Karem Shalom crossings is especially damaging to an already dire humanitarian situation. They must be re-opened immediately.  Just to give an example; we risk running out of fuel this evening.

I urge the Government of Israel to stop any escalation, and engage constructively in the ongoing diplomatic talks.

After more than 1,100 Israelis killed in the Hamas terror attacks of 7 October …   after more than 34,000 Palestinians killed in Gaza, haven’t we seen enough?

Haven’t civilians suffered enough death and destruction?

Make no mistake – a full-scale assault on Rafah would be a human catastrophe.

Countless more civilian casualties.  Countless more families forced to flee yet again – with nowhere safe to go.

Because there is no safe place in Gaza.

Meanwhile, the repercussions will be felt far beyond, in the occupied West Bank, and across the region.

Rafah is the epicenter of humanitarian operations in Gaza.

Attacking Rafah will further upend our efforts to support people in dire humanitarian straits as famine looms.

International humanitarian law is unequivocal:  civilians must be protected – whether they leave Rafah or stay in the city.

International humanitarian law must be respected by both parties.

I also remind Israel of its obligation to facilitate the safe and unimpeded access of humanitarian aid and staff into and across Gaza.

Even the best friends of Israel are clear:

An assault on Rafah would be a strategic mistake, a political calamity, and a humanitarian nightmare.

I appeal to all those with influence over Israel to do everything in their power to help avert even more tragedy.

The international community has a shared responsibility to promote a humanitarian ceasefire, the unconditional release of all hostages, and a massive surge in life-saving aid.

It is time for the parties to seize the opportunity and secure a deal for the sake of their own people.  Thank you.

*****

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/267977-secretary-general-remarks-press-middle-east-new-york-7-may-2024




Date: 03 May 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  ---  MESSAGE ON WORLD PRESS FREEDOM DAY 3 May 2024
Content: 03 May 2024
A free press is not a choice, but a necessity.



The world is going through an unprecedented environmental emergency which poses an existential threat to this and future generations.

People need to know about this – and journalists and media workers have a key role in informing and educating them.

Local, national and global media outlets can highlight stories about the climate crisis, biodiversity loss, and environmental injustice.

Through their work, people come to understand the plight of our planet, and are mobilized and empowered to take action for change.

Media workers also document environmental degradation. And they provide evidence of environmental vandalism that helps to hold those responsible to account.

It is no surprise that some powerful people, companies and institutions will stop at nothing to prevent environmental journalists from doing their jobs.

Media freedom is under siege. And environmental journalism is an increasingly dangerous profession.

Dozens of journalists covering illegal mining, logging, poaching and other environmental issues have been killed in recent decades.

In the vast majority of cases, no one has been held to account.

UNESCO reports that in the past fifteen years, there have been some 750 attacks on journalists and news outlets reporting on environmental issues. And the frequency of such attacks is rising.

Legal processes are also misused to censor, silence, detain and harass environmental reporters, while a new era of climate disinformation focuses on undermining proven solutions, including renewable energy.
But environmental journalists are not the only ones at risk.

Around the world, media workers are risking their lives trying to bring us news on everything from war to democracy.

I am shocked and appalled by the high number of journalists killed in Israeli military operations in Gaza.

The United Nations recognizes the invaluable work of journalists and media professionals to ensure that the public is informed and engaged.

Without facts, we cannot fight mis- and disinformation. Without accountability, we will not have strong policies in place.

Without press freedom, we won't have any freedom.

A free press is not a choice, but a necessity.

Our World Press Freedom Day is very important. And so, I call on governments, the private sector and civil society to join us in reaffirming our commitment to safeguarding press freedom and the rights of journalists and media professionals around the world.

***

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/267733-secretary-general-message-world-press-freedom-day-3-may-2024




Date: 29 April 2024
Title: High-level visit to Suez Canal Economic Zone showcases the impact of the collaboration between UNIDO, Switzerland and Egypt on promoting Eco-industrial Parks as drivers of sustainable industrial development
Content: 29 April 2024
[Suez Canal Economic Zone, Ain Sokhna, 29 April 2024] – The visit of Minister Ahmed Samir, Ambassador Yvonne Baumann and Ms. Monica Rubiolo, representative of the Swiss State Secretariat of Economic Affairs (SECO) to the Suez Canal Economic Zone marks a significant milestone in the collaborative efforts of the United Nations’ Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), Switzerland and the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MoTI) in Egypt to highlight the role of Eco-industrial parks (EIPs) in promoting sustainability and resource efficiency. Taking place today 29 April 2024, this visit underscores the tangible outcomes of the Global Eco-Industrial Parks Programme (GEIPP) in Egypt, emphasising the commitment to fostering inclusive and environmentally responsible economic growth within the country.
Accompanied by esteemed dignitaries, including a delegation from the Ministry of International Cooperation, the United Nation’s Resident Coordinator, Ms. Elena Panova, the UNIDO Regional Office Hub Representative Mr. Patrick Jean Gilabert, the Division Chief of Circular Economy and Chemicals Management, UNIDO Headquarters, Mr. Smail Alhilali, the Chairman of the Suez Canal Economic Zone Mr. Walid Gmaleldeen and the Chairman of Orascom Industrial Park Mr. Amr Elbatrik, Ambassador Baumann and Ms. Rubiolo's visit emphasizes the transformative potential of Eco-industrial parks across economic, environmental, and social domains.
With the participation of key stakeholders from the government and private sector, the visit aims to showcase successful initiatives implemented under the GEIPP Egypt project and foster stakeholders’ engagement towards replicating the EIP approach across the country.
“Supporting partner countries to increase competitiveness and productive capacity of their industry is a major pillar of the Swiss economic cooperation”, said Ms. Monica Rubiolo. “We are proud to support the Global Eco-Industrial Parks Programme, which in principle is implemented in seven countries, including Egypt.”
"The visit of Ambassador Baumann and Ms. Monica Rubiolo to the Suez Canal Economic Zone represents a significant opportunity to highlight the positive impact of our collaborative efforts," remarked Patrick Jean Gilabert, Regional Office Hub Representative at UNIDO. "Through showcasing successful initiatives and engaging with local stakeholders, we aim to reinforce our commitment to sustainable industrial development in Egypt."
Key highlights of the visit include keynote addresses, presentations by the GEIPP Egypt project team, the Suez Canal Economic Zone and Orascom Industrial Park and site visits to observe firsthand the positive outcomes of the measures implemented under the project.
Funded by SECO and implemented by UNIDO in cooperation with MoTI, GEIPP Egypt aims to demonstrate the viability and benefits of Eco-Industrial Parks (EIPs) in scaling up resource productivity and enhancing economic, environmental, and social performances of businesses. With a total budget of approximately EUR 1.6 M and a duration of three years (2022-2024), the project was poised to catalyse sustainable growth across Egypt's industrial landscape. It is carried out at 3 industrial parks, Orascom Industrial Park, Robbiki Leather Cluster and Polaris Parks. Other main stakeholders include SCZONE, Industrial Authority (IDA), General Authority for Investments and Free Zones (GAFI).
For media inquiries and interview requests with key stakeholders, please contact:
Dalia Ibrahim
United Nation’s Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO)
+201283407870
d.ibrahim@unido.org

About UNIDO:
The United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) is the specialized agency of the United Nations that promotes industrial development for poverty reduction, inclusive globalisation, and environmental sustainability. UNIDO fosters competitive and environmentally sustainable industries and promotes investment in innovation.
About SECO:
The Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) is the Swiss Confederation’s centre of expertise for all core economic policy issues, including economic cooperation and development. Its mandate is to facilitate economic growth and sustainable prosperity in its partner countries.


[End of Press Release]
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/267352-high-level-visit-suez-canal-economic-zone-showcases-impact-collaboration-between-unido




Date: 24 April 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY OF MULTILATERALISM AND DIPLOMACY FOR PEACE   24 April 2024
Content: 24 April 2024
The International Day of Multilateralism and Diplomacy for Peace highlights a fundamental truth: no country can solve today’s challenges alone.

Dialogue, diplomacy and multilateral solutions provide the surest path to a peaceful and just world.
These eternal ideals form the foundation of the United Nations Charter, and drive global efforts to safeguard human rights and forge hope, prosperity and peace for all people.

But around the world, conflicts, climate catastrophe, poverty and inequalities create enormous obstacles to diplomacy and multilateral solutions. Collaboration is consumed by competition; dialogue is overtaken by relentless division.

Diplomacy and the multilateral system itself were created precisely for moments like this. We need to resurrect a new spirit of global cooperation to rebuild trust, heal divisions, and place humanity on the path to peace.

The Summit of the Future this September will be a critical opportunity for countries to share solutions. A New Agenda for Peace that takes a holistic approach to the drivers of conflict can help to restore faith in the multilateral system and what we can accomplish by working as one.

On this important day, I call on all governments and leaders to spare no effort to bridge divides, renew dialogue and trust, and deliver a peaceful future.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/266870-secretary-general-message-international-day-multilateralism-and-diplomacy-peace-24-april




Date: 23 April 2024
Title: WFP AND EU FORGE NEW PARTNERSHIP TO EMPOWER REFUGEES AND HOST COMMUNITIES IN EGYPT
Content: 23 April 2024
Joint News Release
CAIRO – Yesterday, the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in Egypt and the European Commission’s Service for Foreign Policy Instruments (FPI) launched a new partnership to empower both refugees living in Egypt and host communities and improve their self-reliance and social cohesion.
The European Union’s (EU) €2 million contribution will target 6,000 people from nine different countries living in Egypt – including Sudanese refugees who escaped conflict – through targeted capacity-building initiatives in Cairo, Alexandria, Aswan, Damietta, and other regions across the country.
Throughout the 18-month program, participants will receive training across a diverse array of fields, including skilled trades like carpentry, manufacturing, and craftsmanship. By engaging the private sector, the programme also facilitates on-the-job trainings to ensure a seamless transition from learning to employment opportunities.
WFP Egypt's Interim Country Director, Gianpietro Bordignon, H.E Ambassador Christian Berger, Head of the EU Delegation to Egypt, and a delegation from the EU visited Aswan to mark the programme's launch that kicked off with a series of vocational trainings with refugees, including digital marketing, graphic design, and culinary sessions.
Minister of International Cooperation H.E. Dr. Rania A. Al-Mashat and Minister of Social Solidarity Dr Nevine Al-Kabbaj also attended the inauguration in Aswan.
“The World Food Programme (WFP) and the European Union (EU) are key development partners to Egypt, working collaboratively within our diverse cooperation portfolio that includes food security and investing in human capital. This is a core part of putting forth a people-centric, inclusive development,” said H.E. Dr. Rania A. Al-Mashat, Minister of International Cooperation.

“While Egypt hosts over 9 million migrants and refugees from diverse nationalities, the Ministry of Social Solidarity (MOSS) supports the provision of a multifaceted intervention social service package that encompasses humanitarian assistance, social care, social protection, and economic empowerment measures targeting refugees and host communities, with a special emphasis on the most vulnerable groups including women, children, persons with disabilities, persons without care, and elderly. MOSS acknowledges the importance of support provided through partners from line ministries, civil society, and international partner organizations, and we strongly commend the strong and effective partnership with the European Union Delegation in Egypt that enables us to introduce comprehensive and sustainable solutions to rising crises and emergencies”, said Minister of Social Solidarity H.E. Dr. Nevine Al-Kabbaj.

"Migration, resilience, livelihood, and social cohesion are priorities for the EU as they aim at peaceful coexistence. We are convinced that inclusion and self-reliance represent concrete solutions to address the needs of refugees and local communities. We believe in initiatives involving youth and women as gateways for reconciliation, social cohesion, and education for peace across society," said H.E Ambassador Christian Berger.
"The EU is a long-standing partner of WFP in Egypt, and we are thrilled to expand the scope of our partnership to build the resilience of refugees and their host communities in Egypt and help increase their employment opportunities,” said Gianpietro Bordignon, WFP Interim Country Director in Egypt.” Thanks to the EU’s contribution, WFP in Egypt can provide them with the essential tools that would allow them to become self-reliant and secure their basic needs independently. Our gratitude extends to our Egyptian partners, whose collaboration makes this vital work possible. Together, we are dedicated to improving the lives of those facing the greatest challenges."
Under WFP’s current five-year programme (2023-2028), WFP Egypt is dedicated to supporting local communities,  people affected by crisis and refugees from more than nine countries, offering them cash assistance, nutrition support, and vocational training programmes to enhance their food security.
#                   #                      #
About WFP
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Arabic and @WFP_MENA
And on Instagram @WFP_Egypt

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/266804-wfp-and-eu-forge-new-partnership-empower-refugees-and-host-communities-egypt




Date: 22 April 2024
Title: HE SECRETARY-GENERAL--  MESSAGE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL MOTHER EARTH DAY   22 April 2024
Content: 22 April 2024
Humanity is acting like Mother Earth’s delinquent child.
We depend on nature for the food we eat, the air we breathe, and the water we drink. Yet, we have brought chaos to the natural world: poisoning our planet with pollution, wiping out species and ecosystems with abandon, and destabilising our climate with greenhouse gas emissions.

These actions harm nature, and they harm humanity. We are imperilling food production, polluting our ocean and air, creating a more dangerous, less stable environment, and holding back sustainable development.

Together, we must restore harmony with nature, embrace sustainable production and consumption, and protect ourselves from harm – creating jobs, reducing poverty and driving sustainable development as we do so.

That means slamming the brakes on biodiversity loss, putting a stop to pollution, and slashing greenhouse gas emissions globally. It means supporting Indigenous Peoples, local communities, and others being hit hardest by the pollution, climate and biodiversity crises. It means delivering climate justice to countries on the frontline of climate chaos, and swiftly mobilising the finance and support countries need to act on climate, protect nature and promote sustainable development.

Countries must produce new national climate plans that align with limiting the rise in global temperature to 1.5 degrees Celsius. These can double as national transition plans and national investment plans, underpinning sustainable development for generations to come. And the G20 must lead a fast, fair and funded global phaseout of fossil fuels, and put a stop to nature-wrecking subsidies, such as those that underwrite runaway production of planet-choking plastics.

Repairing relations with Mother Earth is the mother of all of humanity’s challenges.  We must act – and act now – to create a better future for us all.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/266685-he-secretary-general-message-international-mother-earth-day-22%C2%A0april-2024




Date: 22 April 2024
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General – on the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA)
Content: 22 April 2024
The Secretary-General expresses his gratitude and appreciation to Ms. Catherine Colonna, who on Saturday submitted to him her Final Report as Chair of the Independent Review Group on the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), entitled “Independent review of mechanisms and procedures to ensure adherence by UNRWA to the humanitarian principle of neutrality."

The Secretary-General is also grateful to the Raoul Wallenberg Institute, the Chr. Michelsen Institute, and the Danish Institute for Human Rights, for the essential research that they conducted.
The Secretary-General accepts the recommendations contained in Ms. Colonna's report.  He has agreed with Commissioner General Philippe Lazzarini that UNRWA, with the Secretary-General’s support, will establish an action plan to implement the recommendations contained in the Final Report.
In this regard, the Secretary-General counts on the cooperation of the donor community, the host countries and the staff to fully cooperate in the implementation of the recommendations.  Moving forward, the Secretary-General appeals to all stakeholders to actively support UNRWA, as it is a lifeline for Palestine refugees in the region.

Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 22 April 2024

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/266705-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-un-relief-and-works-agency-palestine




Date: 17 April 2024
Title: UNODC launches the Youth Network for the Middle East and North African (MENA) region to support youth efforts against drugs, violence and crime
Content: 17 April 2024
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt – The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa (ROMENA) has held today an official ceremony to launch the Youth Network to support youth leaders from Algeria, Egypt, Lebanon, Libya, Palestine, and Sudan1 as active agents of change against drugs, violence, and crime. The event was hosted by the Arab Republic of Egypt and supported by the Federal Republic of Germany.

The launch was attended by H.E. Dr. Nivine El Kabbag, the Egyptian Minister of Social Solidarity, Dr. Amr Osman, Director of the Egyptian Fund Drug Control and Treatment of Addiction, Mr. Mostafa Ezz Elarab, Assistant Minister of Youth and Sports for Youth Policies, Ms. Cristina Albertin, the UNODC Regional Representative for the Middle East and North Africa, Mr. Holger Illi, the Representative of the German Federal Ministry of Development and Economic Cooperation (BMZ), UNFPA representatives, youth, anti-corruption and drug prevention experts, representatives from the League of Arab States (LAS) and other relevant stakeholders.

Addressing the youth, Dr. Nivine El Kabbag, the Minister of Social Solidarity, noted “You are carrying a noble mission to spread peace, and combat drugs and their associated societal violence. I am confident that your rich participation will have a significant impact in spreading this message among your peers.'"

The UNODC MENA Youth Network aims to empower young people to become active agents of change in their communities against drugs, violence and crime through three pillars: empowerment, meaningful participation and youth-focused partnerships and networking.

The youth passionately declared during their speech, "Launching the network stems from the belief in our right to participate in shaping the presence and the future, and it reinforces the active role of youth on both the national and regional levels, especially amidst the circumstances and challenges facing our region."

34 youths, distinguished by their exceptional community engagement and leadership skills, were chosen to represent their countries. Half were nominated by relevant ministries and other national implementing partners, while the remaining half were selected competitively from a total of 683 candidates.

From her side, Ms. Cristina Albertin stressed in her remarks that “through this Network, we [UNODC] have advanced beyond mere discussions on the meaningful participation of youth to actualize their involvement in action. We acknowledge the youth's role as equal partners in building the societal fabric, empowering them to act as agents of change and implement UNODC's prevention programmes within their communities, as a part of our vision for enduring change and sustainability.”
Mr. Mostafa Ezz Elarab, Assistant Minister of Youth and Sports for Youth Policies, affirmed that “We pin our hopes on this network being a genuine platform for youth, enabling them to achieve their aspirations and contribute to building a better future for their countries and homelands.”

"The excellent partnership with UNODC and Germany in the MENA region (….) supports young people to empower their peers significant contribution for institution allowing more effective response to the needs of vulnerable and at risk youth and children, crime prevention, violence, rehabilitation and reintegration, and even with the difficulties of this year of 2023 achieved very impressive outcomes" added Mr. Holger Illi, the Representative of BMZ.

The youth representatives will gather for a 4-day training event. The launch concluded the first two days of the agenda with the focus on empowering youth for community engagement and leadership through the introduction of UNODC's mandate and the Youth4Impact regional programme objectives, strategy development, critical analysis of challenges, decision-making, partnerships, and advocacy for social change. As a result of this training, the youth representatives drafted their relevant envisioned actions to implement in their respective countries’ communities.

Over the next two days, the agenda focuses on enhancing the young participants’ awareness about corruption, governance, and anti-corruption strategies, culminating in the development of a "MENA Youth 2030 Anti-Corruption Vision" and engaging in creative and strategic sessions to empower youth-led anti-corruption actions in the MENA region, as a part of the Global Resource for Anti-Corruption Education and Youth Empowerment (GRACE) initiative.

GRACE aims to leverage education and youth empowerment to foster transparency, accountability, integrity, and a culture that rejects corruption. GRACE operates through primary and secondary education, academia and research, and youth empowerment, each targeting different levels of education and aspects of society to instill an anti-corruption mindset.

The UNODC MENA Youth Network is part of the “Youth 4 Impact” regional programme, which aims to empower young men and women, including those who are marginalized and at risk, to face life's challenges and become more resilient against crime, violence, and drugs. Since its inception in 2022, "Youth 4 Impact" has positively impacted the lives of more than 67,990 individuals across the region (2022-2023) by working alongside 58 national counterparts. The programme is funded by the German Federal Ministry of Development and Economic Cooperation (BMZ).

In alignment with the UNODC 2021-2025 Strategy, which underscores youth empowerment as a pivotal approach, the "Youth 4 Impact" programme adopts a methodology of working “for youth” and “with youth,” fostering co-creation. This is congruent with the UNODC Regional Framework for the Arab States 2023-2028, which identifies youth as a key catalyst for enhancing crime and violence prevention and criminal justice.
***
For more information, please visit:
GRACE Initiative
Youth 4 Impact 2023 Annual Achievements Report
UNODC Regional Framework for the Arab States (2023-2028)
For live coverage of the youth network activities please visit:
UNODCROMENA1(Facebook), UNODC_ROMENA (X), UNODC ROMENA (LinkedIn) and UNODC ROMENA website.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/266204-unodc-launches-youth-network-middle-east-and-north-african-mena-region-support-youth-efforts




Date: 16 April 2024
Title: As Sudan Conflict turns one, UN in Egypt appeals for more support
Content: 16 April 2024
Cairo, 16 April – The United Nations in Egypt and its partners today renew their appeal for a combined USD175.1 million to meet the most urgent needs of Sudanese refugees who fled to Egypt since mid-April 2023.
Cairo, 16 April – The United Nations in Egypt and its partners today renew their appeal for a combined USD175.1 million to meet the most urgent needs of Sudanese refugees who fled to Egypt since mid-April 2023.
Refugees face a multitude of traumas enroute to seeking safety, which often places them in precarious situations. Many children and families are separated and arrive in distress, rapidly depleting their remaining savings in Egypt.
The Government of Egypt has been working to provide refugees with essential services such as healthcare and education, but both refugees and host communities continue to face significant challenges which requires. Building long-term resilience plans and enhancing the livelihoods of both host communities and Sudanese individuals in Egypt.
The requested budget of 175.1 million will support 27 partners, targeting a population of approximately half a million refugees, migrants, and host community members. This support will encompass various sectors including protection, education, food security, basic needs, public health and nutrition, livelihoods and economic inclusion, water, sanitation, hygiene, and housing.
Since April 2023, the number of Sudanese refugees registered with UNHCR in Egypt has multiplied five-fold, reaching a staggering 300,000 individuals, with an additional 250,000 awaiting registration. The demand for registration is expected to further increase due to the volatile situation in Sudan.
UNHCR coordinates the response in Egypt, in close collaboration with the Government of Egypt, the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office and other UN agencies including WHO, UNICEF, WFP, IOM, UNDP, ILO, UNFPA, UN Habitat, UNESCO, UN Women, and UNAIDS as well as national and international civil society organizations.
The war in Sudan has forced over 1.7 million people to flee to neighbouring countries, including Egypt, which already had overstretched resources. Support for the humanitarian response is crucial, but investments to strengthen national services and long-term community resilience are equally critical to support Egypt as a host government and enable refugees to live in dignity. Supporting livelihoods for host communities and refugees remains a critical priority, particularly given the mounting economic challenges, while investing in restoring refugees’ self-reliance will promote their resilience to economic shocks and facilitate pathways toward durable solutions.
Working with the government, UNHCR alongside sister UN agencies, development partners and humanitarian actors are saving lives but, in many locations, we have been able to provide less than the bare minimum. Firm commitments are needed from the international community to support Sudan and the countries hosting refugees to ensure a dignified life for those forced to flee the war.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/266085-sudan-conflict-turns-one-un-egypt-appeals-more-support




Date: 16 April 2024
Title: Dear World Leaders, We still believe in the promise of a better world for all. Do you?
Content: 16 April 2024
All around us, humanity is in peril. The impacts of war and conflict, humanitarian catastrophes, the mental health crisis and the climate emergency have reached unimaginable heights.

But we know that it doesn’t need to be this way. While no one nation can solve these challenges alone, it is the inability of leaders to work together in pursuit of the collective good that is putting our common future in jeopardy.
We cannot afford to lose hope — the stakes are simply too high. That is why, as young people and allies, we are rallying together as a global community to make our voices heard.
Enough is enough. We are calling on all leaders and institutions to take immediate action to make global policymaking and decision-making spaces more representative of the communities they serve. Putting more diverse perspectives around the decision-making table is the only way to ensure we don’t continue to repeat past mistakes.
Young people recognize this perhaps more than anyone else, as the generation that will live with the consequences of the decisions taken today. By championing intergenerational solidarity and finding innovative solutions even in the most challenging of circumstances, young people remind us that a better world is still possible.
Yet youth are nearly invisible in positions of power, and are becoming increasingly frustrated with being tokenized, marginalized and ignored. This needs to change.
We need more young people represented in all spheres of decision-making — within government, at the United Nations, in civil society, private sector and academia. And they must be taken seriously.
To rebuild trust and restore hope, we need to see meaningful youth engagement become the norm at all levels, backed by dedicated resourcing everywhere around the world. The Summit of the Future this September will be one important opportunity for governments to commit to finally giving young people their rightful seat at the table.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/266071-dear-world-leaders-we-still-believe-promise-better-world-all-do-you




Date: 16 April 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL   VIDEO MESSAGE TO THE THIRD SESSION OF THE PERMANENT  FORUM OF PEOPLE OF AFRICAN DESCENT
Content: 16 April 2024
Geneva, 16 April 2024
Excellencies, Distinguished guests,

This third session of the Permanent Forum on People of African Descent brings together the United Nations, governments, civil society, human rights defenders and more at a critical moment for equality and racial justice.

We celebrate the invaluable achievements and contributions of people of African descent across the range of human endeavour, from political and civil rights struggles around the world, to science, technology, industry, literature, music and all the arts, and more.

At the same time, racial discrimination and inequality continue – based on centuries of enslavement and colonialism.

By establishing this Permanent Forum, the international community demonstrated its commitment to addressing these injustices.

Now we must build on that momentum to drive meaningful change – by ensuring that people of African descent enjoy the full and equal realization of their human rights;

By stepping up efforts to eliminate racism and discrimination – including through reparations;

And by taking steps towards the full inclusion of people of African descent in society as equal citizens.

Together, let’s use this Permanent Forum to continue building a future of human rights, dignity, equality, and justice for all people of African descent.

Thank you.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/266062-secretary-general-video-message-third-session-permanent-forum-people-african-descent




Date: 16 April 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL   ---  VIDEO MESSAGE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HUMANITARIAN CONFERENCE FOR SUDAN & ITS NEIGHBOURS
Content: 16 April 2024

Paris, 15 April 2024

Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen.

I thank France, Germany and the European Union for organizing this vital conference.

One year has passed since the outbreak of conflict in Sudan, which unleashed a catalogue of horrors.

A nightmare of bloodshed that has killed over 14,000 people and injured 33,000 more.

A nightmare of sexual violence against women and girls.

A nightmare of destruction that has reduced homes, hospitals, schools and other vital infrastructure to rubble.

A nightmare of hunger and displacement, with over eight million people fleeing their homes.

And a nightmare for Sudan’s neighbours, who are increasingly feeling the spillover effects of this deadly conflict.

Today, half of Sudan’s people need emergency assistance.

We cannot let this nightmare slide from view.

When I was High Commissioner for Refugees, I witnessed the inspiring generosity of the Sudanese people who opened their doors and their hearts to those fleeing conflict and persecution from neighbouring countries.

Today, we must summon that same spirit of giving to alleviate further suffering in Sudan and urgently scale-up aid.

The $2.7 billion Humanitarian Response Plan for Sudan is only about 6 per cent funded.

At the same time, the $1.4 billion Regional Refugee Response Plan for the Sudan Crisis is only about 7 per cent funded.

I appeal to the generosity of donors to step-up their contributions and support these life-saving efforts.

We also call on all parties to protect civilians and ensure full humanitarian access.

We urge effective and coordinated international mediation efforts to stop the fighting.

And we call for civilian groups — including those representing women and young people — to help lead an inclusive political process to get Sudan’s democratic transition back on track.

I pledge the full support of the United Nations.

My Personal Envoy, Mr. Ramtane Lamamra, is totally engaged in this effort.

We will work shoulder-to-shoulder with all of you to end this nightmare.

It’s time to support the Sudanese people.

It’s time to silence the guns.

It’s time for peace in Sudan.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/266089-secretary-general-video-message-international-humanitarian-conference-sudan-its-neighbours




Date: 15 April 2024
Title: After global shocks, new UN report to say trillions of dollars in SDG financing surge urgently needed
Content: 15 April 2024
WHO: UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina J. Mohammed
WHAT: Launch of the Financing for Sustainable Development Report 2024

Financing challenges are at the heart of the current sustainable development crisis. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, increasing geopolitical tensions and intensifying climate shocks, financing gaps are widening. The 2024 Financing for Sustainable Development Report: Financing for Development at a Crossroads is expected to urgently call for the world to close a trillions of dollars financing gap and reform a global financial system which is not fit for the challenges of the 21st century.
The 2024 Financing for Sustainable Development Report, issued by the UN Secretary-General’s Inter-Agency Task Force on Financing for Development, is expected to offer concrete recommendations to scale up investments in the SDGs and recover lost ground. It will say that the Summit of the Future in September 2024 and the Fourth International Conference on Financing for Development Conference in June 2025 are the final opportunities to change trajectory.
WHEN: 9 April 2024, 12:30 pm (EDT)
after the noon press briefing by the Spokesperson of the UN Secretary-General
WHERE: UN Press Briefing Room, S-237
Follow live on
Home

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/265945-after-global-shocks-new-un-report-say-trillions-dollars-sdg-financing-surge-urgently-needed




Date: 15 April 2024
Title: ‘Step back from the brink,’ to avert full-scale Middle East conflict, says UN chief
Content: 15 April 2024
The people of the Middle East are facing a real danger of a devastating full-scale conflict, António Guterres said on Sunday, urging “maximum restraint” across a region “on the brink”, hours after Iran launched attack drones and missiles against Israel overnight Saturday.


“It is vital to avoid any action that could lead to major military confrontations on multiple fronts in the Middle East...Now is the time for maximum restraint,” the UN Secretary-General told delegates at the opening of an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council.
Mr. Guterres explained that the emergency session was called by Israel following what it described in a letter as ‘a direct attack launched by Iran... of more than 200 UAVs, cruise missiles, and ballistic missiles towards Israel in clear violation of international law.’
The UN chief added that in a separate letter, Iran stated that it had carried out a series of military strikes on Israeli military objectives ‘in the exercise of Iran’s inherent right to self-defence as outlined...in the UN Charter, and in response to...its armed attack on 1 April 2024 against Iranian diplomatic premises’ – in Damascus.
According to the latest reports, Iran launched hundreds of drones and missiles from its territory toward Israel, with most intercepted.
Several missiles reportedly struck within Israeli territory, one of which damaged an Israeli military facility in the south of the country.
“And overall, a few civilians were injured,” the Secretary-General reported, repeating his strong condemnation of the attacks and his call for an immediate cessation of these hostilities.
Recalling the international community’s shared responsibility to engage all parties to prevent further escalation, the Secretary-General added that there was a similar responsibility to secure an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza, the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages, and the unimpeded delivery of humanitarian aid.
There was a further shared responsibility to stop violence in the occupied West Bank, de-escalate the situation along the Blue Line, and re-establish safe navigation in the Red Sea.
“We have a shared responsibility to work for peace. Regional – and indeed global -- peace and security are being undermined by the hour. Neither the region nor the world can afford more war,” Mr. Guterres concluded.

UN Photo
Israeli Ambassador Gilad Erdan said Saturday night’s attacks had been launched from Iranian soil, as well as Lebanon, Syria, Yemen and Iraq.
“Last night the world witnessed an unprecedented escalation that is clear proof of what can happen when warnings are ignored ... [Israel] was not crying wolf; it was trying to wake the world up to the dangers posed by Iran and Its proxies,” he said, adding: “Israel has been sounding the alarm bells.”
Israel’s representative showed a video of what he called an attack on the Temple Mount, and he asked the Security Council: “What have you done to protect the world from Iran?”
He said that Iran’s actions had long been clear, to arm, fund and train its terror proxies across the globe. But the mask of deniability has been removed: Iran had attacked Israel from its own territory; and Israel was surrounded by Iran’s proxies and being attacked on all fronts.
“The mask has come off and so the world’s complacency must also fall. The only option is to condemn Iran...and ensure that it knows that the world will no longer stand idle.”
“This attack crossed every red line and Israel reserves the right to retaliate,” he stated.

UN Photo
While emphasizing that Israel’s “false and unsubstantiated claims” deserved “no real response,” Ambassador Amir Saed Iravani reiterated Iran’s consistent position that it does not seek escalation or war in the region.
“Iran's operation was entirely in the exercise of Iran’s inherent right to self-defense. This concluded action was necessary and proportionate. It was precise and only targeted military objectives and carried out carefully to minimize the potential for escalation and prevent civilian harm,” the Ambassador explained.
Yet, it was regrettable, he said, that today certain Council members, including the US, the UK, and France had chosen to “turn a blind eye to reality” and overlook the root causes contributing to the current situation.
“In hypocritical behavior, these three countries falsely blamed and accused Iran without considering their own failures to uphold their international commitments to peace and security in the region,” said Ambassador Iravani, calling out what he saw as “lies and disinformation” being used to discredit Iran’s right to self-defense.
Moreover, the Council’s inaction faced with “Israeli war crimes against the Palestinian people has only emboldened this regime to continue its violations unchecked” he said, adding that the US and its allies blocked Security Council on Gaza for over six months, protecting Israel from accountability.
“While warning about any further military provocations by the Israeli regime, the Islamic Republic of Iran reaffirms its unwavering determination to defend its people, national security and interests... [we] will not hesitate to exercise this right when required,” he explained.

UN Photo
US Deputy Ambassador Robert Wood strongly condemned “the unprecedented attack on the State of Israel by the Islamic Republic of Iran and its militant proxies and partners,” and said, “Iran’s intent was to cause significant damage and death in Israel.”
“Iran’s reckless actions not only posed a threat to populations in Israel, but also to other UN Member States in the region, including Jordan and Iraq,” he said and added: “The Security Council has an obligation to not let Iran’s actions go unanswered.”
“Indeed, for far too long Iran has flagrantly violated its international legal obligations, notably through the actions of its Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or IRGC,” he continued and noted: “Iran also was, in a broad sense, complicit in the October 7 attack on Israel because it has provided significant funding and training for the military wing of Hamas.”
“In the coming days, and in consultation with other member states, the United States will explore additional measures to hold Iran accountable here at the United Nations,” said Mr. Wood.
States or further action against Israel, Iran will be held responsible,” he said, and stressed: “The United States is not seeking escalation. Our actions have been purely defensive in nature.”

UN Photo/Eskinder Debebe
Syrian Ambassador Koussay Aldahhak said that what the Middle East witnessed on Saturday had been the natural and inevitable outcome of repeat aggressions and grave violations of international law and the UN Charter “perpetrated [by the Israeli occupation authorities] in Syria and other countries in the region.”
He said that these violations were carried out in the region with “blind and unlimited” support of the US and had “mistakenly led the Israeli occupation authorities to believe that they are above the United Nations, above international law and above UN resolutions…for decades ... with no response and no consequence.”
The Syrian delegation had warned the United Nations about such activities and had called upon the Organization to put an end to Israel’s crimes. But in all cases, a few countries continued to shield Israel form accountability. Sadly, “the actions by these countries are nothing new.”
Finally, the Ambassador said that Syria holds the US Administration and Israel responsible for any further attacks and escalation in the region. “They must reconsider their destructive polices in our region and against our peoples; they must rectify their activities in the region. Our region has suffered enough,” he said, calling for an end to hypocrisy and double standards.
Moreover, the international community must end the Israeli occupation as well as take immediate action to end the "intentional starving" of the people of Gaza, ensure full humanitarian access to the Strip, and “end illegitimate existence of US military forces in my country, Syria.”
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/265951-%E2%80%98step-back-brink%E2%80%99-avert-full-scale-middle-east-conflict-says-un-chief




Date: 05 April 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  ---  MEDIA STAKEOUT MARKING SIX MONTHS SINCE 7 OCTOBER 2023
Content: 05 April 2024
This Sunday marks six months since Hamas launched its abhorrent terror attacks in Israel.
The 7th of October is a day of pain for Israel and the world.
The United Nations, and I personally, mourn with Israelis for the 1,200 people, including many women and children, who were killed in cold blood.
Nothing can justify the horror unleashed by Hamas on October 7th.
I once again utterly condemn the use of sexual violence, torture, injuring and kidnapping of civilians, the firing of rockets towards civilian targets, and the use of human shields.


New York, 5 April 2024

This Sunday marks six months since Hamas launched its abhorrent terror attacks in Israel.

The 7th of October is a day of pain for Israel and the world.

The United Nations, and I personally, mourn with Israelis for the 1,200 people, including many women and children, who were killed in cold blood.

Nothing can justify the horror unleashed by Hamas on October 7th.

I once again utterly condemn the use of sexual violence, torture, injuring and kidnapping of civilians, the firing of rockets towards civilian targets, and the use of human shields.

And I call for the unconditional release of all the hostages still held by Hamas and other armed groups.  Until then, they must be treated humanely with visits and assistance from the International Committee of the Red Cross.

I have met with many of the family members of those being held captive and even former hostages themselves.

I carry their anguish, uncertainty and deep pain with me every day.

Dear members of the media,

Over the last six months, the Israeli military campaign has brought relentless death and destruction to Palestinians in Gaza – with more than 32,000 people reportedly killed and more than 75,000 injured – the vast majority women and children.
Lives are shattered.  Respect for international humanitarian law is in tatters.

During my visit to the Rafah crossing 10 days ago, I met veteran humanitarians who told me categorically that the crisis and suffering in Gaza is unlike any they have ever seen.

Meanwhile – as I saw on my way to the Rafah crossing -- long lines of trucks loaded with humanitarian aid continued to face obstacle after obstacle.

When the gates to aid are closed, the doors to starvation are opened.

More than half the population – over a million people – are facing catastrophic hunger.

Children in Gaza today are dying for lack of food and water.

This is incomprehensible, and entirely avoidable.

Nothing can justify the collective punishment of the Palestinian people.

I am also deeply troubled by reports that the Israeli military’s bombing campaign includes Artificial Intelligence as a tool in the identification of targets, particularly in densely populated residential areas, resulting in a high level of civilian casualties.

No part of life and death decisions which impact entire families should be delegated to the cold calculation of algorithms.

I have warned for many years of the dangers of weaponizing Artificial Intelligence and reducing the essential role of human agency.

AI should be used as a force for good to benefit the world; not to contribute to waging war on an industrial level, blurring accountability.

In its speed, scale and inhumane ferocity, the war in Gaza is the deadliest of conflicts – for civilians, for aid workers, for journalists, for health workers, and for our own colleagues.

Some 196 humanitarian aid workers – including more than 175 members of our own UN staff – have been killed.

The vast majority were serving UNRWA, the backbone of all relief efforts in Gaza.

Others include colleagues from the World Health Organization and the World Food Programme – as well as humanitarians from Doctors without Borders, the Red Crescent, and just a few days ago World Central Kitchen.

An information war has added to the trauma -- obscuring facts and shifting blame.

Denying international journalists entry into Gaza is allowing disinformation and false narratives to flourish.

We honour all humanitarian workers who have been killed in this conflict, and pledge to remember their commitment and sacrifice.

Following this week’s appalling killing of seven humanitarian workers from World Central Kitchen, the Israeli government has acknowledged mistakes and announced some disciplinary measures.

But the essential problem is not who made the mistakes, it is the military strategy and procedures in place that allow for those mistakes to multiply time and time again.

Fixing those failures requires independent investigations and meaningful and measurable change on the ground.

In the aftermath of this tragedy, the United Nations was informed by the Israeli government of its intention to allow a substantial increase in humanitarian aid distributed in Gaza.

I sincerely hope that these intentions are effectively and quickly materialized because the situation in Gaza is absolutely desperate.

Dramatic humanitarian conditions require a quantum leap in the delivery of life-saving aid -- a true paradigm shift.

I repeat my urgent appeals for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire, the unconditional release of all hostages, the protection of civilians, and the unimpeded delivery of humanitarian aid.

Last week, the Security Council called for just that.  And in December, the Council demanded accelerating the delivery of life-saving aid under a UN mechanism.

All those demands must be implemented.  Failure would be unforgivable.

Six months on, we are at the brink: of mass starvation; of regional conflagration; of a total loss of faith in global standards and norms.

It’s time to step back from that brink – to silence the guns – to ease the horrible suffering -- and to stop a potential famine before it is too late.

Thank you.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/265290-secretary-general-media-stakeout-marking-six-months-7-october-2023




Date: 14 March 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL   --  MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY TO COMBAT ISLAMOPHOBIA    15 March 2024
Content: 14 March 2024
The International Day to Combat Islamophobia occurs at a time when we see a rising tide of anti-Muslim hate and bigotry in many parts of the world.
Institutional discrimination and other barriers are violating the human rights and dignity of Muslims. Divisive rhetoric and misrepresentation are stigmatizing communities. Online hate speech is fueling real-life violence.

Much of this disturbing trend is part of a wider pattern of attacks against religious groups and vulnerable populations, also including Jews, minority Christian communities and others.

We must confront and root out bigotry in all its forms. Leaders must condemn inflammatory discourse and safeguard religious freedom. Digital platforms must moderate hateful content and protect users from harassment. And everyone must unite to combat intolerance, stereotypes and bias.

Together, let us commit to promoting mutual respect and understanding, foster social cohesion, and build peaceful, just and inclusive societies for all.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/263372-secretary-general-message-international-day-combat-islamophobia-15-march-2024




Date: 13 March 2024
Title: Rich countries attain record human development, but half of the poorest have gone backwards, finds UN Development Programme
Content: 13 March 2024
New York - Uneven development progress is leaving the poorest behind, exacerbating inequality, and stoking political polarization on a global scale. The result is a dangerous gridlock that must be urgently tackled through collective action, according to a new report released today by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).

The 2023/24 Human Development Report (HDR), titled Breaking the Gridlock: Reimagining cooperation in a polarized world, reveals a troubling trend: the rebound in the global Human Development Index (HDI) – a summary measure reflecting a country’s Gross National Income (GNI) per capita, education, and life expectancy – has been partial, incomplete, and unequal.
The HDI is projected to reach record highs in 2023 after steep declines during 2020 and 2021. But this progress is deeply uneven. Rich countries are experiencing record-high levels of human development while half of the world’s poorest countries remain below their pre-crisis level of progress.
Global inequalities are compounded by substantial economic concentration. As referenced in the report, almost 40 percent of global trade in goods is concentrated in three or fewer countries; and in 2021 the market capitalization of each of the three largest tech companies in the world surpassed the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of more than 90 percent of countries that year.
“The widening human development gap revealed by the report shows that the two-decade trend of steadily reducing inequalities between wealthy and poor nations is now in reverse. Despite our deeply interconnected global societies, we are falling short. We must leverage our interdependence as well as our capacities to address our shared and existential challenges and ensure people’s aspirations are met,” said Achim Steiner, head of the UN Development Programme. “This gridlock carries a significant human toll. The failure of collective action to advance action on climate change, digitalization or poverty and inequality not only hinders human development but also worsens polarization and further erodes trust in people and institutions worldwide.”
The report argues that advancing international collective action is hindered by an emerging ‘democracy paradox’: while 9 in 10 people worldwide endorse democracy, over half of global survey respondents express support for leaders that may undermine it by bypassing fundamental rules of the democratic process, as per data analysed in the report. Half of people surveyed worldwide report having no or limited control over their lives, and over two-thirds believe they have little influence on their government’s decisions.
Political polarization is also a growing concern with global repercussions. Along with a sense of powerlessness, report authors say, it is fuelling inward-turning policy approaches – starkly at odds with the global cooperation needed to address urgent issues like the decarbonization of our economies, misuse of digital technologies, and conflict. This is particularly alarming in light of 2023's record-breaking temperatures, which emphasize the immediate need for united action to tackle the climate crisis, or in the advent of artificial intelligence as a new and fast-evolving technological frontier with little or no regulatory guard rails.
The report highlights that deglobalization is neither feasible nor realistic in today’s world and that economic interdependence remains high. It points out that no region is close to self-sufficiency, as all rely on imports from other regions of 25 percent or more of at least one major type of goods and services.
"In a world marked by increasing polarization and division, neglecting to invest in each other poses a serious threat to our wellbeing and security. Protectionist approaches cannot address the complex, interconnected challenges we face, including pandemic prevention, climate change, and digital regulation,” Steiner added. “Our problems are intertwined, requiring equally interconnected solutions. By adopting an opportunity-driven agenda that emphasizes the benefits of the energy transition and of artificial intelligence for human development, we have a chance to break through the current deadlock and reignite a commitment to a shared future."
The report emphasizes how global interdependence is being reconfigured and calls for a new generation of global public goods. It proposes four areas for immediate action:
In this context, multilateralism plays a fundamental role, the report argues, because bilateral engagements are not able to address the irreducibly planetary nature of the provision of global public goods.
More key data from the report
To view the full report, visit https://hdr.undp.org/content/human-development-report-2023-24
Media contacts
For more information or to request an interview, contact:
In New York City: stanislav.saling@undp.org or victor.garrido.delgado@undp.org
In Geneva: sarah.bel@undp.org
About UNDP
UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality, and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and the planet. Learn more at undp.org or follow at @UNDP.
About the Human Development Report Office
The mission of the Human Development Report Office (HDRO) is to advance human development. The goal is to contribute towards the expansion of opportunities, choice, and freedom. The office works towards this goal by promoting innovative new ideas, advocating practical policy changes, and constructively challenging policies and approaches that constrain human development. The office works with others to achieve change through writing and research, data analysis and presentation, support to national and regional analysis and outreach and advocacy work.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/263228-rich-countries-attain-record-human-development-half-poorest-have-gone-backwards-finds-un




Date: 11 March 2024
Title: UN Secretary-General's remarks at press stakeout - on the beginning of Ramadan
Content: 11 March 2024
Today marks the start of the holy month of Ramadan – a period when Muslims around the world celebrate and spread the values of peace, reconciliation and solidarity.

Yet even though Ramadan has begun – the killing, bombing and bloodshed continue in Gaza.

Good morning.

Today marks the start of the holy month of Ramadan – a period when Muslims around the world celebrate and spread the values of peace, reconciliation and solidarity.

Yet even though Ramadan has begun – the killing, bombing and bloodshed continue in Gaza.

We recently entered the sixth month since the Hamas terror attacks in Israel and the catastrophic Israeli onslaught on Gaza begun.

My strongest appeal today is to honour the spirit of Ramadan by silencing the guns – and removing all obstacles to ensure the delivery of lifesaving aid at the speed and massive scale required.

At the same time – and in the Ramadan spirit of compassion -- I call for the immediate release of all hostages.

The eyes of the world are watching.  The eyes of history are watching.  We cannot look away.

We must act to avoid more preventable deaths.

We have witnessed month after month of civilian killing and destruction at a level that is unprecedented in all my years as Secretary-General.

Meanwhile, life-saving relief for Palestinians in Gaza is coming in trickles – if it comes at all.

International humanitarian law lies in tatters.

And a threatened Israeli assault on Rafah could plummet the people of Gaza into an even deeper circle of hell.

For months, leaders have appealed for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire and the immediate release of all hostages.

But the most compelling calls have come from the families of the victims of this war.

I will never forget my meetings with them -- and they have stood at this very podium and addressed you -- united in remarkable courage and unfathomable pain.

Israeli hostage families who shared their torment and anguish – and pleaded for the immediate release of their loved ones.

And Palestinian families who shared heart-wrenching testimonies of family members killed in Israeli bombardments – and pleaded for an immediate ceasefire.

As one of those family members said, “We are not here for condolences.  We are not here for apologies.  We are here for immediate action.”

Is that too much to ask?

We must hear and heed those voices.

Desperate civilians need action – immediate action.

Today, I also renew my appeal for a Ramadan cessation of hostilities in Sudan.

The fighting there must end for the sake of the Sudanese people who face hunger, horrors and untold hardships.

In Gaza, in Sudan, and beyond, it is time for peace.

I call on political, religious and community leaders everywhere to do everything in their power to make this holy period a time for empathy, action and peace.

Let’s not forget that beyond Ramadan, Christians will soon celebrate Easter and Jews will celebrate Passover in April.

It is time to end the terrible suffering.  Now is the time to do it.

Thank you.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/263021-un-secretary-generals-remarks-press-stakeout-beginning-ramadan




Date: 10 March 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL   --  VIDEO MESSAGE ON THE OCCASION OF THE  BEGINNING OF RAMADAN  10 March 2024
Content: 10 March 2024
In these trying times, the spirit of Ramadan is a beacon of hope, a reminder of our shared humanity.

I extend my warmest wishes as millions of Muslims around the world begin observing the Holy Month of Ramadan.

Ramadan embodies the values of peace, resilience, and generosity.

It is a period of reflection and prayer, an opportunity to come together and uplift each other.

Sadly, many will mark this month while facing conflict, displacement, and fear.

My thoughts and heart are with them – from the people of Afghanistan to the Sahel, from the Horn of Africa to Syria and beyond.

I wish to express a special message of solidarity and support to all those suffering from the horrors in Gaza.

In these trying times, the spirit of Ramadan is a beacon of hope, a reminder of our shared humanity.

Let us all be inspired:

To heal divisions;

To support those in need;

And to work as one for the safety and dignity of every member of the human family.

May this Holy Month bring peace and guide us towards a more just and compassionate world.

Ramadan Kareem.
***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/262930-secretary-general-video-message-occasion-beginning-ramadan-10-march-2024




Date: 08 March 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GMESSAGE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY  8 March 2024
Content: 08 March 2024
Women’s rights are a proven path to fair, peaceful, prosperous societies. It is good for us all.
Together, let’s take urgent action to make it a reality.

On International Women’s Day, we celebrate women and girls around the world, and we applaud all they have achieved in the fight for equality.

Women and girls have made great gains – demolishing barriers, dismantling stereotypes and driving progress towards a more just and equal world.

Yet they face immense obstacles.  Billions of women and girls face marginalization, injustice and discrimination, while the persistent epidemic of violence against women disgraces humanity.

Our world still reflects millennia of male-dominated power relations.

And progress is under attack, with a fierce backlash against women’s rights.

At our current rate, legal equality is some three hundred years away.

We must move much faster.

On International Women’s Day, we stand with women and girls fighting for their rights, and we commit to accelerating progress.

This year’s theme – invest in women – reminds us that ending the patriarchy requires money on the table.

We must support women’s organisations on the front line.

And we must invest in programmes to end violence against women, and to drive women’s inclusion and leadership in economies, digital technologies, peacebuilding and climate action.

This all depends on unlocking finance for sustainable development so that countries have funds available to invest in women and girls.

We also need to increase the number of women leaders in business, finance, central banks and finance ministries. This can help drive investments in policies and programmes that respond to women and girls’ needs.

Women’s rights are a proven path to fair, peaceful, prosperous societies. It is good for us all.
Together, let’s take urgent action to make it a reality.

Thank you.
***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/262748-secretary-gmessage-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-8-march-2024




Date: 03 March 2024
Title: Security Council reiterates call for immediate and safe aid delivery to Gaza
Content: 03 March 2024
The UN Security Council has underscored the need to protect civilians in Gaza in the wake of the deadly incident at an aid convoy on Thursday.


Members issued a statement on Saturday expressing their deep concern over reports that "more than 100 individuals lost their lives, with several hundred others sustaining injuries, including gunshot wounds...in an incident involving Israeli forces at a large gathering surrounding a humanitarian assistance convoy southwest of Gaza City."
They noted that an Israeli investigation is underway.
The Council stressed the need to take all necessary measures to protect civilians and civilian infrastructure, adding that all parties to conflicts must comply with their obligations under international law.
Parties were urged to refrain from depriving civilians in Gaza of basic services and humanitarian assistance.
The Council expressed grave concern that the entire population, more than two million people, could face alarming levels of acute food insecurity.
Members reiterated their demand for parties “to allow, facilitate, and enable the immediate, rapid, safe, sustained and unhindered delivery of humanitarian assistance at scale to the Palestinian civilian population throughout the Gaza Strip”.
They urged Israel to keep border crossings open for humanitarian aid to enter Gaza, to facilitate the opening of additional crossings to meet humanitarian needs at scale, and to support the rapid and safe delivery of relief items to people across the enclave.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/262183-security-council-reiterates-call-immediate-and-safe-aid-delivery-gaza




Date: 03 March 2024
Title: UN chief appalled by ‘tragic human toll’ of Gaza war
Content: 03 March 2024
The UN Secretary-General said on Thursday he was “appalled by the tragic human toll of the conflict in Gaza” where more than 30,000 people have now reportedly been killed and over 70,000 injured.


“Tragically, an unknown number of people lie under rubble," António Guterres added, in a statement issued by his spokesperson, reiterating his call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire and unconditional release of all the hostages seized during the Hamas-led terror attack of 7 October.
“He once again calls for urgent steps so that critical humanitarian aid can get into and across Gaza to all those in need”, UN Spokesperson Stéphane Dujarric said.
As the death toll passed another chilling total, conflicting reports emerged on Thursday over the death of more than 100 Palestinians waiting for desperately needed aid.
“Even after close to five months of brutal hostilities, Gaza still has the ability to shock us,” said UN relief chief Martin Griffiths in a post on X.
“I am appalled at the reported killing and injury of hundreds of people during a transfer of aid supplies west of Gaza City today,” he said. “Life is draining out of Gaza at terrifying speed.”
The Secretary-General also condemned the incident.


“The desperate civilians in Gaza need urgent help, including those in the besieged north where the United Nations has not been able to deliver aid in more than a week”, said the statement released by Spokesperson Stéphane Dujarric.
Intense Israeli bombardment from air, land and sea continues to be reported across much of the Gaza Strip, resulting in further civilian casualties, displacement and destruction of civilian infrastructure, according to the latest situation report from UN humanitarian agency OCHA.
Ground operations and heavy fighting between Israeli forces and Palestinian armed groups also continue to be reported, particularly in northern Gaza, Deir Al-Balah and Khan Younis, the report said.
Fears persist over the planned Israeli incursion into Rafah, where more than one million people are seeking shelter from the violence sparked by the Hamas-led terror attacks in early October that killed almost 1,200 people in Israel and left 240 taken hostage.
Rafah is under fire every day, said Georgios Petropoulos, OCHA’s head of the Gaza sub-office.
“We will do our best” to serve people in need with the resources at hand, he added. “We are needed here. We need people here to stand for hope and human dignity.”
Unless more aid is delivered, UN officials warned of an impending famine in Gaza. Local health authorities reported that six infants have already died as a result of malnutrition and dehydration, the OCHA report stated.
Besieged hospitals continue to grapple with raids and attacks, according to doctors trapped in the enclave who continue to serve patients as best they can.
As health centres and hospitals persevere amid raids and dangerous shortages of lifesaving supplies, a Palestine Red Crescent Society (PRCS) medical point in Jabalya, in northern Gaza, is receiving a daily average of 100 to 150 patients suffering from hepatitis A.
Meanwhile, stalled aid deliveries idle on border crossings with Egypt and Israel. Media reports indicate that Israel civilians were preventing trucks from entering Gaza at the Kerem Shalom crossing.
Desperation among Gazans has multiplied as aid trickles into the enclave, with UN officials stating that the current, restricted deliveries do not even meet the minimum demands.
Early Thursday, it was reported that more than 100 people were killed in Gaza City, where aid trucks attempted to deliver food and other lifesaving supplies close to an Israeli checkpoint.
Initial reports from the Gaza heath ministry said that Israeli forces had fired into the crowd of thousands.
The Israeli Defense Force said soldiers had opened fire in a “limited response” to deter crowds from advancing on their checkpoint, but news reports suggest that amid chaotic scenes and a scramble for aid, many casualties were caused by trucks running people over.
Mr. Dujarric briefed reporters in New York and said the aid convoy involved was not part of UN operations. Responding to questions, he spelled out that "the way we operate right now is not safe"
"It is not safe for those who delivery the aid, it is not safe for people who receive the aid," he said. "This is a chaotic, opportunistic humanitarian operation that we are trying to run. We want to see an immediate humanitarian ceasefire so that we can distribute aid in an organized, predictable and safe manner, which is currently not an option."
Also on Thursday, 17 non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in the European Union (EU) signed a joint appeal to restore funding to the UN relief agency for Palestine refugees, UNRWA.
“We urge the EU and Member States to take note that other aid agencies cannot replicate UNRWA’s central role in the humanitarian response in Gaza, and amidst the current crisis many will struggle to even maintain their current operations without UNRWA’s partnership and support,” they said in a statement.
The joint appeal comes after major UNRWA donors suspended funding following Israel’s allegations that a dozen staff members were involved in the Hamas attacks in October that triggered the current devastating war in the enclave. The donors withheld funds pending ongoing independent UN investigations of the matter.
“The suspension of funding to the main aid provider for millions of Palestinians in Gaza will impact life-saving assistance for over two million people,” said UNRWA, which serves almost 6 million Palestinians in Gaza, the West Bank, Lebanon, Jordan and Syria, with education, healthcare and other essential services.
“Don’t look away from Gaza,” OCHA’s Mr. Petropoulos said. “Find the truth of what’s happening and believe in humanity. The only good thing war can do is to end.”
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/262186-un-chief-appalled-%E2%80%98tragic-human-toll%E2%80%99-gaza-war




Date: 14 February 2024
Title: WFP and the Korea International Cooperation Agency launch support for sustainable livelihoods for refugees and host communities in Egypt
Content: 14 February 2024
CAIRO – The Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in Egypt launched a first-time collaboration to build the resilience of refugees and their host communities in Egypt and help increase their chances of employability.
Thanks to a contribution of US$6 million from KOICA, WFP in Egypt will be implementing a two-year programme to help improve the livelihoods of about 450,000 refugee and host community members in Greater Cairo, Alexandria Damietta, and Matrouh.
The programme will develop the vocational skills of refugees and host community youth, focusing on marketable skills to help youth competitively seek employment. While serving as an opportunity for professional development, this would also promote self-reliance and social cohesion among refugee and Egyptian youth.
“KOICA will support refugees in Egypt to become economically self-reliant and improve health and nutrition, especially in the hope that the residents of the host community can contribute to the development of the community sustainably together. We hope that the outcomes will be spread by linking with existing civil society cooperation projects.” said KOICA Egypt office Country Director Jinyoung Kim.
The programme also includes direct support for employment opportunities by engaging the private sector for on-the-job training and access to financial services, such as micro-grants, to launch small income generating businesses.
“With increasing socio-economic challenges, it is critical that we start thinking of solutions that secure individuals’ immediate and future needs. Thanks to KOICA’s contribution, we are putting this to practice, empowering young generations of refugee and Egyptian communities with the tools to enhance their resilience capacity to shocks,” said WFP Representative and Country Director in Egypt, Praveen Agrawal.
Towards nutrition, WFP will also provide, through this grant, pregnant and nursing refugee women (with children under two years of age) with monthly cash assistance conditional to regular health monitoring visits at medical care facilities and awareness raising on the importance of nutrition during the first 1,000 days of a child’s life.
As part of its Country Strategic Plan, WFP adopts a sustainable approach to enhancing the food and nutrition security of vulnerable refugees, mothers and children. WFP provides direct monthly cash assistance coupled with capacity development opportunities to promote job creation prospects, addressing the underlying causes of vulnerability and increasing self-reliance.

#                 #                   #


The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.


Follow us on Twitter @WFP_AR and @WFP_MENA

For more information, please contact (email address: firstname.lastname@wfp.org):
Amina Al Korey, WFP/Cairo, Tel. +2 02 2526 1992, Mob. +2 0102853153

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/260607-wfp-and-korea-international-cooperation-agency-launch-support-sustainable-livelihoods




Date: 13 February 2024
Title: Military operations in Rafah could lead to a slaughter in Gaza and put a fragile humanitarian operation at death’s door
Content: 13 February 2024
(Geneva, 13 February 2024) - The scenario we have long dreaded is unraveling at alarming speed.

			More than half of Gaza’s population – well over 1 million people – are crammed in Rafah, staring death in the face: They have little to eat, hardly any access to medical care, nowhere to sleep, nowhere safe to go.

			They, like the entire population of Gaza, are the victims of an assault that is unparalleled in its intensity, brutality and scope.

			More than 28,000 people – mostly women and children – have been killed across Gaza, according to the Ministry of Health.

			For more than four months, humanitarian workers have been doing the near-impossible to assist people in need, despite the risks they themselves were facing and the traumas they were enduring.

			But no amount of dedication and goodwill is enough to keep millions of people alive, fed and protected – while the bombs are falling and the aid is choked off.

			Add to this the widespread despair, the breakdown of law and order, and the defunding of UNRWA.

			The consequences are humanitarian workers who are shot at, held at gunpoint, attacked and killed.

			I have said for weeks now that our humanitarian response is in tatters.

			Today, I’m sounding the alarm once again: Military operations in Rafah could lead to a slaughter in Gaza. They could also leave an already fragile humanitarian operation at death’s door.

			We lack the safety guarantees, the aid supplies and the staff capacity to keep this operation afloat.

			The international community has been warning against the dangerous consequences of any ground invasion in Rafah. The Government of Israel cannot continue to ignore these calls.

			History will not be kind.

			This war must end.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/260539-military-operations-rafah-could-lead-slaughter-gaza-and-put-fragile-humanitarian-operation




Date: 02 February 2024
Title: Gaza: Aid operations in peril amid funding crisis
Content: 02 February 2024
Lifesaving aid operations in Gaza are “in peril” amid ongoing Israeli bombardment because of the funding crisis impacting the UN agency for Palestine refugees, UNRWA, top UN officials reiterated on Thursday.
“It’s difficult to imagine that Gazans will survive this crisis without UNRWA…(we) have received reports that people in the area are grinding bird feed to make flour,” said Thomas White, Director of UNRWA Affairs in Gaza and UN Deputy Humanitarian Coordinator for the Occupied Palestinian Territory.
Citing “colossal” needs now facing over two million people in the enclave who depend on UNRWA for their “sheer survival”, he warned the already dire humanitarian situation risks getting worse following the decision of 16 donor countries to cut the agency’s funding.
The development follows allegations that some UNRWA staff colluded with Hamas during its terror attacks on southern Israel on 7 October that left some 1,200 dead and more than 250 taken hostage.
The UN’s highest investigative body is already conducting a probe into the allegations at the request of UNRWA, which plays a key role in Gaza as the largest humanitarian organization there. Of its 13,000 staff, more than 3,000 continue working.
Shortly after UNRWA Commissioner General Philippe Lazzarini announced the immediate dismissal of staff facing the allegations and his decision to involve the UN Office of Internal Oversight Services in New York, a number of donor countries suspended $440 million in funding.
“UNRWA is the backbone of all humanitarian response in Gaza. I appeal to all Member States to guarantee the continuity of UNRWA’s lifesaving work,” said UN Secretary-General António Guterres, addressing the Palestinian Rights Committee on Wednesday.
Meanwhile, with no let up in Israeli bombardments across Gaza – and particularly in the southern city of Khan Younis – humanitarians warned that the exodus of people seeking shelter in the south has continued unabated.
“Rafah has become a sea of people fleeing bombardments,” said Mr. White, as UNRWA reported that tens of thousands of people have been forced to flee shelling and fighting in Khan Younis just this week, adding to the more than 1.4 million people already crammed in the southern governorate of Rafah.
“Most are living in makeshift structures, tents or out in the open and now also fear they might no longer receive any food or other humanitarian assistance from UNRWA,” the UN agency said in a statement.
Pointing to longstanding obstacles to humanitarian aid access in the north of Gaza since war erupted on 7 October, UNWRA issued a new warning that famine “is looming”.
“We continue to coordinate with the Israeli Army to be able to go to the north, but this has been largely denied,” said Mr. White. “When our convoys are finally permitted to go to the area, people rush to the trucks to get food and often eat it on the spot.”

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/259502-gaza-aid-operations-peril-amid-funding-crisis




Date: 16 January 2024
Title: UN chief reiterates Gaza ceasefire call, condemns ‘collective punishment’ of Palestinians
Content: 16 January 2024
UN Secretary-General António Guterres has emphasized the imperative of establishing “basic conditions” to facilitate safe and full-scale aid delivery to civilians in Gaza while stressing that only a ceasefire will prevent the crisis from escalating.
Addressing reporters at UN Headquarters in New York on Monday, the UN chief expressed deep concern about the “unprecedented” level of civilian casualties and the “catastrophic” humanitarian conditions in the enclave.
“There is one solution to help address all these issues. We need an immediate humanitarian ceasefire,” he stressed.
He recalled the 7 October terror attacks by Hamas and other militants on Israeli civilians and the taking of hostages, demanding their immediate and unconditional release.
He further called for a thorough investigation and prosecution of allegations of sexual violence committed by Palestinian militants.
Commenting on the Israeli forces’ actions in the Gaza Strip, Guterres noted that the “onslaught” had resulted in “wholesale destruction” and an unprecedented rate of civilian killings during his tenure as Secretary-General.
“Nothing can justify the collective punishment of the Palestinian people. The humanitarian situation in Gaza is beyond words. Nowhere and no one is safe.”
Soundcloud

Tweet URL

According to the UN agency assisting Palestine refugees (UNRWA), 1.9 million Gazans – 85 per cent of the enclave’s population – have been displaced, some multiple times. As per Gaza’s Ministry of Health, over 23,700 Palestinians have been killed and some 60,000 more injured.
The crisis has also claimed the lives of 152 UN staff members – the largest single loss of life in the history of the Organization.
“Aid workers, under enormous pressure and with no safety guarantees, are doing their best to deliver inside Gaza,” the UN chief said.
Mr. Guterres outlined clear obstacles hindering aid into Gaza, identified not only by the UN but also by officials globally who have witnessed the situation.
He emphasized that effective humanitarian aid delivery is impossible under the heavy, widespread, and unrelenting bombardment, citing significant hurdles at the enclave’s border.
Vital materials, including life-saving medical equipment and parts which are critical for the repair of water facilities and infrastructure, have been rejected with little or no explanation, disrupting the flow of critical supplies and the resumption of basic services.
“And when one item is denied, the time-consuming approval process starts again from scratch for the entire cargo,” Mr. Guterres added, noting other obstacles including denials of access, unsafe routes and frequent telecommunications blackouts.
Stressing that the UN’s efforts to increase aid, Mr. Guterres called on the parties to respect international humanitarian law, “respect and protect civilians, and ensure their essential needs are met.”
There must be an immediate and massive increase in the commercial supply of essential goods, he added, noting also that necessities should also be available in markets to the entire population.

UN Photo/Loey Felipe

Secretary-General António Guterres (at podium) briefs reporters on the situation in Gaza.
The Secretary-General also warned of rising tensions in the wider Middle East.
“Tensions are sky-high in the Red Sea and beyond – and may soon be impossible to contain,” he said, voicing concerns that exchanges of fire across the Blue Line – the demarcation separating Israeli and Lebanese armies – risks triggering a broader escalation between the two nations and profoundly affecting regional stability.
Expressing that he is “profoundly worried” by what is unfolding, the UN chief stressed that it is his “duty” to convey a simple and direct message to all sides:
“Stop playing with fire across the Blue Line, de-escalate, and bring hostilities to an end in accordance with Security Council Resolution 1701.”
Only a ceasefire can “tamp down the flames of wider war”, because the longer it continues the greater the risk of escalation and miscalculation.
“We cannot see in Lebanon what we are seeing in Gaza”, he concluded “and we cannot allow what has been happening in Gaza to continue.”

(Source: UN News)
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/257910-un-chief-reiterates-gaza-ceasefire-call-condemns-%E2%80%98collective-punishment%E2%80%99-palestinians




Date: 28 December 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  --  VIDEO MESSAGE FOR NEW YEARS 2024    New York, 31 December 2023
Content: 28 December 2023
Humanity is strongest when we stand together.
2024 must be a year for rebuilding trust and restoring hope.
We must come together across divides for shared solutions.

2023 has been a year of enormous suffering, violence, and climate chaos.

Humanity is in pain.

Our planet is in peril.

2023 is the hottest year on record.

People are getting crushed by growing poverty and hunger.

Wars are growing in number and ferocity.

And trust is in short supply.

But pointing fingers and pointing guns lead nowhere.

Humanity is strongest when we stand together.

2024 must be a year for rebuilding trust and restoring hope.

We must come together across divides for shared solutions.

For climate action.

For economic opportunity and a fairer global financial system that delivers for all.

Together, we must stand up against the discrimination and hatred that are poisoning relations between countries and communities.

And we must make sure new technologies such as artificial intelligence are a force for good.

The United Nations will keep rallying the world for peace, sustainable development and human rights.

Let’s resolve to make 2024 a year of building trust and hope in all that we can accomplish together.

I wish you a happy and peaceful New Year.


***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/256855-%E2%80%AF%C2%A0-secretary-general-video-message-new-years-2024-new-york-31-december-2023




Date: 19 December 2023
Title: Within the framework of the continuous cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa (ROMENA), the secure area dedicated to women victims of violen
Content: 19 December 2023
The secured area provides a safe space where the victim remains throughout the court hearing completely free from any influence or pressure from the opposing side/perpetrator, to prevent any causes of secondary victimization or trauma to the victim. The secured area also provides the necessary safe space for her witnesses to ensure that they are not exposed to any threat.
Within the framework of the continuous cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa (ROMENA), the secure area dedicated to women victims of violence was inaugurated this morning at the East Alexandria Court, after completing its refurbishment and providing it with the necessary technical communication equipment in accordance with the best international standards and requirements to protect women's rights and counter violence against them.
Counselor Omar Marwan, Minister of Justice, delegated Counselor Rabea Kasem, Deputy Minister of Justice for the General Authority for Court Buildings and Judge Amal Ammar, Deputy Minister of Justice for Human Rights, Women and Children to attend the opening ceremony on his behalf. The ceremony was attended by Major General Mohamed El-Sherif, Governor of Alexandria, Ms. Cristina Albertin, UNODC Regional Representative for the Middle East and North Africa and a group of advisors to the Ministry of Justice.
The secured area provides a safe space where the victim remains throughout the court hearing completely free from any influence or pressure from the opposing side/perpetrator, to prevent any causes of secondary victimization or trauma to the victim. The secured area also provides the necessary safe space for her witnesses to ensure that they are not exposed to any threat.
The opening of the secured area designated for women victims of violence at the East Alexandria Court is a step towards ensuring a shared commitment to protect women and girls victims of violence. It also reflects a commitment to create an environment in which the rights of victims are preserved to the maximum extent possible. Work is underway to circulate and roll out the secured area model in other courts in Egypt, to find a comprehensive approach that guarantees the protection, dignity, and fair treatment of women in legal procedures.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/256178-within-framework-continuous-cooperation-between-ministry-justice-and-united-nations-office




Date: 18 December 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE FOR INTERNATIONAL MIGRANTS DAY  18 December 2023
Content: 18 December 2023
On International Migrants Day, we highlight the urgent need for safe migration governance rooted in solidarity, partnership, and respect for human rights.
Migration is a fact of life and a force for good. It promotes the exchange of knowledge and ideas and contributes to economic growth. It enables millions of people to pursue opportunities and improve their lives.

At the same time, poorly governed migration is a cause of great suffering. It forces people into the cruel realm of traffickers, where they face exploitation, abuse, and even death. It undermines trust in governance and institutions, inflames social tensions, and corrodes our common humanity.

On International Migrants Day, we highlight the urgent need for safe migration governance rooted in solidarity, partnership, and respect for human rights.

Five years ago, the international community adopted the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly, and Regular Migration. This has become an important reference point and resource for Member States to assess actions, enhance cooperation, and expand rights-based pathways for migration.

Yet such measures remain the exception, not the norm. Today and every day, we must work towards a more humane and orderly management of migration for the benefit of all, including communities of origin, transit, and destination.

Together, let us secure a safer and more prosperous future for all.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/256126-secretary-general-message-international-migrants-day-18-december-2023




Date: 13 December 2023
Title: COP28 ends with call to ‘transition away’ from fossil fuels; UN’s Guterres says phaseout is inevitable
Content: 13 December 2023
Nations at COP28 in Dubai approved earlier on Wednesday a roadmap for “transitioning away from fossil fuels” – a first for a UN climate conference – but the deal still stopped short of a long-demanded call for a “phaseout” of oil, coal and gas.
Reacting to the adoption of the outcome document, UN chief António Guterres said that mention of the world’s leading contributor to climate change comes after many years in which the discussion of this issue was blocked.
He stressed that the era of fossil fuels must end with justice and equity.
“To those who opposed a clear reference to a phaseout of fossil fuels in the COP28 text, I want to say that a fossil fuel phase out is inevitable whether they like it or not. Let’s hope it doesn’t come too late,” added the Secretary-General.
The latest edition of the annual UN climate conference has been running in Dubai, the largest city in the United Arab Emirates, since 30 November.

COP28 had been scheduled to close on Tuesday, but intense overnight negotiations on whether the outcome would include a call to “phase down” or “phase out” planet heating fossil fuels like oil, gas and coal forced the conference into overtime.
This is the main sticking point that pit activists and climate-vulnerable countries against some larger nations for much of past two weeks.
In his statement, Mr. Guterres said limiting global heating to 1.5°C, one of the keystone targets set in the landmark 2015 the Paris Agreement, “will be impossible without the phase out of all fossil fuels”, and this is being recognized by a growing and diverse coalition of countries.
The negotiators at COP28 also agreed on commitments to triple renewables capacity and double energy efficiency by 2030 and made progress in relation to adaptation and finance.
Other progress was also made in relation to adaptation and finance, including – including the operationalization of the Loss and Damage Fund, even though financial commitments are very limited, according to the Secretary-General.
But the UN chief stressed that much more is needed to deliver climate justice to those on the frontlines of the crisis.
“Many vulnerable countries are drowning in debt and at risk of drowning in rising seas. It is time for a surge in finance, including for adaptation, loss and damage and reform of the international financial architecture.”
He said the world cannot afford “delays, indecision, or half measures” and insisted that “multilateralism remains humanity’s best hope.”
“It is essential to come together around real, practical and meaningful climate solutions that match the scale of the climate crisis.”

UN climate chief Simon Stiell said, “genuine strides forward” were made at COP28, but the initiatives announced in Dubai are “a climate action lifeline, not a finish line.”
Mr. Stiel said the Global Stocktake – which aims to help nations align their national climate plans with the Paris Agreement – had clearly revealed that progress is not fast enough, but it is “undeniably” gathering pace.
Still, the current trajectory is just under three degrees of global warming equating “mass human suffering”, according to the climate chief, which is why COP28 “needed to move the needle further”.
Speaking to reporters outside the main hall, Mr. Stiell said COP28 needed to signal a hard stop to humanity’s core climate problem – “fossil fuels and their planet burning pollution”.
“While we didn't fully turn the page on the fossil fuel here in Dubai, this is clearly the beginning of the end”.
“This agreement is an ambitious floor, not a ceiling. So, the crucial years ahead must keep ramping up ambition and climate action,” said Mr. Stiell, who is the Executive Secretary of the UN climate convention, the framework that facilitates the COP, or conference of Parties, process.

Here are some of the other highlights from COP28 and a snapshot of what happens next:
Despite multiple rounds of applause inside the plenary, not all delegations were pleased with the outcome of the climate talks. Civil society representatives and climate activists, as well as delegations from small island developing countries were visibly unhappy with the outcome.
Anne Rasmussen, the Samoan representative and lead negotiator for the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), pointed out that the decision was gavelled during their absence in the plenary room as the group was still coordinating its response to the text.
She lamented that the delegations she represents cannot “afford to return to their islands with the message that this process has failed us.”
Underlining the importance of the Global Stocktake process, she said, “this first GST is of particular significance. It is the only GST that matters for ensuring that we can still limit global warming to 1.5C.”
But Ms. Rasmussen bemoaned the ountcome's lack of “course correction” and expressed disappointment over “incremental advancement over business as usual, when what we really needed was an exponential step-change in our actions and support.”

UNFCCC/Kiara Worth
Just after the release of the final document, Harjeet Singh, head of global political strategy at Climate Action Network International told UN News: “After decades of evasion, COP28 finally cast a glaring spotlight on the real culprits of the climate crisis: fossil fuels. A long-overdue direction to move away from coal, oil, and gas has been set.”
But the outcome was "marred by loopholes that offer the fossil fuel industry numerous escape routes, relying on unproven, unsafe technologies.”
Mr. Singh also pointed to what he saw as “hypocrisy of wealthy nations…that continue to expand fossil fuel operations massively while paying mere lip service to the green transition.”
Developing countries still dependent on fossil fuels are, he said, left without robust guarantees for adequate financial support in their “urgent and equitable transition to renewable energy.”
“While this COP recognized the immense financial shortfall in tackling climate impacts, the final outcomes fall disappointingly short of compelling wealthy nations to fulfill their financial responsibilities,” he added.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/256480-cop28-ends-call-%E2%80%98transition-away%E2%80%99-fossil-fuels-un%E2%80%99s-guterres-says-phaseout-inevitable




Date: 11 December 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General's press encounter at COP28
Content: 11 December 2023
Now is the time for maximum ambition and maximum flexibility.
Ministers and negotiators must move beyond arbitrary red lines, entrenched positions and blocking tactics.
It is time to go into overdrive to negotiate in good faith and rise to the challenge set by COP President Dr. Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber.
It is time to seek compromise for solutions – without compromising on the science or compromising on the need for the highest ambition.
Good morning.
We are in a race against time.
As I said at the opening of COP28, our planet is minutes to midnight for the 1.5 degree limit.
And the clock keeps ticking.
COP28 is scheduled to wrap up tomorrow, but there are still large gaps that need to be bridged.
Now is the time for maximum ambition and maximum flexibility.
Ministers and negotiators must move beyond arbitrary red lines, entrenched positions and blocking tactics.
It is time to go into overdrive to negotiate in good faith and rise to the challenge set by COP President Dr. Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber.
It is time to seek compromise for solutions – without compromising on the science or compromising on the need for the highest ambition.
In our fractured and divided world, COP28 can show that multilateralism remains our best hope to tackle global challenges.
Specifically, I ask Parties to ensure maximum ambition on two fronts:
First, ambition on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Second, ambition on delivering climate justice.
The Global Stocktake must offer a clear plan for a tripling of renewables, a doubling of energy efficiency and a single-minded focus on tackling the root cause of the climate crisis – fossil fuel
production and consumption.
Of course, transformation won’t happen overnight.
Decarbonization will create millions of decent new jobs, but governments must also ensure support, training and social protection for those who may be negatively impacted.
At the same time, the needs of developing countries highly dependent on the production of fossil fuels must also be addressed.
But it is essential that the Global Stocktake recognizes the need to phase out all fossil fuels on a timeframe consistent with the 1.5 degree limit -- and to accelerate a just, equitable and orderly energy transition for all.
A transition that takes into account the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and reflective capabilities, in light of national circumstances – not to reduce ambition but to combine ambition and equity.
That is the reason I proposed the Climate Solidarity Pact – in which big emitters make extra efforts to cut emissions and wealthier countries support emerging economies to be able to do so.
The timelines and targets might be different for countries at different levels of development, but they all must be consistent with achieving global net zero by 2050 and preserving the 1.5 degree goal.
Second, it is time for more ambition on climate justice.
COP28 began with two encouraging steps: agreement to operationalize the Loss and Damage Fund, and replenishment of the Green Climate Fund.
It is a start, but much more is needed.
Many developing countries are drowning in debt, have no fiscal space, and are churning in climate chaos.
We need all commitments made by developed countries on finance and adaptation to be met -- fully and transparently.
We need increased capital and reform of the business model of multilateral development banks to massively increase direct support – and to leverage far more private finance at reasonable costs for developing countries climate action efforts.
And we need far more adaptation ambition.
COP28 must send clear signals that governments have grasped the scale of the adaptation challenge, and that it is a priority not just for developing countries, but the entire world.
I welcome the emerging consensus for a new framework on adaptation with a set of measurable targets to propel action.
But a framework without the means of implementation is like a car without wheels.
The doubling of adaptation finance to $40 billion dollars by 2025 must be an initial step towards allocating at least half of all climate finance towards adaptation.
Looking ahead, the next two years are vital.
First, to establish a new and meaningful global climate finance goal beyond 2025, reflecting the scale and urgency of the climate challenge.
Second, for governments to prepare and present new national climate action plans – or Nationally Determined Contributions – that are economy-wide, cover all greenhouse gases and are fully aligned with the 1.5 degree temperature limit.
Governments must leave Dubai with a clear understanding of what is required between now and [COP30] in Brazil.
So as we approach the finish line for COP28, my main message is clear:
We must conclude COP28 with an ambitious outcome that demonstrates decisive action and a credible plan to keep 1.5 alive and protect those on the frontlines of the climate crisis.
We can’t keep kicking the can down the road. We are out of road – and almost out of time.
Thank you.
Question: Justin Rowlatt from the BBC here. Mr. Guterres, if we don’t get a commitment to phase out fossil fuels in this deal, does that mean this COP conference has been a failure?
Answer: Well, the COP covers many aspects and it depends on the global balance. But a central aspect, in my opinion, of the success of the COP will be for the COP to reach a consensus on the need to phase out fossil fuels in line with a time framework, that is in line with the 1.5 degree limit. That doesn't mean that all countries must phase out fossil fuels at the same time. The principle of common but differentiated responsibilities applies. But it means that globally the phase out of fossil fuels needs to be compatible with net zero in 2050 and with the limit of 1.5 degrees in temperature rise.
Question: Sophie Mckoena from the SABC, South African Broadcasting Corporation. SG, the issue of the pact that you spoke about, it was difficult to get it during covid-19. Do you think this time around what you are calling for the developed countries will respond positively?
Answer: Let's be clear. One of the things that is essential is that all commitments made by developed countries need to be transparently implemented. But we will not solve the problems of equity in relation to climate only with climate finance. That is the reason why I’ve been advocating for reforms in the international financial architecture, for effective debt relief mechanisms and for, as I mentioned today, the increase of capital and the change in business models of international multilateral banks, in order to make sure that much more resources are available for developing countries, in order not only to meet their objectives in climate action – mitigation and adaptation – s but also to address the dramatic financial situation in which many of them are.
We cannot separate things. Of course, we cannot expect the COP to solve all the financial problems and developing countries in the world, but it's important that the COP gives a strong signal that those problems beyond the strict problems of climate finance, that those problems need to be addressed. Thank you very much.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/255457-un-secretary-generals-press-encounter-cop28




Date: 10 December 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON HUMAN RIGHTS DAY  10 December 2023
Content: 10 December 2023


“All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.”

The iconic opening sentence of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is as important today as it was when it was adopted 75 years ago.

The Universal Declaration is a roadmap, helping to end wars, heal divisions and promote lives of peace and dignity for all.

But the world is losing its way. Conflicts are raging. Poverty and hunger are increasing. Inequalities are deepening. The climate crisis is a human rights crisis that is hitting the most vulnerable hardest.

Authoritarianism is on the rise.

Civic space is shrinking and the media is under attack from all sides.

Gender equality remains a distant dream and women’s reproductive rights are being rolled back.

Today, it is more important than ever to promote and respect all human rights – social, cultural, economic, civil and political – which protect us all.

The Universal Declaration shows the way to common values and approaches that can help resolve tensions and create the security and stability our world craves.

As we work to update global frameworks and make them more effective in the 21st century, human rights must have a unique and central role.

I call on Member States to use this 75th anniversary, and the Summit of the Future next year, to strengthen their commitment to the timeless values of the Universal Declaration.

And on Human Rights Day, I urge people around the world to promote and respect human rights, every day, for everyone, everywhere.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/255362-secretary-general-message-human-rights-day-10-december-2023




Date: 08 December 2023
Title: THE GAZA STRIP: IN THE DARKEST HOUR AS HUMANITARIAN SITUATION UNTENABLE
Content: 08 December 2023
ABILITY OF UNRWA TO CARRY OUT ITS MANDATE IN GAZA IS AT STAKE
AMMAN, 8 December 2023 – “Yesterday, I wrote to the President of the UN General Assembly to inform him that UNRWA’s ability to continue delivering its mandate in Gaza has now become very limited. With constant bombardment, low and irregular flow of food and other humanitarian supplies into the Gaza Strip compared to the immense needs of displaced people in our overcrowded shelters and outside, UNRWA’s ability to assist and protect people is reducing fast.
“As I sent my letter to the President of the General Assembly, I took note of the UN Secretary-General's decision to invoke Article 99 of the UN Charter, as the threats of the current conflict on international peace, security and on the lives of nearly the entire population in Gaza are very real.
“UNRWA is the primary provider for humanitarian assistance to over 2.2 million people in Gaza. Half of them have sought shelter in UNRWA facilities which, despite the fact they are meant to be protected under international humanitarian law, have not been spared in the relentless bombardment of Gaza. 270 displaced people were killed inside them, and nearly 1,000 were injured.
“More than 130 UNRWA colleagues have been killed, most with their families. At least 70 per cent of UNRWA staff have been displaced. Many multiple times. Those who are still working strive to still provide food assistance and health care. They take their children to work so they know they are safe or that if they die, they will die together.
“In my 35 years of work in complex emergencies, I would never have expected to write such a letter, predicting the killing of my staff and the collapse of the mandate I am expected to fulfill.
“I urge all member states to take immediate actions to implement an immediate humanitarian ceasefire, enforce international law including the protection of civilians, UN staff, UN premises including shelters, medical facilities and all civilian infrastructure and protect the prospects for a political solution vital to peace and stability and the rights for Palestinians, Israelis, the region and beyond.
“Calling for an end to the decimation of the lives of Palestinians in Gaza is not a denial of the abhorrent attacks of 7 October in Israel. It is the opposite. It is a recognition of the equal rights of all people. Our response to the situation in Gaza today will mark the history of the General Assembly – the gathering of all nations of the world – and  the entire UN.”

ENDs-

Background Information:
UNRWA is the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East. The United Nations General Assembly established UNRWA in 1949 with a mandate to provide humanitarian assistance and protection to registered Palestine refugees in the Agency’s area of operations pending a just and lasting solution to their plight.
UNRWA operates in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, The Gaza Strip, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria.
Tens of thousands of Palestine refugees who lost their homes and livelihoods due to the 1948 conflict continue to be displaced and in need of support, nearly 75 years on.
UNRWA helps Palestine Refugees achieve their full potential in human development through quality services it provides in education, health care, relief and social services, protection, camp infrastructure and improvement, microfinance, and emergency assistance. UNRWA is funded almost entirely by voluntary contributions.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/255217-gaza-strip-darkest-hour-humanitarian-situation-untenable%E2%80%AF




Date: 02 December 2023
Title: Comment by UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Türk on resumption of hostilities in Gaza
Content: 02 December 2023
Geneva, 1 December 2023


The resumption of hostilities in Gaza is catastrophic. I urge all parties and States with influence over them to redouble efforts, immediately, to ensure a ceasefire – on humanitarian and human rights grounds.

Recent comments by Israeli political and military leaders indicating that they are planning to expand and intensify the military offensive are very troubling.

Since 7 October, thousands of Palestinians have been killed in Gaza, according to the Ministry of Health in Gaza. More now face the same fate. Others risk being forcibly displaced to already severely over-crowded and unsanitary parts of Gaza.

The situation is beyond crisis point.

Under international humanitarian law, Israel as the occupying power, is required to ensure that the basic needs of the population in Gaza, such as food, water, and medical care, are met. I remind all parties of their obligation to allow and facilitate rapid and unimpeded passage of humanitarian relief for civilians in need, throughout Gaza.

The way forward must be through an immediate end to the violence, the prompt and unconditional release of all remaining hostages, the cessation of firing of indiscriminate rockets and use of explosive weapons with wide-area effects in populated areas, humanitarian aid commensurate to the immense need and rapid unimpeded access, an end to practices of arbitrary detention by Israel, and concrete steps to avert further disaster, founded on full respect and protection of the human rights of Palestinians and Israelis.

ENDS

For more information and media requests, please contact:
In Geneva
Ravina Shamdasani - + 41 22 917 9169 / ravina.shamdasani@un.org or
Liz Throssell + 41 22 917 9296 / elizabeth.throssell@un.org or
Jeremy Laurence +  +41 22 917 9383 / jeremy.laurence@un.org or
Marta Hurtado - + 41 22 917 9466 / marta.hurtadogomez@un.org


Tag and share
Twitter @UNHumanRights
Facebook unitednationshumanrights
Instagram @unitednationshumanrights

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/254530-comment-un-high-commissioner-human-rights-volker-t%C3%BCrk-resumption-hostilities-gaza




Date: 30 November 2023
Title: COP28 Opens in Dubai with Calls for Accelerated Action, Higher Ambition Against the Escalating Climate Crisis
Content: 30 November 2023
UN Climate Change News, Dubai, United Arab Emirates, 30 November 2023 – The United Nations Climate Change Conference COP28 opens today with a resounding call to accelerate collective climate action. The conference takes place in what is already known to be the hottest year ever recorded in human history and as the impacts of the climate crisis wreak unprecedented havoc on human life and livelihoods around the world.

COP28 in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE), from 30 November to 12 December 2023, is a decisive moment to act on climate commitments and prevent the worst impacts of climate change. UAE has the presidency for COP28, with Dr Sultan Al Jaber as this year’s president.

This year’s COP marks the conclusion of the “global stocktake”, the first assessment of global progress in implementing the 2015 Paris Agreement. The findings are stark: the world is not on track to limiting temperature rise to 1.5°C by the end of this century. It does recognize that countries are developing plans for a net-zero future, and the shift to clean energy is gathering speed, but it makes clear that the transition is nowhere near fast enough yet to limit warming within the current ambitions.

A report recently published by UN Climate Change shows that national climate action plans would collectively lower greenhouse gas emissions to 2% below 2019 levels by 2030, while the science is clear that a 43% reduction is needed.

The global stocktake must be a catalyst for greater ambition in meeting the Paris Agreement’s goals as nations prepare to submit revised national climate action plans by 2025. It lays out actions on how to accelerate emissions cuts, strengthen resilience to climate impacts, and provide the support and finance needed for the transformation.

“Over 160 world leaders are headed to Dubai, because only cooperation between nations can get humanity back in this race. But COP28 cannot be just a photo-op. Leaders must deliver – the message is clear,” said UN Climate Change Executive Secretary Simon Stiell. “And as leaders leave Dubai after the opening summit, their message to their negotiators must be equally clear: don’t come home without a deal that will make a real difference.”

Climate finance stands at the heart of this transformation. Replenishing the Green Climate Fund, doubling financial resources for adaptation and operationalizing the loss and damage fund are key to keeping 1.5°C within reach while leaving no one behind.
“The reality is that without much more finance flowing to developing countries, a renewables revolution will remain a mirage in the desert. COP28 must turn it into a reality,” Stiell added.

Progress on climate finance at COP28 will be crucial to build trust in other negotiation areas and to lay the groundwork for an even more ambitious “New Collective Quantified Goal” for climate finance, which must be in place next year. It will also set the stage for a just and inclusive transition to renewable energy and the phasing out of fossil fuels.
In the face of rising conflicts and tensions worldwide, Stiell emphasized the need for collaborative efforts to combat climate change, an area in which nations can work together effectively to ensure a sustainable future both for people and the planet.
“We don’t have any time to waste. We need to take urgent action now to reduce emissions. At COP28, every country and every company will be held to account, guided by the north star of keeping 1.5°C within reach,” said COP28 President Dr. Sultan Al Jaber.
“All parties should be prepared to deliver a high ambition decision in response to the global stocktake that reduces emissions while protecting people, lives, and livelihoods,” Al Jaber added.
Egyptian Minister of Foreign Affairs and COP27 President Sameh Shoukry said: “It is of crucial importance to continue building on previous achievements, but more importantly to implement what we already agreed upon. We cannot achieve our common goals without having everyone on board, most importantly the Global South. We need to start delivering on climate justice and provide the needed tools that we already agreed upon in Sharm el-Sheikh for funding loss and damage, including the establishment of a fund. One of the major outcomes that has to come out of COP28 is for the fund to be fully operationalized and funded.”

Key COP28 events

The World Climate Action Summit (WCAS), hosted by His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the UAE, will convene Heads of State or Government on 1-2 December, when the first part of the COP28 high-level segment will also take place. A resumed high-level segment will take place on 9-10 December.

The WCAS provides Heads of State or Government with the opportunity to set the stage for COP28, build on decisions from previous Conferences of the Parties, raise climate commitments and promote coordinated action to tackle climate change.

The COP28 Presidency will hold open consultations on thematic areas, inviting inputs from the broad mix of stakeholders attending the conference. Consult the COP28 UAE Thematic Program.

More information
UNFCCC COP28 website: UN Climate Change Conference - United Arab Emirates | UNFCCC

COP28 Host Country website: COP28 UAE - United Nations Climate Change Conference

For media inquiries, please contact UN Climate Change at press@unfccc.int

About COP28
COP28 stands for the 28th meeting of the Conference of the Parties (COP) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). COPs take place every.

COP28, taking place in the United Arab Emirates from 30 November to 12 December 2023, aims to address the climate crisis by agreeing on ways to limit temperature rise to 1.5°C and achieving net-zero emissions by 2050. Over 70,000 delegates, including member states, business leaders, young people, climate scientists, Indigenous Peoples, journalists, and various other experts and stakeholders are expected to attend.

About UNFCCC
With 198 Parties, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) has near universal membership and is the parent treaty of the 2015 Paris Climate Change Agreement. The main aim of the Paris Agreement is to keep a global average temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius and to drive efforts to limit the temperature increase even further to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. The UNFCCC is also the parent treaty of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. The ultimate objective of all agreements under the UNFCCC is to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that will prevent dangerous human interference with the climate system, in a time frame which allows ecosystems to adapt naturally and enables sustainable development.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/254228-cop28-opens-dubai-calls-accelerated-action-higher-ambition-against-escalating-climate-crisis




Date: 29 November 2023
Title: Secretary-General's remarks to the Security Council - on the Middle East
Content: 29 November 2023


Mr. President, Excellencies,
I welcome this opportunity to brief the Security Council on implementation of resolution 2712.
My Special Coordinator for the Middle East process Tor Wennesland will follow with his regular monthly briefing.
Mr. President,
Resolution 2712 was approved in a context of widespread death and wholesale destruction unleashed by the conflict in Gaza and Israel.
According to Israeli authorities, more than 1,200 people were killed -- including 33 children -- and thousands were injured in the abhorrent acts of terror by Hamas on 7 October.
Some 250 people were also abducted, including 34 children.
There are also numerous accounts of sexual violence during the attacks that must be vigorously investigated and prosecuted.
Gender-based violence must be condemned.  Anytime.  Anywhere.
Mr. President,
According to the de facto authorities, more than 14,000 people have been killed since the start of the Israeli military operations in Gaza.
Tens of thousands of Palestinians have also been injured, with many more missing.
In Gaza, more than two-thirds of those killed are reported to be children and women.
In a matter of weeks, a far greater number of children have been killed by Israeli military operations in Gaza than the total number of children killed during any year, by any party to a conflict since I have been Secretary-General – as clearly indicated in the annual reports on Children and Armed Conflict that I have submitted to the Council.
Over the past few days, the people of the Occupied Palestinian Territory and Israel have finally seen a glimmer of hope and humanity in so much darkness.
It is deeply moving to see civilians finally having a respite from the bombardments, families reunited, and lifesaving aid increasing.
Mr. President,
Resolution 2712 “demands that all parties comply with their obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law, notably with regard to the protection of civilians, especially children.”
It is clear that before the pause, we witnessed serious violations.
Beyond the many civilians killed and wounded that I spoke of, eighty percent of Gaza’s people have now been forced from their homes.
This growing population is being pushed towards an ever-smaller area of southern Gaza.  And, of course, nowhere is safe in Gaza.
Meanwhile, an estimated 45 percent of all homes in Gaza have been damaged or destroyed.
The nature and scale of death and destruction are characteristic of the use of wide-area explosive weapons in populated areas, with a significant impact on civilians.
At the same time, rocket attacks on population centres in Israel by Hamas and other groups have continued – along with allegations of the use of human shields.
This is also inconsistent with international humanitarian law obligations.
Mr. President,
I want to stress the inviolability of United Nations facilities which today are sheltering more than one million civilians seeking protection under the UN flag.
UNRWA shares the coordinates of all its facilities across the Gaza Strip with all parties to the conflict.
The agency has verified 104 incidents that have impacted 82 UNRWA installations – 24 of which happened since the adoption of the resolution.
A total of 218 internally displaced people sheltering in UNRWA schools have reportedly been killed and at least 894 injured.
In addition, it is with immense sadness and pain that I report that since the beginning of the hostilities, 111 members of our UN family have been killed in Gaza.
This represents the largest loss of personnel in the history of our organization.
Let me put it plainly:
Civilians – including United Nations personnel – must be protected.
Civilian objects – including hospitals – must be protected.
UN facilities must not be hit.
International humanitarian law must be respected by all parties to the conflict at all times.
Mr. President,
Security Council resolution 2712 calls “for urgent and extended humanitarian pauses and corridors throughout the Gaza Strip …to enable …full, rapid, safe, and unhindered humanitarian access.”
I welcome the arrangement reached by Israel and Hamas – with the assistance of the governments of Qatar, Egypt and the United States.
We are working to maximize the positive potential of this arrangement on the humanitarian situation in Gaza.
The pause has enabled us to enhance the delivery of aid into and across Gaza.
For example, for the first time since 7 October, an inter-agency convoy delivered food, water, medical supplies, and shelter items to northern Gaza – specifically to four UNRWA shelters in Jabalia camp.
Prior to this, minimal or no assistance had reached these locations – even as tens of thousands of people had crowded there for shelter.
Also, for the first time, supplies of cooking gas entered Gaza where people waited in lines that extended for two kilometres.
In the south, where the needs are dire, UN agencies and partners have increased both the amount of aid delivered, and the number of locations reached.
I express my appreciation to the Government of Egypt for their contribution in making this assistance possible.
But the level of aid to Palestinians in Gaza remains completely inadequate to meet the huge needs of more than two million people.
And although the total volume of fuel allowed into Gaza has also increased, it remains utterly insufficient to sustain basic operations.
Civilians in Gaza need a continuous flow of life-saving humanitarian aid and fuel into and across the area.
Safe and unimpeded humanitarian access to all those in need is critical.
Humanitarian partners carried out several medical evacuations from north to south Gaza, including to transport dozens of premature babies as well as spinal and dialysis patients from Shifa and Al-Ahli Anglican hospitals.
Several critically ill patients have also been evacuated for treatment in Egypt.
Hospitals across Gaza lack the basic supplies, staff and fuel to deliver primary health care at the scale needed, let alone safely treat urgent cases.
The medical system has broken down under the heavy caseload, acute shortages, and the impact of hostilities.
Mr. President,
Security Council resolution 2712 calls for “the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages held by Hamas and other groups.”
The arrangement announced on 22 November has so far led to the release, over 5 days, of 60 hostages – 29 women, 31 children – held by Hamas and other groups since 7 October.
Outside the arrangement during the same period, another 21 hostages were released.
This is a welcome start.  But as I have been saying from day one, all hostages must be released immediately and unconditionally.
Until then, they must be treated humanely and the International Committee of the Red Cross must be allowed to visit them.
The arrangement also saw the release of 180 Palestinian prisoners and detainees from Israeli jails, mostly women and children.
Mr. President,
Security Council resolution 2712 “calls on all parties to refrain from depriving the civilian population in the Gaza Strip of basic services and humanitarian assistance indispensable to their survival, consistent with international humanitarian law.”
Much, much more is required to begin to address human needs in Gaza.
Water and electricity services must be fully restored.
Food systems have collapsed and hunger is spreading, particularly in the north.
Sanitary conditions in shelters are appalling, with few toilets and sewage flooding, posing a serious threat to public health.
Children, pregnant women, older people and those with weakened immune systems are at greatest risk.
Gaza needs an immediate and sustained increase in humanitarian aid including food, water, fuel, blankets, medicines and healthcare supplies.
It is important to recognize that the Rafah border crossing does not have enough capacity, especially taking into account the slow pace of security procedures.
That is why we have been urging the opening of other crossings, including Kerem Shalom, and the streamlining of inspection mechanisms to allow for the necessary increase of lifesaving aid.
But humanitarian aid alone will not be sufficient.  We also need the private sector to bring in critical basic commodities to replenish completely depleted shops in Gaza.
Mr. President,
Finally, Security Council Resolution 2712 “underscores the importance of coordination, humanitarian notification, and deconfliction mechanisms, to protect all medical and humanitarian staff, vehicles, including ambulances, humanitarian sites, and critical infrastructure, including UN facilities.”
A humanitarian notification system is now in place, and is being constantly reviewed and enhanced, including through plans for additional civil-military experts to support coordination.
Mr. President,
I welcome the adoption of resolution 2712 – but its implementation by the parties matters most.
In accordance with the resolution, I will revert to the President of the Security Council with a set of options on effectively monitoring the implementation of the resolution.
I have already established a working group composed of the Department of Political and Peacebuilding Affairs, the Department of Peace Operations, the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, and the Office of Legal Affairs to urgently prepare proposals in this regard.
So far it is clear that implementation has been only partial at best, and is woefully insufficient.
Ultimately, we know that the measure of success will not be the number of trucks dispatched or the tons of supplies delivered – as important as these are.
Success will be measured in lives that are saved, suffering that is ended, and hope and dignity that is restored.
The people of Gaza are in the midst of an epic humanitarian catastrophe before the eyes of the world.
We must not look away.
Intense negotiations are taking place to prolong the truce – which we strongly welcome -- but we believe we need a true humanitarian ceasefire.
And we must ensure the people of the region finally have a horizon of hope – by moving in a determined and irreversible way toward establishing a two-State solution, on the basis of United Nations resolutions and international law, with Israel and Palestine living side-by-side in peace and security.
Failure will condemn Palestinians, Israelis, the region and the world, to a never-ending cycle of death and destruction.
Thank you.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/254172-secretary-generals-remarks-security-council-middle-east




Date: 28 November 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY OF SOLIDARITY WITH THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE  29 November 2023
Content: 28 November 2023
This International Day of Solidarity comes during one of the darkest chapters in the history of the Palestinian people. I am horrified by the death and destruction that have engulfed the region, which is overwhelmed with pain, anguish and heartache.

Palestinians in Gaza are suffering a humanitarian catastrophe. Almost 1.7 million people have been forced from their homes – but nowhere is safe. Meanwhile, the situation in the occupied West Bank, including East Jerusalem, risks boiling over.

I express my sincere condolences to the thousands of families who are mourning loved ones. This includes members of our own United Nations family killed in Gaza, representing the largest loss of personnel in the history of our organization.

I have been clear in my condemnation of the terror attacks by Hamas on 7 October. But I have also been clear that they cannot justify the collective punishment of the Palestinian people.

Across the region, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency is an indispensable lifeline, delivering vital support to millions of Palestinian refugees. It is more important than ever that the international community stands with UNRWA as a source of support for the Palestinian people.

Above all, this is a day for reaffirming international solidarity with the Palestinian people and their right to live in peace and dignity.

That must start with a long-term humanitarian ceasefire, unrestricted access for lifesaving aid, the release of all hostages, the protection of civilians and an end to violations of international humanitarian law. We must be united in demanding an end to the occupation and the blockade of Gaza.
It is long past time to move in a determined, irreversible way towards a two-State solution, on the basis of United Nations resolutions and international law, with Israel and Palestine living side-by-side in peace and security with Jerusalem as the capital of both States.
The United Nations will not waver in its commitment to the Palestinian people. Today and every day, let us stand in solidarity with the aspirations of the Palestinian people to achieve their inalienable rights and build a future of peace, justice, security and dignity for all.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/254003-secretary-general-message-international-day-solidarity-palestinian-people-29-november-2023




Date: 27 November 2023
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on the situation in the Middle East  Seven weeks of hostilities in Gaza and Israel have taken an appalling toll that has shocked the world. For the past four days, the guns have fallen
Content: 27 November 2023
Seven weeks of hostilities in Gaza and Israel have taken an appalling toll that has shocked the world. For the past four days, the guns have fallen silent. We have seen the release of Israeli and foreign hostages held by Hamas and others since 7 October, and the release of Palestinian prisoners from Israeli jails.

The Secretary General commends the Governments of Qatar, Egypt and the United States for facilitating this arrangement and he recognizes the critical role of the International Committee of the Red Cross. The United Nations will continue to support these efforts in every possible way.

During these four days, the United Nations has scaled up the entry of humanitarian aid into Gaza and sent aid to some northern areas that have been largely cut off for weeks. But this aid barely registers against the huge needs of 1.7 million displaced people. The humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza is getting worse by the day.

The dialogue that led to the agreement must continue, resulting in a full humanitarian ceasefire, for the benefit of the people of Gaza, Israel and the wider region. The Secretary General once again calls for the remaining hostages to be released immediately and unconditionally.

He urges all States to use their influence to end this tragic conflict and support irreversible steps towards the only sustainable future for the region: a two-state solution, with Israel and Palestine living side by side, in peace and security.

Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesperson for the Secretary-General
New York, 27 October 2023

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/253937-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-situation-middle-east-seven-weeks




Date: 26 November 2023
Title: 61 trucks of aid were delivered to northern Gaza, the largest number since October 7 according to OCHA
Content: 26 November 2023
The Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs confirms that 61 trucks of aid were delivered to northern Gaza today, the largest number since October 7. They included food, water and emergency medical supplies. Eleven ambulances, 3 coaches and a flatbed were delivered to Al Shifa hospital to assist with evacuations.

Another 200 trucks were dispatched from Nitzana. Of them 187 entered Gaza by 7:00 pm local time.

In addition, 129,000 liters of fuel crossed into Gaza.

None of these deliveries would have been possible without the Palestinian and Egyptian Red Crescent Societies.

The longer the pause lasts, the more aid humanitarian agencies will be able to send in and across Gaza.

We welcome the release of more hostages today and renew our call for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages.

And we hope the release of more Palestinian detainees brings relief to their families and loved ones.

New York, 25 November 2023
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/253850-61-trucks-aid-were-delivered-northern-gaza-largest-number-october-7-according-ocha




Date: 25 November 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  --  MESSAGE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL DAY FOR THE ELIMINATION OF VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN    25 November 2023
Content: 25 November 2023


Violence against women is a horrific violation of human rights, a public health crisis, and a major obstacle to sustainable development.

It is persistent, widespread – and worsening.

From sexual harassment and abuse to femicide – the violence takes many forms.

But all are rooted in structural injustice, cemented by millennia of patriarchy.

We still live in a male-dominated culture that leaves women vulnerable by denying them equality in dignity and rights.

We all pay the price: our societies are less peaceful, our economies less prosperous, our world less just.

But a different world is possible.

This year’s theme of the UNiTE campaign – “Invest to Prevent Violence against Women & Girls” – calls on all of us to take action.

Support legislation and comprehensive policies that strengthen the protection of women’s rights across the board.

Ramp up investments in prevention and support to women’s rights organization.

Listen to survivors and end impunity for perpetrators everywhere.

Stand with women activists and promote women’s leadership at every stage of decision-making.

Together, let us stand up and speak out. Let’s build a world that refuses to tolerate violence against women anywhere, in any form, once and for all.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/253838-secretary-general-message-international-day-elimination-violence-against-women-25-november




Date: 15 November 2023
Title: GAZA CONTINUES TO HAVE HUGE NEEDS FOR FUEL AMID SIEGE AND WAR
Content: 15 November 2023
STATEMENT BY UNRWA COMMISSIONER-GENERAL PHILIPPE LAZZARINI
AMMAN/GAZA 
15 November 2023

“UNRWA received today just over 23,000 litres of fuel to the besieged Gaza Strip. The Israeli Authorities have restricted the use of this fuel only to transport the little aid coming via Egypt.

“This fuel cannot be used for the overall humanitarian response, including for medical and water facilities or the work of UNRWA.

“It is appalling that fuel continues to be used as a weapon of war. For the past five weeks, UNRWA has been pleading to get fuel in support of the humanitarian operation in Gaza. This seriously paralyses our work and the delivery of assistance to the Palestinian communities in Gaza.

“By the end of today, around 70 per cent of people in Gaza will not have clean water.  Key services including water desalination plants, sewage treatments and hospitals have ceased to operate.

“To have fuel for trucks only will not save lives anymore. Waiting longer will cost lives.
“Much more fuel is needed. We need 160,000 litres of fuel every day for basic humanitarian operations.

“I call on the Israeli Authorities to immediately authorize the delivery of the needed amount of fuel as is required under international humanitarian law.”

ENDs –
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/252762-gaza-continues-have-huge-needs-fuel-amid-siege-and-war




Date: 15 November 2023
Title: The carnage in Gaza cannot be allowed to continue. Here are the steps to rein it in.
Content: 15 November 2023
Statement by Martin Griffiths, Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator
As the carnage in Gaza reaches new levels of horror every day, the world continues to watch in shock as hospitals come under fire, premature babies die, and an entire population is deprived of the basic means of survival.
This cannot be allowed to continue.
The warring parties must respect international humanitarian law, agree to a humanitarian ceasefire and stop the fighting.
The United Nations and its humanitarian partners, present in Gaza for decades, are committed to responding to the mounting humanitarian needs, guided, as always, by the principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence. We have the expertise, knowhow and most certainly the will.
On behalf of the humanitarian community that I represent, I urge the parties, all those who have influence over them, and the broader international community to do everything in their power to support and implement the following plan:
These are the actions required to rein in the carnage. The plan is comprehensive, and we are determined to push for every step, but we need broad international support. The world must act before it is too late.
Geneva, 15 November 2023
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/252761-carnage-gaza-cannot-be-allowed-continue-here-are-steps-rein-it




Date: 10 November 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL   --  INTERNATIONAL HUMANITARIAN CONFERENCE FOR THE CIVILIAN POPULATION IN GAZA    Paris, 9 November 2023
Content: 10 November 2023

Excellencies,
Ladies and gentlemen,

President Macron, thank you for hosting this conference.

We are here to support civilians in Gaza.

Of course, nothing justifies the abhorrent acts of terror by Hamas in Israel on 7 October which I utterly condemn.

Israelis and others were brutally killed or abducted – and I call once again for the unconditional return of all hostages.

Now civilians in Gaza – including children and women – face a never-ending humanitarian nightmare.

Their neighborhoods wiped out.  Their loved ones killed.  Bombs raining down, while being denied life’s very basics – food, water, medicine, electricity.

Some life-saving aid is beginning to trickle into Gaza.  But, let’s face it, it’s a drop in the ocean.

The needs are enormous.

We must step up to assist and protect civilians in Gaza.

That means an immediate humanitarian ceasefire.

It means ensuring full respect of international humanitarian law.

It means protecting hospitals, UN facilities, shelters, and schools.

It means unfettered, safe, and sustained access to bring in and distribute supplies at much greater scale, volume, and frequency – including fuel.

And it means investing in the $1.2 billion humanitarian appeal that the United Nations has just launched to help the people of Gaza.

I urge your support.

Now is the time for concrete action.

Together, we can help ease this terrible human suffering.

We can help civilians in Gaza see at last, and at the very least, a glimmer of hope – a sign of solidarity – and a signal that the world sees their plight and cares enough to act.

Thank you.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/252479-secretary-general-international-humanitarian-conference-civilian-population-gaza-paris-9




Date: 07 November 2023
Title: UN Human Rights Chief travels to the Middle East in context of conflict in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territory
Content: 07 November 2023
GENEVA (7 November 2023) - UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Türk today begins a five-day visit to the Middle East region, amid Israel’s escalation in Gaza, in response to the attacks on it on 7 and 8 October, and the wider context of 56 years of occupation of the Palestinian territories. Türk is in Cairo today and will visit Rafah – on the border with Gaza – tomorrow, before travelling to Amman on Thursday.

Türk has also sought access to Israel, the Occupied West Bank as well as Gaza.

“It has been one full month of carnage, of incessant suffering, bloodshed, destruction, outrage and despair,” Türk said. “Human rights violations are at the root of this escalation and human rights play a central role in finding a way out of this vortex of pain.”

Türk is in the region to engage with Government officials, civil society actors, victims and UN colleagues on the human rights situation in the region. This visit takes place against the backdrop of the ongoing, extremely serious human rights and humanitarian crisis.

In Cairo today, the High Commissioner will meet the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Egypt, as well as representatives of regional civil society organisations, and the Secretary-General of the League of Arab States. On Wednesday, Türk will travel to Rafah, in the east of the country, bordering the Gaza Strip.

In Amman on Thursday and Friday, Türk is scheduled to meet the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, other senior Government officials, as well as Palestinian and Israeli civil society representatives and the UN Country Team for the Occupied Palestinian Territory.

The High Commissioner will hold a press stakeout near the Rafah crossing on Wednesday, as well as a press conference in Amman on Saturday, 11 November. Details to be provided locally closer to the date.

ENDS

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/251990-un-human-rights-chief-travels-middle-east-context-conflict-israel-and-occupied-palestinian




Date: 05 November 2023
Title: WFP Chief makes urgent plea for safe, expanded humanitarian access to Gaza as food runs out
Content: 05 November 2023
CAIRO – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) Executive Director, Cindy McCain issued an urgent plea from the Rafah border crossing for safe, expanded humanitarian access to Gaza as humanitarian needs skyrocket and critical food supplies reach dangerously low levels.
For the past few weeks, entry points into Gaza have been virtually sealed except through the Rafah border crossing point. While there has been a steady increase in aid entering Gaza, it is nowhere near enough to meet the exponentially growing needs.
"Right now, parents in Gaza do not know whether they can feed their children today and whether they will even survive to see tomorrow. The suffering just meters away is unfathomable standing on this side of the border," said Cindy McCain as she returned from the Rafah border crossing in Egypt.
“Today, I'm making an urgent plea for the millions of people whose lives are being torn apart by this crisis,” she added.
McCain is concluding a two-day visit to Egypt, during which she met with Egypt's President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, senior government officials, and visited the Egyptian Red Crescent's humanitarian staging hub in Al Arish. She also inspected the rapid expansion of logistical operations and monitoring systems at the Rafah border crossing, which are crucial for providing vital assistance to people within Gaza.
"We appreciate all efforts to facilitate a steady flow of humanitarian supplies through its border with Gaza, and the work of the Egyptian Red Crescent is remarkable. We need to continue to work together to get safe and sustained access to Gaza at a scale that aligns with the catastrophic conditions facing families there,” McCain noted.
During her visit, McCain explored opportunities for WFP to leverage its extensive expertise in logistics during emergencies to further strengthen collaboration with partners such as the Egyptian Red Crescent to scale up the delivery of humanitarian aid into Gaza. She applauded the efforts of their volunteers who have worked tirelessly to get lifesaving assistance to their neighbours.
“The crisis in Gaza is not just a local tragedy, it's a stark reminder that our global food crisis is worsening. Not only does this crisis threaten regional peace and stability, it undermines our collective efforts to combat hunger worldwide,” McCain noted.
WFP is scaling up to reach more than one million people with urgent food assistance in the next few weeks. More than 650,000 people in Gaza and the West Bank have received food and cash assistance from WFP since 07 October. WFP is distributing fresh bread, date bars, and canned food to families in UN shelters every day, and food parcels to displaced families in host communities. WFP continues to provide cash-based transfers to people residing in communities so they can buy the food available in shops that are still open.
Note to editors:
Broadcast quality video available on request – contact Jonathan.Dumont@wfp.org
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/251776-wfp-chief-makes-urgent-plea-safe-expanded-humanitarian-access-gaza-food-runs-out




Date: 02 November 2023
Title: IN FIRST GAZA VISIT: UNRWA COMMISSIONER GENERAL RENEWS CALLS FOR A HUMANITARIAN CEASEFIRE AND A SCALE UP OF THE HUMANITARIAN OPERATION
Content: 02 November 2023
RAFAH BORDER CROSSING, 1 NOVEMBER 2023

“I have just returned from the Gaza Strip. This is the first time I have been allowed in since the beginning of this horrific war, almost four weeks ago.
“The scale of the tragedy is unprecedented.
"I met with displaced Palestinians sheltered in one of the UNRWA schools in Rafah. They showed me where it was damaged during bombardments. One person was killed and more than 80 were injured. The place was overcrowded. The levels of distress and the unsanitary living conditions were beyond comprehension. Everyone was just asking for water and food. Instead of being at school, learning, children were asking for a sip of water and a piece of bread. It was heart wrenching. Above all, people were asking for a ceasefire. They want this tragedy to end.
“It was one of the saddest days in my humanitarian work.
“For people in Gaza, UNRWA has become the last remaining lifeline for survival as the markets are empty. Water, food, medicine and fuel are running out fast.
“Every day becomes bleaker as we continue to lose colleagues. Where will this end? More than 70 UNRWA colleagues have been killed since 7 October, often along with their families. I expressed all my admiration and respect to my colleagues; they are a ray of light coming out of Gaza. They themselves have been impacted like everyone else. They are also displaced, they are also struggling to get food, water and safety.  Despite that, they are serving the community, making the impossible possible. I reassured them that the Agency is committed to stay and scale up.
“We will continue to stand with Palestine Refugees and the rest of the Palestinian communities.
“The current humanitarian response is by far not enough, nor does it match the huge needs of people in Gaza.   More than ever, we need a meaningful humanitarian response to prevent people dying because of the Siege.
“I call once again for urgent fuel deliveries. No fuel has come for nearly one month and this is having a devastating impact on hospitals, bakeries, water plants, and our operations.
“Our calls are falling on deaf ears. A humanitarian ceasefire is long overdue. Without it, more people will be killed, those who are alive will endure further losses, and the once vibrant society will be in grief, forever."
ENDs –
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/251513-first-gaza-visit-unrwa-commissioner-general-renews-calls-humanitarian-ceasefire-and-scale




Date: 01 November 2023
Title: Ministry of Health sets roadmap for Egypt’s National Midwifery Strategy with partners
Content: 01 November 2023
The Ministry of Health and Population and UNFPA Egypt organized a workshop to develop a roadmap for the National Midwifery Strategy for Egypt on October 31, in collaboration with WHO and UNICEF.
The workshop was attended by Dr. Tarek Tawfik, Deputy Minister of Health and Population, Dr. Hossam Abdel Gaffar, Assistant Minister for Health Reforms and Spokesperson of the Ministry of Health and Population, Frederika Meijer, UNFPA Representative in Egypt, Jeremy Hopkins, UNICEF Representative in Egypt, Dr. Naeema Al Gasseer, WHO Representative in Egypt and experts from different sectors.
With the support of the European Union, the workshop comes to build on Egypt’s commitment to the Regional Midwifery and Nursing Strategic Framework 2022-2030 and comes on the heels of the Regional Midwifery Forum that was held in May 2023. The regional forum aimed at utilizing country level evidence to develop multi-year country-level action plans for countries as well as providing a platform for exchanging best practices and common challenges among expertise in the field.
According to the State of the Midwifery Workforce in the Arab Region launched in 2022, universal coverage of midwife-delivered interventions could avert 50,000 maternal deaths in Egypt by 2035.
The workshop included presentations on the League of Arab States Midwifery Strategy, global and regional perspectives on midwifery, legislative and regulative actions for midwifery in Egypt, midwifery education and midwifery training in Egypt.
Dr. Abdel Ghaffar said that the Ministry of Health and Population is working to enhance the role of midwives through the strategy by ensuring appropriate working conditions and wages, and providing opportunities to develop their skills. He added that the National Midwifery Strategy will ensure that pregnant women are provided with necessary healthcare services, moving closer to our ultimate goal of every child birth being safe.
“Strengthening midwifery would promote women’s economic empowerment by enhancing women’s participation in the health workforce,” Meijer said, “It will also improve and ensure women’s access to quality comprehensive reproductive health services.”
On her part, Al Gassser said that “Every woman deserves to have a positive pregnancy experience and a safe delivery. No woman should die because of pregnancy or childbirth. Pregnancy care and childbirth care are primarily dependent on midwives who are often the first point of contact for women and children, contributing to healthier populations.”
Meanwhile, Hopkins said that “Strengthening midwifery education to international standards and customizing capacity building according to the needs of the most vulnerable women is a key step to improving quality of care and reducing maternal and newborn mortality and morbidity in Egypt.”

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/251285-ministry-health-sets-roadmap-egypt%E2%80%99s-national-midwifery-strategy-partners




Date: 01 November 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY TO END IMPUNITY FOR CRIMES AGAINST JOURNALISTS  2 November 2023
Content: 01 November 2023
Journalists and the media fulfill a vital role in society, upholding and enabling democracy and holding power to account. They are essential to strong and accountable institutions and to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.

But this important position puts journalists at risk. Their commitment to investigating and revealing the truth means they are often targeted for attack, illegal detention, and even death.

In 2022, according to UNESCO, at least 88 journalists were killed for doing their jobs – a sharp increase on the preceding years. The current conflict in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territory is taking a horrific toll on journalists.

But the majority of journalists who are killed are not war reporters; they are working in countries that are at peace, investigating corruption, trafficking, human rights violations, and environmental issues.

I am deeply alarmed by these figures, and by the rise in threats of all kinds against journalists. Detention of journalists is at an all-time high. Online harassment of journalists, particularly women, is being used as a tool to silence them.

We need better safeguards to defend the journalists who are keeping us informed.
On the International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists, we call on all States to prevent violence against journalists, to provide a safe environment for them to go about their jobs, to bring to justice those who commit crimes against journalists and media workers, and to ensure support for victims and survivors.

Today and every day, we are grateful to the journalists and all media professionals who risk their health and lives to keep us informed, and to keep the truth alive.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/251274-secretary-general-message-international-day-end-impunity-crimes-against-journalists-2




Date: 29 October 2023
Title: Comment by UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Türk on Gaza
Content: 29 October 2023
Last night’s bombardment and ground operations in Gaza by Israeli forces were reportedly the most intensive yet, taking this terrible crisis to a new level of violence and pain. Compounding the misery and suffering of civilians, Israeli strikes on telecommunications installations and subsequent Internet shutdown have effectively left Gazans with no way of knowing what is happening across Gaza and cut them off from the outside world.

We remind all parties of their obligations under international humanitarian law and international human rights law.

The bombing of the telecommunications infrastructure places the civilian population in grave danger. Ambulances and civil defence teams are no longer able to locate the injured, or the thousands of people estimated to be still under the rubble. Civilians are no longer able to receive updated information on where they can access humanitarian relief and where they may be in less danger. Many journalists can now no longer report on the situation.

We lost contact with our colleagues in Gaza last night. Our colleagues had already endured days and nights under the incessant bombardment of Gaza. They lost families, friends and homes in strikes that have killed several thousands in a mere three weeks and razed complete neighborhoods across Gaza. There is no safe place in Gaza and there is no way out. I am very worried for my colleagues, as I am for all civilians in Gaza.

When these hostilities end, those who have survived will face the rubble of their homes and the graves of their family members. Inflicting wounds and trauma on hundreds of thousands of people does not help anyone.

The humanitarian and human rights consequences will be devastating and long-lasting. Thousands have already died, many of them children. Given the manner in which military operations have been conducted until now, in the context of the 56-year-old occupation, I am raising alarm about the possibly catastrophic consequences of large-scale ground operations in Gaza and the potential for thousands more civilians to die.

Continued violence is not the answer. I call on all parties as well as third States, in particular those with influence over the parties to the conflict, to do all in their power to de-escalate this conflict, and to work toward the goal where Israelis and Palestinians can fully enjoy all human rights and live side by side, in peace.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/251047-comment-un-high-commissioner-human-rights-volker-t%C3%BCrk-gaza




Date: 29 October 2023
Title: Readout of the Secretary-General’s phone call with H.E. Mr. Abdel Fattah Al Sisi, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt.
Content: 29 October 2023
During a stopover in Doha, Qatar, the Secretary-General spoke by phone with H.E. Mr. Abdel Fattah Al Sisi, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt.

They discussed the current situation in the Middle East and spoke about the coordination of humanitarian efforts for civilians in Gaza.

Doha, 28 October 2023

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/251055-readout-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-phone-call-he-mr-abdel-fattah-al-sisi-president-arab-republic




Date: 27 October 2023
Title: Statement by the Secretary-General - on the humanitarian situation in Gaza
Content: 27 October 2023
The humanitarian system in Gaza is facing a total collapse with unimaginable consequences for more than 2 million civilians. 
 
As the bombing intensifies, needs are growing ever more critical and colossal. 
 
About 500 trucks per day were crossing into Gaza before the hostilities began.   
 
In recent days, an average of only 12 trucks per day have entered, despite needs being far greater than at any time before.   
 
In addition, the supplies that have trickled in do not include fuel for United Nations operations – fuel which is also essential to power hospitals, water desalination plants, food production and aid distribution.       
 
Given the desperate and dramatic situation, the United Nations will not be able to continue to deliver inside Gaza without an immediate and fundamental shift in how aid is going in.   
 
The verification system for the movement of goods through the Rafah crossing must be adjusted to allow many more trucks to enter Gaza without delay.  
 
We must meet the expectations and core needs of civilians in Gaza. 
 
Life-saving humanitarian aid – food, water, medicine, fuel – must be allowed to reach all civilians swiftly, safely and at scale. 
  
I welcome the growing global consensus for a humanitarian pause in the conflict.  I repeat my call for a humanitarian ceasefire, the unconditional release of all hostages, and the delivery of life-saving supplies at the scale needed.  
  
Misery is growing by the minute.   
 
Without a fundamental change, the people of Gaza will face an unprecedented avalanche of human suffering.   
 
Everyone must assume their responsibilities.  This is a moment of truth.  History is judging us all.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/250969-statement-secretary-general-humanitarian-situation-gaza




Date: 25 October 2023
Title: PRIOR TO CURRENT CRISIS, DECADES-LONG BLOCKADE HOLLOWED GAZA’S ECONOMY, LEAVING 80% OF POPULATION DEPENDENT ON INTERNATIONAL AID
Content: 25 October 2023
Geneva, 25 October 2023 – The latest report by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) on its assistance to the Palestinian people says 2022 was another bad year for Palestinians.
Against a backdrop of heightened political tensions, deepening dependency on the occupying Power and a stalled peace process, the Palestinian economy continued to operate below potential in 2022 as other persistent challenges intensified.
These include loss of land and natural resources to Israeli settlements, endemic poverty, a shrinking fiscal space, declining foreign aid and the build-up of public and private debt.
Economy still reeling from COVID-19 shock
Even though the Palestinian GDP grew by 3.9% in 2022, per capita real GDP was still 8.6% below its 2019 pre-pandemic level. In Gaza, real GDP per capita was 11.7% below the 2019 level and close to its lowest level since 1994.
Unemployment remained high at 24% across the Occupied Palestinian Territory, 13% in the West Bank and 45% in Gaza – with women and youth hit hardest. Poverty increased, rendering 40% of the population in need of humanitarian assistance.
With the rise in global food and energy prices, poorer households suffer disproportionately because food accounts for a greater share of their total expenditure.
Three decades after the Oslo Accords, the hoped-for convergence between the Palestinian economy and Israel’s remains obstructed by occupation policies. Instead, the two economies have diverged, with the Palestinian per capita GDP currently standing at just 8% of Israel’s.


Forced economic dependence
The report highlights the Palestinian economy’s forced dependency on Israel. Excessive production and transaction costs and barriers to trade with the rest of the world have resulted in a chronic trade deficit and a pervasive, lopsided dependence on Israel, which accounted for 72% of total Palestinian trade in 2022.
Meanwhile, lack of a national currency and reliance on the Israeli shekel leave little space for monetary policy while the strong shekel exchange rate undermines the already impaired competitiveness of Palestinian producers in domestic and foreign markets.
The dearth of jobs forces many Palestinians to seek employment in Israel and settlements. In 2022, 22.5% of employed Palestinians from the West Bank worked in Israel and settlements, where the average wage is higher. But broker fees and other associated costs account for 44% of gross pay, wiping out the premium over the average domestic wage, which indicates that search for employment in Israel and settlements is largely driven by limited employment opportunities in the domestic economy.
Over-reliance on precarious employment in Israel and settlements exposes the Palestinian economy to shocks in a volatile environment characterized by frequent crises, while lack of monetary and fiscal space leaves little room for effective policy response to shocks and crises, the report warns.
Since its birth in 1994, the Palestinian government has coped with unique and complex economic, political and social responsibilities far greater than the political and economic resources at its disposal.
In the past, donor aid helped soften the impact of occupation. However, in 2022 the Palestinian government received just $250 million in donor budget support and $300 million for development projects. This is a steep decline from a total $2 billion, or 27% of GDP in 2008, to less than 3% of GDP in 2022.
Gaza: A decade and a half of suppressed development
Since June 2007, Gaza suffered several military operations and has been under a land, sea and air closure. Gazans need permits to move in and out of the strip through two land crossing points controlled by Israel.
Restrictions on the movement of people and goods, destruction of productive assets in frequent military operations and the ban on the importation of key technologies and inputs have hollowed out Gaza’s economy.
Investment in 2022 diminished to 10.7% of Gaza’s GDP - or a meagre 1.9% of the Palestinian GDP. Between 2006 and 2022, Gaza’s real GDP per capita shrank by 27%, while its share in the Palestinian economy contracted from 31% to 17.4%.
The restrictions on movement also impede access to health and other essential services, as 80% of Gazans depend on international aid.
Living in Gaza in 2022 meant confinement in one of the most densely populated spaces in the world, without electricity half the time, and without adequate access to clean water or a proper sewage system.
It meant a 65% probability of being poor, 41% probability of dropping out of the labour force in despair, and for those looking for work, a 45% probability of being unemployed, the report concludes.
-------------------------
About UNCTAD
UNCTAD is the UN’s leading institution dealing with trade and development. It is a permanent intergovernmental body established by the United Nations General Assembly in 1964.
UNCTAD is part of the UN Secretariat and has a membership of 195 countries, one of the largest in the UN system. UNCTAD supports developing countries to access the benefits of a globalized economy more fairly and effectively.
We provide economic and trade analysis, facilitate consensus-building and offer technical assistance to help developing countries use trade, investment, finance and technology for inclusive and sustainable development.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/250603-prior-current-crisis-decades-long-blockade-hollowed-gaza%E2%80%99s-economy-leaving-80-population




Date: 24 October 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  -- UNITED NATIONS DAY MESSAGE  24 October 2023
Content: 24 October 2023

The United Nations is a reflection of the world as it is – and an aspiration of the world we know it can be.

It is our responsibility to help build that world of peace, sustainable development and human rights for all.

I know we can do it. The Charter of the United Nations – which entered into force 78 years ago today – points the way.

Above all, it is rooted in a spirit of determination to heal divisions, repair relations, and build peace.

To expand opportunities, and leave no one behind.

To ensure justice, equality and empowerment for women and girls.

To provide life-saving relief to those in need.

And to be flexible enough to address challenges that did not even exist when the UN was born – from the existential climate crisis to the perils and promise of artificial intelligence.

The United Nations is guided by timeless values and principles, but it must never be frozen in time. That is why we must always keep strengthening ways of working and applying a 21st century lens to all we do.

On this United Nations Day, let us commit with hope and determination to build the better world of our aspirations.

Let us commit to a future that lives up to the name of our indispensable organization.

We are a divided world. We can and must be united nations.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/250373-secretary-general-united-nations-day-message-24-october-2023




Date: 24 October 2023
Title: Secretary-General's remarks to the Security Council - on the Middle East [as delivered]
Content: 24 October 2023
On this UN Day, at this critical hour, I appeal to all to pull back from the brink before the violence claims even more lives and spreads even farther.
Mr. President, with your permission, I will make a small introduction and then ask my colleagues to brief the Security Council on the situation on the ground.
Excellencies,
The situation in the Middle East is growing more dire by the hour.
The war in Gaza is raging and risks spiralling throughout the region.
Divisions are splintering societies.  Tensions threaten to boil over.
At a crucial moment like this, it is vital to be clear on principles -- starting with the fundamental principle of respecting and protecting civilians.
I have condemned unequivocally the horrifying and unprecedented 7 October acts of terror by Hamas in Israel.
Nothing can justify the deliberate killing, injuring and kidnapping of civilians – or the launching of rockets against civilian targets.
All hostages must be treated humanely and released immediately and without conditions.  I respectfully note the presence among us of members of their families.
Excellencies,
It is important to also recognize the attacks by Hamas did not happen in a vacuum.
The Palestinian people have been subjected to 56 years of suffocating occupation.
They have seen their land steadily devoured by settlements and plagued by violence; their economy stifled; their people displaced and their homes demolished.  Their hopes for a political solution to their plight have been vanishing.
But the grievances of the Palestinian people cannot justify the appalling attacks by Hamas.  And those appalling attacks cannot justify the collective punishment of the Palestinian people.
Excellencies,
Even war has rules.
We must demand that all parties uphold and respect their obligations under international humanitarian law; take constant care in the conduct of military operations to spare civilians; and respect and protect hospitals and respect the inviolability of UN facilities which today are sheltering more than 600,000 Palestinians.
The relentless bombardment of Gaza by Israeli forces, the level of civilian casualties, and the wholesale destruction of neighborhoods continue to mount and are deeply alarming.
I mourn and honour the dozens of UN colleagues working for UNRWA – sadly, at least 35 and counting – killed in the bombardment of Gaza over the last two weeks.
I owe to their families my condemnation of these and many other similar killings.
The protection of civilians is paramount in any armed conflict.
Protecting civilians can never mean using them as human shields.
Protecting civilians does not mean ordering more than one million people to evacuate to the south, where there is no shelter, no food, no water, no medicine and no fuel, and then continuing to bomb the south itself.
I am deeply concerned about the clear violations of international humanitarian law that we are witnessing in Gaza.
Let me be clear:  No party to an armed conflict is above international humanitarian law.
Excellencies,
Thankfully, some humanitarian relief is finally getting into Gaza.
But it is a drop of aid in an ocean of need.
In addition, our UN fuel supplies in Gaza will run out in a matter of days.  That would be another disaster.
Without fuel, aid cannot be delivered, hospitals will not have power, and drinking water cannot be purified or even pumped.
The people of Gaza need continuous aid delivery at a level that corresponds to the enormous needs.  That aid must be delivered without restrictions.
I salute our UN colleagues and humanitarian partners in Gaza working under hazardous conditions and risking their lives to provide aid to those in need.  They are an inspiration.
To ease epic suffering, make the delivery of aid easier and safer, and facilitate the release of hostages, I reiterate my appeal for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire.
Excellencies,
Even in this moment of grave and immediate danger, we cannot lose sight of the only realistic foundation for a true peace and stability:  a two-State solution.
Israelis must see their legitimate needs for security materialized, and Palestinians must see their legitimate aspirations for an independent State realized, in line with United Nations resolutions, international law and previous agreements.
Finally, we must be clear on the principle of upholding human dignity.
Polarization and dehumanization are being fueled by a tsunami of disinformation.
We must stand up to the forces of antisemitism, anti-Muslim bigotry and all forms of hate.
Mr. President,
Excellencies,
Today is United Nations Day, marking 78 years since the UN Charter entered into force.
That Charter reflects our shared commitment to advance peace, sustainable development and human rights.
On this UN Day, at this critical hour, I appeal to all to pull back from the brink before the violence claims even more lives and spreads even farther.
Thank you very much.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/250649-secretary-generals-remarks-security-council-middle-east-delivered




Date: 21 October 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- REMARKS TO CAIRO SUMMIT FOR PEACE Cairo, 21 October 2023
Content: 21 October 2023


Your Excellency President el-Sisi,
Your Majesties,
Your Highnesses,
Excellencies,
We meet in the heart of a region that is reeling in pain and one step from the precipice.
A region where it is impossible not to be rocked to the core by heart-wrenching, soul-searing images of suffering.
Yesterday I went to the Rafah border crossing.

There I saw a paradox -- a humanitarian catastrophe playing out in real time.

On the one hand, I saw hundreds of trucks teeming with food and other essential supplies.

On the other hand, we know that just across the border, there are two million people -- without water, food, fuel, electricity and medicine.

Children, mothers, the elderly, the sick.

Full trucks on one side, empty stomachs on the other.

Those trucks need to move as quickly as possible in a massive, sustained and safe way from Egypt into Gaza.

A 20-truck convoy of the Egyptian Red Crescent is moving today.

And I want to express my deep gratitude to Egypt in this regard.

But the people of Gaza need a commitment for much, much more – a continuous delivery of aid to Gaza at the scale that is needed.

We are working nonstop with all parties that are relevant to make it happen.

Excellencies,

Let’s be clear.

The grievances of the Palestinian people are legitimate and long.

We cannot and must not ignore the wider context for these tragic events: the long-standing conflict and 56 years of occupation with no end in sight.

But nothing can justify the reprehensible assault by Hamas that terrorized Israeli civilians.

And those abhorrent attacks can never justify the collective punishment of the Palestinian people.

International humanitarian law – including the Geneva Conventions – must be upheld.

That includes protecting civilians and not attacking hospitals, schools and UN premises that are currently sheltering half a million people.

Excellencies,

Our near-term goals must be clear:

Immediate, unrestricted and sustained humanitarian aid for besieged civilians in Gaza.

Immediate and unconditional release of all hostages.

And immediate and dedicated efforts to prevent the spread of violence which is increasing the risk of spillover.

To advance all these efforts, I appeal for a humanitarian ceasefire now.

Excellencies,

Our sustained collective efforts and resources have never been needed more.

As we focus on ending the bloodshed, we cannot lose sight of the only realistic foundation for a true peace and stability:  a two-State solution.

Israelis must see their legitimate needs for security materialized, and Palestinians must see their legitimate aspirations for an independent State realized, in line with United Nations resolutions, international law and previous agreements.

The time has come for action.

Action to end this godawful nightmare.

Action to build a future worthy of the dreams of the children of Palestine, Israel, the region and our world.

Thank you.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/250179-secretary-general-remarks-cairo-summit-peace-cairo-21-october-2023




Date: 19 October 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  --  PRESS ENCOUNTER WITH EGYPTIAN MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS SAMEH HASSAN SHOUKRY SELIM  Cairo, 19 October 2023
Content: 19 October 2023

I am in Egypt to witness UN preparations to be able to deliver massive support to the people of Gaza.
In this lifesaving effort, the El Arish airport and the Rafah crossing are not only critical, they are our only hope.   They are the lifelines to the people of Gaza.

Assalam alaikum.

Your Excellency Minister Shoukry and dear friends, thank you for your warm welcome and for your vital work.

Through you, allow me to recognize and salute President el-Sisi for his critical leadership.

I am in the Middle East on a humanitarian mission at a moment of profound crisis – a crisis unlike any the region has seen in decades.

That crisis was triggered by the atrocious 7 October Hamas attacks that killed, injured and kidnapped a large number of civilians – from Israel and, indeed, around the world.

This led Israel to a total siege on Gaza and a relentless bombing campaign, with an ever-mounting toll on civilians – the vast majority of whom are women and children, but also journalists, health workers and many others including our own UN staff.

Let me be very clear in reaffirming that international humanitarian law must be respected; that the protection of civilians is also a must and any attack on a hospital or a school or UN premises are forbidden under international law.

In the face of this humanitarian catastrophe, I am calling for two immediate humanitarian actions.

To Hamas, for the immediate and unconditional release of the hostages.

To Israel, for immediate unrestricted access of humanitarian aid to respond to the most basic needs of the people of Gaza.

Let me be clear.  The Palestinian people have legitimate and deep grievances after 56 years of occupation.

But, as serious as those grievances are, they cannot justify terror attacks.

And as appalling as those attacks have been, they cannot justify the collective punishment of the Palestinian people.

Both of my humanitarian appeals are essential in and of themselves.

To help realize these two appeals, I am calling for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire.

For nearly two weeks, the people of Gaza have gone without any shipments of fuel, food, water, medicine and other essentials.

Disease is spreading.  Supplies are dwindling.  People are dying.  And I was horrified by the images of deaths and destruction in the Al-Ahli hospital.

Civilians in Gaza desperately need core services and supplies – and for that we need rapid, unimpeded humanitarian access.

We need food, water, medicine and fuel now – we need it at scale - and we need it to be sustained.

It is not one small operation that is required. It is a sustained effort to deliver humanitarian aid to the people of Gaza.

In plain terms, that means humanitarians need to be able to get the aid in -- and they need to be able to distribute it safely.

I am in Egypt to witness UN preparations to be able to deliver massive support to the people of Gaza.

In this lifesaving effort, the El Arish airport and the Rafah crossing are not only critical, they are our only hope.

They are the lifelines to the people of Gaza.

Through its actions and through its openness, Egypt is showing how it is a pillar of multilateral cooperation – and a linchpin in helping to defuse tensions and to ease colossal human pain and suffering.

We know the longer this goes on, the greater the risk of the violence spilling over.

And we must work to avoid this at all costs.  And Egypt has been in the forefront of these efforts. A humanitarian ceasefire is also an essential part of that effort.

I look forward to supporting this and other initiatives through intense diplomatic engagement in Egypt – starting here and now.

And never forget that in the end, we need a permanent solution, as it was referred [by Foreign Minister Shoukry.]  No solution is possible without the creation of an independent Palestinian state, side by side with Israel with mutual security guaranteed and in line with the international resolutions and in line with the agreements that were established between the two parties.

Thank you once again.

Shukran.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/249984-secretary-general-press-encounter-egyptian-minister-foreign-affairs-sameh-hassan-shoukry




Date: 16 October 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON WORLD FOOD DAY   16 October 2023
Content: 16 October 2023
World Food Day 2023 comes during a global food crisis, with the world moving backwards on ending hunger and malnutrition.

Some 780 million people around the world are going hungry; almost fifty million children are at risk of death from severe wasting. Yet funding for this year’s global humanitarian appeal stands at just 32 percent.

In our world of plenty, it is outrageous that a person dies of hunger every few seconds, while the World Food Programme has been forced to cut its essential aid programmes.

In 2015, after years of progress, Governments set the goal of zero hunger by 2030.

But eight years later, the number of people suffering from hunger has increased significantly.

This crisis demands action – first and foremost from national governments, which have a responsibility to make sure their people have enough to eat.

But many governments lack the resources to do so, and so effective international solidarity is also essential.

The long-term causes of the global food crisis include conflicts, climate extremes, inequality, and economic instability.

The UN system is addressing these root causes through our support for sustainable, equitable food systems that put people over profits.
That means massively scaling up investments in resilient agriculture, and aligning them with climate action.

It means leveraging science and technology to improve the efficiency and reach of food systems.

This year’s theme for World Food Day focuses on water – a necessity for nutritious and healthy food.

The sustainable management of water for agriculture and food production is essential to end hunger, achieve the SDGs, and preserve water for future generations.

Zero hunger is achievable.

This World Food Day, I call on governments, the private sector, civil society and academia to work together;

to prioritize feeding the hungry;

to bring ending this crisis to the top of the global agenda;

and to invest in long-term solutions that provide everyone with enough to eat.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/249572-secretary-general-message-world-food-day-16-october-2023




Date: 10 October 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  MESSAGE ON WORLD MENTAL HEALTH DAY “Mental health is a universal human right”  10 October 2023
Content: 10 October 2023

Mental health is vital to humanity, allowing us to lead fulfilling lives and contribute fully to our communities.
Yet one in eight people around the world lives with a mental health condition, with women and young people being disproportionately impacted.  Three in four people affected receive inadequate treatment – or no care at all.  And many face stigma and discrimination.
Mental health is not a privilege but a fundamental human right – and must be part of universal health coverage.  Governments must provide care that promotes people’s recovery and upholds their rights.  This includes strengthening community-based support and integrating psychological help into broader health and social care.
We must also tackle abuses and break down the barriers that prevent people from seeking support. And we must address root causes – poverty, inequality, violence, discrimination – and create more compassionate and resilient societies.
On World Mental Health Day and every day, let us reaffirm and uphold mental health as a universal human right, and together, build a healthier world where everyone can thrive.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/248859-secretary-general-message-world-mental-health-day-%E2%80%9Cmental-health-universal-human-right%E2%80%9D-10




Date: 05 October 2023
Title: Second regional Steering Committee convened on the  “Resilient Water Solutions Against Climate Change in Jordan and Lebanon” project
Content: 05 October 2023
Amman – Cairo, 3-4 October 2023 – In the context of the “Resilient Water Solutions Against Climate Change in Jordan and Lebanon” project, led by the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), in partnership with the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and national executing entities, the second Regional Steering Committee meeting in Jordan was held on 3 October, followed by visits to project sites on 4 October 2023.
Chaired by the Jordanian Minister of Environment Dr. Muawieh Khalid Radaideh and Lebanese Minister of Environment Dr. Nasser Yassin, the Committee meeting gathered the project’s national coordinators, local authorities, project partners and other relevant stakeholders. The Committee discussed project progress, milestones, challenges, and solutions, and operationalized a concrete platform for critical regional learning in both countries towards climate change adaptation solutions.
The meeting provided critical insight into the areas where regional exchange is mostly needed, with a focus on the two countries, and concluded with measures to further enhance the transfer of knowledge and experiences gained through project implementation. It also concluded with concrete entry points to promote the upscaling, replication and sustainability of the project, and served as a practical learning experience between Lebanese and Jordanian officials while visiting two wastewater treatment and reuse projects in Mafraq and Me’rad, a permaculture site at Jerash University, and the Urban Observatory of Greater Amman Municipality.
In his remarks, Radiadeh highlighted climate impacts on Jordan. “The climate-related challenges facing the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan are significant… rainfall rates have decreased by almost half over the past fifty years, while the share of water per capita has decreased by nearly 80%. Over the years, it has also become clear that climate change would impact various development sectors, including water, agriculture, urban areas, health, and society as a whole,” said Radaideh. “This meeting comes within the context of ensuring the effective implementation of the project, discussing the progression of project activities and benefiting from the diverse experiences in both countries, and working collaboratively to achieve the project’s objectives.”
Meanwhile, Yassin emphasized the importance of regional collaboration to adapt to climate change and stressed the importance of international funding. “Joint efforts amongst Arab states to combat climate change and its implications on the water sector are of utmost importance. There is a need to promote and adopt innovative measures in different sectors such as water, agriculture, management of forests and natural reserves,” said Yassin. “There is an unfulfilled commitment of industrial countries to fund adaptation projects in underdeveloped countries, where pledges committed during different climate summits have not reached 6% of the total commitments,” he added.
UN-Habitat Regional Representative (a.i.) for Arab States Rania Hedaya highlighted water scarcity amid displacement and increased urbanization in the Levant. “Water scarcity is one of the most pressing current issues causing concern for the future of our region. In addition to the effects of climate change, the Arab region is witnessing rapid urbanization accompanied by a large influx of refugees due to the spread of conflicts in the region. As our cities expand, this project’s interventions strive to address the complex interaction between urban growth, migration and climate change in both Jordan and Lebanon,” she said.
“For Jordan and Lebanon, climate change is exacerbating vulnerability in rural and urban communities and in formal and informal communities alike,” said Director of the Arab Centre for Climate Change Policies Cluster at ESCWA Ms. Carol Chouchani Cherfane. “This requires effective solutions that advance climate adaptation,” she stressed. “Your efforts identifying, testing and pursuing these solutions on the ground can be shared with others in the region and around the world.”
The project provides replicable and innovative measures to promote climate change resilience and adaptation in the Arab region, with a focus on promoting climate change and gender mainstreamed urban planning in areas facing extreme weather events, namely governorates of Mafraq and Irbid in Jordan and Zahle district in Lebanon.
Financed by the Adaptation Fund, the project works on enabling local communities to adapt to increasing temperatures and declining precipitation levels that mostly lead to droughts, in addition to the varying rainfall patterns, which negatively affect agriculture. Finally, the project focuses on the sustainable management and use of water resources through promoting water-efficient irrigation methods and permaculture, in addition to using non-conventional water sources, such as treated wastewater and harvested rainwater.
To promote regional knowledge exchange, the project also recently launched the virtual Community of Practice (CoP) “Urban Water and Climate Resilience in the Arab Region,” a platform that brings experts and practitioners together to discuss water-related climate change impacts on cities hosting displaced communities, including discussions around urban adaptation solutions.
About the “Resilient Water Solutions Against Climate Change in Jordan and Lebanon” project
The "Resilient water solutions against climate change in Jordan and Lebanon" project is funded by the Adaptation Fund and implemented by UN-Habitat in partnership with ESCWA and UNICEF in Lebanon and national executing partners in the targeted countries. The project aims to increase the resilience of communities to climate change-related water challenges in Lebanon and Jordan.

About UN-Habitat
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. For more information, visit https://unhabitat.org/
Or follow us on Twitter @UNHabitat_Ar and Facebook @UNHABITAT.Arabic

About ESCWA
One of five United Nations regional commissions, ESCWA supports inclusive and sustainable economic and social development in Arab States and works on enhancing regional integration.

About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/ or follow us on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube.

For media inquiries:

Ms. Shahira Elbokhary, UN-Habitat Regional Office for Arab States
E: shahira.elbokhary@un.org

Ms. Lubna Elmahdy, UN-Habitat Lebanon
T: +961-76-615373
E: lubna.elmahdy1@un.org

Ms. Maryam Sleiman, ESCWA
M: +961-81-769888
E: sleiman2@un.org


Ms. Rania Harb, ESCWA
M: +961-70-008-879
E: harb1@un.org

Ms. Blanche Baz, UNICEF
M: +961-70190634
E: bbaz@unicef.org

Ms. Maya Outayek, UNICEF
M: +961- 70190634
E: moutayek@unicef.org


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/248371-second-regional-steering-committee-convened-%E2%80%9Cresilient-water-solutions-against-climate




Date: 02 October 2023
Title: The Secretary-General's Message on the International Day of Non-Violence
Content: 02 October 2023
Our world confronts grave challenges: growing inequalities, rising tensions, proliferating conflicts, and worsening climate chaos.
We also see divides deepening within countries – with democracy under threat and hate speech and intolerance on the march.
We can overcome these afflictions and chart a course towards a brighter, more peaceful future.
On this International Day of Non-Violence, we commemorate not only the birth of Mahatma Gandhi but also the timeless values he championed: mutual respect and understanding, justice, and the power of peaceful action.
Our world confronts grave challenges: growing inequalities, rising tensions, proliferating conflicts, and worsening climate chaos.
We also see divides deepening within countries – with democracy under threat and hate speech and intolerance on the march.
We can overcome these afflictions and chart a course towards a brighter, more peaceful future.
If we understand – as Gandhi did – that the magnificent diversity of our human family is a treasure, not a threat.
If we invest in social cohesion, nurture the courage to compromise, and the determination to cooperate.
If we ensure that all of us – regardless of status, background, circumstance, or faith – can live lives of dignity, opportunity, and rights.
If we unite around our common humanity.
Let us remember Gandhi’s wise counsel: “Our ability to reach unity in diversity will be the beauty and the test of our civilization.”
Let us heed his words today and re-commit ourselves to this essential purpose.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/248008-secretary-generals-message-international-day-non-violence




Date: 28 September 2023
Title: UNODC announces the winners of the #Participate4Impact Competition on youth and community-led initiatives to prevent and combat drugs, violence and crime
Content: 28 September 2023
Cairo, Egypt - The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa (ROMENA) held today in Cairo the “Participate4Impact” competition winners awarding event. The competition aims at discovering youth and community-led initiatives to prevent and combat drugs, violence and crime, in collaboration with national Governments of Algeria, Egypt, Lebanon, Libya, Palestine and Sudan. The event was hosted by the Arab Republic of Egypt and supported by the Federal Republic of Germany.
The evaluation committee recognized the winners in two categories: youth individuals aged 15-29, and youth-focused organizations: Ahmed Abdulghani from Libya and Al-Abrahemiya Media Center from Egypt, respectively.
The event was attended by Dr. Ashraf Sobhy, the Egyptian Minister of Youth and Sports and Ms. Cristina Albertin, the UNODC Regional Representative for the Middle East and North Africa. The event included a number of representatives of Algeria, Lebanon, Libya, Palestine and Sudan and representatives of youth targeting organizations, non-governmental organizations, youth groups, the media and relevant stakeholders.
Dr. Ashraf Sobhy, Minister of Youth and Sports, noted that "our young people face many challenges to their social security but the most important challenge in our Arab region remains to raise young people's awareness of the dangers of drugs, crime and related violence. This drives us to make a lot of efforts to provide the right and clear information to youth about the effects of these negative phenomena on their physical and psychological health and on their future. " Sobhy further added that "enhanced cooperation between the Government and community and youth institutions is a priority. We must achieve this by building strong partnerships and sharing knowledge and expertise, providing resources for the implementation of programmes and projects aimed at combating drugs and crime, and that we must work together as a society to address the challenges of drugs and crime."
Ms. Cristina Albertin emphasized in her remarks that the “importance of amplifying the voices of youth, engaging them in policymaking, and forging strong partnerships with civil society has gained wide global recognition. The development of interventions that are youth-focused and tailored to their unique needs is essential for fostering resilient and empowered generations. UNODC is committed to supporting Member States in integrating youth in crime prevention efforts and evidence-based drug use prevention, ensuring better protection for children and youth from justice systems.”
Launched in May 2023, the “Participate4Impact” regional competition aimed at enabling youth, youth associations, civil society organizations and academic centres in Algeria, Egypt, Lebanon, Libya, Palestine and Sudan to develop innovative initiatives empowering young people, strengthening their resilience and providing social and economic alternatives to drugs, violence, crime and corruption. The competition garnered a total of 246 applications from the six participating countries, with twenty-two entities (10 individuals, 12 organizations) advancing to present their initiatives before the esteemed evaluation committee in Cairo.  The individual category winner received a laptop, the winning organization garnered a partnership for implementation support for the initiative amounting $5,000, and all participants were awarded recognition certificates for their efforts.
The competition is a part of the “Youth 4 Impact” regional programme to empower young men and women, including those who are marginalized and at risk, to face life's challenges and become more resilient against crime, violence, and drugs. Since its inception in 2022, "Youth 4 Impact" has positively impacted the lives of 51,460 individuals across the region, working alongside 58 national counterparts. The programme is funded by the German Federal Ministry of Development and Economic Cooperation (BMZ).
In alignment with the UNODC 2021-2025 Strategy, which underscores youth empowerment as a pivotal approach, the "Youth 4 Impact" programme adopts a methodology of working “for youth” and “with youth,” fostering co-creation. This is congruent with the UNODC Regional Framework for the Arab States 2023-2028, which identifies youth as a key catalyst for enhancing crime and violence prevention and criminal justice.
More information:
2022 Youth 4 Impact Achievements Report
Youth & UNODC
The regional launch of the “Youth 4 Impact” programme in Cairo
YOUTH: At the heart of UNODC's work towards the Sustainable Development Goals (2023)
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/247607-unodc-announces-winners-participate4impact-competition-youth-and-community-led-initiatives




Date: 24 September 2023
Title: UN Chief Meets with Egypt's Foreign Minister, Praises Egypt's Important role in the region
Content: 24 September 2023
The Secretary-General expressed appreciation for Egypt’s important mediation role in the region and also raised the importance of reforms of the international financial systems to the developing world.


The Secretary-General met with H.E. Mr. Sameh Hassan Shoukry Selim, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Arab Republic of Egypt. The Secretary-General and the Minister discussed regional developments, including the Middle East Peace Process, the Sudan, Libya and Syria.  The Secretary-General expressed appreciation for Egypt’s important mediation role in the region.  The Secretary-General also raised the importance of reforms of the international financial systems to the developing world.

The Secretary-General thanked Egypt for its efforts to launch the Global Initiatives during the 27th Session of the Conference of the Parties (COP27) in November 2022 and stressed the importance of implementing the Initiatives.

New York, 23 September 2023
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/247137-un-chief-meets-egypts-foreign-minister-praises-egypts-important-role-region




Date: 21 September 2023
Title: The International Day of Peace.. The Secretary-General's message 2023
Content: 21 September 2023
This year’s theme reminds us that peace is not automatic. Peace is the result of action. Action to accelerate progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals and ensure that no one is left behind.
As we mark this International Day of Peace, people and our planet are in crisis.
Conflicts driving record numbers of people from their homes. Deadly fires, raging floods and soaring temperatures. Poverty, inequalities and injustices. Mistrust, division and prejudice.
This year’s theme reminds us that peace is not automatic. Peace is the result of action.
Action to accelerate progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals and ensure that no one is left behind. Action to end the war on our planet and its natural gifts. Action to uphold and protect the human rights and dignity of every person — especially as we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Action to use the timeless tools of diplomacy, dialogue and collaboration to defuse tensions and end conflict. And action for those millions of people living through the horrors of war.
Peace is not only a noble vision for humanity. Peace is a call to action.
Let us commit to build, drive and sustain peace for all.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/246869-international-day-peace-secretary-generals-message-2023




Date: 12 September 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Issues ‘UN 2.0’ Policy Brief: A Vision for a Modernized UN System
Content: 12 September 2023
At the core of UN 2.0 are stronger capabilities in five modern areas of expertise: a dynamic fusion of data, innovation, digital, behavioral science and strategic foresight, which we call our “quintet of change.”

As we approach the midpoint of the 2030 Agenda, it is evident that the world is off course in meeting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). To get back on track, everyone—including the United Nations system—needs to rethink, refocus, and recharge.
In response, today, the Secretary-General issued his final Policy Brief on Our Common Agenda, titled “UN 2.0: Cutting-Edge Skills and Forward-Thinking Culture for UN System Impact.” UN 2.0 represents a vision for a rejuvenated United Nations system, better equipped to support member states in the twenty-first century and turbocharge progress on the SDGs.
At the core of UN 2.0 are stronger capabilities in five modern areas of expertise: a dynamic fusion of data, innovation, digital, behavioral science and strategic foresight, which we call our “quintet of change.” To foster environments where these cutting-edge skills thrive, the UN 2.0 will be rooted in a shift towards organizational cultures that put a priority on agility, learning, and creativity.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres remarked, “As a result, UN 2.0 unlocks novel, impactful approaches and solutions for SDG progress, at a time when it is needed the most.”
A snapshot of the ongoing UN system progress and solutions is available on the new www.un-two-zero.network platform. The site showcases over 500 initiatives from 160 UN Country Teams who utilize the “quintet of change” in their work with member states for SDG impact. These initiatives highlight the immense potential of twenty-first-century expertise for addressing challenges in climate, education, agriculture, gender equality, and beyond.
The UN 2.0 agenda will engage the entire UN system. Every UN entity, team, and colleague will contribute to this transformative organizational shift in learning, job profiles, partnerships, knowledge sharing, technology, as well as programme solutions for member states. While each UN entity will navigate the transformation at its own pace, a joint accelerator program will champion UN 2.0's progression throughout the United Nations system starting in 2024.
For a comprehensive understanding of our forward-looking vision, goals, and transformative strategies, we strongly encourage all stakeholders to delve into the full policy brief: https://www.un.org/en/common-agenda/policy-briefs.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/245500-un-secretary-general-issues-%E2%80%98un-20%E2%80%99-policy-brief-vision-modernized-un-system




Date: 05 September 2023
Title: Media Advisory--United Nations in Egypt Booth at the Global Congress on Health, Population and Development
Content: 05 September 2023
Healthy Population for Sustainable Development
Under the Auspices of H.E. President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi
Cairo – from 5 September to 8 September 2023

Arab Republic of Egypt, 5 September 2023 (United Nations Information Centre in Cairo) – The UN family in Egypt will be represented at the Global Congress on Health, Population and Development Cairo, ,from 5 September to 8 September 2023 by the "UN Booth in Egypt"  aligned with the Global Congress agenda, with a special focus on the various programs, activities, and initiatives of the UN in Egypt, all coming under the theme "“A Healthy Population: The backbone of the SDGs” with additional tagline “Act Now for Our Common Future”" to highlight the policy of the UN system in Egypt in dealing with Health, Population and Development issues.
The significant demographic, social and economic changes are challenging to achieve UN sustainable development goals and ensuring health and well being for all. In addition to the global threats of water scarcity, food crisis and climate change which all jeopardize sustainable and economic development of nations worldwide.
Ministers, civil society representatives, non-governmental organizations, investors, the private sector, researchers, and specialists in the fields of health, population and development are gathering in Cairo to participate in the Global Congress on Health, Population, and Development.
.The United Nations Booth in Egypt also emphasizes Health, Population and Egyptian national sustainable development issues.
The events will include discussions focused on enhancing implementation across priority issues, as well as an opportunity to network with heads of UN agencies, CEOs of private institutions, and civil society representatives to develop practical, impactful, and ambitious solutions to several  Health, Population and development challenges, including Improve the availability, quality, and accessibility of all health services, increase sustainable financing flows toward access to information and quality health services, accelerate investments in human capital and underscore that climate change is contributing to the humanitarian emergencies.
In addition, stakeholders' voices will be heard, and they will have the opportunity to showcase solutions and effectively engage in critical global dialogue on Health, Population and Development implementation, with a strong emphasis on a just transition.
Congress events with UN in Egypt participation will be livestreamed on the UN in Egypt official Facebook page. Related information will also be available on the UN in Egypt official website: https://egypt.un.org/en
For Media inquiries please contact Nihal El Kady , UNIC Cairo
Mobile # 01005401518
Email: El-Kady@un.org


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/244775-media-advisory-united-nations-egypt-booth-global-congress-health-population-and-development




Date: 29 August 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE FOR THE  INTERNATIONAL DAY AGAINST NUCLEAR TESTS   29 August 2023
Content: 29 August 2023
A legally binding prohibition on nuclear tests is a fundamental step in our quest for a world free of nuclear weapons. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, though not yet in force, remains a powerful testament to humanity’s will to lift the shadow of nuclear annihilation from our world, once and for all, stresses the UN chief.
Since 1945, more than 2,000 nuclear tests have inflicted terrifying suffering on people, poisoned the air we breathe, and ravaged landscapes around the world.

On the International Day Against Nuclear Tests, the world speaks with one voice to end this destructive legacy.

This year, we face an alarming rise in global mistrust and division. At a time in which nearly 13,000 nuclear weapons are stockpiled around the world — and countries are working to improve their accuracy, reach and destructive power — this is a recipe for annihilation.

A legally binding prohibition on nuclear tests is a fundamental step in our quest for a world free of nuclear weapons. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, though not yet in force, remains a powerful testament to humanity’s will to lift the shadow of nuclear annihilation from our world, once and for all.

In the name of all victims of nuclear testing, I call on all countries that have not yet ratified the Treaty to do so immediately, without conditions.

Let’s end nuclear testing forever.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/243791-secretary-general-message-international-day-against-nuclear-tests-29-august-2023




Date: 22 August 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY COMMEMORATING THE VICTIMS OF ACTS OF VIOLENCE BASED ON RELIGION OR BELIEF  22 August 2023
Content: 22 August 2023
Freedom of religion and belief is an inalienable human right. Faith and belief should never attract violence.

Yet, around the world, people and communities, particularly minorities, face intolerance, discrimination and threats – to their places of worship, their livelihoods and even their lives. Hatred stirred on and off line is often the cause.

On this International Day Commemorating the Victims of Acts of Violence Based on Religion or Belief, we remember all those who have suffered. And we renew our resolve to stamp out the hate speech that fuels these terrible acts of intolerance. Initiatives like my Call to Action for Human Rights and the UN Strategy and Plan of Action on Hate Speech provide a blueprint to do so.

I urge all governments to prevent and address acts of violence based on religion and belief. I call on everyone, particularly political, community and religious leaders, to speak out against hate and incitement to violence. And I encourage governments, technology companies and other stakeholders to support the United Nations’ work in developing a voluntary Code of Conduct for Information Integrity on Digital Platforms, ahead of next year’s Summit of the Future, to tackle hate speech online.

Together, let’s honour the victims of violence by striving to build a more inclusive, respectful, and peaceful world – one where diversity is celebrated.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/243070-secretary-general-message-international-day-commemorating-victims-acts-violence-based




Date: 19 August 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE FOR WORLD HUMANITARIAN DAY  19 August 2023
Content: 19 August 2023


This year’s World Humanitarian Day marks the 20th anniversary of the deadly attack on the Canal Hotel in Baghdad.

On that dark day, we lost 22 colleagues, including Special Representative Sergio Vieira de Mello.

That tragedy marked a change in the way humanitarians operate.

Because today, although humanitarians are respected around the world, they may also be targeted by those who would do them harm.

This year, global humanitarian operations aim to get life-saving aid to 250 million people in 69 countries – ten times more than at the time of the Canal Hotel bombing.

Sadly, funding is far off track. As crises multiply, it is unacceptable that humanitarians are being forced to reduce aid to millions of people in need.

Other challenges have also multiplied over the past twenty years:

Rising geopolitical tensions;

A blatant disregard for international humanitarian and human rights law;

Deliberate assault and disinformation campaigns.

Humanitarianism itself is now under attack.

But these tests have made the global humanitarian community stronger.

Humanitarians – who are mostly national staff working in their own countries – are even closer to the people they serve.

They are finding new ways to venture deeper into disaster-stricken regions, and closer to the front lines of conflict, driven by a single purpose: to save and protect lives.

On this World Humanitarian Day, we salute the courage and dedication of humanitarian aid workers everywhere.

We reaffirm our full support for their determined and life-saving efforts across the world.

We celebrate their unwavering dedication to serve ALL people in need:

No matter who, no matter where; no matter what.

Thank you.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/242720-secretary-general-message-world-humanitarian-day-19-august-2023




Date: 16 August 2023
Title: Green skills for youth in focus, as UN and the Ministry of Youth and Sports celebrate the International Youth Day August 2023
Content: 16 August 2023
Cairo, August 16, 2023 - The Egyptian Ministry of Youth and Sports and the United Nations in Egypt and joined forces on 14 August 2023, to mark the International Youth Day in the Olympic City in Maadi, with a resounding call to action under the theme "Green Skills for Youth: Towards a Sustainable World." The event served as a vibrant platform to underscore the critical role of youth in creating a better and more sustainable world for all on a healthier planet.
The youth-led celebration was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Youth and Sports, UN system in Egypt with the participation of 200 Egyptian and non-Egyptian young women and men, who engaged in different activities designed to highlight the urgency of equipping youth with indispensable green skills in the face of pressing environmental challenges.
The event started with a joint-video message from the Egyptian Minister of Youth and Sports, Dr. Ashraf Sobhy, and the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt, Ms. Elena Panova, that reflected a shared commitment to empower the younger generation with essential skills that will be pivotal in shaping a greener and more sustainable global landscape.
"Our National Youth Strategy places paramount emphasis on fostering technological innovation, economic empowerment, and entrepreneurship. We are equally committed to the principles of environmental sustainability, health, community engagement, and effective governance, all of which converge to shape a prosperous and skilled young populace in Egypt,” the Minister of Youth and Sports, Dr. Ashraf Sobhy reaffirmed.
Echoing this sentiment, the UN Resident Coordinator in Egypt, Ms. Elena Panova said, “nobody has a greater stake — and more bold solutions to offer — than young people. Young people want their voices to be heard on the existential issues our world is facing today, from conflicts and climate chaos, to poverty, inequality, and discrimination. We at the UN are committed to working with the Government and all stakeholders for and with young people and ensure that our collective actions are guided by the perspectives and energy of all youths.”
The event encompassed a diverse array of activities and capacity-building sessions on green skills for green jobs. Most notably a Green Exhibition a showcased a multitude of UN-supported youth-led projects, while an artistic intervention workshop brought together participants to create canvas paintings infused with green skills concepts.
Speakers at the event also shed light on different regional and global experiences in relation to the skills of the future and the green transition of businesses and the use of new technologies.

For more information on the United Nations activities around the world, in the Arab region and in Egypt, please follow our webpage and social media accounts, where you will find the latest developments on the work of the United Nations.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/241599-green-skills-youth-focus-un-and-ministry-youth-and-sports-celebrate-international-youth-day




Date: 12 August 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE FOR INTERNATIONAL YOUTH DAY   12 August 2023
Content: 12 August 2023
Every year, International Youth Day celebrates the determination, ideas and leadership of young people as we pursue a better world.

Across all of today’s challenges, young people are calling for bold and accelerated action, standing in solidarity with the most vulnerable, and designing solutions to ensure social, economic and climate justice, and peace and prosperity for all. To expand their participation, I recently launched a policy brief calling for governments to make youth participation the norm, rather than the exception, across decisions and policies around the world.

This year’s theme reminds us of the importance of ensuring young people gain and apply skills in the burgeoning green economy. From innovative sustainable technologies and renewable energy, to revolutions in transportation systems and industrial activity, young people must be equipped with skills and knowledge to shape a cleaner, greener, more climate resilient future.

Humanity depends on the boundless energy, ideas and contributions of youth everywhere. Today and every day, let’s support and stand with young people in shaping a just and sustainable world, for people and planet.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/241363-secretary-general-message-international-youth-day-12-august-2023




Date: 12 August 2023
Title: الأمم المتحدة تُكمل نقل النفط من الناقلة المتهالكة في البحر الأحمر
Content: 12 August 2023
نقل أكثر من 1.1 مليون برميل من النفط إلى الناقلة البديلة على مدار 18 يوماً
الحديدة ، اليمن ، 11 أغسطس

في الساعة السادسة مساءاً بالتوقيت المحلي، أكملت الأمم المتحدة بنجاح نقل النفط من الناقلة العملاقة للخزان العائم صافر قبالة ساحل البحر الأحمر اليمني - مما منع التهديد الحالي في وقوع تسرب هائل.

كانت صافر معرضة لخطر الانهيار أو الانفجار لسنوات و كان من الممكن أن يؤدي التسرب الكبير من الناقلة إلى كارثة بيئية وإنسانية.

تم ضخ الكمية من النفط من على متن الخزان العائم صافر إلى الناقلة البديلة يمن (نوتيكا سابقاً) في عملية النقل من ناقلة إلى أخرى التي بدأت في 25 يوليو من بعد الإستعدادات للعملية في الموقع التي بدأت في مايو من قبل شركة الإنقاذ البحري الرائدة سمت التابعة لشركة بوسكالز. يقوم برنامج الأمم المتحدة الإنمائي والذي تعاقد مع شركة سمت بتنفيذ العملية.
تم استخراج أكبر قدر ممكن من الــ1.1 مليون برميل من النفط . ومع ذلك، فإن أقل من 2 في المائة من كمية النفط الأصلية تظل مختلطة مع الرواسب التي ستتم إزالتها أثناء التنظيف النهائي لـصافر.

قال الأمين العام للأمم المتحدة أنطونيو غوتيريش: "أرحب بالأخبار التي تفيد بأن نقل النفط من على متن الخزان العائم صافر قد انتهى بأمان اليوم. لقد حالت العملية التي تقودها الأمم المتحدة دون وقوع ما كان يمكن أن يكون كارثة بيئية وإنسانية على نطاق هائل".

و قال مدير برنامج الأمم المتحدة الإنمائي أكيم شتاينر: "اليوم هو لحظة فخر لكثير من الناس في جميع أنحاء منظومة الأمم المتحدة وكذلك المانحين والشركاء الذين عملوا بلا كلل على مدى الأشهر والسنوات الماضية لتجنب وقوع كارثة في بلد ضعيف بالفعل في أعقاب نزاع طويل الأمد. لا يزال هناك عمل يتعين القيام به، ولكن يمكننا اليوم أن نقول بثقة أنه تم تجنب التهديد المباشر بحدوث تسرب ".

و قال المنسق المقيم ومنسق الشؤون الإنسانية للأمم المتحدة في اليمن، ديفيد غريسلي، الذي قاد جهود الأمم المتحدة على نطاق منظومة الأمم المتحدة بشأن صافر منذ سبتمبر 2021: "اليوم يعد إنجازاً عظيمًا. اجتمع تحالف عالمي رائع تحت مظلة الأمم المتحدة لمنع أسوأ سيناريو حدوث تسرب نفطي كارثي في البحر الأحمر. نحن بحاجة إلى إنهاء العمل الذي بدأته الأمم المتحدة. الخطوة الحاسمة التالية هي تركيب العوامة كالم التي سيتم ربط السفينة البديلة بها بأمان ".

تشكر الأمم المتحدة المانحين على دعمهم السخي
كما تشكر مجموعة شركات هائل سعيد أنعم وشركاه والرابطة الدولية لمنتجي النفط والغاز و مؤسسة ترافيجورا وليو بالمر وشركة اكتافيا انريجي/كالفالي بتروليم وكذلك الدعم السخي من الأفراد الذين ساهموا عبر حملة التمويل الجماعي في مواقع التواصل الاجتماعي.

كلمة الأمين العام للأمم المتحدة: https://www.un.org/sg/en/latest/sg/statement
للقطات البث التصويرية: https://www.unmultimedia.org/tv/unifeed/
يمكنكم زيارة:  https://www.un.org/en/StopRedSeaSpill


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/241361-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D9%85%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D8%AA%D8%AD%D8%AF%D8%A9-%D8%AA%D9%8F%D9%83%D9%85%D9%84-%D9%86%D9%82%D9%84-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%86%D9%81%D8%B7-%D9%85%D9%86-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%86%D8%A7%D9%82%D9%84%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D8%AA%D9%87%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%83%D8%A9-%D9%81%D9%8A-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A8%D8%AD%D8%B1-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D8%AD%D9%85%D8%B1




Date: 30 July 2023
Title: NCCPIM&TIP, ILO, IOM & UNODC collaborate to mark the World Day Against Trafficking in Persons
Content: 30 July 2023
The World Day against Trafficking in Persons is marked globally on the 30th of July as a reminder of the significance of raising awareness on a crime that affects not only the victims but also societies. This year’s theme “Reach every victim of trafficking, leave no one behind” stresses on the importance of identifying victims of trafficking, protecting, and providing them with the needed support, and end impunity.
With this theme in mind, the National Coordinating Committee for Combating and Preventing Illegal Migration and Trafficking in Persons (NCCPIM&TIP), the International Labour Organization (ILO), the International Organization for Migration (IOM) & the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa (ROMENA), with the support of the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the United States Department of State and the European Union (EU), carried out a joint online awareness-raising campaign on social media bringing focus on the various forms of trafficking, as well as shared information on how to reach out for help, and the vitality of reporting.
In addition to this, all UN partners have taken part in the field visits, conducted in Cairo, Giza, Qalyubia, and Fayoum Governorates, by providing the visibility/awareness raising materials that were distributed to the public, who have attended the sensitization sessions. The field visits were carried out by NCCPIM&TIP and the Ministry of Social Solidarity’s social women leaders to deliver sensitization sessions on the risks and forms of trafficking in persons, and the reporting mechanisms for potential and actual victims of human trafficking.
The World Day against Trafficking in Persons was celebrated by the Government of Egypt and the key UN partner agencies. H.E Amb. Naela Gabr, NCCPIM&TIP Chairperson, has delivered a recorded speech on NCCPIM&TIP’s social media platforms. Similarly, Mr. Carlos Oliver Cruz, the Chief of Mission of IOM Egypt, Ms. Cristina Albertin, UNODC Regional Representative for the Middle East and North Africa and Mr. Eric Oechslin, ILO’s Cairo Country Office for Egypt and Eritrea shared their speeches on social media.
Media Contacts:
NCCPIM&TiP: Hagar Tarek, thagar030@gmail.com
IOM: Salma Okasha, sokasha@iom.int
ILO: Asmaa Rezk, rezk@ilo.org
UNODC: Nermine Abdelhamid, nermine.abdelhamid@un.org
For more information and to follow the social media campaign:
IOM Egypt Facebook – ILO Facebook - UNODC ROMENA Facebook – NCCPIM&TIP Facebook
******
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/240499-nccpimtip-ilo-iom-unodc-collaborate-mark-world-day-against-trafficking-persons




Date: 30 July 2023
Title: The Secretary-General's Message on the World Day Against Trafficking in Persons 30 July
Content: 30 July 2023
We must invest much more in detection and protection. We must strengthen law enforcement to bring criminals that commodify human beings to justice. And we must do more to help survivors rebuild their lives.
Human trafficking is a heinous violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms.
It preys on vulnerability and thrives in times of conflict and instability.
Today – amidst growing inequalities, worsening climate emergencies, and record displacement – more and more people are left vulnerable to traffickers.
The majority of detected victims are women and children, many of whom suffer brutal violence, forced labour, and horrific sexual exploitation and abuse.
Yet traffickers continue to operate with impunity. Their crimes are receiving not nearly enough attention. This must change.
We must invest much more in detection and protection. We must strengthen law enforcement to bring criminals that commodify human beings to justice. And we must do more to help survivors rebuild their lives.
On this World Day against Trafficking in Persons, let us redouble our efforts to detect, protect, and support survivors and leave no trafficking victim behind.
Together, let us build a world where no one can ever be bought, sold, or exploited.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/240520-secretary-generals-message-world-day-against-trafficking-persons-30-july




Date: 25 July 2023
Title: United Nations starts removal of oil from decaying tanker in Red Sea
Content: 25 July 2023
Hodeidah, Yemen, 25 July - The UN-led project to prevent a massive oil spill from the FSO Safer supertanker off Yemen’s Red Sea coast began today with the removal of more than 1 million barrels of oil from the decaying vessel.
The Safer has been at risk of breaking up or exploding for years. A major spill from the vessel would result in an environmental and humanitarian catastrophe.
The oil aboard the Safer is being pumped into the replacement vessel Yemen (formerly Nautica) in a ship-to-ship transfer that is expected to take 19 days to complete. After its arrival at the site on 30 May, the leading marine salvage company SMIT, a subsidiary of Boskalis, has stabilized the 47-year-old Safer. The UN Development Programme (UNDP), which contracted SMIT, is implementing the operation to remove the oil.

UN Secretary-General António Guterres said: “In the absence of anyone else willing or able to perform this task, the United Nations stepped up and assumed the risk to conduct this very delicate operation.  The ship-to-ship transfer of oil which has started today is the critical next step in avoiding an environmental and humanitarian catastrophe on a colossal scale.”
UNDP Administrator Achim Steiner said: “With every gallon of oil now being pumped off the Safer the threat of a potential spill that has loomed over the people of Yemen and indeed the countries and economies depending on the shared Red Sea ecosystem, recedes. The challenges on this project have been huge but the response by so many who have made this rescue operation possible has been equally huge. And it is a reminder of what the United Nations can achieve through its convening power and its capacity to coordinate a complex operation.”
Speaking from aboard the salvage vessel Ndeavor, the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Yemen, David Gressly, said: “The transfer of the oil to the Yemen will prevent the worst-case scenario of a catastrophic spill in the Red Sea, but it is not the end of the operation. The installation of a CALM buoy to which the replacement vessel will be safely tethered is the next crucial step. I thank donors, private companies and the general public for providing the funds that have brought us to this milestone.”
Mr Gressly has led UN system-wide efforts on the Safer since September 2021.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/240217-united-nations-starts-removal-oil-decaying-tanker-red-sea




Date: 20 July 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Releases Our Common Agenda Policy Brief 9: A New Agenda for Peace
Content: 20 July 2023
"Peace is the driving force behind the work of the United Nations. Today’s new threats to peace create new demands on us. This Policy Brief is our attempt to meet those demands. I urge the Member States to debate the New Agenda for Peace and engage with our proposals,” said the UN chief.
The UN Secretary-General António Guterres today revealed a new plan to promote international peace and prevent conflicts, outlining key action-oriented recommendations for UN Member States in order to uphold and strengthen the multilateral system as the only viable means to address an interlocking set of global threats and deliver on the promises of the Charter of the United Nations around the world.

Titled, “A New Agenda for Peace”, the new policy brief on Our Common Agenda outlines the Secretary-Generals vision to attain international peace which remains an elusive promise for many around the world, presenting 12 actions proposed to prevent, manage, and resolve conflicts.

The New Agenda for Peace is the ninth in a series of series of Policy Briefs the Secretary-General is issuing at the invitation of Member States to provide more detail on certain proposals contained in Our Common Agenda and to support them in their deliberations as they prepare for the Summit of the Future. These briefs will include an analysis of the proposals’ impact on the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals and will be informed by the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, with gender equality as a cross-cutting theme.

“Peace is the driving force behind the work of the United Nations. Today’s new threats to peace create new demands on us. This Policy Brief is our attempt to meet those demands. I urge the Member States to debate the New Agenda for Peace and engage with our proposals,” said the UN chief.

The Summit of the Future, in 2024, is an opportunity to agree on multilateral solutions for a better tomorrow, strengthening global governance for both present and future generations (General Assembly resolution 76/307). UN Secretary-General has been invited to provide inputs to the preparations for the Summit in the form of action-oriented recommendations, building on the proposals contained in his report entitled “Our Common Agenda” (A/75/982), which was itself a response to the declaration on the commemoration of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the United Nations (Assembly resolution 75/1) The present policy brief is one such input.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/239979-un-secretary-general-releases-our-common-agenda-policy-brief-9-new-agenda-peace




Date: 18 July 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON NELSON MANDELA INTERNATIONAL DAY   18 July 2023
Content: 18 July 2023


Nelson Mandela was a colossus of courage and conviction.

A leader of immense achievement and extraordinary humanity.

A giant of our times, whose legacy we best honour through action:

Action to expel the poison of racism, discrimination and hate;

Action to extinguish the legacies of colonialism;

And action to promote equality, human rights and above all, justice.

Today, poverty, hunger and inequality are on the rise.

Countries are drowning in debt.

The climate crisis is destroying the lives of those who have done the least to cause it.

And our unfair and outdated international financial system is not fulfilling its function as a global safety net.

We have it in our power to solve each of these problems.

So, as we commemorate Nelson Mandela’s life and legacy, let us be animated by his spirit of humanity, dignity and justice.

Let us stand with women and girls, young people and change makers everywhere.

And let us take action to build a better world.

Thank you.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/239748-secretary-general-message-nelson-mandela-international-day-18-july-2023




Date: 11 July 2023
Title: Inter-Regional Conference on International Cooperation in Criminal Matters related to Investigating and Prosecuting Trafficking in Persons and Smuggling of Migrants
Content: 11 July 2023

10-13 July 2023 - Sharm El Sheikh, Arab Republic of Egypt- The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa (ROMENA), in collaboration with the Egyptian National Coordinating Committee for Combating and Preventing Illegal Migration and Trafficking in Persons (NCCPIM&TIP), is launching the “Inter-Regional Conference on International Cooperation in Criminal Matters related to Investigating and Prosecuting Trafficking in Persons and Smuggling of Migrants.” This pivotal event, organized within the framework of the UNODC Regional Programme titled "Dismantling Human Trafficking and Migrant Smuggling Criminal Networks in North Africa," funded by the European Union, which aims to support participating countries from West and North Africa in their efforts to prevent and counter transnational organized crime, trafficking in persons (TIP), and smuggling of migrants (SOM). The conference is held from 10 to 13 July 2023 in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt.

The Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region faces significant challenges related to transnational organized crime, including trafficking in persons (TIP) and smuggling of migrants (SOM). According to recent reports, the region has witnessed a surge in irregular/ illegal migration, with thousands of individuals embarking on perilous journeys across the Mediterranean from Africa and the Middle East to Europe. The MENA region serves as a critical transit point, with countries such as Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Iraq, Libya, Morocco, and Tunisia experiencing high migratory flows. These movements place immense strain on the region's resources and pose significant security and humanitarian challenges. Additionally, the exploitation of vulnerable individuals by human traffickers and smugglers remains a grave concern. Efforts to address this issue require comprehensive strategies, strengthened international cooperation, and enhanced capacity-building initiatives among participating countries and relevant stakeholders.

The Inter-Regional Conference on International Cooperation in Criminal Matters aims to tackle these pressing issues by fostering collaboration, sharing best practices, and exploring effective approaches to dismantle criminal networks while safeguarding the rights of victims of TIP and SOM in the MENA region. The primary objective of the conference is to foster information exchange on best practices and available tools, while facilitating international cooperation in criminal matters as outlined in the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime (UNTOC) and its supplementing Protocols to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children (Trafficking in Persons Protocol), and Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air (Smuggling of Migrants Protocol), both supplementing UNTOC. By addressing the growing challenges posed by TIP and SOM, the conference seeks to enhance the collective capacities of the participating countries to combat these heinous crimes.

The recent expansion and evolving nature of irregular/illegal  migration across the Mediterranean from Africa and the Middle East to Europe, as well as  new trends and modus operandi used  by  criminal groups in the exploitation of victims of trafficking in persons have heightened the urgency for more efficient and effective strategies in targeting criminals and criminal groups/networks who exploit vulnerable individuals, while  safeguarding and assisting victims of trafficking in persons and smuggled migrants. Addressing this formidable challenge necessitates multisectoral and multinational efforts.

The UNODC ROMENA Regional Representative, Ms. Cristina Albertin, emphasized the importance of this event and stated “By strengthening international cooperation and promoting the exchange of information and best practices, and bringing together  relevant countries across the migratory routes, this conference will contribute to enhanced prevention, investigation, and prosecution of trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants, whilst upholding the human rights of victims of human trafficking and smuggled migrants. We are grateful for the support of the Government of Egypt and the European Union in organizing this crucial gathering."

The Chairperson of NCCPIM&TIP, H.E Amb. Naela Gabr, expressed appreciation for hosting the conference, saying "Egypt has always been fully committed to the efforts exerted by the international community to promote gender, human rights, and fundamental freedoms, in its fight against the crime of trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants, as the two crimes are not only transnational organized ones but also represent a violation of the basic human rights of victims of trafficking and smuggled migrants. The Egyptian vision for confronting these two crimes was reflected in several actions at various levels, whether legislative or executive, within the framework of the interdependent relationship between the two crimes.  This regional conference will facilitate collaboration among participating countries, experts, and key entities, ultimately leading to more effective actions to combat these heinous crimes."

The Inter-Regional Conference on International Cooperation in Criminal Matters will bring together representatives from participating countries including Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Libya, Mali, Morocco, Niger, Nigeria, South Sudan, and Tunisia. Additionally, experts from various European Union countries, such as France, Greece, Italy, Malta, Spain, and The Netherlands, will be in attendance. The conference will also feature the participation of UNODC experts and key regional entities.

During the conference, participants will engage in presentations, discussions, thematic sessions, and panel discussions to address challenges, share experiences, and explore avenues for collaboration in investigating and prosecuting trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants’ cases. The exchange of information and establishment of contacts for future bilateral and multilateral cooperation, both formal and informal, will be key outcomes of this event, as regional and international cooperation is integral for combating trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants.

The Inter-Regional Conference on International Cooperation in Criminal Matters is jointly hosted by the Government of Egypt and UNODC ROMENA, with the generous support of the European Union.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/239261-inter-regional-conference-international-cooperation-criminal-matters-related-investigating




Date: 11 July 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON THE WORLD POPULATION DAY  11 July 2023
Content: 11 July 2023
Our human family is larger than ever.

Yet leaders are falling woefully behind in efforts to build a peaceful and prosperous world for all.

Halfway to the 2030 deadline the Sustainable Development Goals are dangerously off track. Gender equality is almost 300 years away. Progress on maternal health and access to family planning has been glacial.

This year’s World Population Day focuses on unleashing the power of gender equality.

Gender-based discrimination harms everyone – women, girls, men, and boys. Investing in women uplifts all people, communities, and countries.

Advancing gender equality, improving maternal health, and empowering women to make their own reproductive choices are both essential in themselves, and central to achieving all the Sustainable Development Goals.

Let us stand with women and girls fighting for their rights. And let us intensify our quest to make the Sustainable Development Goals a reality for all 8 billion of us.

***

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/239314-secretary-general-message-world-population-day-11-july-2023




Date: 05 July 2023
Title: UN launches campaign, calling for renewed global ambition and action for the Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 05 July 2023
New York, 5 July 2023 -  The United Nations, today, is kicking off a communications campaign to rally for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the roadmap for people and planet adopted by world leaders in 2015.  Ahead of a critical UN Summit in September, the campaign aims to amplify an urgent call for ambitious new action, showcase the Goals as the blueprint for sustainable progress globally, and galvanize the global public around this shared agenda for our common future.

At halftime toward the deadline of 2030, the promise of the SDGs is in peril. For the first time in decades, development progress is reversing under the combined impacts of climate disasters, conflict, economic downturn and lingering COVID-19 effects.

The 2023 SDG Summit will gather world leaders at the United Nations Headquarters in New York on 18-19 September to reaffirm their collective commitments to the Goals and the promise to leave no one behind. This Summit is a defining moment to urgently put the world back on track to achieving the SDGs.

Starting today, in a major digital activation across platforms and countries worldwide, the UN campaign aims to re-energize the conversation about the Goals.

“We want to get everyone on board for the SDGs”, said Nanette Braun, Director of Campaigns in the UN Department for Global Communications. “Our hope is that decision-makers and individual citizens alike will feel inspired to join the conversation and contribute to achieving the Goals with new resolve and ambition.”

Building off the color wheel brand of the SDGs, the campaign uses a dynamic new visual system for its messaging to build momentum, raise awareness and mobilize accelerated action for the SDGs.

One core campaign component is the call to individual citizens to take action on the SDGs through the UN’s ActNow initiative across all 17 Goals. From using public transportation, to fundraising for schools or speaking up for equality, the platform lists steps that everyone can take to accelerate progress on the SDGs and create better lives on a healthier planet for all.

A curated group of high-profile influencers, the Circle of Supporters, will galvanize their communities to take individual action on the SDGs and to impress upon decision-makers the urgency to act now.

More information on the SDG Summit is available at: https://www.un.org/en/conferences/SDGSummit2023
Hashtag: #GlobalGoals

Media contact:
Alexandra del Castello, UN Department of Global Communications, alexandra.delcastello@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/238937-un-launches-campaign-calling-renewed-global-ambition-and-action-sustainable-development




Date: 26 June 2023
Title: On International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, Secretary-General Calls for Cracking Down on Traffickers, Re-allocating Resources to Treatment
Content: 26 June 2023
Following is UN Secretary-General António Guterres’ message for the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, observed on 26 June:
Tens of millions of people suffer from drug use disorders. Less than one fifth are in treatment.

Drug users are doubly victimized: first by the harmful effects of the drugs themselves, and second by the stigma and discrimination they face.

People who use drugs can often face significant barriers to treatment and even health services for infectious diseases like HIV/AIDS and hepatitis. Meanwhile, drug traffickers continue to prey on drug users, rapidly escalating the production of dangerous, highly addictive synthetic drugs.

This year’s International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking focuses on the need to put people first by ending stigma and discrimination, and strengthening prevention.

This means stressing rehabilitation, rather than punishment and incarceration for minor drug offences.

It means upholding the human rights of people who use drugs, including by expanding prevention and treatment programmes and health services.

It means protecting people and communities alike by ending impunity for drug traffickers profiting from people’s pain.

Above all, it means governments leading the way. When I was Prime Minister of Portugal, we implemented non-criminal responses to drug possession for personal use, while cracking down on traffickers and re-allocating resources to prevention, treatment and harm-reduction measures.

As a result, drug consumption and associated infectious disease rates plummeted, more drugs were seized by police and customs, and — most importantly — lives were saved. Today, Portugal has one of Europe’s lowest overdose and death rates from drug use.

As a global community, let’s continue our work to end drug abuse, illicit trafficking, and the stigma endured by drug users around the world.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/238182-international-day-against-drug-abuse-and-illicit-trafficking-secretary-general-calls




Date: 21 June 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON INTERNATIONAL DAY OF YOGA
Content: 21 June 2023

Yoga unites.

It unites body and mind, humanity and nature, and millions of people across the globe, for whom it is a source of strength, harmony, and peace.

In a dangerous and divided world, the benefits of this ancient practice are particularly precious.

Yoga offers a haven of calm. It can reduce anxiety and promote mental wellbeing. It helps us to develop discipline and patience. It connects us to our planet, which so badly needs our protection.  And it reveals our common humanity – helping us to understand that despite our differences, we are one.

On this International Day of Yoga, let us embrace the spirit of unity, and resolve to build a better, more harmonious world for people, planet and ourselves.

***

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/237340-secretary-general-message-international-day-yoga




Date: 20 June 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON THE OCCASION OF WORLD REFUGEE DAY   20 June 2023
Content: 20 June 2023


During my decade as UN High Commissioner for Refugees, I witnessed the resilience and contributions of refugees across all walks of life.

Their perseverance in the face of adversity inspires me every day.

Refugees represent the very best of the human spirit.

They need and deserve support and solidarity — not closed borders and pushbacks.

As we mark World Refugee Day, we confront a startling statistic.

More than 100 million people living in countries rocked by conflict, persecution, hunger and climate chaos have been forced to flee their homes.

These are not numbers on a page.

These are individual women, children and men making difficult journeys — often facing violence, exploitation, discrimination and abuse.

This Day reminds us of our duty to protect and support refugees — and our obligation to open more avenues of support.

This includes solutions to resettle refugees and to help them rebuild their lives in dignity.

We need greater international support for host countries, as called for by the Global Compact for Refugees, to boost access to quality education, decent work, health care, housing and social protection.

And we need much stronger political will to make peace, so refugees can return safely to their homes.

This year’s theme is “Hope Away from Home.”

I call on the world to harness the hope that refugees carry in their hearts.

Let’s match their courage with the opportunities they need, every step of the way.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/237223-secretary-general-message-occasion-world-refugee-day-20-june-2023




Date: 18 June 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL-- MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY FOR COUNTERING HATE SPEECH  18 June 2023
Content: 18 June 2023
Hate speech is used to stoke fear and division, often for political gain, and at immense cost to communities and societies. It incites violence, exacerbates tensions, and impedes efforts to foster mediation and dialogue. It is one of the warning signs of genocide and other atrocity crimes.

Hate speech is often aimed at vulnerable groups, reinforcing discrimination, stigma and marginalization. Minorities, women, refugees, migrants, and people of diverse sexual orientation and gender identity are frequent targets. Social media platforms can amplify and spread hate speech at lightning speed.

Misguided and ambiguous responses to hate speech – including blanket bans and internet shutdowns – may also violate human rights by restricting freedom of speech and expression. They may even silence some of those best placed to counter hateful narratives: human rights defenders and journalists.

But we are far from powerless in the face of hate speech. We can and must raise awareness about its dangers, and work to prevent and end it in all its forms.

The United Nations Strategy and Plan of Action on Hate Speech is our comprehensive framework for tackling the causes and impacts of hate speech, in line with international human rights standards.

Our offices and teams around the world are confronting hate speech by implementing local action plans, based on this strategy.

Education initiatives, positive speech campaigns, research to understand and address root causes, and efforts to promote inclusion and equal rights all have an important role. Religious, community and business leaders can all play their part.

The United Nations is consulting governments, technology companies and others on a voluntary Code of Conduct for information integrity on digital platforms, aimed at reducing the spread of mis- and disinformation and hate speech, while protecting freedom of expression.

As we mark the International Day for Countering Hate Speech, let us renew our efforts to prevent and end this toxic and destructive phenomenon, while promoting inclusive, just and peaceful communities and societies and protecting the rights and dignity of all.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/237054-secretary-general-message-international-day-countering-hate-speech-18-june-2023




Date: 12 June 2023
Title: Guardrails Urgently Needed to Contain “Clear and Present Global Threat” of Online Mis- and Disinformation and Hate Speech, says UN Secretary-General
Content: 12 June 2023

United Nations, New York, 12 June 2023 – The world must address the “grave global harm” caused by the proliferation of hate and lies in the digital space, United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres said at the launch of his report into information integrity on digital platforms.
									 
									Alarm over the potential threat posed by the rapid development of generative artificial intelligence must not obscure the damage already being done by digital technologies that enable the spread of online hate speech, mis- and disinformation, stressed the UN chief.
									 
									Digital platforms have brought many benefits, supporting communities in times of crisis and struggle, elevating marginalized voices and helping to mobilize global movements for racial justice and gender equality. They help the UN to engage people around the world in pursuit of peace, dignity and human rights on a healthy planet. 
									 
									Yet these same digital platforms are being misused to subvert science and spread disinformation and hate to billions of people, fueling conflict, threatening democracy and human rights, and undermining public health and climate action.
									 
									This clear and present global threat demands coordinated international action to make the digital space safer and more inclusive while vigorously protecting human rights.
									 
									Existing responses have, to a large extent, been lacking. Some tech companies have done far too little, too late to prevent their platforms from contributing to the spread of violence and hatred, while Governments have sometimes resorted to drastic measures – including blanket internet shutdowns and bans – that lack any legal basis and infringe on human rights.
									 
									The policy brief puts forward the framework for a concerted global response though a Code of Conduct for information integrity on digital platforms, outlining potential guardrails to contain this runaway threat while safeguarding freedom of expression and information.
									 
									It includes the following proposals to be built on in a Code of Conduct:
									 
									Governments, tech companies and other stakeholders should refrain from using, supporting, or amplifying disinformation and hate speech for any purpose.
									 
									Governments should guarantee a free, viable, independent, and plural media landscape, with strong protections for journalists.
									 
									Digital platforms should ensure safety and privacy by design in all products, alongside consistent application of policies and resources across countries and languages.
									 
									All stakeholders should take urgent and immediate measures to ensure that all AI applications are safe, secure, responsible and ethical, and comply with human rights obligations.
									 
									Tech companies should move away from business models that prioritize engagement above human rights, privacy, and safety.
									 
									Advertisers and digital platforms should ensure that ads are not placed next to online mis- or disinformation or hate speech, and that ads containing disinformation are not promoted.
									 
									Digital platforms should ensure meaningful transparency and allow researchers and academics access to data, while respecting user privacy.
									 
									The policy brief is the latest in a series based on proposals contained in Our Common Agenda, the Secretary-General’s 2021 report that outlines a vision for future global cooperation and multilateral action.
									Together, the briefs are intended to inform discussions ahead of the SDG Summit in September, marking the midpoint towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, and the related Summit of the Future next year.
									 
									                                                                   ###
									 
									The policy brief is available at https://www.un.org/en/common-agenda/policy-briefs
									 
MEDIA CONTACTS 
									Charlotte Scaddan, UN Department of Global Communications: scaddan@un.org
									Jennifer Park, UN Department of Global Communications: park18@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/235976-guardrails-urgently-needed-contain-%E2%80%9Cclear-and-present-global-threat%E2%80%9D-online-mis-and




Date: 11 June 2023
Title: UNFPA, Swiss delegation follow up on progress of Sudan crisis response in Aswan
Content: 11 June 2023
A delegation from UNFPA Egypt, the Swiss Embassy in Egypt and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation paid a visit on June 7 to the Safe Space in Aswan operated by UNFPA in cooperation with the Ministry of Youth and Sports and in partnership with Etijah.
The Safe Space is one of two in Aswan, and one of 11 in six governorates around Egypt.
UNFPA Egypt offers comprehensive gender-based violence against women and girls services for refugees through the Safe Spaces operated by the Ministry of Youth and Sports and Etijah. The Safe Spaces provide case management services, mental health and psychosocial support services, emergency housing support, legal and medical services, reproductive health services, as well as vocational skills training.
The delegation included UNFPA Representative in Egypt Frederika Meijer, Vice Director and Head of MENA - Europe Division at the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation Ambassador Andrea Studer, Ambassador  of Switzerland in Egypt Yvonne Baumann, Deputy Head of Operations at the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) Markus Schrader, Deputy Head of MENA- Europe Division at the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation Claude Wandeler, Head of Office for International Cooperation - Embassy of Switzerland in Egypt Dr. Valérie Liechti, and Head of the Central Administration for Youth Empowerment at the Ministry of Youth and Sports.
They held meetings with the Safe Spaces team and frontline workers and lauded their efforts in response to the Sudan crisis.
The delegation also met with Sudanese women who recently arrived in Egypt and assured them that UNFPA and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation are collaborating with the Egyptian government to meet their needs.
“In its Sudan response, UNFPA aims to reach an additional 10,000 Sudanese women and girls as well as the affected host communities through our Safe Spaces in Aswan and Greater Cairo, where we plan to expand our existing good practices and implement new interventions that can effectively support refugees and host communities in the current context,” Meijer said.
“I was impressed by the commitment of the female social workers and deeply touched by the Sudanese women whom I met in the Safe Space set up by UNFPA in collaboration with the Ministry of Youth and Sports,” stated Ambassador Studer.
Fighting between the Army of Sudan and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces erupted on April 15, and has forced thousands of people to flee the country to neighboring countries. Around 200,000 people fleeing fighting in Sudan have crossed into Egypt, most of whom are women and children.
UNFPA is coordinating efforts with the Egyptian government, local authorities and humanitarian partners to meet the urgent needs of women and girls for health and protection, through ensuring access to quality gender-based violence against women and girls’ prevention and response services and enhancing measures to mitigate the risk of violence and prioritizing women’s access to reproductive health services. UNFPA prioritizes strengthening the local referral and coordination mechanisms in Aswan, to respond to the emergency needs.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/236077-unfpa-swiss-delegation-follow-progress-sudan-crisis-response-aswan




Date: 08 June 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON THE OCCASION OF UN WORLD OCEANS DAY 2023   8 June 2023
Content: 08 June 2023
The ocean is the foundation of life.

It supplies the air we breathe and food we eat.

It regulates our climate and weather.

The ocean is our planet’s greatest reservoir of biodiversity.

Its resources sustain communities, prosperity and human health around the world.

Humanity counts on the ocean.

But can the ocean count on us?

We should be the ocean’s best friend.

But right now, humanity is its worst enemy.

Human-induced climate change is heating our planet, disrupting weather patterns and ocean currents, and altering marine ecosystems and the species living there.

Marine biodiversity is under attack from overfishing, over-exploitation and ocean acidification.

Over one-third of fish stocks are being harvested at unsustainable levels.

And we are polluting our coastal waters with chemicals, plastics and human waste.
But this year’s World Oceans Day reminds us that the tides are changing.

Last year, we adopted an ambitious global target to conserve and manage 30 per cent of land and marine and coastal areas by 2030, as well as a landmark agreement on fisheries subsidies.

At the UN Ocean Conference in Lisbon, the world agreed to push for more positive ocean action.

A global, legally binding agreement to end plastic pollution is under negotiation.

And in March, countries agreed to the historic High Seas Treaty on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.

Realizing the great promise of these initiatives requires collective commitment.

Sustainable Development Goal 14 — to conserve and sustainably use the ocean’s resources — hangs in the balance.

This World Oceans Day, let’s keep pushing for action.

Today and every day, let’s put the ocean first.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/235410-secretary-general-message-occasion-un-world-oceans-day-2023-8-june-2023




Date: 05 June 2023
Title: The Secretary-General's Message on World Environment Day 5 June
Content: 05 June 2023



The secretary-general
--
MESSAGE ON WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY

5 June 2023

This World Environment Day is a call to beat plastic pollution.

Every year, over 400 million tons of plastic is produced worldwide – one third of which is used just once.

Every day, the equivalent of over 2000 garbage trucks full of plastic is dumped into our oceans, rivers, and lakes.

The consequences are catastrophic.

Microplastics find their way into the food we eat, the water we drink, and the air we breathe.

Plastic is made from fossil fuels – the more plastic we produce, the more fossil fuel we burn, and the worse we make the climate crisis.

But we have solutions.

Last year, the global community began negotiating a legally binding agreement to end plastic pollution.

This is a promising first step, but we need all hands-on deck.

A new report by the UN Environment Programme shows that we can reduce plastic pollution by 80 per cent by 2040 – if we act now to reuse, recycle, reorient, and diversify away from plastics.

We must work as one – governments, companies, and consumers alike – to break our addiction to plastics, champion zero waste, and build a truly circular economy.
Together, let us shape a cleaner, healthier, and more sustainable future for all.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/234808-secretary-generals-message-world-environment-day-5-june




Date: 30 May 2023
Title: JAPAN SUPPORTS WFP EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE FOR PEOPLE FLEEING THE CONFLICT IN SUDAN TO EGYPT
Content: 30 May 2023
CAIRO – The Government of Japan has extended its support to the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in Egypt, contributing US$500,000 to provide critical food assistance to people fleeing the conflict in Sudan.
Through this contribution WFP will reach up to 150,000 people entering Egypt at the borders with ready- to-eat food packages over a period of three months. The timely delivery of this food assistance is critical in addressing the urgent needs of the Sudanese population and in supporting their food and nutrition security during this time of great uncertainty.
This grant aligns with Japan's commitment to aiding those affected by the Sudanese crisis. Japan has established a dedicated fund to assist individuals escaping the crisis in neighbouring countries, including Egypt, Chad, and South Sudan.
“As needs continue to rise, we are grateful for Japan’s support and contribution, the first to support our Sudan crisis emergency operation," said Praveen Agrawal, WFP Representative and Country Director in Egypt. "At a time when many families have lost everything, food assistance plays a vital role not only in safeguarding their food and nutrition security but also in providing a sense of normalcy, safety, and the assurance that they are not alone."
WFP is working closely with the Government of Egypt and the Egyptian Red Crescent (ERC) to provide assistance at the Arqeen and Qustol entry points on the Egyptian-Sudanese borders. To date, WFP has dispatched over 20 metric tons of fortified emergency food assistance and 87,000 expanded packages of food, including enhanced nutritional ready-to-eat items.
“This emergency humanitarian grant aid embodies the statement made by Prime Minister Kishida during his visit to Egypt in April that Japan is ready to provide emergency humanitarian assistance for displaced persons in the neighbouring countries of Sudan. The Government of Japan intends to support Egypt’s efforts to protect displaced people and returnees through continued assistance in cooperation with international partners such as WFP,” said H.E. Mr. Oka Hiroshi, Ambassador of Japan to Egypt.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) estimates that approximately 800,000 people may flee Sudan to neighbouring countries as a result of the ongoing crisis. WFP is committed to providing assistance to meet the needs of the most vulnerable individuals fleeing Sudan.


#                 #                   #


The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/233882-japan-supports-wfp-emergency-assistance-people-fleeing-conflict-sudan-egypt




Date: 29 May 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General's Message on the International Day of UN Peacekeepers 29 May
Content: 29 May 2023


United Nations peacekeepers are the beating heart of our commitment to a more peaceful world. For 75 years, they have supported people and communities rocked by conflict and upheaval across the globe.
Today, on the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers, we honour their extraordinary contributions to international peace and security.
Since 1948, more than two million peacekeepers have served in 71 missions, helping countries navigate the difficult path from war to peace.
They are also critical to the protection of civilians caught up in the chaos of these deadly conflicts, providing a lifeline of hope and help in some of the most dangerous contexts imaginable.
In carrying out this essential work, many peacekeepers have paid the ultimate price. More than 4,200 peacekeepers have lost their lives serving under the UN flag. We stand in sympathy and solidarity with their families, friends and colleagues, and will forever be inspired by their selfless devotion to the cause of peace.
Today, more than 87,000 peacekeepers from 125 countries serve in 12 operations. They face rising global tensions and divides, stagnating peace processes, and more complex conflicts.
Despite these obstacles, and working with a wide range of partners, peacekeepers persevere.
To people living under the shadow of conflict, our teams of Blue Helmets represent hope.
As peacekeepers support humanity, let us always support and recognize them.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/233766-un-secretary-generals-message-international-day-un-peacekeepers-29-may




Date: 25 May 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON AFRICA DAY 2023   25 May 2023
Content: 25 May 2023

We mark Africa Day at a time when cooperation and solidarity to advance the continent’s future is more needed than ever.

Africa’s dynamism is unstoppable; its potential is breathtaking, from the vibrancy of its huge number of young people to the possibilities of free trade. The African Union has designated 2023 the year of the African Continental Free Trade Area. When fully established, the world’s largest single market could lift 50 million people out of extreme poverty by 2035, driving progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals and Agenda 2063.

I look forward to African governments continuing to seize the opportunities presented by the continent’s natural, human, and entrepreneurial richness, by working to increase private investment and raise resources at home.

And I urge the international community to stand with Africa.  Currently, historic and economic injustices hamper its progress. Multiple crises – from COVID to climate and conflict – continue to cause great suffering across the continent. African countries are underrepresented in global governance institutions, from the Security Council to the Bretton Woods System, and denied the debt relief and concessional funding they need.

Africa deserves peace, justice and international solidarity.

The continent should be represented at the highest level of the international financial system. Multilateral Development Banks should transform their business models and leverage funds to attract massive private finance at reasonable cost to developing countries. Developed countries should provide the support they have promised for action on climate change, and go further. And we must support efforts to silence the guns across the continent.

The United Nations will continue to be a proud partner in advancing peace, sustainable development and human rights for the people of Africa.

With international cooperation and solidarity, this can be Africa’s century.



***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/233256-secretary-general-message-africa-day-2023-25-may-2023




Date: 24 May 2023
Title: UN Headquarters Observes International Day of  United Nations Peacekeepers on 25 May
Content: 24 May 2023
-- Seven Egyptian Peacekeepers to be Honored Posthumously at Ceremony --
UN Headquarters will observe the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers and mark the 75th anniversary of UN Peacekeeping on Thursday, 25 May.
In 1948, the historic decision was made to deploy military observers to the Middle East to supervise the implementation of Israel-Arab Armistice Agreements, in what became the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization.

Since that time, more than two million peacekeepers from 125 countries have since served in 71 operations around the world. Today, 87,000 women and men are serving in 12 conflict zones across Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East.

Egypt is the 6th largest contributor of uniformed personnel to UN Peacekeeping.  It currently deploys more than 2,800 military and police personnel to the UN peace operations in Abyei, the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mali, South Sudan, and the Western Sahara.

During formal ceremonies at United Nations Headquarters, Secretary-General, António Guterres, will lay a wreath to honour the more than 4,200 UN peacekeepers who have lost their lives since 1948. He will also preside over a ceremony in the General Assembly Hall at which Dag Hammarskjöld Medals will be awarded posthumously to 103 military, police, and civilian peacekeepers, who lost their lives serving under the UN flag last year.

Among the peacekeepers to be honoured posthumously with the Dag Hammarskjold medal are seven from Egypt: Private Mohammed Sobhy BASSIOUNI, Private Samir Ahmed MOATAZ, CPT Sameh Elsayed Mousa ABDELGAWAD, SGT Baheer Abdelgalil Abdelaziz SHERIF, CPL Elsayed Ibrahim Ahmed MOHAMED, SGT Hamza Ali Ahmed AHMED ELSAYED, Private Sayed Sawy Mohamed SHAWKY who all served with UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA).

Egypt is the 6th largest contributor of uniformed personnel to UN Peacekeeping.  It currently deploys more than 2,800 military and police personnel to the UN peace operations in Abyei, the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mali, South Sudan, and the Western Sahara.
The Secretary-General will also present the 2022 Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award to Captain Cecilia Erzuah, a military officer from Ghana who served with the UN Interim Security Force for Abyei (UNISFA).
Created in 2016, the Award “recognizes the dedication and effort of an individual peacekeeper in promoting the principles of UN Security Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security”.
In his message, the Secretary-General said: “United Nations peacekeepers are the beating heart of our commitment to a more peaceful world. For 75 years, they have supported people and communities rocked by conflict and upheaval across the globe. Today, on the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers, we honour their extraordinary contributions to international peace and security.”

Jean-Pierre Lacroix, Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations, said: “Peacekeeping is a powerful example of how strong partnerships and collective political will can result in meaningful change. Working together with local communities and other partners, our personnel protect civilians, advance political solutions, and help end conflicts in the pursuit of sustainable peace. We appreciate the support of all stakeholders to ensure that UN Peacekeeping can continue to work as an effective multilateral tool for global peace and security.”

The International Day of UN Peacekeepers was established by the UN General Assembly in 2002, to pay tribute to all men and women serving in peacekeeping, and to honour the memory of those who have lost their lives in the cause of peace.
Schedule of Events at Headquarters on 25 May
09:40 a.m.:  The Secretary-General will lay a wreath in honour of fallen peacekeepers at the Peacekeepers Memorial Site on the North Lawn. (If inclement weather, the ceremony will be held near the Chagall window in the Visitors’ Lobby).  Only UN Photo and UN TV will cover the ceremony.  It will not be webcast live, but will be available on demand soon after the event: https://media.un.org/
10:00 a.m.:  The Dag Hammarskjöld Medal and Military Gender Advocate of the Year ceremonies will be held in the General Assembly Hall and shown live on UN Webcast:   https://media.un.org/
12:00 p.m.: Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations, Jean-Pierre Lacroix will be the guest at the noon briefing.  It will be webcast live at  https://media.un.org/
# # # # #
For more information, please visit the Peacekeepers Day websites here: https://www.un.org/en/observances/peacekeepers-day; or
https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/international-day-of-peacekeepers-2023
*  *  *  *  *


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/232940-un-headquarters-observes-international-day-united-nations-peacekeepers-25-may




Date: 11 May 2023
Title: The Government of Egypt and the United Nations sign the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2023-27
Content: 11 May 2023
H.E. Dr. Rania A. Al-Mashat, the Minister of International Cooperation on behalf of the Government of Egypt, together with Ms. Elena Panova, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt on behalf of the United Nations Country Team in Egypt, signed an agreement on 9 May 2023.

The Government of Egypt and the United Nations signed the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) to support and reaffirm the commitment between both parties towards their shared vision for Egypt.

Through incorporating both national development goals as well as the SDGs and aligning with the agreed upon four strategic priorities, the UNSDCF is an instrument that provides guidance and a strategic direction to achieve sustainable development. Focusing on five primary development pillars which are people, planet, prosperity, governance in addition to women and girls, the UNSDCF has adapted these pillars into all aspects of the partnership as development would not be achieved without recognizing their importance and value. Emphasizing strategic priorities are essential as they represent various dimensions required for sustainable development. Through the evaluation of national priorities, which have been adapted and further developed from the previous United Nations Partnership Development Framework 2018-2022, this document recognized national priorities translated to strategic priorities through the UN’s competitive advantage.

This Signing Ceremony serves as a declaration of the commitment of the United Nations Country Team in Egypt and the Government of Egypt towards the UNSDCF strategic priorities and outcomes. Significant progress to be made by 2027 towards sustainable development will be determined using various performance indicators and targets through the collaboration between UN agencies, government partners and relevant stakeholders. The UNSDCF promotes accountability and aims to increase transparency regarding the development efforts taking place in Egypt.

The Minister of International Cooperation H.E. Dr. Rania A. Al-Mashat said, “the Egypt – UNSDCF 2023-2027 reflects a clear sign of country ownership and inclusivity in its design, given the series of consultations held with many ministries, national entities, private sector, NGOs, think tanks and development partners, paving way for a new phase of the country’s long-standing partnership with the UN. Incorporating national strategies and goals, and in line with the SDGs, the new framework sets a special focus on diverse, but interlinked, priorities including social protection, inclusive development, climate resilience, transparency and the socioeconomic empowerment of women. I look forward to the successful implementation of this framework in the years ahead with the UN RC office and agencies.”

Elena Panova, the UN Resident Coordinator in Egypt mentioned “Today the UN in Egypt signed the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for the next five years with the Government of Egypt. This is the main strategic instrument to guide UN support to deliver the SDGs in Egypt.  The Cooperation Framework is anchored in national development priorities and Egypt’s Vision 2030. Now is the time for action to fulfill the promise of the SDGs to leave no one behind. The UN will forge partnerships and mobilize the full range of its assets from analysis, to policy advice, to direct assistance to those in need.”

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/231452-government-egypt-and-united-nations-sign-united-nations-sustainable-development-cooperation




Date: 08 May 2023
Title: The Government of Egypt and UN-Habitat kick off preparations of WUF12
Content: 08 May 2023

Cairo/Egypt, 7 May 2023 – The Government of Egypt and UN-Habitat announced that they are starting preparations for the twelfth session of the World Urban Forum (WUF12). The premier global conference on urbanization convened by UN-Habitat, the United Nations entity responsible for sustainable urban development, is set to take place in Cairo in November 2024.
The announcement was made at the Egyptian Cabinet, following a meeting between Egyptian Prime Minister Dr. Mostafa Madbouly and Maimunah Mohd Sharif, Executive Director of UN-Habitat. During the meeting, they signed the agreement to hold WUF12 in Egypt, jointly organized by the Government of Egypt and UN-Habitat.
The WUF Local Organizing Committee meeting, established under the auspices of the Egyptian Prime Minister and chaired by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Housing, Utilities, and Urban Communities, the Ministry of Local Development and Cairo Governorate, was also held for the first time.
The discussions included the need to accelerate the implementation of the New Urban Agenda to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals through national and regional urban forums; Cairo’s aim to set new benchmarks for all cities and communities to follow as previous WUF host cities did and how WUF is about action on the ground, declared actions and, most importantly, actions fulfilled.
“I stand before you today to assure you that you can fully count on the support from UN-Habitat through the entire preparatory process to make sure we make the best out of this opportunity,” Maimunah Mohd Sharif, UN-Habitat Executive Director, stated during the press conference. ”Let us come together, let us collaborate and let us build a better future that will last thousands of years more for the generations to come.”
In 2022, Egypt was selected to host WUF12 in Cairo. The forum comes after various achievements, including Egypt’s New Urban Communities Authority receiving the UN-Habitat 2021 Scroll of Honour award in the field of sustainable urbanization and the success in hosting the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP27).


About the World Urban Forum
The World Urban Forum (WUF) was established in 2001 by the United Nations to address one of the most pressing issues facing the world: rapid urbanization and its impact on people, cities, economies, climate change and policies. Held every two years, the forum is convened by UN-Habitat. It is designed as a high-level, open and inclusive platform for addressing the challenges of sustainable urbanization.
Each session is staged in a different city - the twelfth session in Cairo, Egypt, will mark the first time the forum returns to an African continent in over 20 years and the first time WUF is held in a megacity with more than 20 million inhabitants.
About the UN Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat is the United Nations entity responsible for sustainable urbanization. It has programmes in over 90 countries that support policymakers and communities to create socially and environmentally sustainable cities and towns. UN-Habitat promotes transformative change in cities through knowledge, policy advice, technical assistance, and collaborative action. For more information, visit unhabitat.org or follow us on Twitter @unhabitat and @UNHabitat_Ar.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/230567-government-egypt-and-un-habitat-kick-preparations-wuf12




Date: 04 April 2023
Title: The Secretary General..Message on the International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action
Content: 04 April 2023
For the millions living amidst the chaos of armed conflicts — especially women and children — every step can put them in danger’s path.

Even after the fighting stops, conflicts often leave behind a terrifying legacy: landmines and explosive ordnance that litter communities. Peace brings no assurance of safety when roads and fields are mined, when unexploded ordnance threatens the return of displaced populations, and when children find and play with shiny objects that explode.

The United Nations Mine Action Service gathers partners together to remove these deadly weapons, support national authorities, and ensure safe access to homes, schools, hospitals and farmers’ fields. The Service also supported the design of the Black Sea Grain Initiative and the safe export of grain and fertilizer from Ukrainian ports.

Yet, broader global efforts are essential to safeguard people from mines.

I urge Member States to ratify and fully implement the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention, the Convention on Cluster Munitions and the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons.

On this International Day, let’s take action to end the threat of these devices of death, support communities as they heal, and help people return and re-build their lives in safety and security.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/226397-secretary-generalmessage-international-day-mine-awareness-and-assistance-mine-action




Date: 02 April 2023
Title: Secretary-General's message for World Autism Awareness Day 2 April
Content: 02 April 2023
On World Autism Awareness Day, we celebrate the contributions of persons with autism and renew our resolve to advance their inherent rights.
Despite important progress, persons with autism continue to face social and environmental barriers to the full exercise of their rights and fundamental freedoms, in line with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
We must do better – by promoting inclusive education, equal employment opportunities, self-determination, and an environment where every person is respected. And as we do so, we also recognize the role of families, caregivers, and support networks in the lives of persons with autism.
Today and every day, let us fully recognize the active and diverse contributions of persons with autism to our societies – and let us work together with persons with autism to build an inclusive and accessible world for all.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/226016-secretary-generals-message-world-autism-awareness-day-2-april




Date: 26 March 2023
Title: Towards Effective Response to Drugs Issue, Arab League, UNODC Sign Regional Framework for Arab States (2023 – 2028), Launch Arab Plan for Prevention and Reduction of the Dangers of Drugs to Arab Society
Content: 26 March 2023
The Regional Framework articulates six focus areas for guiding UNODC-implemented programming at the regional and national levels and they are: a balanced approach to drug control, strengthening the response to organized crime, combating trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants, action against corruption and financial crime, preventing and countering terrorism and violence, and strengthening crime/violence prevention and criminal justice.
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt - In continuation of the strong cooperation between the League of Arab States (LAS) and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the “Regional Framework for the Arab States (2023 – 2028)” was signed and the “Arab Plan for Prevention and Reduction of the Dangers of Drugs to Arab Society: Towards Effective Handling of the Issue from a Social Perspective” was launched today Sunday the 26th of March at the LAS Headquarters. H.E. Mr. Ahmed Aboul Gheit, Secretary-General of LAS and H.E Ms. Ghada Waly, UNODC Executive Director co-signed the aforementioned Regional Framework (2023 – 2028).
The signature of the Framework and the launch of the Plan included the participation of H. E. Ms. Nivine El Kabbaj, Minister of Social Solidarity of the Arab Republic of Egypt and Permanent Member of the Executive Office of the Council of Arab Ministers of Social Affairs, H. E. Maryam Bint Nasser Al-Misned, Minister of Social Development the State of Qatar and Chair of the 42nd session of the Council of Arab Ministers of Social Affairs, and with the presence of the Permanent Member States’ Ambassadors at LAS, a number of Ambassadors of different countries, in addition to Heads and Representatives of United Nations bodies and agencies.
The Regional Framework for the Arab States 2023-2028 acts as the overarching strategic framework for cooperation between UNODC and LAS. It frames how UNODC will strengthen, prioritize, customize, and deliver support to the Arab region in effective response to some of the most pressing challenges faced by these countries and in connection with UNODC’s mandates and specialties.
The Regional Framework articulates six focus areas for guiding UNODC-implemented programming at the regional and national levels and they are: a balanced approach to drug control, strengthening the response to organized crime, combating trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants, action against corruption and financial crime, preventing and countering terrorism and violence, and strengthening crime/violence prevention and criminal justice.
Furthermore, the Regional Framework applies six key accelerators across all programmatic interventions to speed up progress and maximize efforts towards fast-tracking the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and they are: partnerships, women and girls, innovation, science, and forensics, human rights, youth and children, and inclusive and people-centered programming. The programme will also support UNODC’s partnership expansion with Member States in the region to include current vital Ministries and Institutions relevant to youth, solidarity, education, culture, human rights, countering corruption; in addition to previous partnerships with the Ministries of Justice, Interior, and Health.
The event also saw the launch of the Arab Plan for Prevention and Reduction of the Dangers of Drugs to Arab Society: Towards Effective Handling of the Issue from a Social Perspective. This important plan represents a regional social framework for combating drugs in the Arab States by highlighting the social dimension of drug demand reduction in the context of its negative impact on social development in specific and sustainable development in general. This is also at the heart of efforts to achieve the Arab Declaration adopted by LAS in 2016 to implement the Sustainable Development Agenda 2023. The present document provides an indicative vision for guiding Arab action towards a comprehensive and integrated response based on scientific evidence and consistent with Arab specificity of this phenomenon. The Plan aims to build national strategies and action plans that meet national requirements and includes a number of initiatives, projects and activities that achieve their objectives in complementarity with Arab efforts to combat the supply of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances through comprehensive actions that include proactiveness and social resolution.
The Arab Plan’s dimensions showcase the methods of how to address this phenomenon from a social perspective and in line with Arab countries’ regulations and conditions in order to implement effective interventions including related multidimensional social and development consequences and to strengthen Arab efforts to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The important dimensions of the Plan include community prevention, rehabilitation and social integration, addressing drug-related harm and its consequences, as well as the dimensions and themes in support of the Plan's areas of action, namely international cooperation, scientific research and innovation, coordination mechanisms, governance, implementation, measurement and impact assessment.
*******

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/224955-towards-effective-response-drugs-issue-arab-league-unodc-sign-regional-framework-arab-states




Date: 22 March 2023
Title: UNESCO Regional Office  in Cairo celebrates the World Water Day 2023, 22 March, 2023
Content: 22 March 2023

Observed on March 22 of every year, United Nations World Water Day serves to raise awareness about water challenges and the global water crisis.

World Water Day is also when UNESCO launches the annual World Water Assessment Report (WWDR), published by UNESCO’s World Water Assessment Programme (WWAP) on behalf of UN-Water, which is the United Nations platform that coordinates the working of UN Agencies and partners on water.
The 2023 world water day is most significant as it marks the start of the UN 2023 Water Conference (22-24 March 2023), held with the main theme of “Accelerating Change”. Starting today, the conference, which is the second UN Conference on water since 1977, will review progress on achieving the sixth goal of the sustainable development agenda 2030 (SDG6: Ensure access to water and sanitation for all. Water and Sanitation) as we mark the mid-point of the International Decade for Action on “Water for Sustainable Development” (2018-2028). Water-sector leaders from around the world will review and reaffirm commitments to SDG6 and other internationally agreed water-related goals.
It is paramount to accelerate, at national, regional, and global scales actions on SDG6. With only 7 years remaining to achieve the Sustainable Development Agenda, the world water development report, launched today by the Director-General of UNESCO, estimates that achieving universal coverage by 2030 (as required by SDG6) will require a quadrupling the current rates of progress in WASH (Water Sanitation and Hygiene) services. According to the report, to date, 2 billion people worldwide (26% of the population) still do not have safe drinking water and 4.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely managed sanitation. In addition, many people live at least one month every year under severe water stress in both rural and urban areas. Water quality and water ecosystem continue to be threatened by population growth and rapid urbanization and the future food security of many countries, especially in the Arid Arab Region, remains uncertain. In 2020, the World Bank estimated that Africa alone will need 30 Billion US Dollars investment in water sector annually to achieve SDG6 targets by 2030. However, in 2020, the total Official Development Assistance (ODA) targeting WASH was only 8.7 Billion US Dollars globally, very different from what is actually needed. Clearly, accelerating actions towards achieving SDG6 is a global challenge requiring global efforts and cooperation. It is not surprising that the WWDR 2023 focusses on “Partnerships and cooperation for water”.
With more than 95% of Egypt’s renewable freshwater resources originating outside the country, the most significant water resources challenge facing Egypt is water scarcity. Per capita share of renewable water resources has been steadily declining from 650 m3/y in 2015 to 570 m3 / year in 2019, and is expected to reach 500 m3 / year by 2025. This share is well below the 1000 m3 /year threshold for water poverty.   Egypt has an ambitious social, economic, and human development plan that addresses water scarcity and strives to provide universal access to clean water and sanitation. The environmental pillar of the country’s Sustainable Development strategy (2016) lists as its first objective the “Rational and sustainable management of the assets of natural resources to support the economy, increase competitiveness, and provide new job opportunities”.  UNESCO Cairo Office, has been working with Egypt’s water sector since the mid 1960s.
Cooperation for water is a founding principle of UNESCO’s Intergovernmental Hydrological Programme (UNESCO-IHP). Founded in 1975 following the International Hydrological Decade (1965-1974), which marked the first international cooperation on water issues including water sciences, the program is currently in its ninth phase (2023-2029) titled Science for a Water Secure World in a Changing Environment. Throughout its existence, UNESCO-IHP fostered international corporation at multiple levels including capacity building, policy advice, joint scientific research towards the creation, sharing, and dissemination of knowledge and best practices. In Cairo, we at the UNESCO Regional Bureau for Sciences in the Arab States, are responsible for the implementation of UNESCO-IHP in the Arab Region. We promote cooperation between the National Committees of IHP in the Arab Region, UNESCO water-related chairs and centres in the region and globally, to support Arab Member States in achieving their sustainable water resources development goals. In the past 5 years, the office supported the capacity of nearly 3000 Arab Water Experts on issues including integrated water resources management, groundwater governance, optimal water resources management under condition of scarcity, groundwater recharge for sustainable development of groundwater, water/energy/food nexus, and the assessment of climate change impacts on water resources and adaptation to these impacts. This is consistent with the UN Secretary General call on UNESCO to lead the capacity development component of the framework for accelerating actions on SDG6.
The 27th UN Conference of Parties on Climate Change (COP27), hosted by the Arab Republic of Egypt in in the City of Sharm El-Sheikh, November of 2022 was a milestone conference for water. The outcome document of the conference, for the first time, included the protection of water systems and water-ecosystems as a key target for climate actions. Egypt, the president and host of COP27 also launched a major water related initiative titled Action for Water Adaptation and Resilience (AWARe). AWARe aims to catalyze inclusive cooperation to address water as a key to climate change adaptation and resilience including partnerships for early warning. H.E. Mr. Hani Swailam (Minister of Water Resources and Irrigation of Egypt) launched the initiative on Water Day at the Water Pavilion during COP27. The initiative will be presented during the UN Water Conference on the 24 of March at HN Headquarters.
Both UNESCO and Egypt are proactively cooperating in the UN Conference on Water. UNESCO is co-organizing jointly with member states including Egypt, other UN Agencies, and NGOs, 26 side events during the conference. UNESCO-IHP and Egypt are joining the Republic of Korea to co-organize a side event on “Science Based Global Water Assessment”, which will take place on March 24th at 5:00 PM New York time 24th March, 2023, 11:00 – 12:15
As indicated by Ms. Audrey Azoulay, UNESCO Director-General  On this World Day, UNESCO would like to recall the extent to which water, whose cycle is global, is permanently at odds with human boundaries. It is up to us to draw the necessary conclusions and to see it as what it is: a vital and common good of humanity, which must therefore be considered on the scale of humanity.
Relevant Links
To join live broadcasting of UNESCO Side Event during the UN Water Confernce (11:00 AM EDT, 5:00 PM Cairo Time) https://media.un.org/en/asset/k1i/k1ik2vecus

UNSG Action Plan for the Water Action Decade: http://www.wateractiondecade.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/UN-SG-Action-Plan_Water-Action-Decade-web.pdf
UN 2023 Water Conference https://sdgs.un.org/conferences/water2023
UNESCO IHP: https://www.unesco.org/en/ihp
UNESCO Cairo Office: https://en.unesco.org/fieldoffice/cairo
Regional Training on Watering the NDC: https://en.unesco.org/node/358669
Previous UN WDDR  https://www.unwater.org/publications/un-world-water-development-report
UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme https://www.unesco.org/en/wwap
UNESCO’s contribution to the United Nations 2023 Water Conference: https://www.unesco.org/en/water/un2023conference
UNESCO’s Contributions to COP27: https://www.unesco.org/en/climate-change/cop27

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/224311-unesco-regional-office%C2%A0-cairo-celebrates-world-water-day-2023-22-march-2023




Date: 22 March 2023
Title: The United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt Message on the Holy Month of Ramadan
Content: 22 March 2023

Al-Salam Alikom!

On the occasion of the Holy month of Ramadan, I extend my warmest wishes to all Muslims observing this month.

This year, Ramadan comes during difficult global times.

Geo-political conflicts are unceasing. Climate shocks are swelling. Covid is still threatening. And the earthquakes in Turkiye and Syria left many people devastated, in dire need for support.

The Holy month of Ramadan is an opportune time for showing solidarity, compassion, and coming together to uplift those who suffer from unfortunate circumstances.

The Holy month of Ramadan is special.

The practices of sharing and caring for others prevail throughout the entire month. People enjoy organizing iftars together; families come closer, and charity becomes the norm.

These values and traditions are deeply rooted in the Egyptian society. They teach us humbleness, empathy, and dedication.

May these values and spirit continue to inspire us all to come together for the safety, dignity, and prosperity of all Egyptians.

Let us build together a just and peaceful world.
Ramadan Kareem!

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/224296-united-nations-resident-coordinator-egypt-message-holy-month-ramadan




Date: 21 March 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL –– VIDEO MESSAGE ON THE OCCASION OF THE BEGINNING OF RAMADAN  22 March 2023
Content: 21 March 2023

I send my warmest wishes as Muslims around the world begin observing the holy month of Ramadan.

This is a moment of reflection and learning.

A time to come together in a spirit of understanding and compassion, bound by our common humanity.

That is also the mission of the United Nations – to foster dialogue, unity and peace.

In these challenging times, my thoughts are with those facing conflict, displacement and suffering.

I join everyone observing Ramadan to call for peace, mutual respect and solidarity.

Let us take inspiration from this Holy Month and build a more just and equitable world for all.

Ramadan Kareem.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/224026-secretary-general-%E2%80%93%E2%80%93-video-message-occasion-beginning-ramadan-22-march-2023




Date: 15 March 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL's MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY TO COMBAT ISLAMOPHOBIA
Content: 15 March 2023

On this International Day to Combat Islamophobia, we focus attention – and call for action – to stamp out the poison of anti-Muslim hatred.

The world’s nearly 2 billion Muslims reflect humanity in all its magnificent diversity.

But they often face bigotry and prejudice for no other reason than their faith.

Beyond structural, institutional discrimination and the wholesale stigmatization of Muslim communities, Muslims suffer personal attacks, hateful rhetoric, and scapegoating.

We see some of the worst impacts in the triple discrimination against Muslim women because of their gender, ethnicity, and faith.

The growing hate that Muslims face is not an isolated development: it is part of the resurgence of ethno-nationalism, neo-Nazi white supremacist ideologies, and violence targeting vulnerable populations including Muslims, Jews, some minority Christian communities and others.

Discrimination diminishes us all. And it is incumbent on all of us to stand up against it.

We must strengthen our defenses by pushing for policies that fully respect human rights and protect religious and cultural identities.

We must recognize diversity as richness and ramp up political, cultural, and economic investments in social cohesion.

And we must confront bigotry by working to tackle the hate that spreads like wildfire across the internet.

For well over a millennium, Islam’s message of peace, compassion, and grace has inspired people the world over.

Every great faith and tradition summons the imperatives of tolerance, respect, and mutual understanding.

At the heart, we are dealing with universal values: they animate the United Nations Charter and lie at the core of our quest for justice, human rights, and peace.

Today and every day, let us strive to realize these values and counter the forces of division by reaffirming our common humanity.

***


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/223250-secretary-generals-message-international-day-combat-islamophobia




Date: 09 March 2023
Title: UNRWA TO ARAB DONORS: YOUR HISTORIC SOLIDARITY NOW MORE NEEDED THAN EVER
Content: 09 March 2023
Cairo, 08 March 2023: The Commissioner-General of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), Philippe Lazzarini concluded an official visit to Cairo on 7-8 March to meet with Egyptian and Arab League officials and renewed his call to support the Agency.
In his address at the opening session of the 159th meeting of the Council of Arab Foreign Ministers at the League of Arab States, where he reiterated that the rights and well-being of Palestine refugees were a collective responsibility, until there is a fair and lasting solution to their plight. He called on member states, especially those with a long tradition of solidarity and support to Palestine refugees, to continue doing so through the Agency's education, health and other critical services across the region.
During the visit to Cairo, the Commissioner-General met with the Secretary-General of the League of Arab States, H.E. Mr. Ahmed Aboul Gheit, with the Head of the Egyptian General Intelligence Service Major General Abbas Kamel, and with the Egyptian Foreign Minister, Mr. Sameh Shoukry. In all these discussions, the Commissioner-General reaffirmed the pivotal role of the Egyptian and Arab support for Palestine refugees and UNRWA, as the Agency grapples with some of its biggest political and financial challenges of all times.
The Commissioner-General described the growing tensions in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, and referenced the shattering impact of the recent earthquake on people in Syria, including Palestine refugees. "UNRWA is seeking a renewed commitment of member-states of the Arab League to the human development of the Palestine refugee communities. This is a cornerstone of regional stability, and a continuationof the generosity and solidarity that the Arab region is known for. Together we need to bring in knowledge, resources and creative energy to the Palestine refugee communities in the region. Together, we must continue to keep hope alive."
On the sidelines of the session at the League, the Commissioner-General met with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the State of Kuwait, H.E. Sheikh Salem Abdullah Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for Multi-State Affairs, H.E. Dr. Abdul Rahman Al-Rasi, State Minister in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, H.E. Mr. Khalifa Shaheen Al-Marar, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Iraq, H.E. Mr. Fouad Hussein to thank them for their unwavering support for UNRWA and to discuss ways of cooperation between the Agency and Arab countries to mobilize political and financial support for the cause of Palestine refugees.
“Longstanding Arab generosity has often transcended political differences and has contributed to one of the most successful human development stories of the region," said the Commissioner-General. "I truly hope this will remain to be the case this year and beyond, until there is a political solution that includes the end to the plight of Palestine refugees.”

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/222343-unrwa-arab-donors-your-historic-solidarity-now-more-needed-ever




Date: 08 March 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE FOR INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY  New York, 8 March 2023
Content: 08 March 2023
On International Women’s Day, we celebrate the achievements of women and girls across all walks of life, in all corners of the world.
But we also recognize the enormous obstacles they face — from structural injustices, marginalization, and violence, to cascading crises that affect them first and worst, to the denial of their personal autonomy and rights over their bodies and lives.
Gender-based discrimination harms everyone – women, girls, men, and boys.
International Women’s Day is a call to action.
Action to stand with women who are demanding their fundamental rights at great personal cost.
Action to strengthen protection against sexual exploitation and abuse.
And action to accelerate women’s full participation and leadership.
This year’s theme stresses the need for technology and innovation to advance gender equality.
Technology can expand pathways to education and opportunities for women and girls.
But it can also be used to amplify abuse and hatred.
Today, women make up under a third of the workforce in science, technology, engineering, and maths.
And when women are under-represented in developing new technologies, discrimination may be baked in from the start.
That is why we must close the digital divide and increase the representation of women and girls in science and technology.
Women’s exclusion from the digital world has shaved an estimated $1 trillion from the GDP of low- and middle-income countries in the last decade — a loss that could grow to $1.5 trillion by 2025 without action.
Investing in women uplifts all people, communities, and countries.
Let us work together – across governments, the private sector and civil society –to build a more inclusive, just, and prosperous world for women, girls, men, and boys everywhere.
***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/222254-secretary-general-message-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-new-york-8-march-2023




Date: 11 February 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL'S MESSAGE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL DAY  OF WOMEN AND GIRLS IN SCIENCE
Content: 11 February 2023
The message will be played at the official segment in Conf. Room 4 around 3:30 pm on 10 February 2023.
On this International Day of Women and Girls in Science, we highlight a simple equation: More women and girls in science equals better science.

Women and girls bring diversity to research, expand the pool of science professionals, and provide fresh perspectives to science and technology, benefiting everyone.

There is growing evidence that gender bias in science is leading to worse outcomes, from drug tests that treat the female body as an aberration, to search algorithms that perpetuate bias and discrimination.

Yet in too many places around the world, women and girls’ access to education is limited or denied completely.

As women look to progress in scientific careers, inequalities and discrimination continue to thwart their potential.

Women make up under a third of the workforce across science, technology, engineering, and maths and even less in cutting edge fields. Just one in five professionals working on Artificial Intelligence is a woman.

We must – and we can – do more to promote women and girl scientists:

Through scholarships, internships, and training programmes that provide a platform to succeed.

Through quotas, retention incentives, and mentorship programmes that help women overcome entrenched hurdles and build a career.

And crucially, by affirming women’s rights and breaking down stereotypes, biases, and structural barriers.

We can all do our part to unleash our world’s enormous untapped talent – starting with filling classrooms, laboratories, and boardrooms with women scientists.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/218862-secretary-generals-message-international-day-women-and-girls-science




Date: 06 February 2023
Title: MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY OF ZERO TOLERANCE TO FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION  New York, 6 February 2023
Content: 06 February 2023


Female genital mutilation is an abhorrent violation of fundamental human rights that causes lifelong damage to the physical and mental health of women and girls.  It is one of the most vicious manifestations of the patriarchy that permeates our world.

Some 4.2 million girls are at risk of being subjected to this act of gender-based violence during 2023 alone.  We need urgent investments and action to reach the Sustainable Development Goals target of eliminating female genital mutilation by 2030.

Female genital mutilation is rooted in the same gender inequalities and complex social norms that limit women’s participation and leadership and restrict their access to education and employment.  This discrimination damages the whole of society, and we need urgent action by the whole of society to end it.

Men and boys – brothers, fathers, health workers, teachers, and traditional leaders – can be powerful allies in challenging and ending this scourge, as this year’s theme makes clear.

I call on men and boys everywhere to join me in speaking out and stepping forward to end female genital mutilation, for the benefit of all.

On the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation, let’s commit to social change and strong partnerships to put an end to female genital mutilation once and for all.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/217957-message-international-day-zero-tolerance-female-genital-mutilation-new-york-6-february-2023




Date: 31 January 2023
Title: UNFPA launches Guardian Girls Global Karate Project, with KIF, World Karate Federation
Content: 31 January 2023

UNFPA Egypt launched the Guardian Girls Global Karate Project, in partnership with the Koyamada International Foundation (KIF), and the World Karate Federation (WKF) on January 28, to empower girls and young women to overcome gender-based violence through Karate training.
The project includes a series of self-defense seminars where girls and young women can learn tools to confront situations of violence on January 28-29.
This comes as part of the Guardian Girls project, which is the result of a global agreement between UNFPA and KIF in 2019. The Guardian Girls project activities have been implemented in several countries in Africa.
The activities kicked off with a self-defense Karate Seminar by Amy Connell of Scotland, a two‐time European Championships medalist, Commonwealth champion, and a specialist in women’s empowerment activities, together with two‐time World champion and Olympic Games medalist Giana Farouk of Egypt.
The launch was attended by Minister of Youth and Sports Dr. Ashraf Sobhy, UNFPA Representative in Egypt Frederika Meijer, Ambassador of Japan to Egypt, Oka Hiroshi, President of WFK Antonio Espinos, youth KIF Co-Founder and President Nia Lyte, and President of the Egyptian Karate Federation Mohamed Al Dahrawy.
Lastly, a special demonstration to showcase Karate’s social contribution to eradicate Gender‐Based Violence will take place at the Cairo International Stadium on Sunday, January 29 during the finals of the Karate 1‐Premier League, which is currently taking place in Cairo.
About the Koyamada International Foundation
The Koyamada International Foundation is an international non‐profit organization founded in 2008 by international celebrity Shin Koyamada and his wife, Nia Lyte. With headquarters in Los Angeles and national chapters around the world, KIF manages global initiatives and operations in strategic partnerships with the United Nations and other international organizations.
Official website – kifglobal.org
About the United Nations Population Fund
UNFPA is the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency. UNFPA's mission is to deliver a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person's potential is fulfilled. UNFPA calls for the realization of reproductive rights for all and supports access to a wide range of sexual and reproductive health services, including voluntary family planning, quality maternal health care and comprehensive sexuality education.
Official website – Egypt.unfpa.org
About the World Karate Federation
The WKF is the international governing body of Karate. With 200 National Federations and headquarters in Madrid (Spain), the WKF manages the sport of Karate for its over 100 million fans around the world, and it organizes Karate events worldwide.
Official website – www.wkf.net.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/217240-unfpa-launches-guardian-girls-global-karate-project-kif-world-karate-federation




Date: 24 January 2023
Title: UNRWA APPEALS FOR US$ 1.6 BILLION FOR HEALTH, EDUCATION AND OTHER BASIC SERVICES
Content: 24 January 2023

GENEVA- The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) appealed today for US$ 1.6 billion for programmes and operations in 2023.
“Across all the area of operations, UNRWA continues to play an indispensable role in the lives of millions of Palestine refugees. We work to maintain the delivery of basic services in an incredibly difficult financial and political context,” said UNRWA Commissioner-General Phillippe Lazzarini. “Palestine refugees – one of the most underprivileged communities in the region- face unprecedented challenges and increasingly rely on UNRWA for basic services and in some cases the sheer survival.”
Compounding challenges over the last year including underfunding, competing global crises, inflation, disruption in the supply chain, geopolitical dynamics and skyrocketing levels of poverty and unemployment among Palestine refugees have put immense strain on UNRWA. Most Palestine refugees now live below the poverty line, many depend on humanitarian assistance, including cash and food, from UNRWA.
“I have just come back from Syria where I witnessed firsthand indescribable suffering and despair. The situation of Palestine Refugees there is sadly mirrored in other places like Lebanon and Gaza where Palestine refugees are hitting rock bottom. Many told me that all they asked for was a life of dignity, that’s not much to ask for,” continued the Commissioner-General.
As the only UN agency that provides public-sector-like services directly, UNRWA is globally recognized for cost-effectiveness, efficiency, and quality. UNRWA runs a full-fledged education system with over 700 schools providing education to more than half a million children in the region. Its workforce of nearly 30,000 -mostly Palestine Refugees- provides health, sanitation, education and social services including food and cash assistance.
“For more than 70 years, UNRWA has been delivering and responding to the needs of Palestine Refugees against all odds, shouldering a huge responsibility until a just and lasting political solution is found. We cannot and should not be always scrambling to bring in funds to cover our contribution to human rights and stability. I call for a more sustainable model of funding to this critical Agency under which UNRWA has a predictable, long term and regular source of funding. Without it, we will simply not be able to deliver and with that the lives of Palestine Refugees will hang by a thread and millions of people in the region and beyond will be impacted,” says Commissioner-General Lazzarini.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/216494-unrwa-appeals-us-16-billion-health-education-and-other-basic-services




Date: 05 January 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- NEW YEAR’S MESSAGE 2023
Content: 05 January 2023
Every New Year is a moment of rebirth.

We sweep out the ashes of the old year and prepare for a brighter day.

In 2022, millions of people around the world literally swept out ashes.

From Ukraine to Afghanistan to the Democratic Republic of the Congo and beyond, people left the ruins of their homes and lives in search of something better.

Around the world, one hundred million people were on the move, fleeing wars, wildfires, droughts, poverty and hunger.

In 2023, we need peace, now more than ever.

Peace with one another, through dialogue to end conflict.

Peace with nature and our climate, to build a more sustainable world.

Peace in the home, so women and girls can live in dignity and safety.

Peace on the streets and in our communities, with the full protection of all human rights.

Peace in our places of worship, with respect for each other’s beliefs.

And peace online, free from hate speech and abuse.

In 2023, let’s put peace at the heart of our words and actions.

Together, let’s make 2023 a year when peace is restored to our lives, our homes, and our world.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/214259-secretary-general-new-year%E2%80%99s-message-2023




Date: 21 December 2022
Title: The 3rd Egyptian Combat Convoy Company Receives the United Nations Medal
Content: 21 December 2022


One-hundred and ten members of the 3rd Egyptian Combat Convoy Company were awarded the United Nations medal on 20 December 2022, as a tangible recognition of the peacekeepers’ efforts and achievements.

The Egyptian company, based in Mopti, Mali, has participated in many missions since its deployment to the Center region in 2018; successfully completing 43 logistic convoys that have delivered medical aid and rations to blue helmets throughout the country.

However, these four years of service have not been without challenges, reminded Colonel Selim SHREEF, Commander of the Company, during the event on 20 December 2022. Due to the dangerous nature of their work and the complex situation in Mali, the company has tragically experienced 5 casualties because of Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) throughout 2022.

Their lost brothers-in-arms were solemnly remembered during the ceremony, and the company’s valour was recognised by MINUSMA Force Commander Lieutenant-General Cornelis MATTHIJSSEN, who acknowledged 2022 had been a challenging year in a high IED-threat environment for all units deployed within MINUSMA.

“As a Combat Convoy Company you were faced with a very difficult task, but also an important one. You facilitate the movement of convoys, and thus the logistics towards our colleagues in more remote camps. You ensure their materials, their fuel, their food, their livelihoods. And that makes you indispensable,” said General MATTHIJSSEN. “You faced this challenging task in Mali, losing five of your colleagues in the course of your tour,” he added.


Despite the obstacles, the company has shown dedication to overcome them in order to accomplish its mission. It has effectively implemented intensive training programs to improve convoy movement techniques, which will protect the lives of their peacekeepers as they continue to serve in Mali. Over the last few months, the company has also enhanced its IED search and detect capabilities and developed careful maintenance schedules for their vehicles, to ensure they are able to continue working in the service of peace and apply best practices to the benefit of the force and the mission.

Following a fitness and martial arts display that highlighted the rigorous training undergone by all company members, an awards ceremony honoured the 110 members of this company for their bravery and dedication to peace.
The United Nations medal is an international decoration awarded by the UN to military personnel who are in the service of the United Nations.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/212744-3rd-egyptian-combat-convoy-company-receives-united-nations-medal




Date: 13 December 2022
Title: League of Arab States and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime hold meeting to discuss supporting Arab States in preventing and combating crime, terrorism, and health threats and strengthening criminal justice systems
Content: 13 December 2022
Cairo -The Legal Affairs Department at the General Secretariate of the League of Arab States (LAS) and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) are holding the sixth steering and follow-up committee meeting of the Regional Programme for the Arab States to Prevent and Combat Crime, Terrorism and Health Threats and Strengthen Criminal Justice Systems in Line with International Human Rights Standards (2016-2022) during the period of 13 – 15 December 2022 in Cairo. The meeting is in the framework of the annual review and examination of activities and projects implemented within the Regional Programme (2016-2022) and in preparations for the “Regional Framework for Arab States (2023 – 2028).
The Regional Framework for the Arab States (2023 – 2028) will act as the overarching strategic framework for cooperation between UNODC, 18 participating Member States and LAS. It frames how UNODC will strengthen, prioritize, customize, and deliver support to the Arab region in effective response to some of the most pressing challenges faced by these countries and in connection with UNODC’s mandates and specialties. It lays out a roadmap to guide UNODC programming and to accelerate progress towards Agenda 2030 in pursuit of key Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and deliver better in response to latest recommendations issued by the fifth meeting of the Steering and Follow-up Committee Meeting such as investing further in research and information gathering and the response to emerging forms of crime.
The Regional Framework articulates six focus areas for guiding UNODC-implemented programming at the regional and national levels, whilst applying six key accelerators across all programmatic interventions to speed up progress and maximize efforts towards fast-tracking the SDGs: A balanced approach to drug control; Strengthening the response to organized crime; Combating trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants; Action against corruption and financial crime; Preventing and countering terrorism and violence; and  Strengthening crime/violence prevention and criminal justice.
The programme will also support UNODC’s partnership expansion with Member States in the region to include current vital Ministries and Institutions relevant to youth, solidarity, education, culture, human rights, countering corruption; in addition to previous partnerships with the Ministries of Justice, Interior, and Health.
The meeting will be attended by representatives of the relevant ministries and bodies of the Arab States, namely:  Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, and Yemen.

For more information on the United Nations activities around the world, in the Arab region and in Egypt, please follow our webpage and social media accounts, where you will find the latest developments on the work of the United Nations.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/211228-league-arab-states-and-united-nations-office-drugs-and-crime-hold-meeting-discuss-supporting




Date: 10 December 2022
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL'S MESSAGE ON HUMAN RIGHTS DAY
Content: 10 December 2022

New York, 10 December 2022

The world is facing unprecedented and interlocking challenges to human rights.
Hunger and poverty are increasing – an affront to the economic and social rights of hundreds of millions of people.
Civic space is shrinking.
Media freedom and the safety of journalists are in dangerous decline in almost every region of the world.
Trust in institutions is evaporating, especially among young people.
The COVID-19 pandemic has led to increased levels of violence against women and girls.
Racism, intolerance and discrimination are running rampant.
New human rights challenges are emerging from the triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution.
And we are only beginning to grasp the threat posed to human rights by some new technologies.
These trying times call for a reignition of our commitment to all human rights - civil, cultural, economic, political and social.
The Call to Action I launched in 2020 positions human rights at the centre of solutions to the challenges we face.
This vision is reflected in my report on Our Common Agenda, which calls for a renewed social contract, anchored in human rights.
The 75th anniversary of the landmark Universal Declaration on Human Rights next year must be an opportunity for action.
I urge Member States, civil society, the private sector and others to put human rights at the heart of efforts to reverse today’s damaging trends.
Human rights are the foundation for human dignity, and the cornerstone of peaceful, inclusive, fair, equal and prosperous societies.
They are a unifying force and a rallying cry.
They reflect the most fundamental thing we share – our common humanity.
On this Human Rights Day, we reaffirm the universality and indivisibility of all rights, as we stand up for human rights for all.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/210991-secretary-generals%C2%A0message-human-rights-day




Date: 08 November 2022
Title: United Nations in Egypt Pavilion at COP 27
Content: 08 November 2022


Sharm Al shiekh – from 6 November to 18 November 2022

Arab Republic of Egypt, 7 November 2022 (United Nations Information Centre in Cairo) – As part of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27) taking place in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, from November 6 to 18, 2022, The UN family in Egypt will be represented at COP 27 by the "UN Pavilion in Egypt" in the conference Blue Zone.
Starting from 9 November to 17 November 2022, UN Egypt Pavilion side events are aligned with COP27 international agenda, with a special focus on the various programs, activities, and initiatives of the UN in Egypt, all coming under the theme "One Pavilion for One United Nations in Egypt" to highlight the policy of the UN system in Egypt in dealing with climate issues counting on the pillars of the work of the United Nations in Egypt , are: human capital, key social services, economic development, governance and empowerment of women and girls.

COP27 will build on the outcomes of COP26 to deliver action on a range of critical issues to address the climate emergency, including urgently reducing greenhouse gas emissions, strengthening resilience and adaptation to the inevitable effects of climate change, and meeting commitments to finance climate action in developing countries. COP27 aims to renew international solidarity in order to achieve the historic goals of the Paris Agreement for people and the planet.

Heads of state, ministers, and negotiators, from governments, regional organizations, and intergovernmental organizations, along with climate activists, civil society representatives and CEOs, will gather in the Egyptian city of Sharm el-Sheikh for the largest annual gathering on climate action.

COP27 is the “implementation” COP, focused on moving from words to actions. “Implementation” is also the area where the international climate dialogue can be most relevant to countries—including Egypt. COP27 will also be concerned in moving from negotiations to "planning for implementation" of all the promises and pledges made.

The United Nations Pavilion in Egypt also emphasizes Egyptian national climate and sustainable development issues.

The events will include discussions focused on enhancing implementation across priority issues, as well as an opportunity to network with heads of UN agencies, CEOs of private institutions, and civil society representatives to develop practical, impactful, and ambitious solutions to several climate challenges, including mitigation, adaptation, and financing. In addition, stakeholders' voices will be heard, and they will have the opportunity to showcase solutions and effectively engage in critical global dialogue on climate action implementation, with a strong emphasis on a just transition.

Media representatives who are interested in participating virtually in the side events are encouraged to join via the UN in Egypt Facebook page; the online Side Events Agenda is now available on the United Nations in Egypt website.

The necessary facilities will also be provided for journalists at the conference venue at Sharm Al Shiekh International Conference Center.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/206438-united-nations-egypt-pavilion-cop-27




Date: 21 October 2022
Title: The British University in Egypt and the UNDP Concludes the International COP27 Simulation Model Mock Conference
Content: 21 October 2022

The British University in Egypt (BUE) in collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) concluded the second stage of the International COP27 Simulation Model -the Mock Conference - on Thursday, 18th October 2022. The conference took place over three days from 18th October till October 20th. The Model is organized under the auspices of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and H.E. Professor Mahmoud Mohieldin, the COP27 High-Level Climate Action Champion.

This Simulation Model Mock Conference comes as part of The British University in Egypt’s awareness and education role in the COP27 Conference taking place in Sharm El-Sheikh in November; as the University is a member of the High-level taskforce supporting the COP27, chaired by the Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research, H.E. Ayman Ashour, and involving a number of Egyptian Universities in addition to members from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other entities involved in the COP27.

The Mock Conference witnessed the attendance and participation of prominent keynote speakers, amongst them the University President and Vice-Chancellor Professor Mohamed Loutfi, British Ambassador to Egypt, H.E. Ambassador Gareth Bayley and UK Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office, Minister for Africa, H.E. Ambassador Gillian Keegan as well as Resident Representative, UNDP Mr. Alessandro Fracasetti, , Dr. Abeer Shakweer- UNDP Assistant Resident Representative, and Dr. Sarah El-Khishin- Associate Professor of Economics and the Head of the COP27 Simulation Model. The Keynote Closing Address was given by H.E. Professor Mahmoud Mohieldin.

H.E. Professor Moheildin said “I would like to commend the efforts and the excellent achievement of The British University in Egypt in hosting this big simulation; I am a strong  believer in the power of simulation in advancing knowledge and preparing the participants of such simulation models for the future. The value of simulation supported by good research and good education material provide an excellent approach to new and modern education and by making students aware of the current challenges and aware of their role in society.” H.E. Mohieldin added “the role of universities in supporting the preparation of cop27 is a very important through engagement of the education process, the students and teachers of universities to prepare their students to engage better for providing solutions not just understanding problems and through research and enhancing our evidence-based approach in policy making.

Professor Mohamed Loutfi added “We are honored to support Egypt’s Presidency of the COP27  by taking the outcomes of this activity and the youth voices to Sharm El-Sheikh.In this regard I am proud to announce that the outcomes of the COP27 Simulation will be presented in Sharm El-Sheikh through different channels; most notably an independent side event organized on November 10th in the Green Zone, and the UNDP’s Pavilion in the Blue Zone. Also, the drafted statement (from the Simulation) will also be included in the Global Youth Statement which will be in the opening of the Youth Day.”

Mr. Alessandro Fracassetti, UNDP Resident Representative in Egypt. “We are pleased to partner with the British University in Egypt for the COP27 Simulation. The COP27 simulation model brought together 130 students from 25 countries and 55 national and international universities to learn and debate climate change, allowing youth to develop and present a climate statement at the COP27. Our partnership showcases our commitment to support and give youth the space to learn, exchange knowledge, and be innovative.”

H.E. Ambassador Gillian Keegan stated “I am delighted to join you all as you turn your hand, your heads to solving one of the biggest problems and challenges of our generations in International Climate Change Crisis and I also want to thank the British University in Egypt and Professor Mohamed Loutfi for hosting this initiative and also congratulations to the students who built this; two days ago this was the scene for the largest run in Egypt and now we are sitting here in this wonderful exhibition” H.E. Ambassador Keegan elaborated “The dilemmas, judgments, and tradeoffs that are in front of you are exactly the same dilemmas, judgments, and tradeoffs that every COP presidency and every COP delegation is facing. This is a critical moment, as we approach COP27 let’s make sure all delegations keep their eyes on the prize of 1.5 degrees Net Zero and Green Growth”

British Ambassador to Egypt, H.E. Ambassador Gareth Bayley, said: “As outgoing COP president, the UK takes great pride in growing and strengthening our green partnership with Egypt, especially when it comes to the role of youth. Having attended the COP27 Simulator, a global event hosted by the British University in Egypt and having seen for myself the real knowledge and passion of young people in dealing with the climate crisis, I’m aware of the seriousness of the issue, but inspired by the young voices calling for change. If we all work together, across borders, ages, and backgrounds, and keep 1.5 degrees in sight, we can protect our planet from the worst effects of climate change.”

Dr. Abeer Shakweer, UNDP Assistant Resident Representative, explained that the simulation model gave a fair opportunity for youth from different countries of the world to learn and discuss climate issues and allowed them to convey their voices to world leaders, as their recommendations will be formulated during the simulation model to be included in the COP27. It will also be discussed in a session at the UN Pavilion on November 10, the day dedicated to youth during COP27.

Dr. Sarah El-Khishin, the Head of the COP27 Simulation Model, highlighted The COP27 Simulation Model comes as part of the University’s commitment to support the global climate agenda to support Egypt’s presidency of the COP27. This is a global youth-led climate conference. In the first stage of the model, participants received an intensive capacity-building programme on international climate action and the role of youth in climate action. They were also trained on diplomacy and conflict management. During the mock conference, participants simulated COP27 plenary sessions, and the roles of chief negotiators for the main negotiating groups and heads of delegations for 24 countries and 7 negotiating groups including G7, LMDCs, EU, and Umbrella groups. They also simulated non-state actors such as WMO, Greenpeace, and IMF.  She added, “The outcomes of the COP27 Simulation – which will be drafted in a climate statement that incorporates all the participating youth voices and proposed solutions - are planned to be taken to Sharm El-Sheikh and will be integrated in the Global Youth Statement and presented in a planned event on November 10th during the youth day sessions.”

For more information on the United Nations activities around the world, in the Arab region and in Egypt, please follow our webpage and social media accounts, where you will find the latest developments on the work of the United Nations.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/204247-british-university-egypt-and-undp-concludes-%C2%A0international-cop27-simulation-model-mock




Date: 16 October 2022
Title: The Secretary-General's Message on World Food Day - 16 October 2022
Content: 16 October 2022



World Food Day 2022 comes at a challenging moment for global food security.
The number of people affected by hunger has more than doubled in the past three years.
Almost a million people are living in famine conditions, with starvation and death a daily reality.
A staggering 3 billion people cannot afford a healthy diet.
The most vulnerable communities are being battered by the COVID-19 pandemic, the climate crisis, environmental degradation, conflict, and deepening inequalities.
The war in Ukraine has accelerated the rise in food and fertilizer and energy prices.
But we can reverse all these trends, if we act together.
There is enough food for everyone in our world this year. But farmers need to urgently access fertilizers at reasonable cost to ensure enough food next year.
The theme of this year’s World Food Day is to “Leave no one behind. Better production, better nutrition, a better environment, and a better life.”
Governments, scientists, the private sector and civil society need to work together to make nutritious diets available and affordable for all.
Financial institutions need to increase their support to developing countries, so they can help their people and invest in food systems.
Together, we must move from despair to hope and action.
On World Food Day and every day, I call on you to be part of the change.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/203544-secretary-generals-message-world-food-day-16-october-2022%C2%A0




Date: 11 October 2022
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE TO THE TENTH ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL DAY OF THE GIRL CHILD
Content: 11 October 2022
On the 10th anniversary of the International Day of the Girl Child, we celebrate the lives and achievements of girls across the world.
When girls are supported to realize their human rights, they can reach their potential and create a better world for themselves, their communities and societies.
When girls are educated, they are more likely to lead healthy, productive and fulfilling lives.
When girls receive the right healthcare, they grow up with greater self-confidence and bodily autonomy.
When girls understand their rights, including the right to live without the threat of violence, they are more likely to stay safe and report abuse.
Many girls today face enormous challenges.
They may have had their education ended by the COVID-19 pandemic.
They may have been forced from their homes by conflict.
They may be unable to exercise their sexual and reproductive rights.
I am extremely concerned by the continued exclusion of girls from school in Afghanistan. This is deeply damaging to girls themselves, and to a country that desperately needs their energy and contributions.
I once again urge the Taliban to let girls learn.
Now more than ever, we must renew our commitment to work together so that girls enjoy and exercise their rights and can play a full and equal part in their communities and societies.
Investing in girls is investing in our common future.
On the International Day of the Girl Child, let’s redouble our efforts to make sure girls everywhere are healthy, educated and safe.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/202859-secretary-general-message-tenth-annual-international-day-girl-child




Date: 27 September 2022
Title: The Government of Egypt, UNDP, the European Union, the African Climate Foundation, Denmark, and Switzerland sign a $6.2 million project to support Egypt’s hosting of COP27
Content: 27 September 2022
Cairo - The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the European Union (EU), the Embassy of Denmark, the Embassy of Switzerland and the African Climate Foundation have signed a new $6.2 million project to support Egypt’s presidency of the 27th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27) to be held in Sharm El-Sheikh from 7–18 November this year.
COP27 is the world’s most important conference about climate change. This new project will bring together partners from the public and private sectors, civil society, and academia to strengthen climate action in support of Egypt’s COP27 Presidency Team.
A signing ceremony marking the launch of the joint project took place at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Egypt, in the presence of Alessandro Fracassetti, UNDP Resident Representative in Egypt, H.E. Ambassador Svend Olling, Ambassador of Denmark to Egypt, H.E. Ambassador Yvonne Baumann, Ambassador of Switzerland to Egypt, Ms. Sophie Vanhaeverbeke, Head of Cooperation, Delegation of the European Union to Egypt, Ambassador Yasser Abed, Director of the Department for International Cooperation for Development, in Egypt’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ambassador Ayman Tharwat, Deputy Director for the Department of Environment, Climate and Sustainable Development, Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA).
The project will support Egypt’s COP27 presidency and its work towards implementing the Paris Agreement through initiatives in several priority areas, including renewable energy, climate change adaptation, and climate security.
Technical expertise and knowledge will be provided through the project to assist Egypt in delivering on its commitments as the host of this year’s conference. This will include expert support for consultations on regional and thematic groupings for inclusive negotiations, the advancement of multidisciplinary initiatives for climate action, and the showcasing of best practices from Africa and other regions.
On behalf of the COP27 Presidency team, Ambassador Ayman Tharwat, Deputy Director for the Department of Environment, Climate and Sustainable Development, MoFA added: "I express my appreciation to our friendly countries and the UNDP as implementation agency in supporting the 27th session of the conference of the parties (COP27) to the UNFCCC hosted in Sharm El Sheikh. Today's signing ceremony is a real manifestation of commitment towards the success of COP27 that aims to pave the way for a new era of implementation and mobilize available resources to combat climate change and ensure just transition."
H.E. Ambassador Christian Berger, the Head of EU Delegation to Egypt, said that: "the agreements signed today are a tangible expression of the European Union's support to Egypt in making COP27 a success! Together with our Egyptian partners, we are committed to lead global action to fight climate change. COP27 will be an important milestone in advancing our common climate agenda.
Speaking at the launch ceremony, UNDP’s Alessandro Fracassetti shared the sense of urgency regarding climate action: “With just forty days to go till COP27, this is a proud moment for UNDP as we join our valued partners and the Government of Egypt in supporting the country’s presidency of this important conference. We recognize the importance of climate change: it is real, urgent, and affecting us all. UNDP is committed to supporting the COP27 Presidency Team in reaching ambitious but realistic and attainable goals.”
During the ceremony, Ambassador of Denmark to Egypt Svend Olling highlighted that: “Denmark is proud to support the Government of Egypt’s COP presidency and furthering the precedent Cairo is setting in the region around climate issues.  Denmark has been committed to walk the talk on fighting climate change; from pushing for ambitious emission-reduction targets to ensuring more climate financing and coming together with our partners on climate action. Our partnership with Egypt is a long-standing example, and so we are glad to witness COP27 in Egypt that works to accelerate climate action, ensuring inclusive, sustainable and ambitious results.”
On the occasion of the signing ceremony, Ambassador of Switzerland to Egypt, H.E. Yvonne Baumann, stated that “Switzerland is pleased to contribute to Egypt’s Climate Change Strategy through its Cooperation Programme. It does so mainly by engaging on green finance, sustainable infrastructures and capacity building for green growth. This is complemented by the current partnership with UNDP and the government of Egypt, supporting the preparation of COP27. We are excited to be part of it.”
Representing the African Climate Foundation (ACF), Faten Aggad said: “As an African-based and African-led foundation, we could not miss the opportunity of joining hands with the COP27 Presidency on this important event on the continent. Climate change is a reality for the African continent, and we are committed to playing our role as philanthropy by supporting African actors to help advance solutions that are fit-for-purpose and relevant to our context".

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/201056-government-egypt-undp-european-union-african-climate-foundation-denmark-and-switzerland-sign




Date: 17 September 2022
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  --  MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY FOR THE PRESERVATION OF THE OZONE LAYER
Content: 17 September 2022


16 September 2022

Today, we celebrate 35 years of the Montreal Protocol’s success in protecting the stratospheric ozone layer against synthetic chemicals that also cause climate heating.  Thanks to a global agreement, humanity has averted a major health catastrophe due to ultraviolet radiation pouring through a massive hole in the ozone layer.

The Montreal Protocol is a success because, when science discovered the threat we all faced, governments and their partners acted.  We adopted a global environmental agreement that has been universally ratified and decisively implemented.

The Montreal Protocol is a powerful example of multilateralism in action.  With the many problems facing the world – from conflicts to growing poverty, deepening inequality and the climate emergency – it is a reminder that we can succeed in working together for the common good.

The Montreal Protocol has already contributed to tackling the climate crisis.  By protecting plants from ultraviolet radiation, allowing them to live and store carbon, it has avoided up to an extra 1 degree Celsius of global warming.  The Protocol’s work to phase out climate-heating gases and improve energy efficiency through its Kigali Amendment can further slow climate disruption.

But, only by mirroring the cooperation and speedy action of the Montreal Protocol elsewhere can we stop the carbon pollution that is dangerously heating our world.  We have a choice: collective action or collective suicide.

On this International Day, let us pledge to emulate the cooperation shown by the Montreal Protocol to end the climate crisis and all our common challenges.  And let us continue to back the Montreal Protocol’s essential work.
***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/199724-secretary-general-message-international-day-preservation-ozone-layer




Date: 23 August 2022
Title: Bassant Hemida named ambassador for UN initiative Shabab Balad
Content: 23 August 2022
Cairo - The gold winner Egyptian sprinter Bassant Hemida was appointed as an ambassador for the UN global initiative Generation Unlimited (Genu) in Egypt, Shabab Balad, which is a multi-lateral platform aiming to unite efforts and direct investments for the benefit of the youth in Egypt and moving them from learning to earning and having positive impact in the society.

Genu was launched by the UN in 2018 as the world’s first Public-Private-Youth Partnership (PPYP) aiming to skill and connect all of the world’s 1.8 billion young people aged 10-24 to opportunities for employment, entrepreneurship, and positive social impact by 2030. The number of this age group in Egypt is 28 million young men and women, about 27% of the population.

Shabab Balad was successfully launched during the World Youth Forum held in Sharm El-Sheikh last January under the auspices of His Excellency President Abdel Fattah Sisi.

Athlete Bassant Hemida has made history at the 2022 Mediterranean Games in Oran, Algeria, becoming the first Egyptian to ever win gold in the 100m sprint. She went on to claim her second gold medal in the 200m sprint.
In her new role, Hemida will support Shabab Balad work for the youth in Egypt and promote the importance of educating, training, skilling and connecting them to the employment opportunities as well as instilling the entrepreneurship concept among the youth.

The nomination ceremony was attended by the UNICEF Representative in Egypt Jeremy Hopkins, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) representative in Egypt Frederika Meijer, the Partnerships and Generation Unlimited Lead at United Nations Dr. Ghada Makday and the representatives of several UN organizations in Egypt.

"Raising awareness of the initiative requires the solidarity of various parties in society, especially the voices inspiring the young people. We are pleased to have the champion sprinter Bassant Hemida join Shabab Balad initiative and looking to have more influencers and opinion leaders joining to help get the message delivered,” Jeremy Hopkins, the UNICEF Representative in Egypt said.

"It is a great honor to have a role in a global initiative for youth in Egypt, that makes them a priority and helps them develop their skills, achieve their ambitions and positively participate in society," said Basant Hemeida, Ambassador of the United Nations Global Initiative in Egypt “Shabab Balad”.
“Young people always carry the torch of hope for a better tomorrow, and it is great to have such a platform that unites the efforts of various parties for the benefit of young people,” she added.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/196102-bassant-hemida-named-ambassador-un-initiative-shabab-balad




Date: 19 August 2022
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON WORLD HUMANITARIAN DAY   New York, 19 August 2022
Content: 19 August 2022

There is a saying: “It takes a village to raise a child.”

It also takes a village to support people living through a humanitarian crisis.

This village includes affected people who are always first to respond when disasters strike — neighbours helping neighbours.

It includes a global community pulling together to support them as they recover and rebuild.

And it includes hundreds of thousands of individual humanitarians — volunteers and professionals alike.

Delivering health care and education.

Food and water.

Shelter and protection.

Help and hope.

Far from the spotlight and out of the headlines, humanitarians work around the clock to make our world a better place.

Against incredible odds, often at great personal risk, they ease suffering in some of the most dangerous circumstances imaginable.

Today, the number of people who need humanitarian assistance has never been higher, because of conflicts, climate change, COVID-19, poverty, hunger and unprecedented levels of displacement.

On this year’s World Humanitarian Day, we celebrate humanitarians everywhere.

We salute their dedication and courage, and pay tribute to those who lost their lives in pursuit of this noble cause.

They represent the best of humanity.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/195625-secretary-general-message-world-humanitarian-day-new-york-19-august-2022




Date: 16 August 2022
Title: United Nations Secretary-General appoints Mr. Simon Stiell of Grenada as Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
Content: 16 August 2022

United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres announced today the appointment of Simon Stiell of Grenada as Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).  The appointment has been made after consultation with the Conference of Parties through its Bureau.
He will succeed Patricia Espinosa of Mexico to whom the Secretary-General is grateful for her commitment and dedicated service to the Organization.  The Secretary-General also wishes to extend his appreciation to the Executive Secretary of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification, Ibrahim Thiaw, who will continue to serve as Acting Executive Secretary of UNFCCC until Mr. Stiell assumes this position.
Mr. Stiell, a true champion for formulating creative approaches for our collective global response to the climate crisis, brings to the position a unique skillset developed over a thirty-three year career, coupled with vast experience in bilateral, regional and multilateral affairs.
Mr. Stiell served as senior minister in the Government of Grenada from 2013 through June 2022, holding the portfolio of Minister for Climate Resilience and the Environment for five years.  He previously served as Minister for Education and Human Resource Development, Minister of State with responsibility for human resource development and the environment and as a Parliamentary Secretary within the Ministry of Agriculture, Lands, Forestry and Fisheries.  He also served as a member of Grenada’s Upper House of Parliament, the Senate, where he served as Leader of Government Business.
Prior to joining government, Mr. Stiell’s career spanned some fourteen years within the technology sector, holding senior executive positions in a number of industry leading companies, from Silicon Valley based technology start-ups to major corporations, including Nokia and GEC Plessey Telecommunications.
Mr. Stiell originally trained as an engineer at London Metropolitan University and College of North West London, and holds a Master of Business Administration from the University of Westminster in the United Kingdom.

New York, 15 August 2022

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/195169-united-nations-secretary-general-appoints-mr-simon-stiell-grenada-executive-secretary-united




Date: 10 August 2022
Title: The Secretary-General's Message for International Youth Day - 12 August
Content: 10 August 2022


Today, we celebrate International Youth Day, and the power of partnerships across generations.

This year’s theme — “Intergenerational Solidarity: Creating a World for All Ages” — reminds us of a basic truth: we need people of all ages, young and old alike, to join forces to build a better world for all.

Too often, ageism, bias and discrimination prevent this essential collaboration. When young people are shut out of the decisions being made about their lives, or when older people are denied a chance to be heard, we all lose.

Solidarity and collaboration are more essential than ever, as our world faces a series of challenges that threaten our collective future.

From COVID-19 to climate change, to conflicts, poverty, inequality and discrimination, we need all hands on deck to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and build the better, more peaceful future we all seek.

We need to support young people with massive investments in education and skills-building — including through next month’s Transforming Education Summit.

We also need to support gender equality and expanded opportunities for young people to participate in civic and political life.

It’s not enough to listen to young people — we need to integrate them into decision-making mechanisms at the local, national and international levels.

This is at the heart of our proposal to establish a new Youth Office at the United Nations.
And we need to ensure that older generations have access to social protection and opportunities to give back to their communities and share the decades of lived experience they have accumulated.

On this important day, let’s join hands across generations to break down barriers, and work as one to achieve a more equitable, just and inclusive world for all people.
***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/194276-secretary-generals-message-international-youth-day-12-august%C2%A0%C2%A0




Date: 01 August 2022
Title: Registration Opens for Africa Climate Week 2022
Content: 01 August 2022
UN Climate Change News, 1 August 2022 – Registration is now open for this year’s Africa Climate Week (ACW 2022), to be held from 29 August to 2 September in Libreville, Gabon.
ACW 2022 is poised to convene key stakeholders, including African Ministers, to provide a platform for regional collaboration. The event will address shared risks and explore shared opportunities to tackle climate change. With governments, private sector leaders, development organizations, youth and civil society attending, discussions will advance on implementation of the Paris Agreement at the regional level. Inspiring examples of climate action already underway will be shared at an Action Hub to showcase what is possible and spur even more action.
UN Climate Change Deputy Executive Secretary Ovais Sarmad said, “As we learned at the UN Climate Change Conference COP26 in Glasgow last year, there is significant value in meeting in person. Trust is a crucial component of success when it comes to reaching agreements, and when collaboration is needed to move forward... We are here to chart a course forward. We are here to unite in the common cause of climate action. We are here to strengthen existing partnerships and forge new ones. We are here to take a meaningful step down the road to COP27 in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, in November.”
Tanguy Gahouma, Special Advisor to the President of Gabon, put ACW 2022 into perspective for the future of Africa. He said, “Climate change is the world’s greatest challenge, with the impact already felt here in Africa and around the world. Gabon is pleased to host Africa Climate Week 2022 and bring together leaders, experts and stakeholders to meet this challenge together. The Paris Agreement has given us a clear mandate for action. The Glasgow Climate Pact has given us a common set of rules to advance action together. Africa Climate Week 2022 is our opportunity to build momentum ahead of COP27 in Egypt this November. The implementation COP27 is in Africa, so let’s advance implementation in Africa.”
ACW 2022 is hosted by the Government of Gabon and organized by UN Climate Change in collaboration with global partners UN Development Programme, UN Environment Programme and the World Bank Group. Partners in the region include the Africa Union, the Africa Development Bank (AfDB), the UN Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) and UN Gabon.
Stakeholders are encouraged to register now for ACW 2022 and join leaders, experts and practitioners from across Africa to address regional risk, seek sustainable solutions and forge partnerships for climate action.
To register, visit the ACW 2022 Registration page and apply today. Registration is easy and free of charge, but space is limited in the venue. Registration approval is performed in collaboration with the host government of Gabon, so please be aware that a separate visa application is needed to attend ACW 2022. There is significant interest in ACW 2022, so participants are encouraged to register as early as possible to join in Libreville on 29 August.
Africa Climate Week 2022 is part of the Regional Climate Weeks 2022 series. MENA Climate Week 2022 kicked off the series in March in Dubai and engaged almost 4,000 people over four days. LAC Climate Week 2022took place 18-22 July in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
Visit www.regionalclimateweeks.org to explore the Regional Climate Weeks 2022, watch videos and see how the Weeks build momentum towards COP27.
MORE INFORMATION
For media inquiries, contact UN Climate Change at press@unfccc.int or John Hay at jhay@unfccc.int. For inquiries in French, please contact Siyad Fayoumi at sfayoumi@unfccc.int. Please note that news media need to register for ACW 2022 as regular participants.
For more information, visit www.regionalclimateweeks.org
Join the conversation on social media using the hashtag #AfricaClimateWeek
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/197055-registration-opens-africa-climate-week-2022




Date: 01 August 2022
Title: Joint Press Release – NCCPIM&TIP, UNODC, IOM, ILO, and EU World Day Against Trafficking in Persons
Content: 01 August 2022

Cairo - 30th July of each year marks the World Day against Trafficking in Persons (TIP). During this day, the world emphasizes the significance of combatting TIP crimes, protecting victims, and bringing perpetrators to justice. TIP is an organized crime that is often transnational in nature. As per the UN Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, a protocol to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, trafficking in persons comes in different forms with the sole purpose of exploiting vulnerable human beings. It affects girls and women as well as boys and men. Marking this day is a reminder of the importance of coordinating efforts to continue the fight against this inhumane crime. It also draws the attention of many citizens to the issue and promotes and protects the rights of victims of trafficking in persons.
The National Coordinating Committee for Combating and Preventing Illegal Migration and Trafficking in Persons (NCCPIM&TIP), the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the International Labour Organization (ILO) together with the European Union (EU) joined hands to collectively commemorate the fight against the crime through an event at the Egyptian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At this event, an awareness raising video was showcased to provide knowledge of the situation of victims of trafficking and encourage the prevention of the crime of TIP. The video was disseminated across the partners’ social media to reach members of the public who have a role in ending trafficking in persons and supporting survivors.
On this occasion, Egyptian Prime Minister Dr. Mostafa Madbouly noted in his statement that “Over the past year, Egypt has made significant achievements at the national, regional and international levels in this regard. The Third National Strategy for Preventing and Combating Trafficking in Persons (2022-2026) tops the list of positive developments which we are proud to have drafted after assessing what we have done, examining and analyzing what needs to be developed, updated and what requires more financial and technical resources for completion…there is no doubt that our efforts to strengthen protection activities are our concern in light of international givens, be it political or economic. Moreover, President Abdel Fattah El Sisi’s directives come to consolidate and crystallize this conviction. He highlighted the coordinating role played by NCCPIM&TIP between the parties concerned with countering and preventing the crime.”
H.E. Ambassador Naela Gabr, Chairperson of NCCPIM&TIP, asserted that the “Use and Abuse of Technology in the Field of Trafficking in Persons" is the theme of this year's World Day against Trafficking in Persons. Here, we agree that modern technology is an effective tool in detecting the crime of trafficking in persons. But at the same time, it helps perpetrators benefit from these technological means in exploiting the most vulnerable and avoid being subject to the law. Egypt, as one of the main countries in the Group of Friends United against Trafficking in Persons in New York, took part in the draft resolution that clearly addressed this dimension. Accordingly, The Egyptian government also considered this Serious dimension when conducting its third national strategy to combat trafficking in persons 2022-2026, as it was included in its pillars, especially raising awareness and building national capacities.”
Ms. Cristina Albertin, UNODC Regional Representative for the Middle East and North Africa affirmed that “The fight against Trafficking in Persons requires the full engagement and partnership amongst partners involved, on all levels (national, regional, and international). Our collective response should cope with and adapt to the dynamic nature of the crime. Having technology playing two-faceted roles in this crime makes it more challenging for detection, and rescuing. With improved responses, we can help reduce the vulnerability of victims being discriminated, re-victimized, and re-trafficked..”.
Also, Mr. Laurent De Boeck, IOM’s Egypt Chief of Mission added that “The theme of the campaign of this year is the “Use and Abuse of Technology”. This represents a very specific angle which is a response to a growing issue, sometimes difficult to control. The increasing number of online materials, advertisements or sites in the search for employment shows how creative the traffickers are getting over the years. Because we are talking about innocent victims made vulnerable by unscrupulous traffickers, whose only objective is to make profit regardless of any ethical approach, it is our duty at IOM to also leverage technology to counter them. The counter–human trafficking community is often the only chance for the potential victims to avoid a life disaster. We must use technology to combat trafficking and increase support for technology-based solutions for investigations, prosecutions, raising-awareness, and providing services to victims”.
Mr. Eric Oechslin, Director of the ILO‘s Cairo Country Office for Egypt and Eritrea expressed that “more than 25 million people worldwide were in forced labour for the commercial gain of others at the beginning of 2020. He added that according to ILO estimates there are at least 2.4 million trafficked persons at any given point in time.
In his speech, the Director indicated that human traffickers are increasingly using technology to recruit and exploit victims as well as linking buyers and sellers, in order to conceal their identity as it provides anonymity and allows a range of payment methods such as virtual currencies. Thus, cooperation and partnerships are crucial to combat this crime.”.
H.E. Ambassador Christian Berger, Head of the EU Delegation to the Arab Republic of Egypt emphasized that “Human Trafficking is a serious crime that abuses people's fundamental rights and dignity. It is a complex crime that can take cruel and profitable forms, incurring tremendous costs to the victims, and on society as a whole. For that, awareness plays a key role, by using the right language and putting out targeted messages that will support the mobilization of the public to help prevent and combat this crime.”
The commemoration is unique as it combines the engagement and cooperation between three UN agencies, NCCPIM&TIP, and the EU to strengthen action towards ending TIP.

For further information, please contact:
Ms. Hagar Tarek
NCCPIM&TIP, Counter Human Trafficking Senior Researcher 
Email: thagar030@gmail.com
Ms. Nermine Abdelhamid
UNODC ROMENA, Communications and Visibility Officier
Email: nermine.abdelhamid@un.org

Ms. Lobna Nahla
IOM Egypt Country Office, Counter Trafficking Team
Email: IOMEgyptCTteam@iom.int

Ms. Asmaa Rezk
ILO Cairo Country Office, Senior Communication and Information Management Assistant
Email: rezk@ilo.org
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/192991-joint-press-release-%E2%80%93-nccpimtip-unodc-iom-ilo-and-eu-world-day-against-trafficking-persons




Date: 18 July 2022
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL   --   VIDEO REMARKS TO PETERSBERG DIALOGUE
Content: 18 July 2022

Berlin, Germany

Excellencies,

Eight months ago we left COP26 with 1.5 on life support.

Since then, its pulse has weakened further.

Greenhouse gas concentrations, sea level rise and ocean heat have broken new records.

Half of humanity is in the danger zone from floods, droughts, extreme storms and wildfires.

No nation is immune.

Yet we continue to feed our fossil fuel addiction.

What troubles me most is that, in facing this global crisis, we are failing to work together as a multilateral community.

Nations continue to play the blame game instead of taking responsibility for our collective future.

We cannot continue this way.

We must rebuild trust and come together -- to keep 1.5 alive and to build climate-resilient communities.

Promises made must be promises kept.

We need to move forward together on all fronts.

Mitigation.

Adaptation.

Finance.

Loss and Damage.

To protect people and the planet we need an all-of-the-above approach that delivers on each of these pillars of the Paris Agreement -- at pace and at scale.

Time is no longer on our side.

First, we need to reduce emissions -- now.

Everyone needs to revisit their Nationally Determined Contributions.

We need to demonstrate at COP27 that a renewables revolution is under way.

There is enormous potential for a just energy transition that accelerates coal phase-out with a corresponding deployment of renewables.

The agreement with South Africa last November sets a good precedent.

Partnerships under discussion with Indonesia and Vietnam are also significant.

They embody the potential of working together in a multilateral and collaborative spirit.

But let me be clear: these efforts should be additional – not a replacement -- to the support that developing countries need to ensure their transition to a net-zero and climate-resilient future.

I look to the G7 and the G20 to show leadership – on NDCs, on renewables and on working together in good faith.

Second, we must treat adaptation with the urgency it needs.

One in three people lack early warning systems coverage.

People in Africa, South Asia and Central and South America are fifteen times more likely to die from extreme weather events.

This great injustice cannot persist.

Let’s ensure universal early warning systems coverage in the next five years, as a start.

And let’s demonstrate how we can double adaptation finance to $40 billion dollars a year and how you will scale it up to equal mitigation finance.

Third, let’s get serious about the finance that developing countries need.

At a minimum, stop paying lip service to the $100 billion dollars a year pledge.

Give clarity through deadlines and timelines and get concrete on its delivery.

And let’s ensure that those who need funding most can access it.

As shareholders of multilateral development banks, developed countries must demand immediate delivery of the investments and assistance needed to expand renewable energy and build climate-resilience in developing countries.

Demand that these banks become fit-for-purpose.

Demand that they change their tired frameworks and policies to take more risk and dramatically improve their dismal private investment mobilization ratio of 29 cents to the dollar.

They should increase funding that does not require sovereign guarantees.

And they should use partnerships and instruments to take on risk that will unleash the trillions of dollars of private investment we need.

Let’s show developing countries that they can rely on their partners.

Fourth, loss and damage has languished on the sidelines for too long.

It is eroding the trust we need to tackle the climate emergency together.

I have seen first-hand the impact of sea level rise, crippling drought and devastating floods.

Loss and damage is happening now.

We need a concrete global response that addresses the needs of the world’s most vulnerable people, communities and nations.

The first step is to create a space within the multilateral climate process to address this issue -- including on finance for loss and damage.

Excellencies,

This has to be the decade of decisive climate action.

That means trust, multilateralism and collaboration.

We have a choice.  Collective action or collective suicide.

It is in our hands.

Thank you.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/190793-secretary-general%C2%A0-%C2%A0-video-remarks-petersberg-dialogue%C2%A0




Date: 11 July 2022
Title: The Secretary-General .. Message on World Population Day
Content: 11 July 2022
This year’s World Population Day falls during a milestone year, when we anticipate the birth of the Earth’s eight billionth inhabitant.

This is an occasion to celebrate our diversity, recognize our common humanity, and marvel at advancements in health that have extended lifespans and dramatically reduced maternal and child mortality rates.

At the same time, it is a reminder of our shared responsibility to care for our planet and a moment to reflect on where we still fall short of our commitments to one another.

Amidst COVID-19, the climate crisis, wars and conflicts, humanitarian emergencies, hunger and poverty, our world is in peril.

We still live in a world of vast gender inequality – and we are witnessing renewed assaults on women’s rights, including on essential health services. Complications related to pregnancy and childbirth are still the leading cause of death among girls aged 15 to 19.
Reaching a global population of eight billion is a numerical landmark, but our focus must always be on people.

In the world we strive to build, 8 billion people means 8 billion opportunities to live dignified and fulfilled lives.

When we act on our shared values, we contribute to our common future.

Let us work together towards greater equality and solidarity to ensure that our planet can support our needs and those of future generations.

Let us protect human rights and the ability of all individuals to make informed choices about whether and when to have children.

And let us renew our promise to fully implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development for a sustainable and inclusive future for all eight billion of us, leaving no one behind.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/189765-secretary-general-message-world-population-day%C2%A0




Date: 06 July 2022
Title: Government of Egypt and UN hold second meeting of Joint Platform for Migrants and Refugees in Egypt
Content: 06 July 2022
Cairo, 6 July 2022 - On Monday 4 July 2022, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the United Nations in Egypt held the second meeting of the Joint Platform for Migrants and Refugees in Egypt. The meeting, hosted at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, focused on enhancing education and health services for migrants and refugees as well as means of implementation. On this occasion, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the UN in Egypt, as co-chairs of the Joint Platform, launched a report “Common Situational Analysis on Education and Health Services for Migrants and Refugees in Egypt”. The study was jointly prepared by the Government of Egypt and the UN in Egypt and presented by the Chief of Mission of IOM in Egypt, Mr. Laurent De Boeck, and the UNHCR Representative in Egypt, Mr. Pablo Mateu, who jointly led the UN work on the report. Following the presentation there was an exchange with gathered senior Government and UN representatives, the diplomatic community, development partners and civil society organizations on the way forward, including joint approaches to implementation and funding modalities to further operationalize the Joint Platform.

Deputy Assistant Foreign Minister, Ambassador Neveen El-Husseiny welcomed  the engagement of various stakeholders and stressed on the importance of the Joint Platform as a pioneer coordinating mechanism that includes the Government of Egypt, the UN and international partners, with the aim of enhancing public services provided to migrants and refugees in Egypt, particularly in  health and education sectors; increasing the sustainability of interventions and resilience; as well as supporting cohesion within host communities. Ambassador El-Husseiny confirmed that the Joint Platform represents a practical operationalization of the principle of burden-sharing with host countries as well as the humanitarian- developmental nexus given the protracted nature of crises in the countries of origin of refugees and migrants in Egypt.

The United Nations Resident Coordinator to Egypt, Ms. Elena Panova, welcomed the second meeting of the Joint Platform and said: “This analytic study is a first concrete result of our strong partnership with the Government through the Joint Platform for Migrants and Refugees in Egypt. It provides an excellent basis for joint action to support and protect the rights of all migrants and refugees in Egypt and support the Government’s efforts to include refugees and migrants in essential public services, particularly education and health.”

The analysis provides an overview of the entitlements of migrants and refugees to education and health services according to Egyptian legal provisions, in primary and university education, and primary, curative and preventive health care facilities. The study confirms that Egypt has generously made provisions for migrants and refugees to benefit from these services, often on par with Egyptians based on their nationality. Concurrently, the Government makes a significant investment, providing these services to migrants and refugees. The study also shows that access is often determined by the level of implementation of the legal provisions, while the legal status and the availability of relevant documentation are key factors when access to basic services is constrained. The study further shows that nearly two thirds of migrants indicated that limited financial resources are the main reason for a lack of access to primary education. Similarly, 40 % indicated high fees as a reason for lack of access to health services.

Based on the findings of the analysis suggestions were discussed for priority areas of intervention in terms of infrastructure improvements and rehabilitation of schools and hospitals, capacity building of staff, policy development, awareness raising, and strengthening protection mechanisms to enhance access to and improve the quality of education and health services. In addition, different funding modalities and joint approaches to implementation were presented as a way to further operationalize the Joint Platform, including joint programming and the establishment of a multi partner trust fund to finance a pipeline of projects.

This was the second meeting of the Joint Platform on Migrants and Refugees in Egypt, launched on 4 November 2021 by the Government of Egypt and the UN in Egypt. The Joint Platform brings together Government, the UN, development partners, donors and other stakeholders. It seeks to enhance coordination, ensure better delivery and mobilize resources to realize long term, sustainable development gains for migrants, refugees, asylum seekers and their host communities, enhancing social inclusion and cohesion.
-----------------
For more information, please contact:
Mr. Mohamed Adel, First Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Cabinet of the Spokesperson.
E-mail: ma.adel@hotmail.com

Ms. Iman Mahdy Amer, Development Coordination Officer, Office of the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt. E-mail: iman.amer@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/189054-government-egypt-and-un-hold-second-meeting-joint-platform-migrants-and-refugees-egypt




Date: 06 July 2022
Title: Security Council Press Statement on Attack against United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali
Content: 06 July 2022

The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the attack perpetrated against the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) on 5 July between Tessalit and Gao, following which two peacekeepers from Egypt were killed and five wounded.
The members of the Security Council expressed their deepest condolences and sympathy to the families of the victims, as well as to Egypt. They also expressed condolences to the United Nations. They wished a speedy and full recovery to those who were injured. They paid tribute to all peacekeepers who risk their lives.
The members of the Security Council called on the Transitional Government of Mali to swiftly investigate the attack against peacekeepers and bring the perpetrators to justice, and keep the relevant troop-contributing country informed of the progress.  They underlined that attacks targeting peacekeepers may constitute war crimes under international law.  They stressed that involvement in planning, directing, sponsoring or conducting attacks against MINUSMA peacekeepers constitutes a basis for sanctions designations pursuant to United Nations Security Council resolutions.  They underscored that the primary responsibility of the safety and security of United Nations personnel and assets rests with host States and highlighted the importance of engagement and communications between MINUSMA and the Transitional Government of Mali.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security.  They underlined the need to bring perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice.  They stressed that those responsible for these killings should be held accountable, and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with all relevant authorities in this regard.
The members of the Security Council reiterated that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed.  They reaffirmed the need for all States to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and other obligations under international law, including international human rights law, international refugee law and international humanitarian law, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
The members of the Security Council reiterated their full support to MINUSMA and the other security presences in the Sahel region, as mentioned in resolution 2640 (2022).
The members of the Security Council expressed their concern about the security situation in Mali and the transnational dimension of the terrorist threat in the Sahel region.  They urged the Malian parties to fully implement the Agreement on Peace and Reconciliation in Mali without further delay.  They underlined that lasting peace and security in the Sahel region will not be achieved without a combination of political, security, peacebuilding and sustainable development efforts benefitting all regions of Mali, as well as the full, effective and inclusive implementation of the Agreement.
The members of the Security Council further stressed the importance of MINUSMA having the necessary capacities to fulfil its mandate and promote the safety and security of the United Nations peacekeepers, pursuant to Security Council resolution 2640 (2022). The members of the Security Council stressed that these heinous acts will not undermine their determination to continue to support the peace and reconciliation process in Mali.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/189051-security-council-press-statement-attack-against-united-nations%C2%A0multidimensional-integrated




Date: 05 July 2022
Title: World Day Against Trafficking in Persons 2022
Content: 05 July 2022
On Saturday 23 July 2022, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) will partner with La Liga and Pyramids FC to host a migrant community event and launch a weeklong campaign for World Day Against Trafficking in Persons 2022. The campaign will raise awareness of the plight of human trafficking victims around the world and promote and protect their rights. Trafficking in persons is a serious crime and a grave violation of human rights. Every year, thousands of men, women and children fall into the hands of traffickers, in their own countries and abroad.
The theme of this year’s World Day Against Trafficking is “Use and Abuse of Technology”. With the global expansion in the use of technology - intensified by the COVID-19 pandemic and the shift of our everyday life to online platforms -- the crime of human trafficking has conquered cyber space. The internet and digital platforms offer traffickers numerous tools to recruit, exploit, and control victims; organize their transport and accommodation; advertise victims and reach out to potential clients; communicate among perpetrators; and hide criminal proceeds – and all that with greater speed, cost-effectiveness, and anonymity.
The event will break down barriers between migrant communities and will raise awareness of the dangers of trafficking, especially in regard to the growing issue of trafficking facilitated through online platforms. Special measures will be taken to ensure that activities are inclusive and accessible, with the involvement of female attendees actively encouraged and specific activities tailored for disabled and less abled attendees.
Activities will include:

Details for the day:
Where: Pyramids FC, 30 June Stadium: El-Moshir Tantawy Axis, Al Hay Al Asher, Nasr City, Cairo Governorate 4440301. Please enter the sports compound through Gate 4.
When: Saturday 23 July 2022, from 14:00 to 20:00. Opening speeches will be at 15:00 with the football tournament and other activities beginning shortly afterwards.
To access the sports compound, attendees must provide their names and contact details to the event focal point prior to the event. We kindly require that all media attendees respect IOM guidelines in filming, photographing or interviewing migrant attendees. Please confirm your attendance or raise any questions with the event focal point, Henry Amor, via email at hamor@iom.int
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/188975-world-day-against-trafficking-persons-2022




Date: 03 July 2022
Title: Amidst global crises, UN High-Level Forum ready to advance action on Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 03 July 2022
New York - Amidst a world challenged by geopolitical tensions, a persistent COVID-19 pandemic, a burgeoning climate crisis and rising poverty, world leaders are coming together at the United Nations High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF) from today to 15 July to chart the best way forward to bring  the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) back on track. 

									The eight-day Forum convened under the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) takes place as multiple crises around the world are putting the very viability of achieving the SDGs by 2030 at risk. The poorest and most vulnerable are being hit the hardest. An urgent rescue effort and collective actions are needed to rapidly change course and set the world on track towards a sustainable future, guided by a renewed commitment to multilateralism and international cooperation.

									“We are facing continued vaccine inequity, rising inflation, major supply-chain disruptions, and crippling geopolitical uncertainties,” said United Nations Economic and Social Council President Collen Vixen Kelapile. “We are on a dangerous path to harming future generations, if we do not act now. It is within our power to turn the tide.” 

Acting now critical to secure the global goals
									Thousands of participants, including Heads of State, over 100 ministers, and leaders and representatives of the UN system, business and civil society will convene in person to respond to the impacts of the lingering pandemic and war in Ukarine, including  global economic inflation, rising inequalities and closely interrelate crises in food security, energy supplies and finance. Member states will discuss what action to take to build back better to secure accelerated implementation of the 2030 Agenda during the Decade of Action for sustainable development. 
									 
									This year, the Forum will review in depth Goal 4 on education, Goal 5 on gender equality, Goal 14 on life below water and Goal 15 on life on land as well as Goal 17 on partnerships for the Goals, which is considered each year.

									United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres, in his remarks at the recent second briefing by the Global Crisis Response Group, stressed that “we need to make resources available immediately to help the poorest countries and communities.” He called on the global financial system to recognize the opportunities in new technology and renewable energy and to “rise above its shortcomings and use all the instruments at its disposal, with flexibility and understanding, to provide support to vulnerable countries and people.” 

									The HLPF will demonstrate the continuing commitment of the international community to step up international solidarity and to launch ambitious recovery policies that advance the SDGs. Both are indispensable in tackling  conflicts around the world.

									“The urgent need for international solidarity and multilateral cooperation cannot be stressed enough,” said UN Under-Secretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs LIU Zhenmin. “We need to act swiftly to drive transformative change. We must remain committed to the people-centered and planet focused path to prosperity that we set out in the 2030 Agenda. This can only happen if we all act together.”

44 countries to assess their progress
									This year, 44 countries, both developed and developing, will present their Voluntary National Reviews (VNRs) of national implementation of the SDGs.

									The VNR countries are: Andorra, Argentina, Belarus, Botswana, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Djibouti, Dominica, Equatorial Guinea, El Salvador, Eritrea, Eswatini, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea-Bissau, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malawi, Mali, Montenegro, The Netherlands, Pakistan, The Philippines, São Tomé and Príncipe, Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Switzerland, Togo, Tuvalu, United Arab Emirates and Uruguay.

									The Forum will also mark  the official launch of The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2022 (7 July). This annual progress report provides a global overview of progress towards the SDGs based on the most recent data. The 2022 report is expected to demonstrate the devastating impacts of the multiple and interlinked global crises – the COVID-19 pandemic, the climate crisis and the conflicts in Ukraine and elsewhere –  across the SDGs. 

									The Forum will culminate in the adoption of a ministerial declaration. It will also kick off preparations for the Sustainable Development Goals Summit to be held in 2023.

Special events on transformative solutions 
									A series of special events will be organized in conjunction with the HLPF, in collaboration with various partners. The special events aim to mobilize stakeholders most engaged or impacted by the implementation of the SDGs.
SDGs Learning, Training and Practice Workshops 
									(In person: Tuesday 5 July 11:00-13:00 EDT, 
									Virtual: 5,6,7,11, and 12 July, 8:30-10:15, 14:00-15:45 EDT)
Higher Education Sustainability Initiative HESI+10 Global Forum 
									(Virtual, 6 July, 7:00-8:30 AM EDT) 
The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 
									(In-person: Tuesday 6 July, 10:00-13:00 EDT) 
Local and Regional Governments Forum 
									(Virtual: Thursday 7 July, 8:00-10:30 EDT; 
									In-person: Tuesday 12 July, 15:00-18:00 EDT) 
SDG 6 Special Event 
									(Virtual, Wednesday 13 July, 8:30-10:00 EDT)
Chief Sustainability Officers for SDGs 
									(Virtual, Wednesday 13 July, 9:00-10:30 EDT)  
Parliamentary Forum 
									(In-person, Wednesday 13 July, 10:00-13:00)

									In addition, approximately 350 side events featuring States, the UN system and civil society will take place during the HLPF. At the same time, more than 15 VNR Labs will provide an informal platform for experience sharing and reflection on the Voluntary National Review process. 

About the High-Level Political Forum 
									The High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development is the central global forum for providing political leadership, guidance and recommendations on implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which were unanimously adopted by world leaders in September 2015. The Forum provides an opportunity for countries, civil society and businesses to highlight the efforts they are taking to achieve the SDGs and to engage in mutual learning through the exchange of ideas and best practices. 

									For more information: https://hlpf.un.org/2022 
									Follow live via UN Web TV: https://media.un.org/en/webtv/

Media contacts:
									UN Department of Global Communications
									Francyne Harrigan, M: +1 (917) 367-5414 | E: harriganf@un.org 
									Sharon Birch, T: +1 (212) 963-0564 | E: birchs@un.org

									UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs
									Paul Simon, T: +1 (917) 367-5027 | E: simonp@un.org
									Helen Rosengren, T: +1 (212) 963-9492 | E: rosengrenh@un.org



UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/188784-amidst-global-crises-un-high-level-forum-ready-%C2%A0advance-action-sustainable-development-goals




Date: 17 June 2022
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL –– MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY OF FAMILY REMITTANCES 16 June 2022
Content: 17 June 2022
The International Day of Family Remittances recognizes the contributions of hundreds of millions of migrant workers to their communities of origin.

Family remittances are not only a main source of income for households, but account for a substantial portion of the Gross Domestic Product in many low-and-middle income countries. Global remittances are three times greater than Official Development Assistance and help reduce poverty, improve health and education, and advance gender equality.

This year’s theme, “Recovery and Resilience through Digital and Financial Inclusion”, highlights an urgent priority. Nearly half the world’s population cannot access the internet. And COVID-19 has exacerbated the digital divide.
We must accelerate our efforts to bring everyone online, while investing in digital tools and financial inclusion for all. The cost of remittances must be brought close to zero to help families manage their obligations efficiently.

The war in Ukraine is also impacting remittances and aggravating the widespread cost of living crisis. As countries redirect traditional development assistance to meet immediate needs, protecting the function and delivery of remittances is vital. This will strengthen resilience, drive economic growth and foster social inclusion.

On this Day of Family Remittances, let us renew the commitment of the Sustainable Development Goals to leave no one behind.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/186679-secretary-general-%E2%80%93%E2%80%93-message-international-day-family-remittances-16-june-2022




Date: 15 June 2022
Title: FAO & IFAD launch a new project on nutrition-sensitive agriculture water productivity in Egypt
Content: 15 June 2022
Cairo, June 13 2022
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in partnership with the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the Government of Egypt have launched a new project to strengthen the capacities of smallholder farmers to adopt sustainable management of water, soil and agronomic practices that will contribute to increase productivity and the quality of production in terms of nutrient content and economic value. The inception workshop, held in hybrid mode with virtual and physical participants, brought together stakeholders from government, national research institutes and development organizations operating in the agriculture, water and nutrition sectors.
The project, "Increasing water productivity for nutrition-sensitive agriculture and improved food security and nutrition," is being implemented in six pilot countries: Benin, Niger, Mozambique, Rwanda, Egypt and Jordan. The project aims to work with between 600 and 1 000 smallholder farmers as well as 200 to 300 extension agents, field supervisors, decision-makers and technicians.
To support the acceleration of progress towards the achievement of sustainable development goals on water (SDG 6) and nutrition (SDG 2), the project will promote the coordination of actions among water, agriculture and nutrition sectors at national level. In addition, the project aims to provide farmers with the technical knowledge necessary to achieve "more nutrients and better economic prospects per drop".
Mr. Mohamed Abdelgadir, IFAD Country Director in Egypt said “There is a need to continue our collaborative efforts to provide tailored intervention, promote strategies and policies in the region that can mitigate the exacerbating social, economic and environmental conditions of family farmers and, especially, increase their resilience and food security.”
Prof. Dr. Mohamed Soliman, President of the Agriculture Research Centre (ARC) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR) of Egypt said “Food system transformation is needed to address the hundreds of millions of people without adequate access to food or water for a healthy life. The implementation of the project’s methodological approach will ensure capacity development of the beneficiaries and contribute to transforming the agri-food systems in Egypt.”
The project′s methodological approach will target field implementation using farmer field school or similar approaches in partnership with government extension services. “The project will target the integration of market and other incentives to increase the production of high nutrient-dense crops and crop diversification by linking farmers with existing public procurement programmes and territorial markets in Egypt,” said Mr. Paulo Dias, Project Manager in the Land and Water Division of FAO.
Prof. Dr. Naiim Moselhy, National Project Coordinator of the Promoting Resilience in Desert Environment (PRIDE) said “PRIDE′s overall objective is to reduce poverty and enhance food and nutrition security in rural areas through remunerative, sustainable and resilient livelihoods. We look forward to working together with the newly launched project.”
Ms. Audrey Nepveu, Global Technical Specialist at IFAD said “PRIDE is one of the 8 nutrition-sensitive projects supported by IFAD in the region. We look forward to FAO’s contribution to improve on the 31 million USD dedicated to nutrition-sensitive activities in the rainfed context of Matruh in Egypt.”
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/186346-fao-ifad-launch-new-project-nutrition-sensitive-agriculture-water-productivity-egypt




Date: 12 June 2022
Title: UN-Habitat, UNEP builds the capacity of Arab experts on Urban Ecosystem-based Adaptation
Content: 12 June 2022
MENA, 12 June 2022: UN-Habitat Regional Office for Arab States launched a training course on Urban Ecosystem-based Adaptation (EbA) designed in collaboration with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), targeting government officials and adaptation experts in the Middle East and North Africa. The overall objective of the training, which took place in the last week of May in Jordan, is to provide a broad set of approaches to urban adaptation that depend on the management of ecosystems and their services to minimize the vulnerability of cities in the Arab region to the impacts of climate change.

The training aims to enable the experts working on adaption to effectively integrate the use of ecosystem services and biodiversity into the overall adaptation strategies in their respective countries. Furthermore, the training course intends to offer exposure to different perspectives and experiences of EbA application presented by a group of diverse guest speakers from governments and industry. Finally, the training will support unlocking potential funding and building a programme at the regional level.

“Continuing to support climate action in the Arab region for sustainable urbanization and building the capacity of cities to address the impacts of climate change, UN-Habitat is keen to support nature-based solutions and Ecosystem-based Adaptation,” Erfan Ali, UN-Habitat Regional Representative for Arab States said in his opening remarks. “UN-Habitat is keen to continue its cooperation with UNEP with the aim of promoting adaptation to climate change in Arab cities and building capacities in the area of green recovery.”

EbA, which is gaining increasing attention from the international community, is defined as "the use of biodiversity and ecosystem services as part of an overall adaptation strategy to help people to adapt to the adverse effects of climate change".

“Ecosystem-based approaches to adaptation are solid and effective to reduce the vulnerability of urban communities to climate change,” Tarek El-Khoury, Regional Coordinator for Resource Efficiency and Sustainable Consumption and Production, UNEP Regional Office for West Asia, said. “Protecting, maintaining and rehabilitating priority ecosystems such as wetlands, forests and agroecological systems is needed in the Arab states and this can start by working on institutional strengthening and capacity building of city and national management authorities.”

UN-Habitat Regional Office for Arab Stated first joined forces with UNEP Regional Office of West Asia in 2021 through an agreement to promote cities’ climate adaptation and ecosystem restoration, build capacity on green recovery and reconstruction and integrate the Sustainable Development Goals into recovery and reconstruction processes in conflict-affected countries.








Note to Editors:

About the UN-Habitat Regional Office for Arab States:
UN-Habitat supports Arab countries in their efforts to advance sustainable urbanization as a driver of development and peace. UN-Habitat Regional Office for Arab States provides knowledge, policy advice, technical assistance and collaborative action for eighteen countries across the Arab region and is currently present in thirteen Arab countries, supporting partners through a diversified portfolio, centring around the four main pillars of action of the 2020-2025 Strategic Plan.
For more information, please contact:
Yasmine Mostafa, Knowledge Management and Reporting Officer, Regional Office for Arab States (ROAS), United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat).
yasmine.mostafa@un.org

About the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP)
UNEP is the leading global environmental authority that sets the global environmental agenda, promotes the coherent implementation of the environmental dimension of sustainable development within the United Nations system, and serves as an authoritative advocate for the global environment.
For more information, please contact:
Tarek ALKHOURY, Regional Coordinator for Resource Efficiency and Sustainable Consumption and Production, UNEP Regional Office for West Asia: tarek.alkhoury@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/185832-un-habitat-unep-builds-capacity-arab-experts-urban-ecosystem-based-adaptation




Date: 08 June 2022
Title: For a Reaffirmed Collaboration on Preventing Grave Violations Against Children in the Arab World
Content: 08 June 2022
Cairo/ New York - The Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, Virginia Gamba, concluded a three-day visit to Cairo which provided opportunities for her Office and the League of Arab States to solidify their pledge to end and prevent grave violations against children in armed conflict in the Arab world and discuss the way forward.
The two entities jointly reaffirmed the importance to protect the rights of children before, during, and after conflict and their longstanding engagement in collaborating in delivering this promise.
During her visit, the Special Representative welcomed the opportunity to meet with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Arab Republic of Egypt, H.E. Sameh Hassan Shoukry, to discuss closer collaboration on child protection. As part of her engagement with the League of Arab States, she further exchanged with the Secretary-General of the League of Arab States, H.E. Ahmed Aboul Gheit.  Additionally, she met with the Assistant Secretary-General for Social Affairs of the League of Arab States, Dr. Haifa Abu Ghazaleh, the Permanent Representative of the State of Qatar to the League of Arab States, H.E. Ambassador Salem Mubarak Al Shafi, the Permanent Representative of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to the League of Arab States, H.E. Ambassador Abdulrahman bin Saeed Al-Jumah, the Ambassador of the Kingdom of Norway to Egypt and Libya, H.E. Hilde Klemetsdal, the United Nations Resident Coordinator, Ms. Elena Panova, and members of the United Nations Country Team.
Children and youth account for a majority of the population in the Arab world, including in conflict-affected countries, making the collaboration around the Children and Armed Conflict mandate of paramount importance for the partnership between the UN and the LAS, the Special Representative emphasized. There has been progress in recent months by Arab States in enhancing the protection of children in armed conflict through concrete and practical measures, and the United Nations supports such efforts.
“Children and youth represent a dynamic, powerful, and resilient strength for the Arab region. The past decade has had its share of challenges for them, with an increasing number of social, political, and security changes in the region; and in that context, the protection of all children and of their rights must remain a priority,” the Special Representative stressed.
New and emerging crises, as well as protracted armed conflict in countries of the region, have forced millions of children to flee their homes, making them more vulnerable to being recruited or used by armed groups, killed or maimed, or victims of other crimes such as sexual violence, including trafficking for sexual purposes. In situations of conflict, children’s existing vulnerability to violations of their rights has been exacerbated in recent years by the COVID-19 pandemic, making their effective protection from the harms of war an increasingly remote goal.
Regional organisations have an instrumental role to play in the prevention of grave violations against children as highlighted recently by the Security Council in Resolution 2427 (2018), which emphasized the critical contribution of regional and subregional organizations in protecting children from hostilities as well as in supporting national authorities to do so.
“The protection of children before, during, and after conflict, requires us to take stronger prevention steps, including in our mediation and peace negotiation efforts, to ensure that all children can access a peaceful future, per the promises of the Sustainable Development Goals. We have a common responsibility not only to protect children from the ravages of wars but also to support them in their recovery and equip them with the tools that are required to build peaceful and wealthy societies throughout the Arab world,” Virginia Gamba added.
Note to editors:
Countries on the CAAC agenda in the Arab region: Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, State of Palestine, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Yemen
###
For additional information, please contact:
Fabienne Vinet, Communications Officer, Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict
+1-212-963-5986 (office) / +1-917-288-5791 (mobile) / vinet@un.org
Follow us on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook:
https://www.instagram.com/nochildreninwar/
www.twitter.com/childreninwar
www.facebook.com/childrenandarmedconflict
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/185236-reaffirmed-collaboration-preventing-grave-violations-against-children-arab-world




Date: 04 June 2022
Title: Statement by the Secretary-General - on the 100th day of the war in Ukraine
Content: 04 June 2022
Today marks 100 days since the start of the 24 February Russian invasion of Ukraine. The conflict has already taken thousands of lives, caused untold destruction, displaced millions of people, resulted in unacceptable violations of human rights and is inflaming a three-dimensional global crisis – food, energy and finance – that is pummeling the most vulnerable people, countries and economies.
From the first days of the war, the United Nations has been there to support the people of Ukraine in dealing with the humanitarian impact of the conflict, while also drawing attention to the dangers and long-term implications of continued fighting and potential escalation of hostilities for the country, the wider region and the world.
As we mark this tragic day, I renew my call for an immediate halt to violence, for unfettered humanitarian access to all those in need, for safe evacuation of civilians trapped in areas of fighting and for urgent protection of civilians and respect for human rights in accordance with international norms.
The UN is committed to the humanitarian effort. But as I have stressed from the beginning, resolving this conflict will require negotiations and dialogue. The sooner the parties engage in good-faith diplomatic efforts to end this war, the better for the sake of Ukraine, Russia and the world. The United Nations stands ready to support all such efforts.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/184862-statement-secretary-general-100th-day-war-ukraine




Date: 04 June 2022
Title: The secretary-general's Message on World Environment Day 5 June 2022
Content: 04 June 2022


The theme of this year’s World Environment Day, “Only One Earth”, is a simple statement of fact.  This planet is our only home.  It is vital we safeguard the health of its atmosphere, the richness and diversity of life on Earth, its ecosystems and its finite resources.  But we are failing to do so.  We are asking too much of our planet to maintain ways life that are unsustainable.  Earth’s natural systems cannot keep up with our demands.

This not only hurts the Earth, but us too.  A healthy environment is essential for all people and all 17 Sustainable Development Goals.  It provides food, clean water, medicines, climate regulation and protection from extreme weather events.  It is essential that we wisely manage nature and ensure equitable access to its services, especially for the most vulnerable people and communities.

More than 3 billion people are affected by degraded ecosystems.  Pollution is responsible for some 9 million premature deaths each year.  More than 1 million plant and animal species risk extinction, many within decades.

Close to half of humanity is already in the climate danger zone – 15 times more likely to die from climate impacts such as extreme heat, floods and drought.  There is a 50:50 chance that annual average global temperatures will breach the Paris Agreement limit of 1.5 degrees Celsius in the next five years.  More than 200 million people each year could be displaced by climate disruption by 2050.

Fifty years ago, the world’s leaders came together at the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment and committed to protecting the planet.  But we are far from succeeding.  We can no longer ignore the alarm bells that ring louder every day.

The recent Stockholm+50 environment meeting reiterated that all 17 Sustainable Development Goals rely on a healthy planet.  We must all take responsibility to avert the catastrophe being wrought by the triple crises of climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss.

Governments need urgently to prioritize climate action and environmental protection through policy decisions that promote sustainable progress.  To that end, I have proposed five concrete recommendations to dramatically speed up the deployment of renewable energy everywhere, including making renewable technologies and raw materials available to all, cutting red tape, shifting subsidies and tripling investment.

Businesses need to put sustainability at the heart of their decision-making for the sake of humanity and their own bottom line.  A healthy planet is the backbone of nearly every industry on Earth.

And as voters and consumers we must make our actions count: from the policies we support, to the food we eat, to the transport we choose, to the companies we support.  We can all make environmentally friendly choices that will add up to the change we need.

Women and girls, in particular, can be forceful agents of change.  They must be empowered and included in decision-making at all levels.  Likewise, indigenous and traditional knowledge must also be respected and harnessed to help protect our fragile ecosystems.

History has shown what can be achieved when we work together and put the planet first.  In the 1980s, when scientists warned about a deadly continent-sized hole in the ozone layer, every country committed to the Montreal Protocol to phase out ozone-depleting chemicals.

In the 1990s, the Basel Convention outlawed the dumping of toxic waste in developing countries.  And, last year, a multilateral effort ended the production of leaded petrol – a move that will promote better health and prevent more than 1.2 million premature deaths each year.

This year and the next will present more opportunities for the global community to demonstrate the power of multilateralism to tackle our intertwined environmental crises, from negotiations on a new global biodiversity framework to reverse nature loss by 2030 to the establishment of a treaty to tackle plastics pollution.

The United Nations is committed to leading these cooperative global efforts, because the only way forward is to work with nature, not against it.  Together we can ensure that our planet not only survives, but thrives, because we have Only One Earth.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/184864-secretary-generals-message-world-environment-day-5-june-2022




Date: 25 May 2022
Title: UN Headquarters Observes International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers on 26 May
Content: 25 May 2022


UN Headquarters will observe the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers on Thursday, 26 May 2022. Secretary-General António Guterres will lay a wreath to honor the nearly 4,200 UN peacekeepers who have lost their lives since 1948 and will preside over a ceremony at which the Dag Hammarskjöld Medal will be awarded posthumously to 117 military, police, and civilian peacekeepers, who lost their life serving under the UN flag last year.
Among the peacekeepers to be honored posthumously are four from Egypt:  Police Colonel Sherif Lotfy Saad Mansour who served with the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA); and SGT Shaban Ahmed Shaban Hebeshi, SGT Mostafa Elazab Khalil, and 1st Lt Abdalla Mahmoud Elbahnsy who all served with United Nations Integrated Multidimensional Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA).

Egypt is the 7th largest contributor of uniformed personnel to UN Peacekeeping.  It currently deploys nearly 2,800 military and police personnel to the UN operations in Abyei, the Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mali, South Sudan and the Western Sahara
During a special ceremony, the Secretary-General will award the “Captain Mbaye Diagne Medal for Exceptional Courage” posthumously to Captain Abdelrazakh Hamit Bahar of Chad, who served with the United Nations Integrated Multidimensional Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA). The medal is named for a Senegalese peacekeeper who was killed in Rwanda in 1994 after saving countless civilian lives. This is the second time the medal has been awarded since the inaugural medal was presented to Captain Diagne's family in his honor in 2016.
The Secretary-General will also award the ‘2021 Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award’ to Major Winnet Zharare, a Zimbabwean military observer, who served with the UN Mission in South Sudan. Created in 2016, the Award “recognizes the dedication and effort of an individual peacekeeper in promoting the principles of UN Security Resolution 1325 on women, peace, and security.”
In his message, the Secretary-General said: “Today, we honor the more than one million women and men who have served as UN peacekeepers since 1948.  We pay tribute to the nearly 4,200 heroes and heroines who sacrificed their lives in the cause of peace. And we have been reminded an age-old truth: peace can never be taken for granted. Peace is the prize. We are deeply grateful to the 87,000 civilian, police, and military personnel now serving under the UN flag who are helping to realize the prize of peace worldwide.”
The theme for this year’s observance is “People. Peace. Progress. The Power of Partnerships.”  According to the Secretary-General, “Around the globe, UN peacekeepers work with Member States, civil society, humanitarians, the media, the communities they serve and many others, to foster peace, protect civilians, promote human rights and the rule of law and improve the lives of millions of people.”
Jean-Pierre Lacroix, Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations, said: “Every day, UN peacekeepers work to protect vulnerable people in the world’s most fragile political and security situations. The dangers they face are greater than ever, with increasing global tensions, ever-more-complex threats from terrorist attacks to organized crime, and the use of Improvised Explosive Devices as well as a surge in mis and disinformation targeting our missions and the communities we serve. Despite these challenges, peacekeepers persevere alongside our many partners in the collective pursuit of peace. Today, we thank them for their tremendous contribution and remember with great sorrow our colleagues who have made the ultimate sacrifice while serving the cause of peace.”
The International Day of UN Peacekeepers was established by the General Assembly in 2002, to pay tribute to all men and women serving in peacekeeping, and to honor the memory of those who have lost their lives in the cause of peace. The General Assembly designated 29 May as the International Day of UN Peacekeepers in commemoration of the day in 1948 when the UN’s first peacekeeping mission, the UN Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), began operations in Palestine. Since then, more than 1 million women and men have served in 72 UN peacekeeping operations.
Media Contacts:
Douglas Coffman, Department of Global Communications -+1 (917) 361-9923,  e-mail: coffmand@un.org; or
Hector Calderon, Department of Peace Operations +1 (917) 226 5219 e-mail: hector.calderon@un.org
For more information, please visit the Peacekeepers Day websites here: https://www.un.org/en/observances/peacekeepers-day; or
https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/international-day-of-peacekeepers-2022
Follow UN Peacekeeping on TikTok,  Twitter, Facebook and Instagram
*  *  *  *  *

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/183335-un-headquarters-observes-international-day-united-nations-peacekeepers-26-may




Date: 24 May 2022
Title: UNDP and the Egyptian Network for Integrated Development Foundation Representatives visit Qena
Content: 24 May 2022

Cairo - Mr. Alessandro Fracassetti, UNDP Resident Representative in Egypt and Dr. Heba Handoussa, Founder and Managing Director of the Egypt Network for Integrated Development Foundation (ENID) visited Qena to witness first-hand the impact and progress of the ongoing activities aiming to support local socio-economic development.

Over the past ten years, the Ministry of International Cooperation and UNDP have been implementing a joint project titled ‘Egypt Network For Integrated Development (ENID)’ providing support to local communities, particularly women in Upper Egypt.

Since 2016, The Big Heart Foundation (TBHF) has partnered with ENID on several interventions. In 2018, TBHF initiated the operation of a two-floor Ready Made Garments (RMG) factory in El Maana village in Qena which now accommodates 96 young women.

TBHF helped ENID renovate two rural health units, in Isna District, Luxor and El Waqf District, Qena. In addition, TBHF supported ENID to implement its model of integrated interventions in literacy, and vocational training for women, together with preschool classes for their children in several villages in Qena.

The partners visited the first RMG factory in Qena located in El Maana village. TBHF support for this factory enabled ENID to acquire up to 152 sewing and related machines. The factory operates 26 days per month with a daily production capacity of up to 750 pieces including polo-T-shirts, training pants, and uniforms.

With the additional support of the Government of Japan, the RMG factory was able to be responsive to regional needs to produce medical face masks during the COVID-19 pandemic, becoming one of the first factories in Upper Egypt that started producing face masks, with a daily production capacity of up to 6,000 masks per day.

The delegation also attended a vocational training workshop teaching local women in the Nagaa Qoteib village to produce pre-school uniforms and bedsheets. This vocational training supported by TBHF combines both sewing and literacy classes, which helps women gain marketable job experience and earn income by working at the factory.

During the visit, UNDP Resident Representaive, Alessandro Fracassetti, stated: “women are disproportionately affected by poverty  and illiteracy. This is true for many women in rural areas, who often face the challenge of not having access to economic opportunities or education. This joint project is testament to how women in rural areas, with timely and targeted support, can grow personally and professionally. Investing in women matters now more than ever”.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/183211-undp-and-egyptian-network-integrated-development-foundation-representatives-visit-qena




Date: 24 May 2022
Title: The Secretary-General's Message on Africa Day 25 May 2022
Content: 24 May 2022
Africa is a home for hope. On Africa Day, we celebrate the enormous promise and potential of this diverse and dynamic continent.

The prospects on the horizon are bright – from Africa’s growing and vibrant youth population, to initiatives like the African Continental Free Trade Area, the Decade of Women’s Financial and Economic Inclusion, and the African Union’s bold vision for the future, Agenda 2063.

But today, we are also reminded of the multiple challenges preventing Africa from reaching its full potential – including the COVID 19 pandemic and its devastating impact on African economies, climate change, unresolved conflicts, and a severe food crisis.

To compound all this, the war in Ukraine is creating a perfect storm for developing countries, especially in Africa. This crisis is resulting in soaring costs for food, energy and fertilizer with devastating consequences on nutrition and food systems, while making it even more difficult for the continent to mobilize the financial resources needed to invest in its people.

The African Union has designated 2022 as the Year of Nutrition. On this year’s Africa Day, the world must join together in solidarity with all Africans to strengthen food security, and put nutrition within reach of every person.

We must also intensify our efforts to end the pandemic, reform the global financial system, stop climate change and silence the guns across all conflicts.

The United Nations will continue standing proudly with Africans as we work to deliver on the promise of a prosperous and peaceful Africa for all.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/183242-secretary-generals-message-africa-day-25-may-2022




Date: 22 May 2022
Title: THE SECRETARY GENERAL -- MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY  FOR BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY
Content: 22 May 2022
To achieve a sustainable future for all, we need to act urgently to protect biodiversity, the web of life that connects and supports us all.  We must end our senseless and destructive war against nature.  The rate of species loss is tens to hundreds of times higher than the average of the past 10 million years – and accelerating.

Biodiversity is essential for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, ending the existential threat of climate change, halting land degradation, building food security and supporting advances in human health.  And biodiversity offers ready solutions for green and inclusive growth.

This year governments will meet to agree on a post-2020 global biodiversity framework, with clear and measurable targets and robust means of implementation that can put biodiversity on the path to recovery by 2030.

The framework must tackle the drivers of biodiversity loss and enable the ambitious and transformative change needed for living in harmony with nature by effectively protecting more of the world’s land, freshwater and oceans, encouraging sustainable consumption and production, employing nature-based solutions to address climate change and ending harmful subsidies that damage the environment.  It should mobilize action and financial resources to drive concrete nature-positive investments, ensuring that we all benefit from the dividends of biological diversity.

As we accomplish these goals and implement the 2050 Vision for “living in harmony with nature”, we must act with respect for equity and human rights, particularly with regard to the many indigenous populations whose territories harbour so much biological diversity.

To save our planet’s indispensable and fragile natural wealth, everyone needs to be engaged, including youth and vulnerable populations who rely the most on nature for their livelihoods.  Today, I call on all to act to build a shared future for all life.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/183025-secretary-general-message-international-day-biological-diversity




Date: 18 May 2022
Title: The Secretary-General's remarks on the release of the WMO State of the Climate - 18 May 2022
Content: 18 May 2022
That is why today I am proposing five critical actions to jump-start the renewable energy transition.

Today’s State of the Climate report is a dismal litany of humanity’s failure to tackle climate disruption.

Sea level rise, ocean heat, greenhouse gas concentrations, and ocean acidification – set alarming new records in 2021.

Global mean sea level increased at more than double the previous rate and is mainly due to accelerating loss of ice mass.

Ocean warming also shows a particularly strong increase in the past two decades, and is penetrating to ever deeper levels.

Much of the ocean experienced at least one strong marine heatwave at some point in 2021.

Professor Taalas and WMO colleagues will unpack the science.

But I will give you the bottom line.
The global energy system is broken and bringing us ever closer to climate catastrophe.

Fossil fuels are a dead end — environmentally and economically.

The war in Ukraine and its immediate effects on energy prices is yet another wake-up call.

The only sustainable future is a renewable one.

We must end fossil fuel pollution and accelerate the renewable energy transition, before we incinerate our only home.

Time is running out.

To keep 1.5 alive and prevent the worst impacts of the climate crisis, the world must act in this decade.

The good news is that the lifeline is right in front of us.

Transforming energy systems is low-hanging fruit.

Renewable energy technologies such as wind and solar are readily available and in most cases, cheaper than coal and other fossil fuels.

Over the past decade, the cost of wind energy has declined by more than half.
The cost of solar energy and batteries has plummeted 85 per cent.

And investment in renewables creates jobs — three times more jobs than fossil fuels.

We don’t have a moment to lose.

That is why today I am proposing five critical actions to jump-start the renewable energy transition.

First, renewable energy technologies, such as battery storage, must be treated as essential and freely-available global public goods.
Removing obstacles to knowledge sharing and technological transfer – including intellectual property constraints -- is crucial for a rapid and fair renewable energy transition.

Storing renewable electricity is often cited as the greatest barrier to the clean energy transition.

I am therefore calling for a global coalition on battery storage to fast-track innovation and deployment – a coalition led and driven by governments, bringing together tech companies, manufacturers, and financiers.

Second, we must secure, scale up and diversify the supply of critical components and raw materials for renewable energy technologies.

Today’s supply chains for renewable energy technology and raw materials are concentrated in a handful of countries.

The renewable age cannot flourish until we bridge this vast chasm.

This will take concerted international coordination.

Governments must invest in skills training, research and innovation, and incentives to build supply chains.

Third, governments must build frameworks and reform bureaucracies to level the playing field for renewables.

In many countries, these systems still favour deadly fossil fuels.

We must prevent bottlenecks, where gigawatts of renewable projects are held up by red tape, permits and grid connections.

I call on governments to fast-track and streamline approvals of solar and wind projects, modernize grids and set ambitious 1.5-degree-aligned renewable energy targets that provide certainty to investors, developers, consumers and producers.

Renewable energy policies are fundamental to reduce market risk and drive investment into the sector.

Fourth, governments must shift subsidies away from fossil fuels to protect the poor and most vulnerable people and communities.

Every minute of every day, coal, oil and gas receive roughly $11 million dollars in subsidies.

Each year, governments around the world pour around half a trillion dollars into artificially lowering the price of fossil fuels — more than triple what renewables receive.


While people suffer from high prices at the pump, the oil and gas industry is raking in billions from a distorted market.

This scandal must stop.
Fifth, private and public investments in renewable energy must triple to at least $4 trillion dollars a year.

For solar and wind power, upfront payments account for 80 per cent of lifetime costs.  That means big investments now will reap big rewards for years to come.

But some developing countries pay seven times more in financing costs than developed countries.
We need blended finance that provides the necessary structures to close existing funding gaps and unlock the trillions held by private actors.  This means adjusted risk frameworks and more flexibility to scale up renewable finance.

The management and shareholders of multilateral development banks and development finance institutions must take responsibility and be held accountable.

I call on them, including their private arms, to fully align their entire lending portfolios with the Paris Agreement, by 2024 at the latest, and to end all high-emissions high pollution finance.

This includes using their balance sheets creatively to accelerate the renewable energy transition.

And it means setting targets to substantially finance renewable energy infrastructure, including through technical and policy assistance.

Commercial banks and all elements of the global financial system need to dramatically scale up investments in renewables as they phase out fossil fuels.

Renewables are the only path to real energy security, stable power prices and sustainable employment opportunities.
If we act together, the renewable energy transformation can be the peace project of the 21st century.

Every country, city and citizen, every financial institution, company and civil society organization has a role to play.

But most of all, it’s time for leaders — public and private alike — to stop talking about renewables as a distant project of the future.

Because without renewables, there can be no future.

As today’s report makes clear, it’s time to jump-start the renewable energy transition before it’s too late.

Thank you.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/182457-secretary-generals-remarks-release-%C2%A0wmo-state-climate-%C2%A018-may-2022




Date: 17 May 2022
Title: Nearly half of all pregnancies are unintended—a global crisis, says new UNFPA report
Content: 17 May 2022
Cairo — Nearly half of all pregnancies, totaling 121 million each year throughout the world, are unintended. For the women and girls affected, the most life-altering reproductive choice—whether or not to become pregnant—is no choice at all, explains the State of World Population 2022 report, released by UNFPA, the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency.
The groundbreaking report, “Seeing the Unseen: The case for action in the neglected crisis of unintended pregnancy,” warns that this human rights crisis has profound consequences for societies, women and girls and global health. Over 60 per cent of unintended pregnancies end in abortion and an estimated 45 per cent of all abortions are unsafe, causing 5 – 13 per cent of all maternal deaths, thereby having a major impact on the world’s ability to reach the Sustainable Development Goals.
Wars, conflicts and crises around the world are expected to drive an increase in unintended pregnancies, as access to sexual and reproductive health services are disrupted and sexual violence increases.
“This report is a wakeup call. The staggering number of unintended pregnancies represents a global failure to uphold women and girls’ basic human rights,” says UNFPA Executive Director Dr. Natalia Kanem. “For the women affected, the most life-altering reproductive choice—whether or not to become pregnant—is no choice at all. By putting the power to make this most fundamental decision squarely in the hands of women and girls, societies can ensure that motherhood is an aspiration and not an inevitability.”
Gender inequality and stalled development drive high rates of unintended pregnancies
Globally, an estimated 257 million women who want to avoid pregnancy are not using safe, modern methods of contraception, and where data is available, nearly a quarter of all women are not able to say no to sex.
“An unintended pregnancy is not necessarily a personal failure and may be due to the lack of autonomy society allows or the value placed on women’s lives.” says UNFPA Arab States Regional Director, Dr. Luay Shabaneh. “Harmful norms and stigma, sexual violence and reproductive coercion, judgmental attitudes or shaming in health services, poverty and stalled economic development and gender inequality are all factors that reflect the pressure societies place on women and girls to become mothers.” added Dr. Shabaneh.
When crisis hits, unintended pregnancies climb
Crisis and conflict rob women of their agency at all levels, drastically increasing the risk of unintended pregnancy at the moment it is most threatening. Women often lose access to contraceptives and sexual violence increases, with some studies showing that over 20 per cent of refugee women and girls will face sexual violence.
The responsibility to act
The report shows how easily the most fundamental rights of women and girls are pushed to the backburner in times of peace and in the midst of war.  It calls on decision-makers and health systems to prioritize the prevention of unintended pregnancies by improving the accessibility, acceptability, quality and variety of contraception and greatly expanding quality sexual and reproductive health care and information.
“We must make pregnancy an aspiration not an inevitability, by empowering women and girls to make affirmative decisions about their sexual and reproductive health and motherhood.” notes Dr. Shabneh.
The report urges policy makers, community leaders and all individuals to empower women and girls to make affirmative decisions about sex, contraception and motherhood, and to foster societies that recognize the full worth of women and girls.
###
Notes to editors
The State of World Population report is UNFPA’s annual flagship publication. Published yearly since 1978, it shines a light on emerging issues in the field of sexual and reproductive health and rights, bringing them into the mainstream and exploring the challenges and opportunities they present for international development.
This report’s analysis builds upon new data from our partner, the Guttmacher Institute, released on 29 March.
As the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency, UNFPA helps people obtain contraception and life-saving reproductive health services and information and empowers women and girls to make informed decisions about their bodies and lives.

Samir Aldarabi: aldarabi@unfpa.org, +201 068484879
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/182225-nearly-half-all-pregnancies-are-unintended%E2%80%94-global-crisis-says-new-unfpa-report




Date: 24 April 2022
Title: The Secretary-General's Message On The International Day Of Multilateralism And Diplomacy For Peace New York, 24 April 2022
Content: 24 April 2022
United Nations Member States, by ratifying or accepting the UN Charter, have committed themselves to the values of multilateralism and diplomacy for peace.
But as we mark this year’s International Day of Multilateralism and Diplomacy for Peace, this commitment is being broken. The principles at the heart of multilateral cooperation are under the greatest strain since the founding of the United Nations.
From the climate crisis to the multiplication of conflicts – including the ongoing war in Ukraine; the governance of weapons of mass destruction; health emergencies; and the global refugee protection regime – the multilateral system and the value of diplomacy are under threat from all directions.
We need to transform this moment of crisis into a moment for multilateralism.
The recommendations in my report on Our Common Agenda aim to protect and strengthen the foundations of global cooperation and create a networked, inclusive multilateralism that is fit for the future.
On the International Day of Multilateralism and Diplomacy for Peace, I call on all governments and leaders to renew their commitment to dialogue and global solutions that are the only sustainable path for peace.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/179054-secretary-generals-message-international-day-multilateralism-and-diplomacy-peace-new-york-24




Date: 22 April 2022
Title: The Secretary-General -- Message On International Mother Earth Day  22 April 2022
Content: 22 April 2022
Because we have only one Mother Earth.
We must do everything we can to protect her.

Today is International Mother Earth Day.

It is a chance to reflect on how humanity has been treating our planet.

The truth is, we have been poor custodians of our fragile home.

Today, the Earth is facing a triple planetary crisis.

Climate disruption.

Nature and biodiversity loss.

Pollution and waste.

This triple crisis is threatening the well-being and survival of millions of people around the world.

The building blocks of happy, healthy lives -- clean water, fresh air, a stable and predictable climate -- are in disarray, putting the Sustainable Development Goals in jeopardy.

But there is still hope.

Fifty years ago, the world came together for the Stockholm Conference.

It was the start of the global environmental movement.

Since then, we have seen what is possible when we act as one.

We have shrunk the ozone hole.

We have expanded protections for wild life and ecosystems.

We have ended the use of leaded fuel, preventing millions of premature deaths.

And just last month, we launched a landmark global effort to prevent and end plastic pollution.

We have proven that together, we can tackle monumental challenges.

And the right to a healthy environment is gaining traction.

But we need to do much more.  And much faster.

Especially to avert climate catastrophe.

We must limit global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees.

We are far off track.

To keep 1.5 alive, governments must have cut emissions by 45 per cent by 2030, and achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.

Main emitters must drastically cut emissions starting this year.

This means accelerating the end of our fossil fuel addiction.

And speeding the deployment of clean renewable energy.

At the same time we must invest rapidly in adaptation and resilience, particularly for the poorest and most vulnerable who have contributed least to the crisis.

In June, the world will gather once again in Sweden for the Stockholm+50 meeting.

Let us make sure our leaders bring the ambition and action needed to address our triple planetary emergency.

Because we have only one Mother Earth.

We must do everything we can to protect her.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/178958-secretary-general-message-international-mother-earth-day-22-april-2022




Date: 12 April 2022
Title: UN: “Great finance divide” amid COVID-19 poses major setback for sustainable development
Content: 12 April 2022
With spiking global food and fuel prices, UN fears conflict in Ukraine dramatically worsens the economic outlook and the risk of widespread debt crises
NEW YORK, 12 April 2022 –The crippling cost of debt financing for many developing countries has hamstrung their recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, forced cutbacks in development spending, and constrained their ability to respond to further shocks, according to a new report launched by the United Nations today.

The 2022 Financing for Sustainable Development Report: Bridging the Finance Divide finds that while rich countries were able to support their pandemic recovery with record sums borrowed at ultra-low interest rates, the poorest countries spent billions servicing debt, preventing them from investing in sustainable development.

The pandemic shock plunged 77 million more people into extreme poverty in 2021, and by the end of the year many economies remained below pre-2019 levels. The report estimates that in 1 in 5 developing countries’ GDP per capita would not return to 2019 levels by the end of 2023, even before absorbing the impacts of the Ukraine war.

“As we are coming up to the halfway point of financing the world’s Sustainable Development Goals, the findings are alarming,” UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed said. “There is no excuse for inaction at this defining moment of collective responsibility, to ensure hundreds of millions of people are lifted out of hunger and poverty. We must invest in access for decent and green jobs, social protection, healthcare and education leaving no one behind.“

Bridging the Finance Divide says on average, the poorest developing countries pay 14 per cent of revenue for interest on their debt, almost 4 times higher than developed countries, at 3.5 per cent. Globally, many developing countries were forced to cut budgets for education, infrastructure and other capital spending as a result of the pandemic. The war in Ukraine will exacerbate these challenges and create new ones, with higher energy and commodity prices, renewed supply chain disruptions, higher inflation coupled with lower growth, and increased volatility in financial markets.

For many developing countries, the war will likely lead to further increases in debt distress and increased hunger. Before the war, the pandemic recovery gaps had already widened, with developing countries on average having only enough COVID-19 vaccine doses for 24 per 100 people, versus almost 150 per 100 people for developed countries. Shockingly, in 2021, 70 per cent of 10-year-olds in developing countries were unable to read a basic text, a 17 per cent increase from 2019. With food prices in 2021 already at their highest level in a decade, the UN fears the conflict in Ukraine risks dramatically worsening the economic outlook for many countries.
The rate of post-pandemic economic recovery in developed countries, however, points to a way forward for greater investment.

“The developed world proved in the last two years that millions can be lifted out of poverty by the right kind of investment – in resilient and clean infrastructure, social protection or public services,” said UN Under Secretary-General Liu Zhenmin, head of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs, which produced the report. “The international community must build on that progress, and ensure developing countries can invest at similar levels, while reducing inequality and securing a sustainable energy transition.”

The report notes that there was some progress on poverty reduction, social protection, and investment in sustainable development in 2021, driven by actions in developed and some large developing countries, including $17 trillion in COVID-19 emergency spending. Positive performance includes:

The report also notes record growth of Official Development Assistance (ODA), which increased to its highest level ever in 2020 rising to $161.2 billion. Yet, 13 countries cut ODA, and the sum remains insufficient for the vast needs of developing countries. The UN fears the fallout from the crisis in Ukraine, with increased spending on refugees in Europe, may mean cuts to the aid provided to the poorest countries. In the face of a global crisis, near-time actions and additional international support are needed to prevent debt crises and address the high cost of borrowing.
However, the vast majority of developing countries will need active and urgent support to get back on track to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. The report estimates that in the poorest countries a 20 per cent increase in spending will be required for key sectors.

Bridging the Finance Divide recommends actions in three areas:


- ENDS –

Notes to Editors:


***


For more information, or to request interviews with our experts, please contact:

Rita Ann Wallace, UN DESA | Mob: +1 516 707 5570 | rita.wallace@un.org

Sarah DeCuir, UN DESA | Tel: +1 917 367 9272 | sarah.decuir@un.org

Sharon Birch, UN Department of Global Communications | birchs@un.org




UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/177535-un-%E2%80%9Cgreat-finance-divide%E2%80%9D-amid-covid-19-poses-major-setback-sustainable-development




Date: 06 April 2022
Title: Ministry of International Cooperation, United Nations Hold Consultative Meetings with Civil Society, the Private Sector, and Academia to Develop the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2
Content: 06 April 2022

Inspiring collective action around the open-ended consultative process for the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2023-2027, the Ministry of Cooperation launched the second round of consultative meetings with other key stakeholders from the private sector, civil society, development partners, think tanks and academia, to put forward a common agenda that provides a powerful vision for a more secure, inclusive, and prosperous future.

Tackling development challenges requires an “all-hands-on-deck” effort that leverages the comparative advantage of every stakeholder, which is why the Ministry of International Cooperation and the United Nations Office in Egypt, as co-chairs of the Joint Steering Committee, held multiple meetings with civil society and trade union institutions, multilateral and bilateral development partners, the private sector, entrepreneurs, think tanks, and research institutions in order to unlock innovative solutions that accelerate progress and boost the capacity and performance of policy implementation.

Over the course of a week, the meetings witnessed the participation of 36 multilateral and bilateral development partners, including the World Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the European Union, and 38 civil society organizations, including the Egyptian Network for Integrated Development, the Egyptian Center for Women’s Rights, Caritas Egypt, 31 private sector institutions including the Bank of Alexandria, the American Chamber of Commerce, Coca-Cola, the Egyptian Businessmen Association, and Falak Startup, as well as 20 representatives of academic and research organizations including Cairo University and the American University in Cairo.

The Minister of International Cooperation, Dr. Rania A. Al-Mashat, noted that the Ministry launched extensive consultations for the new development cooperation framework in May 2021, which included the participation of more than 30 national bodies and around 28 United Nations agencies. She added that “the participation of research and academic bodies is an important and main link not only in the chain of consultations, but at the level of implementation, maximizing impact and sustainability.”

Referring to the Decent Life Initiative (Hayah Karima), the Minister emphasized the importance of the international community in promoting the principle of a decent life, and benefiting from the Egyptian experience in reaching the most vulnerable groups in order to achieve integration and inclusion in development processes.

Withh the aim of constructing a participatory dialogue on stakeholders’ priorities, while also discussing how national priorities can be consolidated through future projects with the United Nations, the Minister noted that a draft of the new strategy is expected to be finalized later this month, which will represent a blueprint for the partnership’s new strategic framework that capitalizes on the UN’s comparative advantages in tackling developmental challenges through innovative solutions.

For her part, Elena Panova, the UN Resident Coordinator in Egypt, mentioned; “participatory and inclusive stakeholder consultations are important milestones in developing the new UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2023-2027. Indeed, development stakeholders - civil society, private sector, international development organizations and think tanks/academia – provided invaluable inputs and reflections on the catalytic development solutions the United Nations development system in Egypt is offering through the new UNSDCF. The large participation was an acknowledgment of our collective efforts in supporting Egypt’s development priorities with focus on vulnerable people who are at risk to be left behind.”


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/176935-ministry-international-cooperation-united-nations-hold-consultative-meetings-civil-society




Date: 29 March 2022
Title: MENA Climate Week Opens with Aim To Accelerate Climate Action
Content: 29 March 2022
UN Climate Change Press Release

UN Climate Change News, 28 March 2022 – The first-ever Middle East and North Africa Climate Week, MENACW 2022, opened today with a strong call to accelerate implementation of the Paris Agreement. MENACW 2022 is being held through 31 March and is hosted by the Government of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in collaboration with the UN and other multilateral agencies.

Governments and stakeholders are gathering in person for the inaugural Climate Week in the MENA region following last November’s COP26 UN Climate Change Conference in Glasgow.

Decisions at COP26 give clarity on adapting to climate change, reducing emissions and the climate finance needed to achieve bold climate goals. A common set of guidelines was agreed to allow all nations to move forward together. This is especially important for the MENA region, a major energy-producing region where temperatures are set to soar if climate change is left unchecked.

Ms. Mariam bint Mohammed Almheiri, Minister of Climate Change and Environment of the UAE said: “This inaugural MENA Climate Week underscores our commitment to drive collective action to combat climate change regionally and globally. The event will explore key issues that shape climate response in this region, such as resilience against climate risks, transition to a low-emission economy and collaboration to solve pressing challenges.”

In addition to hosting MENACW 2022, the UAE is the first MENA-region country to launch a plan for net-zero emissions by 2050. The plan includes 600 billion dirhams ($163 billion) investment in renewable energy. The UAE already boasts the largest single site solar park in the world, which is projected to save over 6.5 million tons of carbon emissions each year.

UN Climate Change Executive Secretary Patricia Espinosa recognized the host country for its ongoing climate leadership.

“The Glasgow Climate Pact agreed at COP26 recognizes the powerful potential of regional collaboration to drive global progress. MENA Climate Week 2022 advances efforts to open opportunity in the transition to net-zero emissions and protect communities and economies against the worst impacts from climate change. Bringing together stakeholders to discuss regional solutions strengthens the global response to climate change,” she said.


Mr. Saeed Mohammed Al Tayer, Chairman of the World Green Economy Organization and Managing Director and CEO of DEWA said: “MENA Climate Week 2022 is an opportunity to press forward, leverage the momentum and continue to enhance climate ambition and climate action. The UAE has shown a clear commitment to embracing and building momentum for the green-economy shift, along with significant investment in renewable energy. The UAE is one of the first countries in the MENA region to launch a concrete initiative to achieve this ambitious climate commitment and we hope others will follow.”

Achim Steiner, Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme, said: “As the world works towards COP27 in Egypt, this MENA Regional Climate Week will bring countries and communities together to drive forward the growing green recovery through the sharing of best practice on climate action in key areas such as climate finance, climate-smart agriculture, low-carbon mobility as well as innovative climate adaptation solutions.”

Dr. Venkata Putti, Program Manager, Climate Change Group at The World Bank, said: “As the MENA region is among the most vulnerable to climate change, the upcoming inaugural MENA Climate Week is an indispensable platform and key milestone after a series of net-zero commitments made by Gulf countries. The World Bank looks forward to leading the consultations on national actions and economywide approaches to deliver sustainable, green recovery and decarbonization.”

Inger Andersen, Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme said: “The Glasgow Climate Pact kept the Paris 1.5 °C target alive, but only just. It is now up to us to take this chance to be part of the urgent global climate action we so desperately need. The Middle East and North Africa Regional Climate Week offers an important opportunity to seize transformational opportunities for climate action in the region and accelerate the shift away from fossil fuels, ensuring a just and sustainable energy transition for all.”

There are three key areas in focus at MENACW 2022:

MENACW 2022 is also one of the first opportunities to carry regional momentum forward to COP27 in Egypt. The event encourages engagement with the UN’s Race to Zero and Race to Resilience campaigns and ensures that regional voices are part of the multilateral climate process.

Dr. Muhammad Al Jasser, President of the Islamic Development Bank Group, said: “The IsDB Group has committed at least 35 percent of all its financing to climate-friendly projects by 2025. This is at the core of our strategic objectives, aligned with building resilience and driving green economies accentuated by building sustainable infrastructure and promoting inclusive human capital development.”

Francesco La Camera, Director-General of the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) said: “Renewable energy plays an important role as urgency grows to align with 2050 net zero goals. Over the last ten years, the MENA region has made incredible progress by doubling its installed renewable capacity. Seizing the economic opportunities presented by the energy transition in this region will drive diversification, sustainable development, prosperity and job creation.”

MENACW 2022 is part of the Regional Climate Weeks 2022 series, with meetings scheduled in Latin America and the Caribbean, Asia-Pacific and Africa. More details on the full series of Regional Climate Weeks 2022 are coming soon.
More than 2,400 participants have registered for MENACW 2022. All stakeholders are invited to join the inaugural MENA Climate Week and collaborate with government ministers, senior representatives of multilateral agencies and non-governmental organizations, civil society, indigenous leaders and youth.

About MENACW 2022 and the Regional Climate Weeks in 2022

MENACW 2022 is hosted by the Government of the United Arab Emirates – Ministry of Climate Change and Environment (MOCCAE), the World Green Economy Organization (WGEO) and the Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA). The event is organized in collaboration with core partners UN Climate Change, UN Development Programme, UN Environment Programme and the World Bank Group. Partners based in MENA include the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), Islamic Development Bank (IsDB), the League of Arab States (LAS) Secretariat, and the UN Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (UNESCWA).

MORE INFORMATION

For media inquiries, contact UN Climate Change at press@unfccc.int or Michael Seckler at mseckler@unfccc.int, with partner press contacts available in the MENACW 2022 Press Kit

For more information, visit MENACW 2022 or www.regionalclimateweeks.org
Join the conversation on social media using the hashtag #MenaClimateWeek

About the UNFCCC
With 197 Parties, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) has near universal membership and is the parent treaty of the 2015 Paris Climate Change Agreement. The main aim of the Paris Agreement is to keep a global average temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius and to drive efforts to limit the temperature increase even further to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. The UNFCCC is also the parent treaty of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. The ultimate objective of all agreements under the UNFCCC is to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that will prevent dangerous human interference with the climate system, in a time frame which allows ecosystems to adapt naturally and enables sustainable development.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/176181-mena-climate-week-opens-aim-accelerate-climate-action




Date: 22 March 2022
Title: The Secretary-General's message on World Water Day
Content: 22 March 2022

Humanity’s demand for water is growing.  Pressure on water resources is increasing due to overuse, pollution and climate change.  Droughts and heatwaves are becoming more intense and more frequent.  Sea-level rise is driving salt-water intrusion into coastal aquifers.  Groundwater aquifers are being depleted.

Water can be a source of conflict but also of cooperation.  It is essential that we work together to provide better stewardship of all water sources, including the world’s supply of groundwater.  Groundwater is out of sight, but we cannot afford for it to be out of mind.  Stored in rocks and soil, groundwater is our biggest source of liquid freshwater.  It sustains drinking water supplies, sanitation systems, farming, industry and ecosystems.  Yet, some 20 per cent of the world’s aquifers are being overexploited.

In many places, we simply do not know how much of this precious resource might exist.  We need to improve our exploration, monitoring and analysis of groundwater resources to protect and better manage them and help achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.

Next year’s United Nations Water Conference provides a decisive opportunity to galvanize action on water for sustainable development.  On this World Water Day, let us commit to intensifying collaboration among sectors and across borders so we can sustainably balance the needs of people and nature and harness groundwater for current and future generations.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/175467-secretary-generals-message-world-water-day




Date: 08 March 2022
Title: Video Message of Ms. Elena Panova,  UN Resident Coordinator in Egypt on  The International Women’s Day 2022
Content: 08 March 2022

Dear friends,
Ladies and gentlemen,

It is my privilege to celebrate with you, for the second year in Egypt, International Women’s Day.

I would like to pay tribute to all women and girls living in Egypt for their valuable contributions, throughout the country’s history to society, nation and communities.

As we celebrate women and girls today, it is unfortunate to see, in this day and age, that the clock on women’s rights is moving backwards, as the UN Secretary General, Antonio Guterres, warned.

Gender inequality and discrimination against women and girls persists in different forms. From unequal treatment, to violence, to bearing the brunt of social and economic challenges, including those arising from the climate crisis.

We all know that the impact of climate change on gender is not the same. Women are increasingly more vulnerable than men to the adverse impact of climate change. They represent the majority of the world's poor and are more dependent on threatened natural resources.

Therefore, this year’s celebration will be held under the theme

“Gender equality for a sustainable tomorrow”

This theme is more relevant today than ever. Urgent action is needed to curb the harmful impact of a changing climate on women and girls who are uniquely positioned to help bring new perspectives and solutions to this global crisis.
It will also help unlock greater resources and generate sustainable initiatives in adaptation, mitigation, and response.

This theme is even more relevant for Egypt, - the host country of the UN Climate Change Conference 2022 (COP27) in Sharm El-Sheikh.

COP27 is undoubtedly an unmissable opportunity for Egypt to champion for bold actions to protect our planet and push for gender-responsive climate actions.

The UN Family in Egypt is proud of our longstanding partnership with the Government of Egypt, and specifically with the National Council for Women, in promoting for gender equality and empowerment of all women and girls on all fronts.

Egypt can be proud of the great strides in ensuring that women are fully contributing to the country’s political, economic, social and environmental transformation.

We are looking forward to continuing our collaboration until we make gender equality a profound reality for all Egyptian women and girls, and for all humanity!

To all the women and girls in Egypt, Happy International Women’s Day!

***





UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/174200-video-message-ms-elena-panova-un-resident-coordinator-egypt-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-2022




Date: 22 February 2022
Title: Media interviews with IPCC authors of Working Group II contribution to Sixth Assessment Report
Content: 22 February 2022
GENEVA – Authors and Bureau Members of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) will be available for media interviews following the conclusion of the press conference to present the Summary for Policymakers of Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability, the Working Group II contribution to the Sixth Assessment Report.
The press conference will be streamed live at noon (12:00) CET on Monday 28 February 2022. Details on how to follow the livestream will be issued closer to the time. The interviews are expected to take place from around 14:00 CET on 28 February. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, all interviews will be conducted remotely. Requests for interviews taking place from 14:00 CET in 28 February to 23:59 CET on 1 March should be made using this form. Interviews will be taking place remotely mostly via the various available video conferencing applications.
In order to register your request for an interview with one or more IPCC Working Group II authors, please start by clicking on “List of Authors” on the top left corner of the form to see the full list of experts available for interview (please see the screenshot below). The list indicates the author’s country, field of specialization, and languages in which they can be interviewed.

Please proceed to complete all the fields in the Interview Request Form relevant to your interview so that we are able to process your request according to your needs. You can indicate a preferred interview topic and the IPCC media team will use this information to assign a relevant author for you to interview.
Some of the IPCC experts receive more requests than can be accommodated following the press conference. To accommodate as many interviews as possible on the day, the IPCC may also suggest an alternative interviewee, based on the needs specified when completing the Interview Request Form.
Please note that only interviews arranged via this process will be considered as confirmed for 28 February and 1 March.
All interview requests should be submitted by 18.00 CET on 24 February 2022.
If your interview request cannot be met on 28 February and 1 March, there will be further opportunities in the following days and weeks.
For information about the press conference including details of accreditation and access to embargo materials, please see this media advisory.
ENDS
For more information contact:
Email: interviews@ipcc.ch
Andrej Mahecic, + 41 22 730 8066, Werani Zabula, + 41 22 730 8120, Nina Peeva, + 41 22 730 8142 and Melissa Walsh +41 22 730 8532.
Notes for Editors
About the IPCC
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is the UN body for assessing the science related to climate change. It was established by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) in 1988 to provide political leaders with periodic scientific assessments concerning climate change, its implications and risks, as well as to put forward adaptation and mitigation strategies. In the same year the UN General Assembly endorsed the action by the WMO and UNEP in jointly establishing the IPCC. It has 195 member states.
Thousands of people from all over the world contribute to the work of the IPCC. For the assessment reports, experts volunteer their time as IPCC authors to assess the thousands of scientific papers published each year to provide a comprehensive summary of what is known about the drivers of climate change, its impacts and future risks, and how adaptation and mitigation can reduce those risks.
The IPCC has three working groups: Working Group I, dealing with the physical science basis of climate change; Working Group II, dealing with impacts, adaptation and vulnerability; and Working Group III, dealing with the mitigation of climate change. It also has a Task Force on National Greenhouse Gas Inventories that develops methodologies for measuring emissions and removals.
IPCC assessments provide governments, at all levels, with scientific information that they can use to develop climate policies. IPCC assessments are a key input into the international negotiations to tackle climate change. IPCC reports are drafted and reviewed in several stages, thus guaranteeing objectivity and transparency.
About the Sixth Assessment Cycle
Comprehensive scientific assessment reports are published every 6 to 7 years; the latest, the Fifth Assessment Report, was completed in 2014 and provided the main scientific input to the Paris Agreement.
At its 41st Session in February 2015, the IPCC decided to produce a Sixth Assessment Report (AR6). At its 42nd Session in October 2015 it elected a new Bureau that would oversee the work on this report and Special Reports to be produced in the assessment cycle. At its 43rd Session in April 2016, it decided to produce three Special Reports, a Methodology Report and AR6.
The Working Group I contribution to the Sixth Assessment Report Climate Change 2021: the Physical Science Basis was released on 9 August 2021.
More information about the Working Group II report, including its agreed outline, can be found here.
The Working Group III contribution is scheduled to be finalized in April 2022.
The concluding Synthesis Report is due later in 2022.
The IPCC also publishes special reports on more specific issues between assessment reports.
Global Warming of 1.5°C, an IPCC special report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas emission pathways, in the context of strengthening the global response to the threat of climate change, sustainable development, and efforts to eradicate poverty was launched in October 2018.
Climate Change and Land, an IPCC special report on climate change, desertification, land degradation, sustainable land management, food security, and greenhouse gas fluxes in terrestrial ecosystems was launched in August 2019, and the Special Report on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate was released in September 2019.
In May 2019 the IPCC released the 2019 Refinement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines on National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, an update to the methodology used by governments to estimate their greenhouse gas emissions and removals.
For more information visit www.ipcc.ch.
The website includes outreach materials including videos about the IPCC and video recordings from outreach events conducted as webinars or live-streamed events.
Most videos published by the IPCC can be found on our YouTube and Vimeo channels.
February 1, 2022


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/172920-media-interviews-ipcc-authors-working-group-ii-contribution-sixth-assessment-report




Date: 10 February 2022
Title: UN Women and Procter & Gamble launch the 3rd Edition of their programme for supporting Women Entrepreneurs in Egypt
Content: 10 February 2022
Cairo, 10 February 2022 – UN Women and Procter & Gamble today mark the official launch of the 3rd edition of their joint programme “Stimulating Equal Opportunities for Women Entrepreneurs” in Egypt.
This programme is a result of a strong partnership that started in 2017 in support of women’s empowerment in Egypt and greater diversity and inclusion. Through this partnership, UN Women and Procter &Gamble aim to equip women entrepreneurs in rural and urban areas with the skills and support they need to access P&G’s opportunities as potential suppliers and distributors.
This partnership is part of a broader Global initiative carried out simultaneously in Egypt, Pakistan, South Africa, and Nigeria. In Egypt, and in support of the National Strategy for the Empowerment of Women, the work focuses on creating a pool of women-owned businesses that can be integrated into the supply chain and distribution channels of P&G as well as other companies, to ensure greater diversity and equity. The work targets trainings of women on business development, marketing, sales techniques (including in-person sales), financial management and on the provision of soft skills for women- especially in rural Upper Egypt.
Among the main results achieved by the programme over the two consecutive phases have been diversifying the supply chain of 57 women-owned businesses (WOBs) in various fields to establish a supplier base network for P&G. Ten of these WOBs are now registered as official vendors at P&G supplier database. The programme has also supported 300 women villagers in Beni-Suef and Minya governorates through enhancing their entrepreneurship and marketing skills, helping the women to reach over 713,000 potential buyers in 341 villages. The programme has supported women in the retail industry where 11 WOBs have secure contractual agreement to collectively provide seed capital to each other amounting to 375,760 EGP. Capitalizing on the support provided to women entrepreneurs, the programme aims then to link many of the beneficiaries to the National Council for Women’s Business Development Centre for further support.
“For UN Women, the partnership with P&G over the years has helped us in supporting women both rural and urban, who have incredible entrepreneurial drives and capacities. This next phase of partnerships will help us in supporting more women in Beni Suef and Minya Governorates, leveraging greater opportunities while building on the good work supported to date.. Increasing the supplier/distributor diversity has proven to be a win-win approach, as it ensures greater access to quality products and services for the companies such as P&G, and increased income opportunities for the women-owned businesses engaged in the programme”, stated Christine Arab, UN Women Country Representative.
During the event, Hossam Nassef, Senior Commercial Director at P&G Egypt, confirmed the strong partnership and announced great ambitions for the 3rd edition: “In P&G, we strongly believe in Equality and inclusion, and we build strong partnerships to enable and support Women. We are proud of the results achieved by our program with UN Women Egypt and glad to confirm the 3rd edition. We are looking to help another 30 Women to integrate P&G’s value chain in a business integrated way and make a real change in their lives”.
The global P&G/UN Women programme, implemented in Egypt, is funded through the generous support of Procter & Gamble and runs from December 2017–June 2022. This project is part of UN Women’s wider Women’s Economic Empowerment portfolio in Egypt, which is implemented in partnership with the Government of Egypt and national regulatory authorities, and in collaboration with private sector and civil society.
For more information, please contact:
- Zainab Alji, Communications Director, P&G North Africa at Alji.z@pg.com
- Maha Rateb; Communication and Advocacy Analyst, UN Women Egypt at maha.rateb@unwomen.org

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/171841-un-women-and-procter-gamble-launch-3rd-edition-their-programme-supporting-women




Date: 08 February 2022
Title: MENA Climate Week 2022 Postponed
Content: 08 February 2022
UN Climate Change News, 8 February 2022 – The first-ever Middle East and North Africa Climate Week, MENACW 2022, has been postponed due to concerns around COVID-19. Originally planned to take place 28 February to 3 March in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, the recent surge in Omicron variant cases requires the in-person meeting to be delayed, with new dates to be announced soon.
MENACW 2022 is an opportunity for governments, the private sector, cities, indigenous communities, youth and civil society to engage in solution-oriented dialogue, find common ground and collaborate on climate action. The Week will explore resilience against climate risks, the transition to a low-emission economy and collaboration to solve pressing challenges.
MENACW 2022 is also a key opportunity to advance implementation of the Paris Agreement and the Glasgow Climate Pact adopted at November’s COP26 and to carry regional momentum forward to COP27 in Egypt.
Registration for MENACW 2022 remains open until the event. Participants are encouraged to register as early as possible to stay updated by visiting the MENACW 2022 Registration website.

About MENACW 2022 and the Regional Climate Weeks in 2022
MENACW 2022 is hosted by the Government of the United Arab Emirates – Ministry of Climate Change and Environment (MOCCAE), the World Green Economy Organization (WGEO) and the Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA). The event is organized in collaboration with core partners UN Climate Change, UN Development Programme, UN Environment Programme and the World Bank Group. Partners based in MENA include the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), Islamic Development Bank (IsDB), the League of Arab States (LAS) Secretariat, and the UN Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (UNESCWA).

MENACW 2022 is part of the Regional Climate Weeks 2022 series, with meetings scheduled in Latin America and the Caribbean (LACCW 2022), Asia-Pacific (APCW 2022) and Africa (ACW 2022). More details on the full series of Regional Climate Weeks are coming soon.

MORE INFORMATION

For media inquiries, contact UN Climate Change at press@unfccc.int or John Hay at jhay@unfccc.int

For more information, visit MENACW 2022 or www.regionalclimateweeks.org
Join the conversation on social media using the hashtag #MenaClimateWeek

About the UNFCCC
With 197 Parties, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) has near universal membership and is the parent treaty of the 2015 Paris Climate Change Agreement. The main aim of the Paris Agreement is to keep a global average temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius and to drive efforts to limit the temperature increase even further to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. The UNFCCC is also the parent treaty of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. The ultimate objective of all agreements under the UNFCCC is to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that will prevent dangerous human interference with the climate system, in a time frame which allows ecosystems to adapt naturally and enables sustainable development.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/171328-mena-climate-week-2022-postponed




Date: 31 January 2022
Title: IOM Egypt and NCCPIM&TIP Launches Capacity Building Workshops for Media Professionals and Journalists on “Combating Smuggling of Migrants and Trafficking in Persons”
Content: 31 January 2022
The workshop aims at enhancing journalists’ capacities on combatting smuggling and trafficking in persons.
Cairo – The International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Egypt, in cooperation with the ‘National Coordinating Committee for Combatting and Preventing Illegal Migration and Trafficking in Persons (NCCPIM&TIP)’, has launched a series of two workshops on “Capacity Building for Media Professionals and Journalists on Combating Smuggling of Migrants and Trafficking in Persons” in Cairo. The launching event took place on 30 January 2022 and was attended by H.E. Mr. Christian Berger Head of the European Union Delegation to the Arab Republic of Egypt, H.E. Mr. Michele Quaroni Ambassador of Italy to the Arab Republic of Egypt, H.E. Ambassador Naela Gabr, Chairperson, National Coordinating Committee for Combating and Preventing Illegal Migration and Trafficking in Persons (NCCPIM&TiP) and H.E. Mr. Laurent De Boeck, IOM Chief of Mission to the Arab Republic of Egypt.
H.E. Ambassador Naela Gabr commenced the workshop by stating “Our cooperation constitutes part of the implementation of two important programs “RDPP funded by the European Union and Aware Migrants Funded by Italy” and IOM as our implementing agency. These programs are supporting NCCPIM&TIP in the realization of its strategies to combat trafficking in persons and the smuggling of migrants. Furthermore, this workshop targets the media professionals with the aim of enhancing the capacities and the know-how of the people working in this field especially the ones who face direct access to the citizens and they play a crucial role in creating awareness among different strata of the society.”
“Journalism has such a power and role: passing the right message to shape our minds, promote tolerance and understanding. With the right words, the correct concepts, and precise understanding, journalism shall shape the future. Understanding the difference between refugees and migrants, and their fundamental rights, will, in turn, promote respect and protection, and encourage an inclusive society based on human rights.”, said Laurent de Boeck, IOM Chief of Mission to the Arab Republic of Egypt.

The workshop included sessions on key terminologies regarding trafficking in persons and irregular migration; the fundamental role of media in shaping narratives of the two topics; ethical and objective reporting methods; next to challenges and factors affecting media and journalists when covering irregular migration and trafficking in person topics as well as reaching to reliable sources of information. Additionally, a practical session on interviewing techniques and guidelines was included in the workshop next to the general usage of pictures and media literacy. A total of 30 participants from different media agencies and newspapers attended the workshop.
Those workshops were implemented through the generous support offered by the European Union under the project the “Regional Development and Protection Programme (RDPP)”, and by the Italian Ministry of Interior under the project “Aware Migrants”.
The workshops contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), specifically Goal 10 “Reduced Inequalities”, Goal 16 “Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions” and Goal 17 “Partnerships for the Goals”. The workshops also align to the Global Compact for Migration (GCM) Objective 10 “Prevent, combat and eradicate trafficking in persons in the context of international migration” and Objective 7 “Address and reduce vulnerabilities in migration”.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/170129-iom-egypt-and-nccpimtip-launches-capacity-building-workshops-media-professionals-and




Date: 24 January 2022
Title: The Secretary-General's Message on the International Day of Education
Content: 24 January 2022
The COVID-19 pandemic has caused chaos in education worldwide.
Some 1.6 billion school and college students had their studies interrupted at the peak of the pandemic -- and it’s not over yet.
Today, school closures continue to disrupt the lives of over 31 million students, exacerbating a global learning crisis.
Unless we take action, the share of children leaving school in developing countries who are unable to read could increase from 53 to 70 percent.
But the turmoil in education goes beyond questions of access and inequality.
Our world is changing at a dizzying pace, with technological innovation, unprecedented changes in the world of work, the onset of the climate emergency, and a widespread loss of trust between people and institutions.
Conventional education systems are struggling to deliver the knowledge, skills and values we need to create a greener, better and safer future for all.
Education is a preeminent public good, and an essential enabler for the entire 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The international community cannot afford to be agnostic about its provision, quality and relevance.
That is why I am convening a Summit on Transforming Education later this year.
The time has come to reignite our collective commitment to education.
That means investing in comprehensive plans to help students recover from learning losses.
It means putting education at the heart of broader recovery efforts, aimed at transforming economies and societies and accelerating progress on sustainable development.
It means financial solidarity with developing countries.
And it means embarking on a process of reflection and analysis to identify how national education systems can evolve and transform between now and 2030.
The Summit on Transforming Education will be the first time that world leaders, young people and all education stakeholders come together to consider these fundamental questions.
On this International Day of Education, and as we prepare for the Summit later this year, I call on everyone to unite around education as a public good and a top political priority for the recovery and beyond.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/169426-secretary-generals-message-international-day-education




Date: 23 January 2022
Title: Minister of International Cooperation with UN Resident Coordinator in Egypt to Discuss Means of Supporting "Decent Life" Presidential Initiative
Content: 23 January 2022
The meeting highlighted the importance of the ‘Decent Life’ initiative, through which Egypt aims to achieve inclusive development in rural areas and to improve the people’s livelihoods, as it benefits more than half of Egypt’s total population.

𝘏.𝘌. 𝘋𝘳. 𝘙𝘢𝘯𝘪𝘢 𝘈. 𝘈𝘭-𝘔𝘢𝘴𝘩𝘢𝘵: “𝘞𝘦 𝘤𝘰𝘰𝘳𝘥𝘪𝘯𝘢𝘵𝘦 𝘸𝘪𝘵𝘩 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘜𝘯𝘪𝘵𝘦𝘥 𝘕𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘰𝘯𝘴, 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘢𝘭𝘭 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘥𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘭𝘰𝘱𝘮𝘦𝘯𝘵 𝘱𝘢𝘳𝘵𝘯𝘦𝘳𝘴, 𝘵𝘰 𝘥𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘭𝘰𝘱 𝘢 𝘧𝘶𝘭𝘭, 𝘪𝘯𝘵𝘦𝘨𝘳𝘢𝘵𝘦𝘥 𝘷𝘪𝘴𝘪𝘰𝘯 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘢𝘭𝘭 𝘧𝘶𝘵𝘶𝘳𝘦 𝘱𝘳𝘰𝘫𝘦𝘤𝘵𝘴, 𝘸𝘪𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘧𝘳𝘢𝘮𝘦𝘸𝘰𝘳𝘬 𝘰𝘧 𝘵𝘩𝘦 “𝘋𝘦𝘤𝘦𝘯𝘵 𝘓𝘪𝘧𝘦” 𝘱𝘳𝘦𝘴𝘪𝘥𝘦𝘯𝘵𝘪𝘢𝘭 𝘪𝘯𝘪𝘵𝘪𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘷𝘦.”

𝘌𝘭𝘦𝘯𝘢 𝘗𝘢𝘯𝘰𝘷𝘢: “𝘛𝘩𝘦 𝘋𝘦𝘤𝘦𝘯𝘵 𝘓𝘪𝘧𝘦” 𝘪𝘯𝘪𝘵𝘪𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘷𝘦 𝘤𝘰𝘮𝘦𝘴 𝘸𝘪𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘬𝘦𝘺 𝘢𝘳𝘦𝘢𝘴 𝘰𝘧 𝘤𝘰𝘰𝘱𝘦𝘳𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘰𝘯 𝘣𝘦𝘵𝘸𝘦𝘦𝘯 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘎𝘰𝘷𝘦𝘳𝘯𝘮𝘦𝘯𝘵 𝘰𝘧 𝘌𝘨𝘺𝘱𝘵 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘜𝘯𝘪𝘵𝘦𝘥 𝘕𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘰𝘯𝘴, 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘪𝘴 𝘤𝘰𝘯𝘴𝘪𝘥𝘦𝘳𝘦𝘥 𝘢 𝘮𝘰𝘥𝘦𝘭 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘱𝘢𝘷𝘦𝘴 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘸𝘢𝘺 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘢𝘤𝘩𝘪𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘮𝘦𝘯𝘵 𝘰𝘧 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘜𝘯𝘪𝘵𝘦𝘥 𝘕𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘰𝘯𝘴 𝘚𝘋𝘎𝘴.”

𝘈𝘯𝘵𝘰𝘯𝘪𝘰 𝘝𝘪𝘨𝘪𝘭𝘢𝘯𝘵𝘦, 𝘐𝘯𝘵𝘦𝘳𝘯𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘰𝘯𝘢𝘭 𝘊𝘰𝘯𝘴𝘶𝘭𝘵𝘢𝘯𝘵, 𝘤𝘰𝘯𝘵𝘳𝘪𝘣𝘶𝘵𝘦𝘴 𝘵𝘰 𝘴𝘦𝘵𝘵𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘱𝘳𝘪𝘰𝘳𝘪𝘵𝘪𝘦𝘴 𝘰𝘧 𝘥𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘭𝘰𝘱𝘮𝘦𝘯𝘵 𝘤𝘰𝘰𝘱𝘦𝘳𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘰𝘯 𝘣𝘦𝘵𝘸𝘦𝘦𝘯 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘜𝘕’𝘴 𝘢𝘧𝘧𝘪𝘭𝘪𝘢𝘵𝘦𝘥 𝘢𝘨𝘦𝘯𝘤𝘪𝘦𝘴 𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘎𝘰𝘷𝘦𝘳𝘯𝘮𝘦𝘯𝘵 𝘰𝘧 𝘌𝘨𝘺𝘱𝘵, 𝘸𝘪𝘵𝘩 𝘳𝘦𝘨𝘢𝘳𝘥𝘴 𝘵𝘰 𝘵𝘩𝘦 “𝘋𝘦𝘤𝘦𝘯𝘵 𝘓𝘪𝘧𝘦” 𝘗𝘳𝘦𝘴𝘪𝘥𝘦𝘯𝘵𝘪𝘢𝘭 𝘐𝘯𝘪𝘵𝘪𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘷𝘦, 𝘢𝘴 𝘱𝘢𝘳𝘵 𝘰𝘧 𝘵𝘩𝘦 𝘴𝘵𝘳𝘢𝘵𝘦𝘨𝘪𝘤 𝘧𝘳𝘢𝘮𝘦𝘸𝘰𝘳𝘬 𝘰𝘧 𝘤𝘰𝘰𝘱𝘦𝘳𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘰𝘯 𝘧𝘰𝘳 𝘴𝘶𝘴𝘵𝘢𝘪𝘯𝘢𝘣𝘭𝘦 𝘥𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘭𝘰𝘱𝘮𝘦𝘯𝘵 2023/27.

The Minister of International Cooperation H.E. Dr. Rania A. Al-Mashat held a meeting with Ms. Elena Panova, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt, and Antonio Vigilante, International Consultant and the former Resident Coordinator in Egypt for the UN and the UNDP, to discuss the strategic partnership between the United Nations and Egypt, through the Ministry of International Cooperation, and to establish an integrated approach for the United Nations interventions with the Government of Egypt, within the framework of the ‘Decent Life’ presidential initiative.

This meeting comes within the framework of Vigilante’s visit to Egypt, to start the consultations between the UN agencies and the Government of Egypt, with the aim of setting priorities of the next phase, within the framework of the development cooperation projects that shall be implemented within the framework of the ‘Decent Life’ presidential initiative, and as part of the strategic cooperation between both sides, as well as the Ministry of International Corporation's role as the national coordinator, for monitoring the strategic framework of the partnership between Egypt and the United Nations.

Minister Al Mashat stated that the Ministry of International Cooperation works on coordinating development efforts with the United Nations, and all the development partners, to establish their vision and steps of implementation of projects that come as part of the presidential initiative. H.E. further noted that this is within the framework of the fruitful and strategic cooperation between Egypt and the United Nations, through the UN Partnership Development Framework (UNPDF) from 2023 to 2027, and through supporting national efforts that are aimed towards achieving inclusive development in Egypt’s rural areas through the Decent Life initiative.

The meeting encompassed discussions about the importance of the ‘Decent Life’ initiative, which Egypt aims through to achieve inclusive development in rural areas and to improve the people’s livelihoods, as it benefits more than half of Egypt’s total population. Minister Al-Mashat referred to the follow-up meeting held by Prime Minister H.E. Dr. Mostafa Madbouly, with development partners last October, where they discussed potential areas of cooperation as integral pillars of the country’s future strategies.

Al-Mashat further applauded the strategic partnership between Egypt and the United Nations, which extends for decades, through which it has achieved positive results and has been pushing forward the government’s development efforts across various fields, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic; stressing her confidence that the current discussions come within the framework of the new partnership.

For her part, Ms. Elena Panova, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt, stated that the United Nations is an important opportunity that contributes to achieving the United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, on the regional and global levels; noting that the UN takes part in the development of the Decent Life’s villages, through over 400 ongoing activities that are directed to over 1.4 million beneficiaries.

Panova elaborated that the UN and Egypt have started on the preparations for the UN Partnership Development Framework for Egypt (UNPDF) 2023/2027, through which the Decent Life initiative has been outlined as the key areas of cooperation that advance Egypt’s Vision 2030 and the UN’s SDGs.
During the meeting, Antonio Vigilante, International Consultant and the former Resident Coordinator in Egypt for the UN and the UNDP, presented his plan during his official mission in Egypt, which encompassed monitoring the UN’s interventions with regards to the Decent Life initiative, through the future filed visits to some rural areas that fall within the initiative, as well as the discussions with the relevant authorities on the effective cooperation within the UNPDF. This is in addition to the current discussion with the UN’s country team on the alignment of current and future development programs as part of the Decent Life initiative, and with the participation of the civil society, the private sector, and bilateral and multilateral development partners.
Moreover, they also tackled identifying the proposed investment projects within the Decent Life initiative, and the means of securing the development financing for implementation. Minister Al-Mashat presented the Ministry of International Cooperation’s 2021 Annual Report titled “Engaging For Impact Towards Our Common Future:  International Partnerships for Sustainable Development” that detailed the development financing secured from bilateral and multilateral development partners, and International Financial Institutions (IFIs), through the Ministry’s doctrine of Economic Diplomacy. Noting that the report also outlines the projects financed from developmemnt partners that pave the way for the achievement of sustainable development; benefiting people.
Al-Mashat also spotlighted the Decent Life initiative, which was also outlined in the annual report; shedding light on the Ministry of International Cooperation’s launched movie on the initiative, which is the first English movie on the Decent Life presidential initiative.

Link to the movie: https://www.instagram.com/tv/CTsfsbDMaf_/?utm_medium=copy_link

Last December, H.E. Dr. Rania A. Al-Mashat, and the United Nations, held a meeting on the results and updates of the UN Partnership Development Framework (UNPDF)- the strategic cooperation framework between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the United Nations for 2018-2022. This took place with the participation of over 75 representatives of the United Nations affiliated agencies, ministers, and relevant stakeholders. During that meeting, the UN’s role in implementing projects as part of the Decent Life initiative was discussed, as well as the proposed future plan for implementation.
The UNPDF, launched in 2006 with the Ministry of International Cooperation as co-chair, represents the UN’s cooperation framework with the Government of Egypt. Last May, Minister Al-Mashat and Ms.Panova launched a roadmap for the new strategic framework UNPDF (2023-2027), which aims to support the government’s efforts in implementing economic,  social and environmental development; supporting efforts towards achieving sustainable development.

The Ministry’s 2021 annual report, detailed that the total development financing in 2021 amounts to $10.2 billion including $8.7 billion directed to public sector development and $1.57 billion directed to private sector development.

For more information on the 2021 Annual Report in English:
https://www.moic.gov.eg/en-US/Sectors/Index?na=7391

For more information on the 2021 Annual Report in Arabic:
https://www.moic.gov.eg/ar-EG/Sectors?na=7391

https://web.facebook.com/MOICEgypt/posts/295770349251537?_rdc=1&_rdr

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/169142-minister-international-cooperation-un-resident-coordinator-egypt-discuss-means-supporting




Date: 15 January 2022
Title: UN in Egypt participates in the launch of the first edition of the "World Art Forum at the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization
Content: 15 January 2022


Cairo, 14 January 2022: The National Museum of Egyptian Civilization will host for the first time, the World Art Forum (WAF), the largest international contemporary art event that adopts the sustainable development goals (SDGs) at the core of their mission. This forum will run from January 15th to January 19th and will be under the auspices of five ministries: The Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities, the Ministry of State for Immigration and Expatriates' Affairs, the Ministry of Environment, and the State’s Department of Tourism in Cairo. The event is held in partnership with the United Nations in Egypt, the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization, and the New York International Contemporary Art Society.
The World Art Forum (WAF) – organized by Sheranda World Art and Jupiter Commz – reflects the link between contemporary art and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which are in line with Egypt’s 2030 Vision. The Forum aims to consolidate the relationship of art in general and contemporary art in particular with the development of a culture that promotes a more sustainable future playing a role in enriching human beliefs and the dimensions of human identity and its role in constructing it.
The World Art Forum will address the linkages between contemporary arts and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals which is compatible with Egypt’s 2030 Vision. Over five days, the attendees will tour the world by learning about the different visual arts presented by galleries and cultural centers from Europe, Asia, Africa, the United States, Australia, and the Middle East.
The agenda of the World Art Forum (WAF) will include a wide range of artistic events and discussion panels that will discuss the role of art in promoting sustainable development goals and building partnerships between artists and development partners, in addition to a special dialogue session that will be held on the last day and is aimed to build a global network consisting of artists and partners in the field of development, to ensure the continuity and progress of art in promoting sustainable development.
Through its activities, the Forum seeks to develop executable technical development strategies and plans aimed to create an educated audience that is familiar with the role of educational and developmental art and capable of producing that through innovative and creative techniques. The forum will contribute to the promotion of the concept of cultural dialogues and will strengthen the Egyptian and Arabic cultural identity highlighting their capacity for creativity and innovation. It is worth mentioning that the event is sponsored by Tatweer Misr, Ramsco Trading and Distribution, and Oman Air.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/168226-un-egypt-participates-launch-first-edition-world-art-forum-national-museum-egyptian




Date: 13 January 2022
Title: UN warns global economic recovery is losing steam After a rebound in 2021, the world economy is facing strong headwinds
Content: 13 January 2022
New York, 13 January – The global economic recovery is facing significant headwinds amid new waves of COVID-19 infections, persistent labour market challenges, lingering supply-chain challenges and rising inflationary pressures. After expanding by 5.5 per cent in 2021, the global output is projected to grow by only 4.0 per cent in 2022 and 3.5 per cent in 2023, according to the United Nations World Economic Situation and Prospects (WESP) 2022, which was launched today.

The robust recovery in 2021 – driven by strong consumer spending and some uptake in investment, with trade in goods surpassing pre-pandemic levels — marked the highest growth rate in more than four decades, the Report highlighted. Yet the momentum for growth – especially in China, the United States and the European Union – slowed considerably by the end of 2021, as the effects of monetary and fiscal stimuli began to recede and major supply-chain disruptions emerged. Rising inflationary pressures in many economies are posing additional risks to recovery.

“In this fragile and uneven period of global recovery, the World Economic Situation and Prospects 2022 calls for better targeted and coordinated policy and financial measures at the national and international levels,” said António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations.

He added, “The time is now to close the inequality gaps within and among countries. If we work in solidarity – as one human family – we can make 2022 a true year of recovery for people and economies alike.”

With the highly transmissible Omicron variant of COVID-19 unleashing new waves of infections, the human and economic toll of the pandemic are projected to increase again. “Without a coordinated and sustained global approach to contain COVID-19 that includes universal access to vaccines, the pandemic will continue to pose the greatest risk to an inclusive and sustainable recovery of the world economy,” noted Liu Zhenmin, Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs.

Labour market recovery is lagging and global poverty will remain high

Employment levels are projected to remain well-below pre-pandemic levels during the next two years, and possibly beyond. Labour force participation in the United States and Europe remain at historically low levels, as many who lost jobs or left the labour market during the pandemic have not yet returned.

Labour shortages in the developed economies are adding to supply-chain challenges and inflationary pressures. At the same time, employment growth in developing countries remains weak, amid lower vaccination progress and limited stimulus spending. Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, and Western Asia are projected to see a slow recovery of jobs. In many countries, the pace of job creation is not enough to offset the earlier employment losses. Against the backdrop of weak job recovery, the number of people living in extreme poverty is projected to remain well-above pre-pandemic levels, with poverty projected to increase further in the most vulnerable economies. In Africa, the absolute number of people living in poverty is projected to rise through 2023.

Higher inequality – the long-term scar of COVID-19

Higher levels of inequality within and between countries are emerging as a longer-term scar of the pandemic. In the coming years, a full recovery of GDP per capita will remain elusive for many developing countries. Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean are projected to see gaps of 5.5 and 4.2 percentage points, respectively, compared to pre-pandemic projections. These persistent output gaps will exacerbate poverty and inequality and thwart progress on achieving sustainable development and tackling climate change. In contrast, the GDP per capita of the developed economies, relative to pre-pandemic projections, is expected to almost fully recover by 2023.

Furthermore, uneven recovery of employment and income across different population groups are exacerbating within-country income inequalities. Women, especially in developing countries, experienced a sharper decline in employment as a result of the pandemic. Support for unpaid domestic work, including childcare, will remain critical in helping women re-enter the labour force.

A changing macroeconomic policy landscape

Limited fiscal space and financing constraints in many developing countries continue to limit governments’ ability to make pandemic-related expenditures, including expanding vaccination and social protection and supporting jobs. Accommodative fiscal stances –avoiding premature fiscal consolidation – will remain a priority to ensure a robust, inclusive and sustainable recovery.

Central banks around the world have begun to unwind their extraordinary monetary response to the crisis amid rising inflationary pressures. While necessary, quick withdrawal of monetary stimulus could undermine the fragile recovery. The asset purchase programs (APPs), in particular, were effective in addressing financial distress and supporting the recovery during the early stages of the crisis. However, APPs have also increased global financial vulnerabilities, and widened wealth inequalities.

Fiscal and debt situations are particularly challenging for many low-income, developing countries. Unsustainable external debt burdens, additional borrowing during the pandemic and increasing debt-servicing costs have put many of them on the verge of a debt crisis. The unwinding of APP and sharp increases in interest rates in the developed countries could trigger large capital outflows and further aggravate debt sustainability for many developing countries.

They are in urgent need of further and coordinated international support for debt relief, the report noted. “Monetary authorities in the developed countries will need to pace and sequence the tapering of asset purchases and reducing their balance sheets to maintain financial stability, keep the cost of servicing public debt low, ensure debt sustainability and avoid premature fiscal consolidation”, emphasized Hamid Rashid, Chief of the Global Economic Monitoring Branch and lead author of the Report.

For more information, please visit: https://www.bit.ly/wespreport.

Media contacts:
Sharon Birch, UN Department of Global Communications, birchs@un.org
Helen Rosengren, UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, rosengrenh@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/168109-un-warns-global-economic-recovery-losing-steam-after-rebound-2021-world-economy-facing




Date: 17 December 2021
Title: The Secretary-General video message to the people of Lebanon
Content: 17 December 2021

New York, 17 December 2021

I send my warm wishes to the people of Lebanon as I prepare for my visit later this week.

Generosity, resourcefulness and hospitality are hallmarks of the Lebanese people. I saw this first-hand when I was head of the United Nations refugee agency and visited Lebanon many times.

I am deeply concerned about the hardships you face today.

Last year’s horrific Beirut Port blast took the precious lives of more than 200 people from over a dozen countries – parents, daughters, sons, friends and colleagues... The United Nations mourns with you. Among the youngest victims were two children of UN staff members.

The blast injured some seven thousand people, leaving many with permanent disabilities. It destroyed thousands of homes. I know the Lebanese people want answers, and I hear your demands for truth and justice.

Your suffering is made worse by the cumulative social, economic and political crises. The COVID-19 pandemic has added to the toll.

I am coming to Lebanon with one simple message: the United Nations stands with the people of Lebanon.

From our political teams and peacekeepers to our humanitarian aid workers and development professionals, the entire UN family is focused on supporting Lebanon and its people.

During my visit, I will meet different Lebanese leaders and representatives to discuss how we can best support you to overcome the crisis and promote peace, stability, justice, development and human rights.

I hope to have the chance to talk with, and listen to, people from all backgrounds and communities.

Lasting solutions can only come from inside Lebanon. It is essential for leaders to put the people first, and implement the reforms needed to set Lebanon back on track, including efforts to promote accountability and transparency, and root out corruption.

Next year’s elections will be key. Lebanon’s people must be fully engaged in choosing how your country moves forward. Women and young people must have every opportunity to play their full part.

This is the only way Lebanon will lay the foundations for a better future.

The United Nations will support Lebanon on every step of this journey.

Thank you, shukran, and I look forward to spending time in the Land of the Cedars.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/165987-secretary-general-video-message-people-lebanon




Date: 17 December 2021
Title: Youth for integrity, innovation and lifelong learning: towards a fair and corruption-free society
Content: 17 December 2021

Young people are just as affected by corruption as others in society. Corruption can affect their prospects for a decent future and employment as well as impeding access to education, health care and other basic services. Corruption is stealing their future, so the world’s 1.8 billion young people have a major stake in countering it.
Youth can be drivers of changes in attitudes and behaviour, and it is in the interests of decision-makers to harness young people’s energy, ideas and power of mobilization. And around the world, young people are playing a crucial role in developing and implementing innovative, creative anti-corruption efforts.
In many places youth-led civil society organizations and individuals are providing a unique contribution in preventing and countering corruption. Many young people from these organizations came together at the virtual Youth Forum in May 2021. The Youth Forum’s statement was delivered to the UN General Assembly Special Session against Corruption (UNGASS) in June 2021 by Serena Ibrahim, Founder of Youth against Corruption, Lebanon, who said there is no more time for business as usual and delivered 10 key requests for creating a future with zero tolerance for corruption.
Corruption is not the only factor affecting young people’s future prospects. The COVID-19 pandemic has hurt young people who have experienced an unprecedented disruption in education, employment, social interaction, and their ability to discover the world. They now play a crucial role in building a more just, equitable, resilient and sustainable world, an essential part of which involves countering corruption. Young people are also seeking accountability from leaders for decisions made in COVID-19 responses, to strengthen institutions and the rule of law through transparency and anti-corruption measures.
Education and youth
To effectively promote a culture of integrity and build a generation that stands for resilience to corruption, education is key. Working with children in a classroom setting at an early stage in their educational development can provide them with the knowledge and skills necessary to understand how to react when confronted with corruption and unethical behaviour. From an early age, children can be taught about the ethical standards to be expected of both the public and private sectors. In addition, children can learn that criminal justice systems should be fair, just and humane. Through such an early learning approach, the views of corruption can be gradually challenged and changed.
Young people can help to promote integrity and be powerful agents of change by developing innovative and impactful solutions within their communities, with support from decision makers.
At the Conference, the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) will be launching a new global initiative focused on youth education, GRACE. The initiative aims to empower the next generation to act with integrity and be less tolerant of corruption and unethical practices.
GRACE, the Global Resource for Anti-Corruption Education and Youth Empowerment, will help Member States to incorporate anti-corruption, integrity and ethics into national education curricula for primary and secondary schools.  It will promote teaching and research at the tertiary level with grants to universities and academic institutions, anti-corruption summer schools for students and a global anti-corruption fellowship programme. It will establish a youth advisory board of youth ambassadors to enable young people to provide their perspectives and insights on tackling corruption.
The GRACE Initiative builds on UNODC’s earlier projects, Education for Justice (E4J), which sought to prevent crime and promote a culture of lawfulness through education activities designed for primary, secondary and tertiary levels and the Anti-Corruption Academic initiative.
Meaningful youth engagement in anti-corruption
The “YouthLED” Integrity Advisory Board being set up by the GRACE initiative will bring together a group of 16 talented young people, working to advance education and youth empowerment as a key tool to prevent and fight corruption locally, regionally and globally.
YouthLED will support GRACE in advancing its four cross-cutting principles – partnerships, innovation, gender and youth, by engaging with young people in their respective countries and regions, as well as globally; advocating for the GRACE initiative within their communities to disseminate good practices and experiences of anti-corruption education; and provide training and learning opportunities on GRACE tools and resources.
By establishing YouthLED, UNODC will help youth to realize their rightful and decisive role in the making of policies that will concretely affect their future, harness young people’s ideas and perspectives and meaningfully integrate them within UNODC’s anti-corruption youth-related work.
Technology and youth
Young people across the world are at the forefront of mobilizing technology for the common good. To leverage this, UNODC has been hosting a series of hackathons, or coding challenges, most recently in Africa.
The “Coding4Integrity” hackathon in October brought together the talent and skills of 200 young developers from five African countries - Egypt, Kenya, Nigeria, Senegal and South Africa - who worked on innovative tech solutions that can help to curb corruption.
The young developers in 65 teams had to come up with their own ideas on how to counter corruption through technology using Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain Dapp Development or Web2 Development. Each of the 65 teams chose a single thematic area such as transparency in public administration or in public procurement and the administration of public finances, safe and reliable reporting of corruption and financial investigations.
The five winning country teams, Team Valoro from Egypt, Team Enigma from Kenya, Team STEM from Nigeria, Team Fisk from Senegal and Team Blockchain Bulls from South Africa, will unveil their projects at the Conference in Sharm El-Sheikh.
The Coding4Integrity hackathon represents one very impactful way in which GRACE is promoting the union between digital innovation and social entrepreneurship as a gateway to meaningfully empower young people to take action against corruption.
Looking to the future
The way society views and addresses corruption can be revolutionized if young people are involved in the planning, design and implementation of anti-corruption frameworks, tools, and policies at the national and international levels.
There is much to be gained from engaging young people in the fight against corruption and intergenerational collaboration is fundamental to achieving solidarity, transparency, accountability, and trust among States, people and generations as we aim to end corruption.
* *** *
Further information for the media
Conference website of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)
Conference website of the Host Country
Webcasts of the Plenary meetings will be available in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, Spanish as well as the language spoken on the conference floor
For further information contact:

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/165766-youth-integrity-innovation-and-lifelong-learning-towards-fair-and-corruption-free-society




Date: 16 December 2021
Title: News from the United Nations Anti-Corruption Conference in Sharm El-Sheikh
Content: 16 December 2021

“Women deserve to be protected from the disproportionate impact of corruption on their lives, in this time of crisis more than ever. But they are not just victims but agents of change; the world needs women to help lead the fight against corruption.
“Precisely because of the trials that they face, women are equipped to bring in unique perspectives in building back with integrity after the pandemic.”
Ghada Waly, Executive Director of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, 
speaking at a special event at the conference on Women Leaders in Integrity
The UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), launched a new initiative on Wednesday aimed at children and young people. GRACE is a new educational initiative which aims to equip the international community with knowledge & experience working with educators, academics, youth & anti-corruption authorities to foster a culture of rejection of corruption.

Addressing the gender dimensions of corruption was at the forefront of two special events on Wednesday. One looked at how gender equality can be practically anchored in and facilitated through the CoSP processes to promote gender equality through anti-corruption and vice versa.

Another special event focused on how women in business are affected differently by corruption than men, sharing practical experiences from around the world on how after the pandemic, as women entrepreneurs rebuild their businesses, they act as a catalyst for ethical business.

Other topics discussed at special events on Wednesday included tools and best practices for asset recovery, the role of national parliaments and other legislative bodies in preventing and fighting corruption, women as drivers for fair and ethical business, and making progress in the integrity and fight against corruption in post-conflict environments looking at the case study of Somalia.

New photos of the conference are here Photos can be downloaded and used with the appropriate photo credit.

Coming up today
Events on Thursday 16 December at the Conference
Asset recovery is on the agenda in the Plenary from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, followed by international cooperation from 1.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. From 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. the Plenary will discuss the follow-up to the General Assembly Special Session against Corruption on challenges and measures to prevent and combat corruption and strengthen international cooperation.

Topic of the day: recovering with integrity from the COVID-19 pandemic 

The COVID-19 pandemic has been an unprecedented emergency for the global community and affected almost every aspect of society as well as creating opportunities for corruption to thrive.
Governments have dedicated enormous resources to responding to the pandemic and its resulting economic challenges while needing to act quickly in the evolving crisis. Since corruption flourishes in times of medical and economic emergencies where disorder and confusion are prevalent, swift action is needed by Member States to counter corruption and emerge stronger and more resilient from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Read more in Arabic and English
Special events on Thursday, 16 December
Cross-sectoral response to corruption in Kuwait
El Wadi | Organizer: Kuwait
Time: 09:00-10:00

Multi-stakeholder collaboration in anti-corruption: A perspective from the G20 Anti-Corruption Working Group
El Fayrouz | Organizer: Indonesia | Co-organizer: Australia
Time:09:00-10:00

Beyond COVID-19
Ste Catherine | Organizer: UNODC Corruption and Economic Crime Branch
Time: 09:00-10:00
The event will identify key transparency and accountability measures that States parties can take now to better prepare for future emergencies in line with the forward-looking commitments related to crisis response and recovery outlined in the UNGASS political declaration. The event will bring together representatives of national anti-corruption authorities, public procurement bodies and oversight institutions to discuss ongoing challenges, good practices and emergency preparedness measures in the context of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.

Strengthening the implementation of the United Nations Convention Against Corruption at the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) level
Nile Valley | Organizer: SADC, Malawi | Co-organizer: Angola, Namibia, South Africa
Time: 09:00-10:00

Honour our commitments to strengthen international anti-corruption cooperation, and deny safe havens to the corrupt and the proceeds of corruption
El Wadi | Organizer: China | Co-organizer: UNODC
Time: 12:00-13:00

Southeast Europe together against corruption
El Fayrouz | Organizer: UNODC Civil Society Unit | Co-organizer: Regional Anti-corruption Initiative (RAI)
Time: 12:30-13:30

Anti-corruption prosecutors under attack
Ste Catherine | Organizer: Basel Institute on Governance | Co-organizer: Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD)
Time:12:00-13:00

Trends, challenges and good practices in preventing and fighting corruption
ONLINE ONLY | Organizer: Council of Europe
Time:12:30-13:30
As the world is evolving at a rapid speed so do the measures in preventing and fighting corruption. Are we effective or is corruption becoming worse? Discover with us the trends and developments that occurred in the last decade.

Strengthening the UNCAC Implementation Review Mechanism
El Fayrouz | Organizer: UNCAC Coalition | Co-organizes: Switzerland, Honduras
Time:15:30-16:30

Private sector financial institutions: On the frontline of financial integrity
ONLINE ONLY | Organizer: UNODC Corruption and Economic Crime Branch
Time: 16:00-17:00

Taking stock of the work of the Expert Group Meeting on Corruption and International Investments organized in line with COSP resolution 8/9
Nile Valley | Organizer: UNODC Corruption and Economic Crime Branch | Co-organizer: UNCTAD, Norway / NORAD
Time: 15:30-16:30

Challenges and opportunities on the implementation of the 40th paragraph of the political declaration of UNGASS: The experiences of the Portuguese speaking Countries
El Wadi | Organizer: Angola | Co-organizers: Brazil, Portugal
Time:19:00-20:00

Integrity in border management
El Fayrouz | Organizer: UNODC Regional Office for West and Central Africa / CRIMJUST | Co-organizers: UNODC AIRCOP, European Union, G5 Sahel, UNCCT (all tbc)
Time: 19:00-20:00
The effectiveness of law enforcement authorities fighting drug trafficking and transnational crime across borders heavily depends on institutional integrity and accountability. This approach is evident in the EU-funded programmes CRIMJUST and AIRCOP, as well as in the support provided to the G5 Sahel.

Civil society champions against corruption: Showcasing regional best practices
Ste Catherine | Organizer: UNODC Civil Society Unit | Co-organizer: United Kingdom
Time: 19:00-20:00
Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) can be involved in the UN Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) at all stages from the review process to its implementation. Article 13 of the Convention encourages States Parties to promote the active participation of civil society in the prevention and fight against corruption.

More information on Thursday’s special events here

The full Programme for the Conference is available here

Resolutions
Eight draft resolutions are being considered this week, addressing issues including prevention, the role of supreme audit institutions, asset recovery, beneficial ownership education, law enforcement cooperation, regional approaches and operationalizing the UNGASS political declaration. A resolution focusing on strengthening anti-corruption international cooperation during times of emergencies and crisis response and recovery, entitled the Sharm El-Sheikh Declaration, is expected to be adopted at the session.


Reminder of the COVID-19 measures at the conference
All the participants attending in person are required to strictly observe the precautionary and contingency measures during the Conference. Please make sure you wear your masks inside the conference centre at all times, except when eating or addressing a meeting. You are also reminded that everyone entering the conference venue is required to have a COVID-19 test every 48 hours, at no cost to the participants.  For more information and details on where the COVID-19 tests are available see the COVID-19 measures here.
Information for the media in English and Arabic is available here

Conference website of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)

Conference website of the Host Country
Webcasts of the Plenary meetings will be available in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, Spanish as well as the language spoken on the conference floor
For further information contact:


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/165483-news-united-nations-anti-corruption-conference-sharm-el-sheikh




Date: 16 December 2021
Title: Recovering with integrity from the pandemic
Content: 16 December 2021
The COVID-19 pandemic has been an unprecedented emergency for the global community and affected almost every aspect of society as well as creating opportunities for corruption to thrive.
Governments have dedicated enormous resources to responding to the pandemic and its resulting economic challenges while needing to act quickly in the evolving crisis. Since corruption flourishes in times of medical and economic emergencies where disorder and confusion are prevalent, swift action is needed by Member States to counter corruption and emerge stronger and more resilient from the COVID-19 pandemic.
The impact of the pandemic on the healthsector has been immense. The demand, procurement and distribution of equipment and supplies have skyrocketed. At the same time, opportunities for corruption have grown, targeting public procurement and stimulus funds. Shortages of medical supplies and equipment combined with long, complex supply chains have caused intense competition between buyers, who need to fill supply gaps, while suppliers may increase costs to maximize profits. Lack of proper oversight, transparency and accountability in these processes in the public health sector can then afford opportunities for resources and profits to be diverted. Slow and decentralized procurement processes without adequate anti-corruption safeguards can give rise to the misappropriation of funds, non-compliance with procurement regulations, sale of substandard or fake products, bribes and collusion.
Organized criminal groups have exploited the pandemic for financial gain, including by selling falsified medical products or testing kits or illegally obtained drugs. Corruption in the private sector has also had a severe impact on the COVID-19 recovery process and undermined COVID-19 assistance and recovery packages.
Corruption not only damages efforts to rebuild from the pandemic but also undermines public trust in democracy and institutions. Corruption fuels instability and conflict, erodes human rights, hurting marginalized and vulnerable groups the most, including women and children.
The rapid development of vaccines has added to the risk of corruption and profiteering. The race to manufacture, allocate and distribute an effective vaccine coupled with tests for the COVID-19 virus and antibodies promises immense profits, which increases the risk of corruption. Corrupt industry or public officials could potentially use their insider knowledge to profit from the approval of a particular vaccine.
Corruption in disbursement processes during the COVID-19 pandemic is taking various forms, such as embezzlement, preferential treatment, unrecorded overpayments or trading in influence. The consequences can be devastating for those outside these, often male-only, insider networks. In particular, women, youth and the less privileged stand to lose income, opportunities, education and jobs.
Impact on the Sustainable Development Goals
Preventing corruption unlocks progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals. It helps protect our planet, create jobs, achieve gender equality, and secure wider access to essential services such as health and education. Corruption is detrimental to crisis response and recovery and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
The need to effectively tackle corruption is rooted in Goal 16 - peace, justice and strong institutions -and is essential for achieving all 17 Goals. Corruption is a barrier to economic development and can fuel political instability, erode human rights, increase inequality and supress gender equality.
What is UNODC doing about it?
The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) is a key partner for Member States in strengthening international cooperation to prevent and counter corruption and enabling recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. In the framework of the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC), the Office provides technical assistance, develops innovative solutions to prevent corruption, and assists Member States in effectively addressing various forms of corruption.
Since the COVID-19 crisis began, UNODC has published a series of policy papers to address the challenges and propose recommendations for the immediate and long-term response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
“G20 Good Practices Compendium on Combating Corruption in the Response to COVID-19” analyses the results of a survey of the G20 community on key corruption risks observed during the pandemic. It also discusses good practices and approaches implemented by countries to mitigate specific corruption challenges.
A paper entitled ‘COVID-19 vaccines and corruption risks: preventing corruption in the manufacture, allocation and distribution of vaccines’ outlines ways to identify and mitigate such corruption risks and how governments can increase their preparedness for potential future crises.
‘Accountability and the Prevention of Corruption’ elaborates on the different policy responses that Member States can take immediately to counter corruption and aspects to consider for preventing corruption during the pandemic.
What needs to be done?
The UN System is prioritizing the fight against corruption through a “One UN” approach to support the international community’s efforts.
The UN Global Task Force on Corruption, which UNODC co-leads, produced ‘Corruption and COVID-19: Challenges in crisis response and recovery’ . This UN System-wide Policy Paper sets out a range of potential policy responses and concrete actions Member States may take to better recover and respond to COVID-19 and future emergencies, including various considerations to prevent corruption during the pandemic.
During emergency responses and COVID-19 recovery, Member States must remain accountable for how their resources are spent, including compliance to standards and efficiency of delivery. Institutions in charge of procurement should be strengthened. Guidelines on integrity in public-private partnerships should be provided, stressing the importance for private companies to adopt and strengthen integrity and transparency measures.
Safe reporting channels for whistle-blowers should be established to counter corruption and allow people to report acts of corruption easily and anonymously. Such channels would also raise awareness of hidden mismanagement and reduce waste and corruption.
In a world impoverished by the crisis, corruption is stealing valuable resources just when they are most needed. Developed and developing countries need to unite and accept the COVID-19 pandemic as global problem with shared responsibilities. Tackling corruption will be an integral part of recovery from the pandemic for all countries.
* *** *
Further information for the media
Conference website of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)
Conference website of the Host Country
Webcasts of the Plenary meetings will be available in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, Spanish as well as the language spoken on the conference floor
For further information contact:

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/165488-recovering-integrity-pandemic




Date: 15 December 2021
Title: Addressing the gender dimensions of corruption
Content: 15 December 2021
Corruption harms people of all genders because it reduces trust in institutions and erodes the foundations of democracy and a functioning economy. However, corruption impacts women and men in different ways. The results of corruption often make women more vulnerable, leaving them excluded from decision-making roles and limiting their chances for educational and economic advancement.
Women can be at greater risk of exposure to certain forms of corruption than men, through their use of public services. When corruption erodes the efficiency of public services or reduces a state’s tax income base resulting in cuts to public services such as healthcare, education or social services, this is likely to impact more on women and children than men.
Corruption networks are predominantly male. In countries where corruption is more prevalent, women are often excluded from these closely-knit male-dominated networks which benefit insiders through corrupt acts or the control over recruitment processes. Consequently, women are less likely to secure political positions or other decision-making roles.
Since women’s inequality is deepened by the negative impacts of corruption, women might be more motivated to counter corruption than men since it hinders their professional ambitions and independence. However, women are generally more fearful than men to report instances of corruption because of fear of retaliation or other disadvantages.
Women are exposed to greater risks of using their bodies as the currency of corruption. When sexual favours are used as a form of abuse of authority, collusion or favouritism, then corruption is gendered. Being exposed to this form of corruption puts women at a particular risk and can have long-term devastating physical, psychological, social and economic effects on women and girls. Studies have shown that the victims often may not understand that being asked for sexual favours is a form of corruption, and that sex can be used to abuse authority, as a currency or a bribe.
Women’s education and corruption
Education is a critical tool in advancing gender equality and the economic empowerment of women, both of which are key to addressing the gendered dimensions of corruption. Opening professional doors for women has a decisive impact on corruption patterns, transparency and public accountability.
The impact of COVID-19 on gender corruption
The COVID-19 pandemic has undermined gains in women’s empowerment by reversing progress made and deepening existing gender inequalities. The COVID-19 pandemic is also having an impact on the gendered dimensions of corruption in education, healthcare and the private sector in many countries around the world.
The pandemic has created a global extended emergency, which has exposed health personnel to greater risk in general. Arguably, this has had a disproportionate effect on women providers as many women work on the frontlines of the COVID-19 response or as family caregivers.
Corruption in the disbursement of COVID-19 relief and aid packages, fraud, and non-payment of salaries to critical health care workers undermine the effectiveness of health care services affecting women severely. Therefore, gender-sensitive whistle-blower reporting and protection systems are fundamental in the fight against corruption. Violations can only be addressed when women feel safe to report incidences without fear of retaliation or the loss of protection or confidentiality.
Gender, corruption and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Corruption undermines the progress of gender equality, is a barrier to all development and diverts resources away from poverty-eradication efforts, affecting women and children gravely. It also has a cross-cutting negative effect on all 17 goals, threatening their achievement. The vast sums lost to corruption could be used to improve living standards, increasing access to housing, health, education and clean water. However, efforts to advance gender equality and efforts to fight corruption have a mutually reinforcing effect.
What is UNODC doing to address the dimensions of gender corruption?
In 2020 UNODC published a report entitled ‘The Time Is Now: Addressing the Gender Dimensions of Corruption’ which explores the interconnectedness between gender and corruption. The publication covers how gender equality efforts can also address corruption and vice versa, the international framework and national responses to international commitments and has practical case studies of Brazil, Ghana and Indonesia. It seeks to provide food for thought to the anti-corruption community at large in translating ideas to programmatic initiatives.
The report builds on the discussions held at an expert group meeting in Bangkok in 2018. The meeting brought together 26 participants from United Nations agencies and other international organizations, anti-corruption authorities and national criminal justice practitioners, as well as civil society and academia to discuss the gender dimensions of corruption and Identify good practices. However, The Time is Now reaches beyond the original findings with the actionable recommendations from the meeting woven in throughout the publication.
One of the findings of the report is how anti-corruption and gender equality efforts can be mutually reinforcing and how synergies between the two can strengthen policy decisions and legal frameworks.
UNODC continuously endeavours to address the gender dimensions of corruption through the active development of programmatic activities and by expanding the existing body-of-knowledge.
At the COSP there will be a high-level panel on “Women Leaders in Integrity: considerations for an inclusive recovery” with the Executive Director of UNODC, Ghada Waly. Several side events related to gender and corruption will also take place:
- Contemporary forms of slavery and anti-corruption: Examining relationships and addressing policy gaps, organized by Liechtenstein with the UN Development Programme (UNDP);
- Shaping the future: Anchoring gender in the CoSP process”, organized by Germany together with Sweden, Nigeria;
- “Women as drivers for fair and ethical business”, organized by the UNDP Bangkok Regional Hub
* *** *
Further information for the media
Conference website of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)
Conference website of the Host Country
Webcasts of the Plenary meetings will be available in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, Spanish as well as the language spoken on the conference floor
For further information contact:


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/165297-addressing-gender-dimensions-corruption




Date: 14 December 2021
Title: Safeguarding sport from corruption
Content: 14 December 2021

Sport has the power to inspire and unite, yet corruption and crime threaten to undermine its positive contribution to society and our lives. The credibility of sport is at stake unless efforts are made to combat illegal betting, competition manipulation, abuse in sport, corruption in major sporting events, the involvement of organized crime in sport, and other illicit activities.
Corruption in sport is not new. Fraudulent activities in sports competitions and institutions have been documented since the ancient Olympic Games but in the past two decades criminal activities have increased substantially. The rapid growth of legal and illegal sports betting along with technological advances have transformed how sport is played and consumed, making it increasingly attractive to criminals.
The political declaration of the United Nations General Assembly Special Session against Corruption held earlier this year, highlighted the need for sports organizations, international and regional organizations, and law enforcement to cooperate to effectively combat corruption.
The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) helps through its Programme on Safeguarding Sport from Corruption and Crime, a key pillar of its Global Programme against Corruption. The programme supports governments, sports organizations and relevant stakeholders to tackle corruption and crime in sport.
Sport has seen several high-profile corruption scandals which has generated an increased momentum to tackle the problem. This is shown by the G20’s adoption in October this year of High-Level Principles on Tackling Corruption in Sport.
Fair competition versus manipulation and match-fixing
The manipulation of sports competitions, and the illegal betting that accompanies it, is a complex threat to the integrity of sport and a huge transnational business with up to 1.7 trillion US dollars a year estimated to be wagered on illicit betting markets.
The financial scale is such that illegal betting is a major driver of corruption in sport and a key channel for money-laundering. The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the risk factors.
Youth sports, semi-professional competitions and women’s sports are increasingly being targeted because there is little or no monitoring of betting, and the manipulation is difficult to detect.
The proliferation of online gambling and the growth of cryptocurrencies along with the transnational nature of many illegal betting operations present a challenge. Illegal operators can exploit an uneven national legislative landscape while the Internet and cryptocurrency provide greater anonymity.
Governments and sports bodies are acting to address and minimize these risks. Major sports betting operations, betting industry associations and monitoring companies are cooperating and sharing betting data and suspicious betting alerts with sports organizations.
Global report on Safeguarding Sport from Corruption
The UNODC Global Report on Corruption in Sport shows for the first time the scale, scope and complexity of corruption and criminal networks in national and international sport.
Launched to coincide with International Anti-Corruption Day on 9 December, the Global Report maps the corruption threats facing sport, analyzing the trends of corrupt practices in sport, looking at existing initiatives and good practices and how legal frameworks can be used to tackle the problem. Nearly 200 experts including from governments, sports organizations, the private sector and academia contributed to the report, which is the most in-depth of its type to date and sets out a series of possible responses.
The Global report highlights the urgent need to strengthen legal frameworks, develop policies, increase cooperation and enhance the understanding of the interlinkages between corruption and organized crime in sport and develop capacities of relevant government entities and sport organizations to tackle them.
What is UNODC doing about it
Through its Programme on Safeguarding Sport from Corruption and Crime, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) has delivered over 150 activities including awareness raising, capacity building and technical assistance) to over 7,500 direct beneficiaries from more than 130 countries, since 2017.
The programme is financially supported by the Governments of Norway and the Russian Federation, the International Olympic Committee and the European Commission.
Through its research and analysis, UNODC enhances understanding of the problem and what needs to be done about it. Recent publications have covered the sport’s response to the pandemic and an overview of relevant laws and standards on tackling bribery in sport.
This year, UNODC extended its partnership with the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to further strengthen cooperation in fighting corruption. The agreement emphasises preventing youth crime, violence and drug use through sport. It also supports activities to enhance sport’s contribution to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and promoting sport for development and peace, including through the Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Further to this, UNODC has joined forces with world football’s governing body, the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), to encourage players, clubs, coaches and officials to speak out against matching-fixing and raise awareness about FIFA’s confidential reporting platforms.
UNODC has also supported the development of FIFA’s Global Integrity Programme, which provides Member Associations with resources to tackle match manipulation. UNODC has delivered training to four of the six confederations covering Africa, Asia, North, Central and South America and the Caribbean.
What needs to be done
As sport has evolved in terms of professionalism, globalization and accessibility, so the types of corruption that affect it and the scale have grown. Legal, policy and institutional frameworks need to be strengthened to prevent and respond to this.
More effective national cooperation between law enforcement, criminal justice authorities and sports organizations and increased exchange of information will also be vitally important to better detect and report corruption in sport and prevent competitions being manipulated.
It is critical athletes and others can come forward and report approaches from match-fixers, through open, confidential and anonymous mechanisms. Potential whistle-blowers can be discouraged or fear of retaliation or the belief it will not make a difference.
Investigative journalists are increasingly engaged in exposing corruption in sport but often face intimidation, attempts to undermine their professional credibility and even threats to their lives. Action needs to be taken to encourage independent media and investigative journalism.
Corruption in sport is a matter of public interest as countries invest in sport and promote its health, education and social benefits. Governments, sports organizations and athletes need to commit to developing and implementing comprehensive anti-corruption policies in sport to ensure it remains a force for peace and development.
Placing the integrity of sport at the centre of recovering from the pandemic is key to ensuring sport – and society – emerges from this challenge as strongly as possible.
* *** *
Further information for the media
Conference website of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)
Conference website of the Host Country
Webcasts of the Plenary meetings will be available in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, Spanish as well as the language spoken on the conference floor
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/165105-safeguarding-sport-corruption




Date: 13 December 2021
Title: UN anti-corruption conference begins with a call to restore trust to tackle pandemic challenges, achieve sustainable development
Content: 13 December 2021
The ninth session in Sharm El-Sheikh caps a year of global anti-corruption action, following on the first UN General Assembly special session against corruption (UNGASS) in June.

SHARM EL-SHEIKH, 13 December (UN Information Service) - The world’s anti-corruption conference began in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt today, with 152 countries meeting to advance action through the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) and strengthen integrity responses to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The ninth session of the Conference of the States Parties to UNCAC opened with a video message by UN Secretary-General António Guterres, and addresses by the Prime Minister of Egypt, Mostafa Madbouly; Harib Al Amimi (United Arab Emirates), the outgoing president of the 8th session; Hassan Abdelshafy Ahmed Abdelghany (Egypt), the president of the ninth session; and Executive Director of the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Ghada Waly.
“Tackling corruption is essential to protect human rights and promote democratic accountability. It is an important step towards inclusive, sustainable development,” said United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres in his video message to the conference. “This Conference is our chance to come together to strengthen cooperation and accelerate global action against corruption. Let us revive hope and restore trust in institutions. Now is the time to act for a safer, more prosperous and just future.”
The UNODC Executive Director called the COVID-19 pandemic “a global wake-up call” to stand for integrity. “The world loses trillions of dollars every year to corruption, at a time when every dollar is needed to increase public investment,” she said in her opening remarks. “Just as it breaks down resilience and exposes people to hardship, corruption also enables criminals, traffickers, and terrorists.”
Ms. Waly highlighted the need to raise awareness and bring together all stakeholders – political leaders, institutions, the private sector, civil society, media, youth and women – in the fight against corruption.
“To truly overcome endemic corruption, we need to aim for a fundamental change in mindsets, one which rejects corruption at every level,” she said. “We must send that message to the people we serve, through this conference and through our actions.”
Some 152 countries and a record 2,133 participants from governments, regional and intergovernmental organizations, civil society, academia, and the private sector have registered to take part in person and virtually in the conference, which continues until 17 December. Seventy-five side events, including four events in the lead-up to the conference, have been organized on the margins of the session.
The ninth session in Sharm El-Sheikh caps a year of global anti-corruption action, following on the first UN General Assembly special session against corruption (UNGASS) in June.
Eight draft resolutions and two draft decisions are being considered this week, addressing issues including prevention, the role of supreme audit institutions, asset recovery, beneficial ownership education, law enforcement cooperation, regional approaches and operationalizing the UNGASS political declaration. A resolution focusing on anti-corruption in times of emergencies and recovery, entitled the Sharm El-Sheikh Declaration, is expected to be adopted at the session.
www.unodc.org/cosp9
About the United Nations Convention against Corruption and the Conference of the States Parties
The UN Convention against Corruption is the sole global, legally-binding instrument against this crime. It came into force in December 2005 and is near-universal with 189 Parties. Under the Convention, States are legally obliged to prevent and criminalize corruption; to promote international cooperation; to recover and return stolen assets; and to improve technical assistance and information exchange in both the private and public sectors.
The Convention is reinforced by the Implementation Review Mechanism, which started in 2010, covering the chapters of the Convention on criminalization and law enforcement, and on international cooperation. The second cycle of reviews started in 2015 and covers the chapters on preventive measures and asset recovery.
UNODC serves as guardian to the Convention and provides anti-corruption assistance to 116 countries through its Global Programme against Corruption and field presence. At the 9th session, UNODC is hosting a number of side events, and will present publications on tackling corruption in sport, whistle-blower protection the health sector, addressing the gender dimensions of corruption and addressing corruption challenges in the COVID-19 response and recovery.
Further information for the media
Conference website of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)
Conference website of the Host Country
Webcasts of the Plenary meetings will be available in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, Spanish as well as the language spoken on the conference floor
For further information contact:
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/164960-un-anti-corruption-conference-begins-call-restore-trust-tackle-pandemic-challenges-achieve




Date: 12 December 2021
Title: United Nations Conference in Egypt will set the international anti-corruption agenda for the coming years
Content: 12 December 2021
SHARM EL-SHEIKH, 12 December (UN Information Service) The United Nations conference taking place in Sharm El-Sheikh is an important global milestone for improving international cooperation against corruption and helping the world recover with integrity from the pandemic. The ninth session of the Conference of the States Parties (COSP) to the United Nations Convention against Corruption from 13 to 17 December 2021 will also support efforts to restore public trust, strengthen effective institutions, promote sustainable development, recover with integrity from the COVID-19 pandemic and ensure economic and political stability.
This is only the second COSP taking place in Africa. Around 2,700 participants from governments, regional and intergovernmental organizations, civil society, academia, and the private sector are expected to participate in Egypt or online.
This year, 2021, has been a landmark year for global anti-corruption action. In June, the world came together at the first United Nations General Assembly special session against corruption (UNGASS), adopting a strong political declaration to step up anti-corruption action and accelerate implementation of the UN Convention against Corruption – the only legally-binding universal instrument against this crime.
Every two years, the States parties to the Convention meet to review the implementation of the Convention and to discuss how States can better tackle corruption. Among the topics to be discussed at the ninth session are prevention, asset recovery and international cooperation, as well as topical issues like beneficial ownership and how to take forward the commitments in the political declaration of the special session of the General Assembly against corruption.
The United Nations Convention against Corruption
The Convention came into force in December 2005 and has reached almost universal adherence, having been ratified by almost all United Nations Member States, with 189 States parties. The newest UN Member States to join are Somalia and Suriname.
Under the Convention, States are legally obliged to prevent and criminalize corruption; to promote international cooperation; to recover and return stolen assets; and to improve technical assistance and information exchange in both the private and public sectors.
Criminalization of corruption
The Convention requires States to criminalize a wide range of acts of corruption, including not only classic acts of corruption such as bribery and the embezzlement of public funds, but also trading in influence, abuse of functions, and the concealment and laundering of the proceeds of corruption. Private sector corruption is also covered.
Preventing corruption
Effective measures to prevent corruption are vital to ensure public trust, the effectiveness of institutions and sustainable development. The entire chapter II of the Convention is dedicated to preventing corruption with measures directed at both the public and private sectors, ranging from the establishment of anti-corruption bodies to enhanced transparency in the financing of election campaigns and political parties. States should promote efficient and transparent recruitment based on merit, as well as codes of conduct for public officials together with requirements for their financial and conflict of interest disclosures, and the establishment of appropriate disciplinary measures for public officials who do not adhere to these measures. Preventing corruption also requires the involvement of society as a whole including non-governmental and community-based organizations.
International cooperation
States are bound by the Convention to afford one another the widest range of mutual legal assistance in investigations, prosecutions and judicial proceedings. States have agreed to cooperate with one another in a variety of criminal matters related to corruption and are required to undertake measures which will support the tracing, freezing, seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of corruption.
Asset recovery
The return of stolen assets is a fundamental principle of the Convention, and States must fully cooperate with each other to turn the provisions of the Convention into a reality. The mandatory return of assets to their country of origin in the case of the embezzlement of public funds was a novelty at the time of the adoption of the Convention, and some progress can be seen in the form of successful returns of assets on the basis of the Convention.
While corruption is a global phenomenon, asset recovery is particularly important for many developing countries where national wealth has been decimated by corruption and where resources are badly needed to finance sustainable development. Effective asset recovery supports efforts to redress the worst effects of corruption while also sending a message to corrupt officials that there will be no place to hide their illicit assets.
How the Convention works
Through the Convention’s Implementation Review Mechanism, States parties have agreed to participate in a process which assesses how they are living up to their obligations under the Convention. This peer review process aims to identify good practices and challenges in national anti-corruption laws, processes and institutional frameworks.
The first review cycle which started in 2010, covered the chapters of the Convention on criminalization and law enforcement, and on international cooperation. The second cycle of reviews started in 2015 and covers the chapters on preventive measures and asset recovery.
Following observations made during the review process, many States have taken various measures to strengthen their anti-corruption framework. Such steps include the creation of new legislation, new and independent anti-corruption authorities, active engagement of the private sector, an open dialogue with civil society or improving their asset recovery frameworks.
States parties have reiterated their support for the review mechanism and reaffirmed the positive role it plays promoting the implementation of the Convention. One element of its success is the willingness of States to share their experiences and learn from each other.
Since its beginning in 2010, there have been 230 executive summaries and almost 200 country reviews completed. The executive summaries are published as official United Nations documents in its six official languages.
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a negative impact on the pace of the reviews, in particular the country visits. Further delays are expected because of the accession of additional States parties to the Convention which have yet to be reviewed under both cycles of the review mechanism. While the period to complete the second cycle has been extended until 2024, significant efforts will need to be undertaken to complete the cycle within the extended time frame.
The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime’s action against corruption
The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) provides technical assistance and training to support States in implementing the Convention. Through its Global Programme against Corruption and its extensive field presence, UNODC is supporting 116 countries
UNODC serves as the secretariat of a new powerful global tool in the fight against corruption, the GlobE Network. This was conceived during Saudi Arabia’s Presidency of the G20 and the first G20 Anti-Corruption Ministerial Meeting in 2020 and launched at the UNGASS in June. The network aims to improve direct cooperation between countries’ law enforcement authorities, in line with a key provision of the UN Convention against Corruption.
GlobE links up anti-corruption law enforcement authorities to facilitate investigations and prosecution through cross-border cooperation and information-sharing and leave no safe haven for corruption. So far, 79 anti-corruption law enforcement authorities from 47 countries have joined. The long-term goal is universal membership by all UN Member States.
Together with the World Bank, UNODC established the joint Stolen Assets Recovery (StAR) Initiative which has been providing assistance to States since 2007 to support the recovery of stolen assets and international efforts to end safe havens for corrupt funds and illicit financial flows. In 2021 until September, 17 countries received assistance and more than 900 people were trained by the StAR Initiative.
* *** *
Further information for the media
Conference website of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)
Conference website of the Host Country
Webcasts of the Plenary meetings will be available in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, Spanish as well as the language spoken on the conference floor
For further information contact:

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/164840-united-nations-conference-egypt-will-set-international-anti-corruption-agenda-coming-years




Date: 10 December 2021
Title: The Secretary-General's Message For Human Rights Day - 2021
Content: 10 December 2021

Our world is at a crossroads.
The COVID-19 pandemic, the climate crisis and the expansion of digital technology into all areas of our lives have created new threats to human rights.
Exclusion and discrimination are rampant.
Public space is shrinking.
Poverty and hunger are rising for the first time in decades.
Millions of children are missing out on their right to education.
Inequality is deepening.
But we can choose a different path.
Seventy-three years ago today, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The principles set out in this simple Declaration remain the key to realizing all human rights – civil, economic, cultural, social, and political – for all people, everywhere.
Recovery from the pandemic must be an opportunity to expand human rights and freedoms, and to rebuild trust.
Trust in the justice and impartiality of laws and institutions.
Confidence that a life of dignity is within reach.
Faith that people can get a fair hearing and resolve their grievances peacefully.

The United Nations stands for the rights of every member of our human family.
Today and every day, we will continue to work for justice, equality, dignity and human rights for all.
Happy Human Rights Day.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/164560-secretary-generals-message-human-rights-day-2021




Date: 06 December 2021
Title: UNFPA, Bayer Middle East partner over Family and Population ICPD Award at CIFF
Content: 06 December 2021

UNFPA and Bayer Middle East awarded Kurdish film “The Exam” the Family and Population ICPD Award for its role in promoting dialogue around population issues, in partnership with the Cairo International Film Festival (CIFF) on December 5.
The award entails a USD 10,000 prize, co-sponsored by Bayer Middle East and UNFPA.
UNFPA Egypt Representative Frederika Meijer and Eman Abdel Gelil presented the award to the film’s director Shawkat Amin Korki at the festival’s closing ceremony.
The award comes in light of UNFPA’s close collaboration with Bayer Middle East, and their shared values and support for population programs in Egypt, as well as to encourage filmmakers and industry experts to tackle social issues and highlight the impact of art and cinema in addressing population growth, family planning, empowerment of young people and gender equality.
“UNFPA is always keen on encouraging filmmakers to shed light on population topics such as gender-based violence or the challenges of population growth,” Meijer said, “the portrayal of such issues in films will reverberate stronger than any other platform.”
“We are proud to support Egyptian filmmakers through our strong partnership with UNFPA. Only knowledge of the possibilities and benefits of active family planning empowers individuals to take independent decisions,” added Sami Joost, Head of Communications / Public Affairs, Science & Sustainability (PASS) – Middle East.
The winning film was selected by a panel of jury members, which included Meijer, film director Tamer Ashry and renowned actress and friend of UNFPA Arwa Gouda.
Set in war-torn Iraqi Kurdistan, the film follows sisters Rojin and Shilan; the former about to take a university entrance exam and the latter determined to help her pass to avoid the same fate of an unhappy marriage.
The film delves into the issue of women’s rights and their entitlement to make decisions about their own bodies and lives. It tackles issues like forced marriage, gender-based violence, son preference, as well as family planning, and bodily autonomy.
UNFPA’s partnership with the CIFF is building on a successful collaboration over the past three years, through which UNFPA aims to inspire and advocate for storylines on topics related to reproductive health, gender inequality, discrimination, and gender-based violence as well as other population issues.
In the festival’s 2018, 2019, and 2020 editions, UNFPA contributed with the Conscious Media Award and the Women’s Empowerment Award to celebrate films that create an impact and shed light on gender and population issues. The awards were given to Poisonous Roses, Un Fils and Snow White respectively.
Bayer works with a network of public and private partners to enable women and girls to assert their right to self-determined family planning worldwide.
In September, Bayer Middle East signed a strategic five-year family planning partnership with UNFPA Egypt to support national family planning campaigns.
About UNFPA
UNFPA works to end unmet need for family planning, gender-based violence, and harmful practices, and preventable maternal deaths. The country program aims to assist Egypt in achieving the goals of its 2030 agenda. It contributes primarily to the progressive achievement of SDG Goals 3 and 5. The program target groups are women, adolescents, and youth, particularly those most in need, including disabled, rural communities, migrants, and people affected by emergencies.
About Bayer
Bayer is a global enterprise with core competencies in the life science fields of health care and nutrition. Its products and services are designed to help people and the planet thrive by supporting efforts to master the major challenges presented by a growing and aging global population. Bayer is committed to driving sustainable development and generating a positive impact with its businesses.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/161819-unfpa-bayer-middle-east-partner-over-family-and-population-icpd-award-ciff%C2%A0




Date: 06 December 2021
Title: UNFPA discusses portrayal of men in cinema on CIFF panel
Content: 06 December 2021

For the fourth consecutive year, UNFPA Egypt partnered with the Cairo International Film Festival (CIFF) to with a panel discussion under the Cairo Industry Days (CID) Talks on masculinity and the portrayal of men in cinema.
As part of UNFPA’s activities marking the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence,  UNFPA is collaborating with the festival’s 43rd edition with a panel titled “Portrayal and representation of men in Egyptian cinema and drama: reflections on vulnerabilities, power and narratives.”
The panel discussed the traditional male roles portrayed on screen, and how new narratives can be presented reflecting the current social complexities.
Panelists included UNFPA Representative in Egypt Frederika Meijer, Filmmaker Karim El Shennawy, Scriptwriter Mariam Naoum, Producer and Founder of Red Star Films Safey El Din Mahmoud, actor and UNFPA friend Ahmed Magdy, and Professor of Anthropology from Denmark Christian Groes and, moderated by the Founder & Managing Director Media & More May Abdel Asim.
CID hosts a series of events with an aim to connect international and Arab film professionals, through a series of lectures, panels, workshops, and meetings.
“It is essential for us to partner with the entertainment industry in order to harness the power of cinema in promoting behavioral change,” Meijer said, “we want to encourage more and more filmmakers to shed light on key developmental issues through their work.”
UNFPA’s partnership with the CIFF builds on a successful collaboration over the past three years, through which UNFPA aims to inspire and advocate for storylines on topics related reproductive health, gender inequality, discrimination and gender-based violence as well as other population issues.
In 2018 and 2019, UNFPA participated in the first edition of the CID with a masterclass by Sandra de Castro Buffington, an inspirational speaker on social impact entertainment and conscious media. In the following two years, UNFPA organized panel discussions on the power of storytelling to address violence against women and the role of cinema in altering social values respectively.
In the festival’s 2018, 2019, and 2020 editions, UNFPA contributed with the “Conscious Media Award” and the “Women’s Empowerment Award” to celebrate and support films that create an impact and shed light on women's rights and population issues. The awards were given to “Poisonous Roses”, “Un Fils” and “Snow White” respectively.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/161818-unfpa-discusses-portrayal-men-cinema-ciff-panel%C2%A0




Date: 05 December 2021
Title: UNFPA, Canada delegation visits projects in Upper Egypt
Content: 05 December 2021

A delegation from UNFPA and the Embassy of Canada to Egypt conducted a visit to Qena and Luxor to follow up on the progress of youth and reproductive health activities under the “Addressing Gaps in Reproductive Health” project in the governorates on December 2-4.
The visit was headed by H.E Louis Dumas, Ambassador of Canada to Egypt, and Frederika Meijer, UNFPA Representative in Egypt.
The delegation met with the Governor of Qena General Ashraf Al-Daoudy, and visited a Women’s Health Club and mobile clinic where they met with service providers and learned about the family planning services offered.
The delegation, accompanied by Qena Deputy Governor Dr. Hazem Omar and General Ismail El-Far, Head of the Ministry of Youth’s Central Administration and Youth Training, attended a theatre performance at the Sidi Abdel Rehim Youth Center in Qena, as part of the ongoing Community Arts Festival by the Nawah theatre group.
They also attended a sports activity aimed at raising awareness around family planning by Y-PEER.
At a Population Awareness Club inside the youth center, the delegation met and discussed with young volunteers efforts to engage young people on developmental issues. Population Awareness Clubs operate in different Youth Centers around the country and host different awareness activities around population issues using innovative tools.
In Luxor, the delegation met with Deputy Governor Mohamed Abdel Kader Khairy, and attended a music performance by the Shamandoura group – a UNFPA initiative to employ music to contribute to changing social norms in partnership with the Ministry of Youth and Sports and Etijah Youth and Development Consultancy Institute. The delegation attended another performance by the “Music for Life” initiative, which targets marginalized adolescent girls as part of the “Girls Asset Framework.”
“It is both important and refreshing for us to see efforts on the ground to reach women and girls as well as mobilize young people – all for the common goal of ending unmet need for family planning in Egypt,” Meijer said.
On his part, Dumas said, “As Canada’s Ambassador to Egypt, I am proud to be supporting this exemplary project and to be partnering with the UNFPA. It is an excellent example of how the Sustainable Development Goals are being furthered at the local level, and it’s encouraging to see this kind of response by the governorate to population and health challenges.”
Under the “Addressing Gaps in Reproductive Health” project, the Canadian Embassy in Egypt and UNFPA work to empower women and engage men on family planning as well as address barriers women and girls face in accessing quality health services including social norms and behaviors.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/161779-unfpa-canada-delegation-visits-projects-upper-egypt




Date: 02 December 2021
Title: International Day for the Abolition of Slavery, 2 December
Content: 02 December 2021
The International Day for the Abolition of Slavery is a day of remembrance and recognition and an urgent call to action.
We must never forget the immeasurable suffering of millions of African men, women and children under the evil of the transatlantic slave trade.
We honour the resilience of those who endured and pay tribute to those who sacrificed their lives in the universal quest for freedom.
The racist legacy of slavery reverberates to this day.
And while some may believe slavery to be a thing of the past, this evil continues to blight our modern world.
Debt bondage, serfdom and forced labour, trafficking in persons for the purpose of exploitation -- including sexual exploitation, forced marriage, child labour -- and the recruitment of children in armed conflict – are contemporary manifestations of slavery.
All are crimes and egregious violations of human rights.
Modern slavery often hides in plain sight.
Of the over 40 million victims of slavery today, one in four are children; three in four are women and girls.
Some are forced to produce the clothes we wear, the food we eat, or construct the buildings we live and work in.
Poor and marginalized groups -- in particular racial and ethnic minorities, indigenous peoples, refugees and migrants -- are at highest risk.
Women and girls from minority groups are among the most vulnerable of all.
Two decades ago, the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action recognized the connection between racism, discrimination, and human trafficking.
The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the urgency for greater vigilance.  We must ensure decent work and prevent human rights violations across global supply chains.
I call on Member States, civil society and the private sector to strengthen collective action to end the heinous practice of slavery.
I urge all countries to intensify their efforts to identify and protect victims and survivors – including by contributing to the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund on Contemporary Forms of Slavery.
Let us join forces to end the degradation and inhumanity of modern slavery once and for all.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/161455-international-day-abolition-slavery-2-december




Date: 01 December 2021
Title: World Aids Day - Secretary-General's Message - 2021
Content: 01 December 2021
On this World AIDS Day, we focus attention on the inequalities that drive HIV and AIDS.
It is still possible to end the epidemic by 2030. But that will require stepped up action and greater solidarity.
The United Nations General Assembly recently adopted a bold new plan to accelerate progress, including new targets for 2025.
To beat AIDS – and build resilience against the pandemics of tomorrow – we need collective action.
That includes harnessing the leadership of communities to drive change, combatting stigma, and eliminating discriminatory and punitive laws, policies and practices.
We must also dismantle financial barriers to health care and increase investment in vital public services to achieve Universal Health Coverage for everyone, everywhere.
This will ensure equal access to HIV prevention, testing, treatment and care, including COVID-19 vaccinations and services.
Together, let us recommit to end inequalities and end AIDS.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/161111-world-aids-day-secretary-generals-message-2021




Date: 29 November 2021
Title: MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY OF SOLIDARITY  WITH THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE
Content: 29 November 2021
On this International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People, the situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory -- including East Jerusalem -- continues to pose a significant challenge to international peace and security.  Persistent violations of the rights of Palestinians along with the expansion of settlements risk eroding the prospect of a two-State solution.

As the international community strives to re-start Israeli – Palestinian dialogue, I am encouraged by recent engagements between senior Israeli and Palestinian officials.  However, containing the situation is not sufficient.
The overall goal remains two states living side-by-side in peace and security, fulfilling the legitimate national aspirations of both peoples, with borders based on the 1967 lines and Jerusalem as the capital of both states.
I call on the parties to avoid unilateral steps that would undermine the chances for a peaceful resolution of the conflict based on international law and relevant United Nations resolutions.  I further call on the parties to engage constructively to end the closure of Gaza and improve the living conditions of all Palestinians under occupation.

I commend the generous donors who support UNRWA and call for the Member States to provide timely and predictable funding to allow the Agency to conduct its vital work.
Together, let us reaffirm our unwavering commitment to the Palestinian people in their quest to achieve their inalienable rights and build a future of peace, justice, security, and dignity for both Palestinians and Israelis.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/160757-message-international-day-solidarity-palestinian-people




Date: 29 November 2021
Title: UNICEF and Partners join hands to celebrate World Children’s Day
Content: 29 November 2021
The National Council for Childhood and Motherhood (NCCM) alongside the Ministry of Social Solidarity (MoSS) in partnership with UNICEF Egypt, and with the generous contribution from the United States’ Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration organized an edutainment event for children at Kidszania city hall in Cairo.
The celebration was attended by Actress and Singer Donia Samir Ghanem, UNICEF Egypt’s Goodwill Ambassador.
The event came as Egypt joins the world in celebrating Children’s Day and commemorating the anniversary of the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) in November 1989.
Nearly 300 children, aged 5- 14, including Egyptians, refugees, and migrants, participated in the celebration and enjoyed activities that promotes inclusion and equity among all children.
According to the latest data issued by the Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics (CAPMAS), in Egypt there are 39.6 million children (under 18 years old), while the number of adolescents and youth (aged 10 to 24 years) is estimated to reach 27.6 million.
World Children's Day is an inspiration to advocate, promote and celebrate children's rights, translating into dialogues and actions which would encourage us all to build a better world for our children.
Mr. Jeremy Hopkins, UNICEF Representative in Egypt said “I am pleased to celebrate with children their global and national day. It’s an opportunity for all of us to renew our commitment to doing our share and take up our collective responsibility in providing a dignified, safe and prosperous life to every girl and boy.”
“I would like to extend my thanks to UNICEF Egypt’s partners for their support and to UNICE GoodWill Ambassador Donia Samir Ghanem for amplifying children’s rights.  By her participation in today’s event, she is certainly helping us to draw a smile on children’s faces and to promote equity and the participation of the hard to reach and the most vulnerable”, added Mr. Hopkins.
 

Actress an Singer Donia Samir Ghanem, UNICEF Egypt’s Goodwill Ambassador said, “it is our collective responsibility to provide opportunities for all children to live a safe and happy childhood. They have the right to learn, play and acquire the life skills necessary to enable them to live a better future."
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/160810-unicef-and-partners-join-hands-celebrate-world-children%E2%80%99s-day




Date: 25 November 2021
Title: The Secretary-General’s video message marking the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and Girls
Content: 25 November 2021

Violence against women and girls continues to be the most pervasive and pressing human rights issue in the world today.
It is both an abhorrent crime and a public health emergency, with far-reaching consequences for millions of women and girls in every corner of the globe.
The latest figures from UN Women confirm that during the COVID-19 pandemic, levels of violence against women and girls have increased.
Across 13 countries, almost half of all women reported that they or a woman they know began to experience gender-based violence during the pandemic.
Almost a quarter of women reported that household conflicts had become more frequent. A similar proportion said they felt less safe at home.
Violence in any part of society affects us all. From the scars on the next generation to the weakening of the social fabric.
We can draw a straight line between violence against women, civil oppression and violent conflict. From rape and sexual slavery used as tools of war, to the thread of misogyny that runs through violent extremism.
But violence against women is not inevitable. The right policies and programmes bring results.
That means comprehensive, long-term strategies that tackle the root causes of violence, protect the rights of women and girls, and promote strong and autonomous women’s rights movements.
This is the model that the United Nations has built through its partnership with the European Union, the Spotlight Initiative.
Last year, in partner countries, we saw a 22 percent increase in prosecution of perpetrators. Eighty-four laws and policies were passed or strengthened. And more than 650,000 women and girls were able to access gender-based violence services, despite restrictions related to the pandemic.
Change is possible.
Now is the time to redouble our efforts so that together, we can eliminate violence against women and girls by 2030
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/160211-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-video-message-marking-international-day-elimination-violence-against




Date: 18 November 2021
Title: Joint Press Statement by the Middle East Quartet Envoys
Content: 18 November 2021
The Quartet highlights the urgent need for all parties to take additional steps to address these challenges directly through fiscal and other reforms, as well as to avoid unilateral steps that exacerbate tensions and undermine the prospects for peace.
The Envoys of the Middle East Quartet from the European Union, the Russian Federation, the United States, and the United Nations met in person in Oslo, Norway following an important meeting of the Ad-Hoc Liaison Committee addressing the Palestinian economic situation.

Oslo - The Envoys welcome steps announced by Israel to reach out to the Palestinian Authority and to assist with the fiscal crisis. The Envoys remain deeply concerned by developments in the West Bank, Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip, including ongoing acts of violence in the West Bank, the advancement of new settlement units, the untenable fiscal crisis within the Palestinian Authority and threats of violence from the Gaza Strip.

In this context, the Quartet highlights the urgent need for all parties to take additional steps to address these challenges directly through fiscal and other reforms, as well as to avoid unilateral steps that exacerbate tensions and undermine the prospects for peace.

The Envoys noted the pressing need to address the fragile situation in Gaza -- with the support of all relevant stakeholders, including in the region -- by ensuring continued humanitarian efforts and an easing of access and movement restrictions for people and goods.

The Quartet Envoys highlighted the urgency of the situation and the importance of taking constructive steps to advance a two-State solution. They further underscored the importance of respect for human rights and the actions of civil society groups.

Finally, the Envoys agreed to work toward a resolution of the conflict and continue consultations with the parties and key regional actors.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/159184-joint-press-statement-middle-east-quartet-envoys




Date: 12 November 2021
Title: International Media Seminar on Peace in the Middle East 16-17 November 2021
Content: 12 November 2021
The 2021 United Nations International Media Seminar on Peace in the Middle East will be held virtually this year on Tuesday, 16 November [from 10:00 a.m. to 11:45 a.m. EST] and Wednesday, 17 November [from 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. EST].

Organized by the United Nations Department for Global Communications, in the context of its special information programme on the question of Palestine, this annual event aims to sensitize public opinion to the question of Palestine and promote a peaceful settlement to the Israel-Palestine conflict. It also aims to bring together journalists, media experts, think tanks, diplomats and members of academia from Israel, Palestine, the wider Middle East, Europe, the United States and other parts of the world to discuss media related dynamics and trends connected to the Israel-Palestine conflict.

The seminar will open on Tuesday, 16 November, at 10:00 a.m. EST with a recorded message of the United Nations Secretary-General Mr. António Guterres. United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Global Communications, Ms. Melissa Fleming, will chair and moderate the first panel discussion under the theme: “The 30th Anniversary of the Madrid Peace Conference: Can hope prevail?” Dr. Yossi Beilin, Former Minister and Former Knesset Member, Ambassador Riyad Mansour, Permanent Observer of the State of Palestine to the United Nations and Dr. Grace Wermenbol, Non-Resident Scholar at The Middle East Institute will speak on that panel.

On Wednesday, 17 November, at 10:30 a.m. EST, Ms. Nanette Braun, Chief of Communications Campaigns Service in the United Department of Global Communications will, moderate the second panel discussion, which will be held under the theme: “Solutions journalism in the coverage of the Israel-Palestine conflict.” Ms. Dina Aboughazala, Founder of Egab, Mr. Daoud Kuttab, Director General of Community Media Network and Ms. Eetta Prince-Gibson, former Editor-in-Chief of The Jerusalem Report will sit on that panel.

The two-day event will be hosted on http://webtv.un.org/. It will also stream live on YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/unitednations, Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/UNWebTV/, and Twitter: https://twitter.com/unwebtv.

People are strongly encouraged to use the hashtag #UNMediaSeminar to contribute to the discussions and/or send their questions to the panelists via Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Questions can be sent in the lead up to or during the seminar.

The event will be held in English, and simultaneous Arabic interpretation will be available.




UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/158257-international-media-seminar-peace-middle-east-16-17-november-2021




Date: 10 November 2021
Title: UNDP Egypt welcomes Mr. Alessandro Fracassetti as its new Resident Representative
Content: 10 November 2021
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Egypt welcomes its newly appointed Resident Representative, Mr. Alessandro Fracassetti, to Egypt.
Mr. Fracassetti has been appointed by UNDP Administrator, Mr. Achim Steiner, “to lead the UNDP office and its programme and operational activities in the Arab Republic of Egypt”.
UNDP Regional Director for Arab States, Dr Khalida Bouzar, stated that “Mr. Fracassetti’s appointment underscores the importance UNDP places in the partnership with Egypt and our commitment to support the country’s development to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, foster resilience and strive to leave no one behind.”
Mr. Fracassetti stated that he is delighted to join UNDP’s dynamic team in Egypt adding that: “UNDP will continue to support the country’s national development priorities in key areas such as climate action and environmental protection, inclusive growth, SDG policy advice, strategic innovation and digital transformation among others”.
Mr Fracassetti brings to the position over 25 years of management and development experience in international organizations and has a track record of strong partnerships with governments and development partners in transition and middle-income countries.
His last post has been as UNDP Resident Representative in Azerbaijan.  His prior assignments in UNDP include Deputy Resident Representative in Azerbaijan from 2016 to 2018, Deputy Resident Representative in North Macedonia from 2011 to 2016, Deputy Resident Representative in Croatia from 2006 to 2011 and Assistant Resident Representative in Belarus from 2004 to 2006.
Before UNDP, he served with the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) in Bosnia and Herzegovina from 1996 to 1998 as Senior Election Officer and from 1998 to 2000 as Senior Political Advisor, and in Croatia from 2000 to 2004 as OSCE Spokesperson and Head of Public Affairs.
Mr. Fracassetti is a national of Italy. He holds a Master’s degree in Politics and Administration of the European Union from the College of Europe in Bruges, a BA in International Relations from the University of Sussex and a Certificate of Political Studies from Science Po Strasbourg.  He is married and has two sons.

For media inquiries:
Please contact: Fatma Elzahraa Yassin, Communications Analyst at Fatma.yassin@undp.org
----------------------
UNDP
UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality, and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and planet.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/158006-undp-egypt-welcomes-mr-alessandro-fracassetti-its-new-resident-representative




Date: 04 November 2021
Title: Ministry of Foreign Affairs and UN launch Joint Platform for Migrants and Refugees in Egypt
Content: 04 November 2021
The Joint Platform seeks to enhance coordination, ensure better delivery and mobilize resources to realize long term, sustainable development gains for migrants, refugees, asylum seekers and their host communities, enhancing social inclusion and cohesion.
Cairo - The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the United Nations in Egypt launched today the Joint Platform for Migrants and Refugees during a high-level event on Thursday, 4 November at the headquarters of the Ministry.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs H.E. Sameh Shoukry welcomed the new initiative at the event attended by senior Government and UN representatives, the diplomatic community and civil society organizations.
In his speech, Minister Shoukry stated that “Considering its status as a country of origin, transit, and destination, Egypt adopted a comprehensive approach to deal with different flows of migration, while engaging internationally on discussions related to finding ways of promoting a more positive discourse on migrants. It has always been our belief that good migration governance represents a ‘triple win’ for countries of origin, destination, and migrants".
He added that “for decades, Egypt has hosted those in need of protection and adopted an approach based on the respect of human rights of migrants and refugees, and which allows for their integration in the Egyptian society while eliminating all forms of discrimination against them, and ensuring that ‘no one is left behind’ in sharing the benefits of the socio- economic development.”
The Joint Platform is an initiative of the Government of Egypt and United Nations partners in Egypt that brings together Government, UN, development partners, donors and other stakeholders. It seeks to enhance coordination, ensure better delivery and mobilize resources to realize long term, sustainable development gains for migrants, refugees, asylum seekers and their host communities, enhancing social inclusion and cohesion.
The United Nations Resident Coordinator to Egypt, Ms. Elena Panova remarked: “Egypt has generously been providing access for the majority of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers to basic services, such as health and education, and taking additional targeted measures for these groups in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have a humanitarian and protection imperative, and a real development opportunity to enhance these efforts and make a difference in the lives of these groups that are at risk of being left behind, while enhancing the resilience of their host communities in Egypt. The UN in Egypt looks forward to working with the Government and other partners to deliver on this agenda.”
The platform will provide an opportunity to analyze the needs of refugees, migrants and their host communities, looking at the policy context, the operational and legal framework and mobilize more resources with the objective of ensuring the sustainability and long-term impact of humanitarian efforts.  Supporting the Egyptian Government’s efforts to enhance access to quality health and education services is a priority area for the platform, as it constitutes a cornerstone for better future prospects for migrants and refugees.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/156809-ministry-foreign-affairs-and-un-launch-joint-platform-migrants-and-refugees-egypt




Date: 04 November 2021
Title: Launch of annual regional arts competition on online violence against women and girls
Content: 04 November 2021
Beirut – The United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) and the Arab Institute for Women (AiW) at the Lebanese American University (LAU) launched today their annual regional youth arts competition under the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-based Violence campaign.
This year, focus will be on raising awareness of and combatting online related and facilitated violence against women and girls, under the title “Virtual spaces, real consequences: Ending online violence against women and girls”.
In order to allow people to express themselves and to raise their voices in their own way, the contest is open to all art forms, such as painting, video, photography, poetry, music or any form of art the participants feel addresses this year’s theme. Submissions from young people under 30 from the Arab region are accepted here until 25 November.
Winners will be presented and showcased at a virtual event on Friday 10 December 2021. The event will be preceded by a panel discussion on the rise of online violence against women and girls in the Arab region.
During the COVID-19 pandemic and imposed lockdowns worldwide, violence against women and girls rose in type and severity; including online related and facilitated violence, with online harassment being the most commonly practiced.
Digital spaces proved to be a double-edged sword; while there was an over-reliance on virtual spaces for social contact and services, perpetrators took advantage of these platforms, subjecting women and girls to different forms of online violence including gender-based slurs, sexual harassment, cyber stalking, bullying, doxing, threats, blackmail and electronically enabled trafficking.
Marked annually from 25 November to 10 December, the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-based Violence campaign serves as a time to raise awareness of, and increase momentum towards, ending violence against women and girls worldwide. Its dates are significant; 25 November is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, while 10 December is International Human Rights Days and the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
For more information and to apply: https://www.unescwa.org/events/virtual-spaces-real-consequences-ending-online-violence-against-women-and-girls

***
About ESCWA
One of five United Nations regional commissions, ESCWA supports inclusive and sustainable economic and social development in Arab States, and works on enhancing regional integration.


For more information:
- Ms. Maryam Sleiman, Public Information Assistant, +961-81-769-888; email: sleiman2@un.org
- Ms. Rania Harb, Public Information Assistant, +961-70-008-879; email: harb1@un.org

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/156771-launch-annual-regional-arts-competition-online-violence-against-women-and-girls




Date: 02 November 2021
Title: UNFPA Representative in Egypt highlights importance of local strategies in achieving SDGs at Expo 2020 Dubai
Content: 02 November 2021
Panelists, including UNFPA Representative in Egypt, shared experiences, best practices and lessons learnt in localizing the SDGs, namely within the framework of the Decent Life (Haya Karima) presidential initiative.

UNFPA Representative in Egypt Frederika Meijer highlighted the importance of local strategies in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, in a panel discussion at Expo 2020 Dubai on November 1.
“Development is not a linear process,” Meijer said, “It requires local strategies informed by local realities.”
She added that “bottom up” approaches are more favorable than “trickle down” approaches when it comes to development.
Panelists shared experiences, best practices and lessons learnt in localizing the SDGs, namely within the framework of the Decent Life (Haya Karima) presidential initiative.
The panel brought together relevant stakeholders including Dr. Magued Osman, CEO of the Egyptian Center for Public Opinion Research "Baseera," Dr. Heba Moghaib, Head of the Regional Planning Sector at the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, Dr. Gamil Helmy, Assistant Minister of Planning and Economic Development for monitoring, Dr. Khaled Zakaria, Head of the Macroeconomic Policies Center at the Institute of National Planning in Egypt and Ms. Sarah ElBatouty, ECOnsult Chairman.
Meijer relayed UNFPA’s work specifically, and the United Nation’s work as a whole, towards achieving the SDGs by 2030.
She explained that the UN works towards a common country analysis that is well informed by data.
“The different UN agencies work jointly to strengthen programs,” she said, “the UN also jointly supports the Haya Kareema initiative.”
Meijer highlighted that people are at the heart of UNFPA’s mandate and together with UNICEF, WHO and WFP, it works to bring change for people on the ground.
Meijer also referenced UNFPA’s launch of “Noura” and the Girls Assets Framework, a symbol for adolescent girls in Egypt – at the heart of the SDGs.
“We know that if you invest in girls, it really pays off,” she said, “If Noura is empowered, it is not only for herself but for her community and country as a whole.”
Meijer explained that communities with more gender equality make much more progress in development.
The Decent Life Initiative an initiative endorsed by President Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi, with the main objective of improving the quality of life in rural communities within the framework of the Sustainable Development Strategy.
In 2017, UNFPA Egypt commissioned a study to set quantitative local targets to a number of SDGs indicators at the governorate level for 11 SDGs. UNFPA, together with the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development then set to roll out the localization project by building the capacity of local planners in all 27 governorates.
UNFPA and the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development jointly develop 27 annual reports that aim to provide an overview of the status of SDG indicators at the governorate level and to highlight the priority goals.
Meijer highlighted the importance of ensuring government commitment and prioritization of local governance, providing practical solutions and hands on technical support to local governments and local planners, ensuring SDGs localization is a living process and create local Voluntary National Reviews (VNRs) and addressing challenges around availability of local data and leveraging the different UN agencies support
She also underlined the necessity of engaging young people in the development process.
Egypt is one of 192 countries participating at Expo Dubai 2020, with Egypt’s pavilion expected to attract 2.5 million visitors over a period of 6 months.
The theme for Expo 2020 is "Connecting Minds, Creating the Future," with three sub-themes: Sustainability, Mobility and Opportunity.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/156435-unfpa-representative-egypt-highlights-importance-local-strategies-achieving-sdgs-expo-2020




Date: 01 November 2021
Title: The Secretary-General's Remarks to World Leaders Summit - COP 26   REMARKS TO THE WORLD LEADERS SUMMIT
Content: 01 November 2021
Climate action tops the list of people’s concerns, across countries, age and gender.  We must listen — and we must act — and we must choose wisely.
On behalf of this and future generations, I urge you:  Choose ambition.  Choose solidarity.  Choose to safeguard our future and save humanity, and I thank you.

Dear Prime Minister Johnson, I want to thank you and to thank COP President Alok Sharma for your hospitality, your leadership, and your tireless efforts in the preparation of this COP.

Your Royal Highnesses, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,

The six years since the Paris Climate Agreement have been the six hottest years on record.

Our addiction to fossil fuels is pushing humanity to the brink.

We face a stark choice:  Either we stop it — or it stops us.

It’s time to say: enough.

Enough of brutalizing biodiversity.

Enough of killing ourselves with carbon.

Enough of treating nature like a toilet.

Enough of burning and drilling and mining our way deeper.

We are digging our own graves.

Our planet is changing before our eyes — from the ocean depths to mountain tops; from melting glaciers to relentless extreme weather events.

Sea-level rise is double the rate it was 30 years ago.

Oceans are hotter than ever — and getting warmer faster.

Parts of the Amazon Rainforest now emit more carbon than they absorb.

Recent climate action announcements might give the impression that we are on track to turn things around.
This is an illusion.
The last published report on Nationally Determined Contributions showed that they would still condemn the world to a calamitous 2.7 degree increase.
And even if the recent pledges were clear and credible — and there are serious questions about some of them — we are still careening towards climate catastrophe.
Even in the best-case scenario, temperatures will rise well above two degrees.

So, as we open this much anticipated climate conference, we are still heading for climate disaster.

Young people know it.

Every country sees it.

Small Island Developing States — and other vulnerable ones — live it.

For them, failure is not an option.

Failure is a death sentence.

Excellencies,

We face a moment of truth.

We are fast approaching tipping points that will trigger escalating feedback loops of global heating.

But investing in the net zero, climate resilient economy will create feedback loops of its own — virtuous circles of sustainable growth, jobs and opportunity.

We have progress to build upon.

A number of countries have made credible commitments to net-zero emissions by mid-century.

Many have pulled the plug on international financing of coal.

Over 700 cities are leading the way to carbon neutrality.

The private sector is waking up.

The Net-Zero Asset Owners Alliance — the gold standard for credible commitments and transparent targets — is managing US $10 trillion in assets and catalyzing change across industries.

The climate action army — led by young people — is unstoppable.

They are larger.  They are louder.
And, I assure you, they are not going away.

I stand with them.

Excellencies,

The science is clear.  We know what to do.

First, we must keep the goal of 1.5 degrees Celsius alive.

This requires greater ambition on mitigation and immediate concrete action to reduce global emissions by 45 per cent by 2030.

G20 countries have a particular responsibility as they represent around 80 per cent of emissions.

According to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities in light of national circumstances, developed countries must lead the effort.

But emerging economies, too, must go the extra mile, as their contribution is essential for the effective reduction of emissions.

We need maximum ambition – from all countries on all fronts – to make Glasgow a success.

I urge developed countries and emerging economies to build coalitions to create the financial and technological conditions to accelerate the decarbonization of the economy as well as the phase out of coal. These coalitions are meant to support the large emitters that face more difficulties in the transition from grey to green for them to be able to do it.

Let’s have no illusions: if commitments fall short by the end of this COP, countries must revisit their national climate plans and policies.

Not every five years.  Every year.  Every moment.

Until keeping to 1.5 degrees is assured.

Until subsidies to fossil fuels end.

Until there is a price on carbon.

Until coal is phased out.

But we also need greater clarity.

There is a deficit of credibility and a surplus of confusion over emissions reductions and net zero targets, with different meanings and different metrics.

That is why – beyond the mechanisms already established in the Paris Agreement – I am announcing today that I will establish a Group of Experts to propose clear standards to measure and analyze net zero commitments from non-state actors.

Second, we must do more to protect vulnerable communities from the clear and present dangers of climate change.

Over the last decade, nearly 4 billion people suffered climate-related disasters.

That devastation will only grow.

But adaptation works.

Early warning systems save lives. Climate-smart agriculture and infrastructure save jobs.

All donors must allocate half their climate finance to adaptation.

Public and multilateral development banks should start as soon as possible.

Third, this COP must be a moment of solidarity.

The US$100 billion a year climate finance commitment in support of developing countries must become a $100 billion climate finance reality.

This is critical to restoring trust and credibility.

I welcome the efforts led by Canada and Germany to help us get there.

It is an important first step — but it delays the largest support for years, and it doesn’t give clear guarantees.

But beyond the $100 billion, developing countries need far greater resources to fight COVID-19, to build resilience and pursue sustainable development.

Those suffering the most – namely, Least Developed Countries and Small Island Developing States – need urgent funding.

More public climate finance.  More overseas development aid.  More grants.  Easier access to funding.

And multilateral development banks must work much more seriously at mobilizing greater investment through blended and private finance.

Excellencies,

The sirens are sounding.

Our planet is talking to us and telling us something.

And so are people everywhere.

Climate action tops the list of people’s concerns, across countries, age and gender.

We must listen — and we must act — and we must choose wisely.

On behalf of this and future generations, I urge you:

Choose ambition.

Choose solidarity.

Choose to safeguard our future and save humanity, and I thank you.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/156379-secretary-generals-remarks-world-leaders-summit-cop-26%C2%A0-remarks-world-leaders-summit-%C2%A0




Date: 31 October 2021
Title: Resident Coordinator's Message on World Cities Day
Content: 31 October 2021
The United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt, Ms. Elena Panova, delivered the UN Secretary-General's message at the World Cities Day celebration that was held in Luxor, Egypt.
Cities are hubs of innovation and human ingenuity — and potential centres for transformative action to implement the Sustainable Development Goals and build a zero-carbon, climate-resilient and socially just world.
The theme of this year’s World Cities Day, ‘Adapting Cities for Climate Resilience’, comes at a time when cities must be more resilient than ever before. They have been epicentres of the COVID-19 pandemic and are on the frontlines of the climate crisis.
Globally, over 1 billion people live in informal settlements, with 70 per cent highly vulnerable to climate change. Sea level rise could put more than 800 million people in coastal cities at direct risk by 2050. Yet just 9% of climate finance to cities goes to adaptation and resilience, and cities in developing countries receive far less than those in developed countries. This must change — half of all climate finance should be dedicated to adaptation.
We need a people-centred and inclusive approach to planning, building and managing cities. Resilient infrastructure, early warning systems and financial instruments to mitigate risks are crucial tools as cities seek to adapt and protect the lives and livelihoods of their residents.
Cities can lead the way in recovering better from the pandemic, reducing emissions at the scale and speed the world needs, and securing a resilient future for billions.
On World Cities Day, let us renew our resolve to confront urban challenges, mitigate risks, and forge lasting solutions. Together, we can transform our cities, and thereby transform our world.

The livestreaming of the event is in this link https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=43NqGivvGVM
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/156272-resident-coordinators-message-world-cities-day




Date: 30 October 2021
Title: UN-Habitat and Expo 2020 Dubai to highlight climate resilient cities at World Cities Day
Content: 30 October 2021
Dubai/Luxor, 29 October 2021 – UN-Habitat and Expo 2020 Dubai will celebrate World Cities Day with three exciting events highlighting this year’s theme Adapting Cities for Climate Resilience. The events, which will be held at the Nexus for People and Planet, Opportunity District at the Expo, will look at innovative ideas, solutions, and best practices for a adapting cities to become more climate resilient.
The fight against climate change presents the single biggest threat to sustainable development with more than 3.3 billion urban residents potentially at risk from severe climate impacts by middle of the century. The rapidly urbanizing Arab world is particularly at risk from rising temperatures, drought and water shortages. At the same time urban communities have shown tremendous resilience and have developed a wealth of innovative solutions for recovery in cities.
At the first specialist event, UN-Habitat and the World Green Building Council will launch the Executive Summary of the upcoming flagship publication ‘Guidelines for Sustainable Reconstruction and Urban Regeneration in the MENA region’ which focus on strengthening climate resilience in Arab cities affected by crises and conflict with MENA standing for Middle East and North Africa.
The Guidelines offer an opportunity to mobilise collective action to support the rebuilding and sustainable recovery of critical infrastructure, services and livelihoods of communities affected by conflicts and disasters. They will be presented by UN-Habitat’s Regional Director for Arab States, Erfan Ali, the agency’s Chief of Urban Practices Branch, Shipra Narang Suri and the Chief Executive Officer of World Green Building Council, Cristina Gamboa.
In another panel, challenges and best practices from the Arab World will be discussed by city mayors from Tunisia, Lebanon, and Iraq as well as UN-Habitat’s Head of Iraq and Yemen Programmes, Wael Al Ashhab. Other speakers include a partner from Development Inc. in UN-Habitat’s Rubble to Mountains Project which aims to reuse and recycle rubble and glass resulting from the Beirut Port explosions. The events are being livestreamed here.
The last event at the Expo is a Youth Circle featuring up to 30 young activists will discuss the climate crisis and solutions. Speakers include Małgorzata Jarosińska-Jedynak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy for Poland, host of next year’s World Urban Forum (WUF) which is being convened by UN-Habitat in Katowice. The event will also hear from a Polish Youth Council Representative for WUF and UN-Habitat’s Shipra Narang Suri.
The Expo events are part of worldwide celebrations held on October 31 in cities and towns around the world marking World Cities Day to raise awareness about sustainable urbanization. This year’s main Global Observance will be co-hosted by UN-Habitat and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and will take place in Luxor.
UN-Habitat
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements and focusing on urban development. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions.
www.unhabitat.org
World Green Building
A global action network comprised of around 70 Green Building Councils around the globe. As members of the UN Global Compact, WGB works with businesses, organisations and governments to drive the ambitions of the Paris Agreement and UN Global Goals for Sustainable Development. Through a systems change approach, the network is leading the industry towards a net zero carbon, healthy, equitable and resilient built environment.
https://www.worldgbc.org/
Expo Livestream: https://virtualexpodubai.com/listen-watch/events/world-cities-day
Global Observance, Luxor: https://urbanoctober.unhabitat.org/wcd
For more information contact:
Yasmine Mostafa: Knowledge Management and Reporting Offier, Regional Office for Arab States, UN-Habitat - yasmine.mostafa@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/156226-un-habitat-and-expo-2020-dubai-highlight-climate-resilient-cities-world-cities-day




Date: 27 October 2021
Title: UNESCO Learning City Award goes to ten cities with outstanding achievements in lifelong learning
Content: 27 October 2021
Damietta (Egypt), is among the ten cities to receive cities  the UNESCO Learning Cities Award 2021 on 27 October 2021.

Ten cities with outstanding achievements in the implementation of the learning city strategy will receive the UNESCO Learning Cities Award 2021 on 27 October 2021, the first day of the fifth International Conference on Learning Cities in Yeonsu (Republic of Korea). Whether they are megacities or smaller urban areas, all of the awardees have shown how learning opportunities empower citizens of all ages when suitable policies and programmes are put in place.
The awarded cities are the UNESCO learning cities of Al Wakra (Qatar), Belfast (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland), Clermont-Ferrand (France), Damietta (Egypt), Dublin (Ireland), Huejotzingo, (Mexico), Jubail Industrial City (Saudi Arabia), Osan (Republic of Korea), Shanghai (People’s Republic of China), and Wyndham (Australia). They were selected by the UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning (UIL), upon the recommendation of an independent jury of international experts.
“With more than half of humanity living in urban areas, cities have a central role to play in providing learning opportunities. This year’s UNESCO Learning City Awardees enable their citizens to adapt to a rapidly changing world and acquire the knowledge necessary to act jointly to solve global challenges. Through lifelong learning they pave the way for fairer, more just and sustainable societies and a better future for all of us!” underlined David Atchoarena, Director of UIL, ahead of the awards ceremony.
The ten UNESCO Global Network of Learning Cities Awardees are:
Australia: Wyndham
Lifelong learning in Wyndham is implemented by a broad network of stakeholders, ranging from the city administration to learning institutions, the private sector and the general public, among others. The City’s Learning Community Strategy 2018-2023 promotes a learning culture for more than 270,000 citizens from 162 countries, emphasising equity and inclusion as drivers of planning, engagement and delivery. With a focus on celebrating learning, Wyndham has not only hosted its own Wyndham Learning Festival for six years but also works with the Australian city of Melton to coordinate a Global Learning Festival, and has successfully collaborated with five other local governments to host a ‘Learning for Earning Festival’ with activities that help people acquire the knowledge they need to find employment and ultimately contribute to the economic and social well-being of the community.
Access the multimedia story to learn more about the UNESCO learning city of Wyndham
Video message by Adele Hegedich, Mayor of Wyndham, Australia



Egypt: Damietta
Through lifelong learning, Damietta seeks to promote sustainable development, advance basic skills among adults, and improve public health for a population of over 330,000. Its municipal departments – Education; Women, Childhood and Motherhood; Youth and Sports; Social Solidarity; and Health – work with the city’s local libraries, Palace of Culture, and media & information centre to ensure that lifelong learning is implemented cross-sectorally. With the implementation of the ‘Safe Cities’ project, Damietta has placed a particular focus on the promotion of entrepreneurship for women.
Access the multimedia story to learn more about the UNESCO learning city of Damietta
Video message by Manal Awad, Mayor of Damietta, Egypt

France: Clermont-Ferrand
Lifelong learning informs all of Clermont-Ferrand's public policies. It is a learning city comprising 25,000 companies, 35,000 students, 1,300 researchers, 35 research laboratories, and a number of further business incubators. It devotes more than 43 per cent of its budget to education and youth, and 10 per cent to the cultural sector for activities that are accessible to all. In 2021, in line with the city’s aim to develop a culture of participatory democracy, Clermont-Ferrand earmarked more than 2 million euros from its annual municipal budget to fund 380 learning projects submitted and chosen by its citizens.
Access the multimedia story to learn more about the UNESCO learning city of Clermont-Ferrand (English, French)
Video message by Olivier Bianchi, Mayor of Clermont-Ferrand, France

Ireland: Dublin
Investing in human capital is crucial to Dublin’s successful development, and lifelong learning is key to this endeavour. As a learning city, it pursues the principle of ‘learning for work, life and fun’ through wide-ranging initiatives coordinated by six local colleges and institutes together with further partners. The ‘Your Place is Here’ campaign encouraging enrolment in higher education regardless of educational background, age, or individual circumstances, and the Healthy Dublin City project offering six learning programmes to improve citizens’ personal, physical and mental health are just two of the many initiatives available to Dublin’s population of more than 1.2 million.
Access the multimedia story to learn more about the UNESCO learning city of Dublin
Video message by Alison Gilliland, Lord Mayor of Dublin, Ireland

Mexico: Huejotzingo
By placing lifelong learning at the centre of its development, Huejotzingo has transformed itself from an agricultural community to the industrial heart of the Mexican state of Puebla. Through a comprehensive learning strategy that prioritizes equity and inclusion, sustainable development and entrepreneurship, and the implementation of 140 learning projects over the past 10 years, the city has made major steps forward: decreasing illiteracy by 50 per cent; expanding access to the internet and new technologies; supporting 1,000 female entrepreneurs in setting up projects; and organizing Huejotzingo’s first ever Festival of Learning with the participation of more than 25 per cent of the city’s more than 90,000 inhabitants.
Access the multimedia story to learn more about the UNESCO learning city of Huejotzingo (English, Spanish)
Video message by Angelica Alvarado, Mayor of Huejotzingo, Mexico

People’s Republic of China: Shanghai
Shanghai has always been committed at a high level to the learning city concept. It has formed a learning city construction model characterized by "government promotion, department collaboration, social support and citizen participation", providing various lifelong learning opportunities for the city's 24.8 million residents. Based on the principles of inclusiveness, openness, excellence and sustainable development, Shanghai focuses on implementing public health education, education for the elderly, vocational education and training (VET) for adults, education for sustainable development (ESD), and reading for all.
Access the multimedia story to learn more about the UNESCO learning city of Shanghai
Video message by Chen Qu, Deputy Mayor of Shanghai, People’s Republic of China

Qatar: Al Wakra
Al Wakra has evolved into one of the largest cities in Qatar with over 80,000 inhabitants. It has made lifelong learning a priority as part of its sustainability plan. The municipality places a particular emphasis on vulnerable groups, such as women and older people. A variety of programmes aims to ensure that women hold leading positions in the city administration and society at large.
Access the multimedia story to learn more about the UNESCO learning city of Al Wakra

Republic of Korea: Osan
Osan’s objective is to serve as a place ‘where citizens and learning are united’. With contributions from a broad range of learning institutions, young and old benefit from learning opportunities that focus on health and well-being, entrepreneurship, equity and inclusion, literacy, global citizenship, and sustainable development. The city’s Stepping Stone initiative is at the heart of its lifelong learning strategy: offices, churches and university spaces are used off-hours to provide citizens with venues for learning activities that are no more than a 10-minute walk from their homes. Pre-COVID-19, 41,824 learners per year benefited from this initiative, participating in lifelong learning programmes held in 216 locations across the city.
Access the multimedia story to learn more about the UNESCO learning city of Osan
Video message by Sangwook Kwak, Mayor of Osan, Republic of Korea

Saudi Arabia: Jubail Industrial City
As the world’s largest petrochemical industrial city, Jubail Industrial City must further promote sustainable industrial production by ensuring that its population of more than 200,000 is equipped with comprehensive knowledge and skills. By focusing on education for sustainable development, entrepreneurship, and health and well-being, the city has succeeded in upskilling more than 168,000 citizens through evening classes, enhancing the literacy skills of over 5,000 beneficiaries, and helping its citizens – and women in particular – to found small and medium-sized businesses.
Access the multimedia story to learn more about the UNESCO learning city of Jubail Industrial City
Video message by Dr Ahmed Zaid Al Hussein, Mayor of Jubail Industrial City, Saudi Arabia

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: Belfast
The city of Belfast uses learning to tackle inequalities and improve quality of life for all of its citizens. Under the umbrella of the ‘Learning Charter’, employment training academies offer support for unemployed and hard-to-reach groups. Easter, summer and after-school programmes provide literacy and numeracy support which benefit disadvantaged children and young people. With over 500 events as part of the annual Belfast Festival of Learning, Belfast promotes the city’s exciting array of learning opportunities and helps build a culture of lifelong learning for all.
Access the multimedia story to learn more about the UNESCO learning city of Belfast
Video message by Kate Nicholl, Lord Mayor of Belfast, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

Join the UNESCO Learning City Awards Ceremony on 27 October 2021, 18.00–20.00 GMT+9 via the Livestream: English French Spanish

About the Global Network of Learning Cities
The UNESCO Global Network of Learning Cities (GNLC) is an international, policy-oriented network providing inspiration, know-how and best practice. Members benefit from the sharing of lifelong learning policies and practices, the production and exchange of knowledge on key challenges and solutions, capacity-building and training initiatives, and participation in global events such as the International Conference on Learning Cities.
Further information:

Media contact: Katja Römer, k.roemer@unesco.org, +49 (0)40 44 80 41 54


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/155538-unesco-learning-city-award-goes-ten-cities-outstanding-achievements-lifelong-learning




Date: 24 October 2021
Title: The Secretary-General message on the United Nations Day  24 October 2021
Content: 24 October 2021


Seventy-six years ago, the United Nations was created as a vehicle of hope for a world emerging from the shadow of catastrophic conflict.

Today, the women and men of the UN carry this hope forward around the globe.

COVID-19, conflicts, hunger, poverty and the climate emergency remind us that our world is far from perfect.

But they also make clear that solidarity is the only way forward.

We need to come together to tackle great challenges and advance the Sustainable Development Goals.

By ensuring that every person, everywhere, has access to COVID-19 vaccines sooner rather than later.

By securing and upholding the rights and dignity of all people — especially the poorest and most disadvantaged, girls and women, and children and young people.

By seeking an end to the conflicts that scar our world.

By making bold climate commitments to save our planet — and living up to them.

And by building global governance that is more inclusive, networked and effective — as detailed in my recent report, Our Common Agenda.

The values that have powered the UN Charter for the last 76 years — peace, development, human rights, and opportunity for all — have no expiry date.

As we mark UN Day, let’s unite behind these ideals, and live up to the full promise, potential and hope of the United Nations.

***
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/153008-secretary-general-message-united-nations-day-24-october-2021




Date: 23 October 2021
Title: High-level UN delegation to visit farmers and review progress of rural development projects in Egypt
Content: 23 October 2021


Rome, 23 October 2021 – A  high-level delegation of Executive Board members and senior staff of the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) began an official one-week visit to Egypt today, to observe the impact of IFAD's investments in the country.

The delegates are representatives from Argentina, Cameroon, Côte d'Ivoire, France,  Germany, and Nigeria.

“We are proud of our strategic and highly productive partnership with Egypt that marks four decades of a successful model of cooperation aimed at reducing poverty, addressing food insecurity and contributing to the resilience and improved livelihoods of more than eight million rural people,” said Dina Saleh, IFAD's Regional Director for the Near East, North Africa, Central Asia, and Europe division.

“The contributions of our member states are crucial in pursuing our shared goals in supporting rural people, developing rural economies and effectively investing in programmes that will help countries to end poverty by 2030 as part of their commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),” she added.

The IFAD delegation will visit IFAD-supported projects in the country and meet with community members and family farmers in Noubaria, Kafr El Sheik, and Amreya to review the impact of the projects on people's livelihoods and discuss the challenges that they are facing.

IFAD currently has three ongoing projects in Egypt; Promoting Resilience in Desert Environments (PRIDE); Sustainable Agriculture Investments and Livelihoods (SAIL); and the Promotion of Rural Incomes through Market Enhancement (PRIME) project. IFAD is investing US$ 203.47 million in these rural development projects out of a total cost of US$ 284.49 million. The projects are expected to benefit over  616,000 people in rural areas.

Agriculture is a key sector in the Egyptian economy, providing livelihoods for 57 per cent of the population and directly employing about 26 per cent of the labour force. Farming is a vital source of exports and foreign exchange of export revenue. The Egyptian economy has proven to be resilient during the COVID-19 pandemic with a positive GDP growth rate in 2020.

IFAD continues to build on the experience of its previous projects and programmes to improve the livelihoods of rural people and enhance national food security, by supporting the settlement of land reclaimed from the desert in Lower (Northern) Egypt, and by supporting productivity improvements in the old lands in the Nile valley and Upper Egypt. Under the West Noubaria Rural Development Project (WNRDP), IFAD has supported 46,833 households and contributed to the Government of Egypt settlement programme by establishing and/or rehabilitating 82 social infrastructure including schools, health units, youth centers, kindergartens, and religious centers.

The interventions of the Fund include seeking to enable more sustainable and efficient use of natural resources particularly water management; promoting climate-smart strategies; and leveraging opportunities provided by the expanding private sector involvement in agriculture.

The delegation also plans to meet with H.E. Prime Minister, Mostafa Madbouly, H.E. Minister of Agriculture and Land Reclamation, El-Sayed El-Quseir and H.E. Minister of International Cooperation, Rania Al-Mashat.

Egypt is IFAD’s largest recipient of financial assistance in Near East and North Africa, and was one of the first countries to receive the Fund’s financing. In February 2021, Egypt has been re-elected during the 44th session of the IFAD Governing council as a member of the IFAD Executive Board for another four-year term (2021- 2024).

Since 1978, IFAD has supported rural poverty alleviation in Egypt through 14 developmental programmes and projects with a total value of US$ 1.1 billion, of which IFAD financed US$ 519.28 million, reaching more than 7 million people. These interventions led to innovations and replicable solutions that have contributed to strengthening the resilience of small-scale farmers and other rural people and building rural communities.


Contact:
Mouhab Alawar
Arabic Media Specialist
Tel: +966507267188
Email: m.alawar@ifad.org


IFAD invests in rural people, empowering them to reduce poverty, increase food security, improve nutrition and strengthen resilience. Since 1978, we have provided US$23.2 billion in grants and low-interest loans to projects that have reached an estimated 518 million people. IFAD is an international financial institution and a United Nations specialized agency based in Rome – the United Nations food and agriculture hub.

Press release No.: IFAD/64/2021
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/152909-high-level-un-delegation-visit-farmers-and-review-progress-rural-development-projects-egypt




Date: 23 October 2021
Title: The United Nations Observes the 76th Anniversary at Expo 2020 in Dubai
Content: 23 October 2021
24 October will be observed as the United Nations “Honor Day” at Expo 2020 in Dubai. United Nations Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed will join the ceremony in person and deliver opening remarks.
Dubai, New York - 24 October will be observed as the United Nations “Honor Day” at Expo 2020 in Dubai. United Nations Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed will join the ceremony in person and deliver opening remarks. Ms. Mohammed will join dignitaries from the Government of the United Arab Emirates and Expo leadership, the Commissioner-General of the United Nations at Expo Maher Nasser, the UN Resident Coordinator in the UAE Dena Assaf, UN Country Team leadership, the diplomatic community and representatives of national pavilions in commemorating the 76th anniversary of the United Nations.
“We mark 76 years of hope creation, solidarity and working together to overcome common challenges. Challenges that have grown and multiplied with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, rising inequality and the climate emergency. As the challenges rise, so has our level of determination to work together to create a better future. A future that Expo 2020 explores: keeping the promise of the Sustainable Development Goals for people and planet,” said UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed.

The official ceremony will start at 10:15 am GST on Sunday 24 October on the Stage of Nations in Al Wasl Dome. In addition to welcoming and open remarks, the ceremony will feature a cultural performance by the Emirates Youth Symphony Orchestra (EYSO).
“The UAE has always been a supporter of the United Nations’ global, regional and local efforts. We are happy to have the opportunity to celebrate this special day with the world from Expo 2020 Dubai, which only deepens our strong relationship with the UAE government as we continue to work together to realize our shared vision of a better world for all.”, said Dena Assaf, the UN Resident Coordinator for the UAE and Deputy Commissioner-General for Expo2020 Dubai.
As part of the UN Day celebrations across the site of Expo 2020, visitors are encouraged to visit the UN Hub, which is in the Mission Possible-Opportunity Pavilion, to discover a unique depiction of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) through artworks of local and international artists. Additionally, an outdoor photo exhibition titled “#TheWorldWeWant”, will display curated photographs from more than 50,000 images from over 130 countries, expressing hopes and dreams for the future.
The Emirates Youth Symphony Orchestra will also be performing for the public, a special “Hymn to the United Nations”, which was composed 50 years ago by legendary cellist, composer and conductor Pablo Casals to commemorate the work of the United Nations on 24 October, 1971.
“Our presence at Expo 2020 offers the opportunity to build awareness about and support for the SDGs, the importance of individual actions, solidarity, hope and engagement. To build a world in which everyone thrives in peace, dignity and equality on a healthy planet, we need to work together”, said Maher Nasser, Commissioner-General of the UN at Expo 2020.



Audiences from all over the world can virtually join the Honor Day ceremony, which will be livestreamed across the UN YouTube channel and UN Web TV.
United Nations Day is observed on Sunday, 24 October, annually; it marks the anniversary of the entry into force in 1945 of the UN Charter. With the ratification of the UN Charter, the UN’s founding document, the United Nations officially came into being. UN Day offers the opportunity to amplify our common agenda and reaffirm the purposes and principles of the UN Charter that have guided us for the past 76 years.
- End –

Media Contact:
Sara Chatila, Communications and Advocacy Officer, Resident Coordinator’s Office, United Arab Emirates. +971 50 438 4167, sara.chatila@un.org
- - -
About the UN at Expo 2020 Dubai:
Expo 2020 opened its doors on 1 October and will continue to run until 31 March 2022, with 200 pavilions in total for visitors to explore. Expo 2020 Dubai is the first World Expo to be held in the Middle East, Africa and South Asia (MEASA) region and, with 192 participating nations, each with their own dedicated pavilion.
Over the six months, the United Nations is planning a series of events and activities that reflect the values of multilateralism and showcase the role of international cooperation and joint actions towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The UN Hub and other engagements in the Opportunity Pavilion are being programmed by the UAE UN Country Team and Resident Coordinator’s Office.
For more information, please visit: www.un.org/en/expo2020
Social Media: @UN_UAE #UNxExpo #UNDay #UNinUAE #UNHub
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/152897-united-nations-observes-76th-anniversary-expo-2020-dubai




Date: 20 October 2021
Title: High-level UN delegation to visit Egypt next week
Content: 20 October 2021
A high-level delegation of IFAD's Executive Board members and IFAD senior staff will begin a five-day working visit to Egypt from 23rd to 28th of October and will meet with high level Government Officials and travel to IFAD-supported projects in the country to see progress and meet with community members and rural farmers.

The delegation will also meet with H.E. Prime Minister, Mostafa Madbouly, H.E. Minister of Agriculture and Land Reclamation, El-Sayed El-Quseir and H.E. Minister of International Cooperation, Rania Al-Mashat to share their impressions of the visit.


Note to editors:
The Executive Board spokesperson and the following IFAD senior staff will be available for interviews:

The Executive Board delegates are Rome-based United Nations agency representatives from Argentina, Cameroon, Côte d'Ivoire, France, Germany, and Nigeria.

Since 1978, IFAD has supported rural poverty alleviation in Egypt through 14 developmental programmes and projects with a total value of US$ 1.1 billion, of which IFAD financed US$ 519.28 million, reaching more than 7 million people. These interventions led to innovations and replicable solutions that have contributed to strengthening the resilience of small-scale farmers and other rural people and building rural communities.

For Media Inquiries,

Contact: Mouhab Alawar
Arabic Media Specialist
Mobile: +966507267188
Email: m.alawar@ifad.org


IFAD invests in rural people, empowering them to reduce poverty, increase food security, improve nutrition and strengthen resilience. Since 1978, we have provided US$23.2 billion in grants and low-interest loans to projects that have reached an estimated 518 million people. IFAD is an international financial institution and a United Nations specialized agency based in Rome – the United Nations food and agriculture hub.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/152413-high-level-un-delegation-visit-egypt-next-week




Date: 20 October 2021
Title: UN-Habitat launches a new regional project on climate change related water challenges to increase the resilience of displaced persons and host communities in Jordan and Lebanon
Content: 20 October 2021
The project aims to solve a cross-border problem by using innovative techniques for water harvesting, reusing treated wastewater and permaculture and efficient irrigation while focusing on marginalized and vulnerable communities.
Cairo – UN-Habitat’s Regional Office for Arab States together with the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for West Asia (UN ESCWA) and UNICEF launched a regional project today aimed at increasing the capacity of displaced persons and host communities in Jordan and Lebanon to deal with water scarcity brought on by climate change.

The project, which is funded by the Adaptation Fund at a value of nearly USD 14 million, will run for 4 years and is implemented in partnership with the Governments of Jordan and Lebanon through their Ministries of Environment as well as other national ministries, local authorities, civil society and the private sector in target areas.

The project is unique in that it aims to solve a cross-border problem by using innovative techniques for water harvesting, reusing treated wastewater and permaculture and efficient irrigation while focusing on marginalized and vulnerable communities.

The Arab region is one of the most vulnerable regions of the world to the negative effects of climate change and is now considered the planet’s most water-scarce region. By 2030, the effects of climate change are expected to reduce renewable water resources by another 20 per cent due to declining precipitation, rising temperature, as well as over-extraction and pollution of groundwater.

At the same time, the region is home to the world’s largest population of refugees and displaced people, with Lebanon and Jordan ranked as the largest and second largest refugee-hosting countries in comparison to national population. Rapid urbanization and population growth are adding strain on dwindling natural resources, with over 75% of the Arab population expected to live in urban areas by 2050.

Erfan Ali, Regional Representative of UN-Habitat in the Arab Region, recognized the dangerous conversion of urbanization and climate change, especially on vulnerable communities, stating that “UN-Habitat works to support cities and urban areas to adapt by building resilience and reducing the impact of climate change, creating new economic opportunities and improving the ability to live in safe and just environments.”

Munir Tabet, Deputy Executive Secretary at ESCWA stressed the message of the UN Secretary General stating that “We need to take bolder steps to confront the challenge of climate change and focus on the importance of resilience and adaptation - what the Secretary-General called the forgotten half of the climate change equation without which we have no hope of achieving our common climate goals.”


For more information contact
Deema Abuthiab, Head of Programme, UN-Habitat Jordan: deema.abuthiab@un.org
Elie Mansour, Head of Urban Planning & Design Unit, UN-Habitat Lebanon: elie.mansour@un.org
Yasmine Mostafa, Knowledge Management Officer, UN-Habitat Regional Office for Arab States:  yasmine@mostaga.un.org
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/152463-un-habitat-launches-new-regional-project-climate-change-related-water-challenges-increase




Date: 18 October 2021
Title: UNFPA, national stakeholders launch ‘Noura’: the Girls Assets Framework
Content: 18 October 2021
Noura is the icon of the Girls Assets Framework and the soon-to-be symbol for investing in girls in Egypt to partners, filmmakers and supporters.

Hurghada, October 18 – The Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, the National Council for Women (NCW), the National Council for Childhood and Motherhood (NCCM), and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), launched Noura, a symbol for all adolescent girls in Egypt, in partnership with the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and the Sawiris Foundation for Social Development.
The launching of “Noura” took place in a reception organized on October 17th, 2021 during the Gouna Film Festival, and was titled “Investing in Girls for the Bright Future of Egypt”, which falls under the Egyptian Girl Initiative, championed by NCW and NCCM, and is in line with their shared priority with the United Nations in Egypt to empower adolescent girls and bring transformative change to the country.
The reception also witnessed the launch of the Girls Assets Framework, which is a tailored program that will respond to the unique circumstances facing adolescent girls; to empower them and build their social, health and economic assets, so they can reach their full potential.
This was the first public debut of Noura, the icon of the Girls Assets Framework and the soon-to-be symbol for investing in girls in Egypt to partners, filmmakers and supporters.
The reception brought together Dr. Hala al-Said, Minister of Planning and Economic Development, Dr. Maya Morsy, President of the NCW, Dr. Sahar al-Sonbaty Secretary-General of NCCM, Dr. Rania al-Mashat, Minister of Investment and International Cooperation, Ambassador Nabila Makram, Minister of Immigration and Egyptian Expatriates Affairs and Ms. Frederika Meijer, Representative of UNFPA in Egypt.
H.E. Han Maurits Schaapveld, Ambassador of the Netherlands to Egypt, Ms. Elena Panova, UN Resident Coordinator, Mr Ibrahim Laafia, Head of Cooperation, Delegation of the European Union to the Arab Republic of Egypt on behalf of the Head of the Delegation of the European Union to Egypt, Eng. Noura Selim, Executive Director Sawiris Foundation for Social Development and Ms. Mervat Soltan, Chairperson of the Export Development Bank of Egypt (EBE) also participated in the event.
During her address, Dr. Hala Al-Said stressed that Noura’s program will create a transformational change in the lives of girls in Egypt, adding that it is absolutely necessary to invest in our teenage girls and improve their lives today, explaining that our future depends on the support and quality of life provided to girls at this crucial age.
“We support the right of every girl to pursue ambitious goals, pursue the education and training she needs to become a productive participant in the labor force,” Dr. Hala al-Said said. “Combined with access to appropriate health programs and safety protocols, this leads to the development of a sense of belonging, making investing in girls a natural and feasible catalyst for all of the SDGs.”
Al-Said stressed that Egypt has made great progress in recent years to promote the integration of women's issues in various policies and enhance their political, economic and social roles, and this is evident in the Human Development Report in Egypt, recently launched by H.E. President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi. She added that despite the major challenges exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, Egypt is all the more determined to empower women, and the Egyptian government is firmly committed to placing women at the center of comprehensive development programs, most notably the “Decent Life” initiative and the Egyptian Family Development Project.
During her address, Dr. Maya Morsy stressed that the Egyptian government is invested in empowering and supporting girls, in light of a political will that believes that Egyptian girls are able to change the world, by providing opportunities that enable them to create their future.
Dr. Morsy added that when girls are educated, know their rights and enjoy good health, families become healthier and more stable, and future mothers become aware of ways to care for their children and plan their families.
On her part, Dr. Sahar Al-Sonbaty stated that the "Noura" initiative aims to empower teenage girls, especially in marginalized communities at risk of harmful practices, by supporting their rights and bridging the gender gap. She highlighted the need for the provision of quality services and information and the development of a participatory action plan for the initiative that serves as the main driver of change in order to ensure a more equitable future for girls, in line with Egypt’s 2030 vision to achieve sustainable development.
She noted that girls are "the cornerstone of development," and we should pay attention to developing their knowledge and skills so that they can create a bright future to assume leadership and important positions.
Dr. Rania Al-Mashat also highlighted the diversity of programs implemented by the various entities enhances efforts to empower women and increase their contribution to economic activities, explaining that the ministry works with multilateral and bilateral development partners and relevant parties from the public and private sector, and civil society to develop programs and coordinate partnerships aimed at  opening up prospects for women's participation.
Dr. Al-Mashat lauded Noura’s launch and pointed out the importance of the initiative's role in supporting government efforts in this regard, as it focuses on girls through customized programs.
Ambassador Nabila Makram explained that the launch of the "Noura" coincides with the empowerment of Egyptian women and the development progress the country is witnessing, reflecting a special interest in girls who will bear the responsibility of tomorrow's society, praising the distinguished successes achieved by the Egyptian girl abroad, the results of which appeared in the initiative of the Ministry of Immigration. For dialogue for young people studying abroad MEDCE, in addition to the second and third generation.
Ambassador Nabila Makram announced the launch of cooperation with the National Council for Women, through which Egyptian girls abroad can provide support and transfer knowledge to girls of their age at home.
The Minister said she is keen on portraying a model for students of her school so that girls are able to paint a more ambitious picture of the future through role models.
H.E. Schaapveld, Ambassador of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Egypt and the EU Gender Champion expressed his happiness to be a part of the efforts supporting the development of a comprehensive approach to combat all harmful practices that Egyptian adolescent girls face, as well as, supporting them to fulfill their potential.
“Societies often focus on teaching girls to be good partners in marriage, and while marriage is a source of joy and love, girls’ aspirations should not only be confined to marriage and seeking the right man. With the launch of Noura character, we aim to raise awareness and break the cycles of harmful practices and together with our partners UNFPA, Care and the respective national authorities in Egypt, provide girls with better health, economic and educational opportunities to realize their dreams,” stated H.E. Schaapveld.
The panel discussions were led by UNFPA Global Goodwill Ambassador Catarina Furtado and Eng. Noura Selim, Executive Director of the Sawiris Foundation for Social Development.
“There are around nine million adolescent girls in Egypt,” Meijer said, “Investing in them and allowing them to reach their full potential means investing in the entire population. We must bridge the gender gap and prepare these young girls for the future as active and skilled citizens.”
UNFPA also signed two Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) with the Sawiris Foundation for Social Development as well as EBE to support the Girls Assets Framework.
"We are truly proud of this new partnership, which has allowed us to be part of an initiative that aims to create a better future for Egyptian girls – through empowering them to realize their own potential. We firmly believe that this goal can be achieved by providing these young girls with training and skill-building opportunities, high-quality education, access to health and social services, as well as enhancing their surrounding environment, which would in effect open numerous doors of opportunity for them. Gender equality and the empowerment of women are top priorities of the Foundation’s programs and projects – which are implemented in various different governorates in Egypt. That said, we hope that through this strong new partnership we’ll be able to achieve more impact in the lives of Egyptian girls,” Eng. Noura Selim, Executive Director of the Sawiris Foundation for Social Development, said.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/152123-unfpa-national-stakeholders-launch-%E2%80%98noura%E2%80%99-girls-assets-framework




Date: 16 October 2021
Title: The Secretary-General's message for World Food Day- 15 October 2021
Content: 16 October 2021



World Food Day is not only a reminder of the importance of food to every person on the planet — it is a call to action to achieve food security around the world.

Today, almost 40 per cent of humanity — three billion people — cannot afford a healthy diet.

Hunger is on the rise.

So too are undernourishment and obesity.

The economic impacts of COVID-19 have made a bad situation even worse.

The pandemic has left an additional 140 million people unable to access the food they need.

At the same time, the way we produce, consume and waste food is taking a heavy toll on our planet.

It is putting historic pressure on our natural resources, climate and natural environment — and costing us trillions of dollars a year.

As this year’s theme makes clear, the power to change is in our hands.

“Our actions are our future.”

Last month, the world gathered for the United Nations Food Systems Summit.

Countries made bold commitments to transform food systems.

To make healthy diets more affordable and accessible.

And to make food systems more efficient, resilient and sustainable at every step — from production and processing, to marketing, transportation and delivery.

We can all change how we consume food, and make healthier choices — for ourselves, and our planet.

In our food systems, there is hope.
On this World Food Day, join us as we commit to take transformative action to deliver on the Sustainable Development Goals through food systems that deliver better nutrition, a better environment and a better life for every person.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/151928-secretary-generals-message-world-food-day-%C2%A015-october-2021




Date: 11 October 2021
Title: Marking International Day of the Girl Child UNFPA Arab States Regional Office launches “In Her Words”
Content: 11 October 2021
Cairo, Egypt - The United Nations Population Fund Arab States Regional Office (UNFPA ASRO) is marking International Day of the Girl Child with the launch of “In Her Words” — a collection of stories, insights, and art created by adolescent girls living in humanitarian settings throughout the Arab region.
Developed by the UNFPA Regional Humanitarian Hub for Syria and the Arab States (RHHSAS), the initiative invited adolescent girls living in Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Palestine, and Syria to experiment with different forms of self-expression, resulting in a remarkable array of impactful moving narratives.
“The objective of ‘In Her Words’ is to build on efforts made in recent years to highlight the unique challenges and needs of adolescent girls as well as their often astounding resilience,” explains UNFPA Arab States Regional Director, Dr. Luay Shabaneh.  “Adolescent girls are not usually targeted in humanitarian programmes which limits their opportunities and potential. ‘In Her Words’ gives us the opportunity to hear directly from them and to amplify their voices as they tell us about their dreams, realities, and triumphs.”
In 2021, several countries in the Arab Region are coping with the lasting impacts of longstanding and emerging humanitarian situations. Both the Syria and Yemen crises have passed the ten-year mark, while more recent developments in Sudan and Lebanon will result in additional disruptions in community networks, placing the lives and dignity of millions of people at risk. Meanwhile, the worsening impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has only exacerbated the challenges facing communities in those countries, impeding access to lifesaving services and exacerbating the risks of gender-based violence.
The first part of In Her Words — ‘Her Dreams’ — immediately communicates the remarkable spirit, awareness, and imagination of adolescent girls even as they face the most challenging of crises. From there, the narrative shifts to ‘Her Realities’, covering a wide range of difficult themes that pervade the lives of adolescent girls in the region. The third and final part — ‘Her Triumphs’ — shines the spotlight on some of the remarkable achievements made by girls as they strive to find their place amidst these challenges. The publication concludes with a message from Mariam, UNFPA’s virtual ambassador for adolescent girls in the Arab Region, who brings additional insights from adolescents throughout the region to further stress the overarching message: that adolescent girls throughout the region are yearning to be heard, to fulfill their dreams and reach their full potential, and to play a leading role in addressing the problems that beset them.

“We are all fighting for the same rights,” explains Mariam, “to be viewed as equals, to have opportunities to choose the lives we want to lead, to choose whom we want to marry and when. All we ask is for those who have the power — including humanitarians — to listen to us.”
“In Her Words” is available in both Arabic and English.
###
About UNFPA
UNFPA - the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency - works to deliver a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person's potential is fulfilled. UNFPA was created in 1969; UNFPA works in more than 150 countries. UNFPA calls for the realization of reproductive rights for all and supports access to a wide range of sexual and reproductive health services – including voluntary family planning and maternal health care. In 2018, UNFPA launched efforts to achieve three transformative results, ambitions that promise to change the world for every man, woman and young person: Ending unmet need for family planning, Ending preventable maternal death, and Ending gender-based violence and harmful practices.

For more information, please contact:
In Cairo: Samir Aldarabi, Regional Media Adviser for the United Nations Population Fund for the Arab States Region, +201068484879, aldarabi@unfpa.org
In Amman: Jafar Irshaidat, Communications Specialist, +962797300157, irshaidat@unfpa.org

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/150984-marking-international-day-girl-child-unfpa-arab-states-regional-office-launches-%E2%80%9C-her-words%E2%80%9D




Date: 05 October 2021
Title: Security Council Press Statement on the attack against United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) on 2 October 2021
Content: 05 October 2021
The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the attack perpetrated on 2 October 2021 against a MINUSMA convoy near Tessalit, Kidal region, which resulted in one peacekeeper from Egypt killed and four others injured.

The members of the Security Council expressed their deepest condolences and sympathy to the family of the victim, as well as to Egypt and to MINUSMA. They wished a speedy and full recovery to the peacekeepers who were injured. They paid tribute to the peacekeepers who risk their lives.

The members of the Security Council called on the transitional Government of Mali to swiftly investigate this attack and bring the perpetrators to justice. They underlined that attacks targeting peacekeepers may constitute war crimes under international law. They stressed that involvement in planning, directing, sponsoring or conducting attacks against MINUSMA peacekeepers constitutes a basis for sanctions designations pursuant to United Nations Security Council resolutions.

The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security.  They underlined the need to bring perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice. They stressed that those responsible for these killings should be held accountable, and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with all relevant authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reiterated that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed. They reaffirmed the need for all States to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and other obligations under international law, including international human rights law, international refugee law and international humanitarian law, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their full support to the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Mali and Head of MINUSMA, Mr El-Ghassim Wane, and the other security presences in Mali and in the Sahel region, as mentioned in resolution 2584 (2021).

The members of the Security Council expressed their concern about the security situation in Mali and the transnational dimension of the terrorist threat in the Sahel region. They urged the Malian parties to fully implement the Agreement on Peace and Reconciliation in Mali (“the Agreement”) without further delay. They noted that the full implementation of the Agreement and the intensification of efforts to overcome asymmetric threats can contribute to improving the security situation across Mali. They underlined that the efforts of the Force Conjointe of the G5 Sahel to counter the activities of terrorist groups and other organized criminal groups will contribute to create a more secure environment in the Sahel region.

The members of the Security Council further stressed the importance of MINUSMA having the necessary capacities to fulfil its mandate and promote the safety and security of the United Nations peacekeepers, pursuant to Security Council resolution 2584 (2021).

The members of the Security Council stressed that these heinous acts will not undermine their determination to continue to support the peace and reconciliation process in Mali.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/150024-security-council-press-statement-attack-against-united-nations-multidimensional-integrated




Date: 04 October 2021
Title: The Secretary-General’s message on World Habitat Day 2021
Content: 04 October 2021
On this World Habitat Day, cities and towns across the globe are facing – and fighting – the dual crises of COVID-19 and climate change. Home to 4.5 billion people today, they are projected to grow by almost 50 per cent by 2050.

By mid-century, over 1.6 billion urban residents may have to survive through average summertime highs of 35 degrees Celsius.

This year’s theme – ‘Accelerating Urban Action for a Carbon-Free World’ – highlights how cities and towns are at the core of climate action to keep the 1.5 degrees goal within reach.

Three-quarters of the infrastructure that will exist in 2050 has yet to be built. Economic recovery plans offer a generational opportunity to put climate action, renewable energy, and sustainable development at the heart of cities’ strategies and policies.

City leadership in using green materials and constructing energy-efficient, resilient buildings powered by renewable energy is essential to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. The benefits are enormous: less pollution and climate risk, more jobs, and better health and well-being.

As populations grow in emerging economies, demand for transport, which accounts for nearly 20 per cent of global carbon emissions, is multiplying. Cities are working to ensure that this demand is met by zero-emission vehicles and public transit. We need a global moratorium on internal combustion engines by 2040 at the latest to underpin these efforts.

On World Habitat Day, let us work together to harness the transformative potential of sustainable urban action for the benefit of our planet and all people.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/149875-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-message-world-habitat-day-2021




Date: 03 October 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Mali
Content: 03 October 2021

The Secretary-General strongly condemns the improvised explosive device attacks today against a convoy of the United Nations Integrated Stabilization Mission for Mali (MINUSMA) near Tessalit, Kidal region. A peacekeeper from Egypt was killed and four others were seriously injured.

The Secretary-General expresses his deep condolences to the family of the victim, as well as the Government and people of Egypt. He wishes a speedy recovery to the injured.

The Secretary-General recalls that attacks targeting United Nations peacekeepers may constitute war crimes under international law. He calls on the Malian authorities to spare no effort in identifying the perpetrators of these attacks so that they can be brought to justice swiftly.

The Secretary-General reaffirms the solidarity of the United Nations with the people and Government of Mali.

Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 2 October 2021
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/149799-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-mali




Date: 30 September 2021
Title: UNGA Virtual High-Level Side Event on Sudan  Thursday 30 September 2021, 10:00 am –12:00pm EST  Chair Summary
Content: 30 September 2021
The United Nations and the Government of Norway convened a High-Level Side Event on Sudan on 30 September 2021 on the margins of the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly. Delegations from 24 Member States and 8 international and regional organizations, attended.
The Event commenced with opening remarks by H.E. Mr. António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, and H.E. Ms. Ine Marie Eriksen Søreide, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Norway, followed by remarks by H.E. Mr. Abdalla Hamdok, Prime Minister of Sudan. Subsequently, Member States and organizations delivered remarks on support to Sudan’s transition to an inclusive democracy.
The Secretary-General commended the Sudanese people for their perseverance in this historic transition that seeks to realize their aspirations for an inclusive, peaceful, prosperous, and democratic future. Over the past two years, the transitional Government has reached important milestones and continued to advance democratic governance and peacemaking efforts, despite ongoing challenges, notably in the establishment of transitional institutions and securing justice for past abuses. The High-Level Side Event provided an opportunity to take stock of the overall progress achieved thus far and reaffirm international support for the transition at a critical time. The Secretary-General called on all parties to remain committed to the transition, underscoring that any effort to undermine it will jeopardise the hard-earned progress made on political and economic fronts.
In his remarks, Prime Minister Hamdok elaborated on the accomplishments and challenges of the Sudanese transition. He highlighted Sudan’s legislative reform process, economic reform efforts that had enabled it to begin receiving debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative and move Sudan towards economic progress and improved conditions for investment. Prime Minister Hamdok also highlighted ongoing efforts to implement the Juba Peace Agreement (JPA), signed almost a year ago, as well as efforts to reach agreement with non-signatory armed movements. He announced that agreement had been reached on the establishment of the Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanism, a key strategic coordination mechanism will help ensure the timely implementation of the JPA. The Prime Minister informed participants of the significant challenges caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the influx of refugees into Sudan, prevailing security challenges, the deep economic hardships faced by the population, and continuing challenges to the peace process and the political transition. He stressed that Sudan remained eager to deepen its partnership with the international community to bolster the country’s long road to socioeconomic recovery, attract investment and to achieve sustainable peace and inclusive development. Finally, noting the recent failed attempt to overthrow the transitional Government, Prime Minister Hamdok  expressed his appreciation to international partners for their solidarity in condemning and denouncing the coup attempt, and reaffirmed Sudan’s unwavering commitment to overcoming challenges facing its multidimensional transition.
Participants paid tribute to the progress achieved by the transitional Government, and to the sacrifices made by the Sudanese people since the start of the revolution. They expressed deep concern about the attempted coup d’état in Khartoum on 21 September, condemned any effort to undermine Sudan’s progress and called on Sudan to stay the course and complete its historic transition. With rising insecurity and intercommunal tensions in Darfur, the east and elsewhere in the country, participants called for more effective protection for civilians and reiterated their commitment to supporting Sudan in these efforts. Participants underscored the need for implementation of the JPA, welcomed the establishment of the Permanent Ceasefire Committee and urged further progress in the operationalisation of other security arrangements. Participants also welcomed the establishment of the JPA Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanism as a confidence-building measure which will serve as a critical forum to discuss and resolve contentious issues.
Participants further underscored their commitment to help facilitate the conditions for the success of the transition, which remains of critical importance for the stability and the prosperity of the entire region. The meeting welcomed international efforts to mobilise resources in support of Sudan since the onset of the transition. Such efforts had resulted in significant pledges and other in-kind support. One of the most important symbols of the international community’s commitment to Sudan’s transition was the establishment of the United Nations Integrated Transition Assistance Mission in Sudan (UNITAMS) on 3 June 2020. The Mission continues to spearhead international support to the Sudanese-led and nationally owned political and peace processes. It also supports the transitional Government in the protection of civilians and in mobilizing resources for economic and humanitarian assistance. UNITAMS carries out programs in peacebuilding, rule of law and human rights. Participants underscored the importance of close partnership between the United Nations, the African Union and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, including in addressing regional challenges to peace and security in the wider Horn of Africa.
The meeting welcomed steps undertaken to increase the meaningful and effective participation of women in the peace process and stressed the importance of securing gender responsive outcomes. In this regard, participants stressed that women’s empowerment and inclusion in all aspects of the transition enhances the prospects for lasting peace, stability, social cohesion and economic advancement. Participants also emphasized the importance of the rapid establishment of the Transitional Legislative Council with 40 per cent representation of women. The meeting encouraged transitional authorities to also make a concerted effort to ensure that the aspirations of youth are being met.
Finally, participants committed to continue providing support to Sudan and mobilizing all available bilateral and multilateral assistance, in line with sustained progress on the ground and towards a more peaceful and prosperous Sudan.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/149507-unga-virtual-high-level-side-event-sudan-thursday-30-september-2021-1000-am-%E2%80%931200pm-est




Date: 28 September 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General calls for accelerated action on jobs and social protection to avoid an uneven global recovery and prevent future crises
Content: 28 September 2021
Deeply diverging recoveries will undermine trust and solidarity and make the world more vulnerable to future crises, including climate change.

Investing in job-rich growth, social protection and a just transition to a net-zero emissions future, particularly in low -and middle-income countries, could prevent a further deepening of the inequalities between developed and developing economies that have been exacerbated during the COVID-19 pandemic, said UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, in a policy brief issued today.
At least US$982 billion in fiscal stimulus measures is needed to respond to the immediate labour market shocks of the crisis and to support a just transition, as well as US$ 1.2 trillion annually for social protection floors in low- and middle-income countries. No advanced economy has achieved economic and social progress without investing in social protection systems and quality public services that provide people with the necessary support to navigate the vicissitudes of their lives.
While the wealth of billionaires increased by over US$ 3.9 trillion between March and December 2020, the impact of the pandemic on the world of work, among other factors, increased the number of extremely poor by between 119 and 224 million people—the first increase in poverty in over 21 years.
The Secretary-General’s brief calls for urgent investments in a job-rich, sustainable and socially inclusive recovery. The public and private sectors should leverage finance to significantly ramp up such investments to get the world back on track to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and to address ever increasing risks from climate change and environmental degradation that could jeopardize  1.2 billion jobs—equivalent to 40 percent of the global labour force.
A human-centred recovery from the pandemic needs employment and social protection policies to work in tandem, not only to improve people’s living standards, but also to help them navigate the challenges of a rapidly changing world of work and the transition towards the goal of net zero carbon emissions by 2050.
Accelerating job creation
To achieve a job-rich recovery and a just transition to a sustainable and inclusive economy, the Secretary-General is calling for a Global Accelerator for Jobs and Social Protection that would create at least 400 million jobs and extend social protection to 4 billion women, men and children currently without coverage.
To achieve this Goal, the Policy Brief entitled “Investing in Jobs and Social Protection for Poverty Eradication and a Sustainable Recovery” recommends several actions:
High-level Event on Jobs and Social Protection for Poverty Eradication
The UN Secretary-General will present the brief at a virtual high-level meeting at the UN on 28 September 2021, 09.00 -12.00 ET (15.00-18.00 CEST). The meeting is convened jointly with the ILO.
Leaders from countries, along with the heads of major international organizations, multilateral banks and finance institutions, civil society, private sector and academia will discuss pathways
The High-Level Meeting on Jobs and Social Protection for Poverty Eradication will feature the UN Secretary-General delivering opening remarks, followed by Jamaican Prime Minister Mr. Andrew Holness as co-convener of the Financing for Development in the Era of COVID-19 and Beyond Initiative (FfDI), and Mr. Guy Ryder, Director-General, International Labour Organization. After, a moderated discussion will take place with Heads of the International Financial Institutions, Heads of States and Government and international organizations.
The Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed will provide closing remarks.
The meeting is being organized under the aegis of the Financing for Development in the Era of COVID-19 and Beyond Initiative (FfDI) with the support of ILO.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/146395-un-secretary-general-calls-accelerated-action-jobs-and-social-protection-avoid-uneven-global




Date: 28 September 2021
Title: Germany donates 7 million masks to WHO to help protect Egyptian health care professionals
Content: 28 September 2021
The German Ambassador Frank Hartmann handed over a donation of 7 million masks to WHO, which were received by the WHO Representative to Egypt Dr Naeema Al Gasseer at the premises of the German Embassy in Egypt. The masks were donated by the German Federal Ministry of Health from its own stocks and will be distributed to medical facilities all over Egypt to help protect health care workers.
Ambassador Hartmann thanked WHO colleagues for their logistic support and said: “Germany has been standing by Egypt’s side in the fight against the pandemic since it began. As we brace ourselves for an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, we must not forget the health care professionals who have been and are still working tirelessly on the frontlines every day. They have played an absolute key role in curbing the spread of the virus and saving lives and I am happy that with the help of our partners from WHO and the Egyptian Ministry of Health and Population, we can support them in their indispensable work with this donation.”
Dr Naeema Al Gasseer, WHO Representative in Egypt stated, “WHO appreciates this generous contribution from the Government of Germany, which is a symbol of solidarity to support Egypt in its battle against COVID-19. Wearing masks is a crucial component in WHO’s comprehensive prevention and control package to limit the transmission of coronavirus. This year is the International Year for Health and Care workers, so we must unite to provide them with the support they deserve. We are happy to announce that frontline health care workers will benefit particularly from this donation. Also, we acknowledge the active role and relentless efforts that are being exerted by the Ministry of Health and Population to halt the pandemic, save lives and promote health among people who live in Egypt.”
This supply of masks is just one part of Germany’s support for Egypt in the fight against the pandemic. As the second biggest donor of the multilateral platform Act-A with its vaccine pillar the COVAX Facility, Germany is committed to ensuring fair, transparent, and affordable access to COVID-19 vaccines, medicines and diagnostics around the globe, including our goal to protect frontline workers. Egypt has already received over 4 million vaccine doses via the COVAX Facility and there are more to come. Vaccination campaigns and preventive measures remain key when it comes to fighting the pandemic and mitigating its impact. No country alone can overcome this health crisis, the fight against the virus remains a global task that needs to be tackled in a spirit of cooperation and solidarity.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/149654-germany-donates-7-million-masks-who-help-protect-egyptian-health-care-professionals




Date: 27 September 2021
Title: The United Nations joins Expo 2020 in Dubai for six months of “Connecting Minds, Creating the Future”
Content: 27 September 2021


(New York / Dubai)
After years of preparations and engagement, and a postponement of one full year due to COVID-19, Expo 2020 will open its doors to in-person visitors on 1 October 2021 for six months. In keeping with past practice and the great value of convening at world Expos, and at the invitation of the Government of the United Arab Emirates, the United Nations will be present at Expo 2020 in Dubai.
The United Nations presence at Expo 2020 in Dubai is focused on programming and activities around the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), international days, and thematic weeks. In addition, and with thanks to the generous support of Expo 2020 and the UAE Government, the United Nations will have a dedicated space, #UNHub, in the thematic pavilion dedicated to the SDGs. Mission Possible – The Opportunity Pavilion, is one of three thematic pavilions curated by Expo 2020 that showcases how small actions can make a big impact on communities and inspires visitors to become agents of change for a better future.
In addition to a relatively small team led by Maher Nasser, the Commissioner-General of the United Nations at Expo 2020 and Dena Assaf, Deputy Commissioner-General and United Nations Resident Coordinator in the UAE, relevant UN agencies, funds and programmes are taking the lead on international days and thematic events and activities during the six months of Expo 2020. Expo 2020 is an opportunity to showcase how the United Nations System works to deal with global challenges and to create a world in which everyone thrives in peace, dignity and equality on a healthy planet.
The United Nations has invited participating countries to highlight their own work to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, especially during the planned Global Goals week from 16 to 22 January 2022.
Ahead of the day on which Expo 2020 doors will open to the public, Expo has organized multiple virtual events and activities in which several UN agencies have taken part. An upcoming Virtual Majlis event on 29 September 2021 will bring together female leaders from around the world to discuss “The World’s Priorities for People and Planet” that will include United Nations Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed and Her Excellency Reem Al Hashimy, UAE Minister of State for International Cooperation and Director-General of Expo 2020. The Virtual Majlis will be moderated by CNN Anchor Becky Anderson and broadcasted live on CNN.
Known as the ‘Great Exhibition’, the first World Expo was held in London in 1851. World Expos are now held every five years, under the auspices of the Bureau International des Expositions (BIE), with different countries taking responsibility to host.
Expo 2020 Dubai is the first World Expo to be held in the Middle East, Africa and South Asia (MEASA) region and, with 192 participating nations, each with their own dedicated pavilion, Expo 2020 is the most diverse in the history of the event.
- - - -  -
For further information, please contact:
Sara Chatila, Communications and Advocacy Officer, Resident Coordinator’s Office, Abu Dhabi, +971 50 438 4167, sara.chatila@un.org; and
Maurizio Giuliano, Programme Officer, Department of Global Communications, New York, +1 332 2031690, giuliano@un.org
For more updates: @UN_UAE #UNHub , www.un.org/en/expo2020
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/146191-united-nations-joins-expo-2020-dubai-six-months-%E2%80%9Cconnecting-minds-creating-future%E2%80%9D




Date: 26 September 2021
Title: The Minister of Education and the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt Explore Potential Areas of Cooperation
Content: 26 September 2021
Dr. Tarek Shawki, the Egyptian Minister of Education and Technical Education, met with Ms. Elena Panova, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt to address the long-standing cooperation of the UN in Egypt in the education sector.
Both officials addressed different files to enhance the current and potential areas of cooperation that ensure the continuous collaboration in addressing quality education for all young generations living in Egypt.
They discussed joint cooperation in supporting the national efforts to reform the education system in Egypt, with a special focus on the Education 2.0 strategy, and addressed multiple areas to expand potential cooperation to support the Ministry's efforts in national reform programs, foremost of which is the ‘ Hayah Karima’ Decent Life Initiative. They exchanged views about  targeted interventions aimed at raising the quality of education services at the level of Egyptian villages, as well as talking about potential areas to support the Ministry's plans to build smart classrooms at the national level as part of the transition towards achieving digital education and improving skills-based learning. .
At the beginning of the meeting, Dr. Tarek Shawky welcomed Mrs. Elena Panova, praising the important role played by the United Nations in supporting the Egyptian educational sector, and the importance of continuing work between the two sides on the basis of partnership, cooperation and transparency to serve the educational process.
Shawky pointed out that education is a learning journey where students should enjoy learning during this journey, stressing on the importance of digital transformation in this educational journey. He highlighted the importance of the teachers’ mastery of the process and the necessity of acquisition of skills to achieve this mission. He also highlighted how to benefit from educational grants, and integrating the principles of ‘education from for sustainable development’ in all types of education, whether (formal school education, or non-formal education “community education”), which contributes to correcting any imbalance and treating it in a sound and clear manner.
Ms. Panova expressed her appreciation for the great and comprehensive development witnessed by the education system in Egypt under the leadership of Dr. Shawky, and commented, “Egypt has taken serious transformative measures through embracing Education 2.0 strategy. It showed real improvement in education system that guarantees access to quality digital learning and skills for people living in Egypt.” She added, "We appreciate the progress made in the education sector in Egypt as the success of the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals depends on the reform undertaken in Education.” stressing that Egypt's reform plans in education is a pioneering story in the region.
It is worth mentioning that the United Nations in Egypt works closely with the Ministry of Education ad Technical Education in supporting the national efforts to reform the education system in Egypt in cooperation with several United Nations agencies in Egypt, including UNICEF, UNESCO, UNFPA, WFP, ILO, UNIDO, IOM and others. This cooperation includes variety of files such as supporting the accessibility of students to high quality education, addressing the drop out of students, supporting the national efforts in upgrading the physical infrastructure of schools and community schools, in addition to providing technical support in the development of the educational curricula that embed digital and skills-based education with a special focus on supporting the technical education sector.
The meeting was attended by both Dr. Sherine Hamdi, Minister's Advisor for Administrative Development and Supervisor of the Central Administration for the Affairs of the Minister's Office, and Dr. Arun Jacob, Economist and Acting Head of the Office of the Resident Coordinator's Office.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/146133-minister-education-and-united-nations-resident-coordinator-egypt-explore-potential-areas




Date: 23 September 2021
Title: Remarks at the Commemoration of the 20th Anniversary of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
Content: 23 September 2021
Mr. President of the General Assembly, Excellencies,
At the dawn of this century, world leaders and human rights advocates journeyed to Durban determined to banish the hatred and prejudice that disfigured previous centuries.
To make — in the words of the original Declaration — this a century of human rights and to eradicate racism in all its abhorrent forms and manifestations.
This journey for equality and justice did not begin in Durban. The path was paved by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and followed in the footsteps of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination.
Today, two decades on, our journey continues.
The 20th anniversary of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action offers an important opportunity to reflect on where we stand and where we need to go.
Racism and racial discrimination still permeate institutions, social structures, and everyday life in every society.
Structural racism and systematic injustice still deny people their fundamental human rights.
Africans and people of African descent, minority communities, indigenous peoples, migrants, refugees, displaced persons, and so many others – all continue to confront hatred, stigmatization, scapegoating, discrimination, and violence.
Xenophobia, misogyny, hateful conspiracies, white supremacy and Neo-Nazi ideologies are spreading – amplified in echo chambers of hate.
From glaring infringements to creeping transgressions, human rights are under assault.
Racism is often the cruel catalyst.
The linkages between racism and gender inequality are unmistakable. And we see some of the worst impacts in the overlaps and intersections of discrimination suffered by women from radicalized communities and minority groups.
We are witnessing a troubling rise in anti-Semitism — a harbinger throughout history of discrimination against others.
We must condemn — without reservation or hesitation — the racism and discrimination of growing anti-Muslim bigotry, the mistreatment of minority Christians, and other forms of intolerance around the world.
Let me be clear: Whoever uses this process — or any other platform — for anti-Semitic diatribes, anti-Muslim discourse, hateful speech, and baseless assertions, only denigrates our essential fight against racism.
Excellencies,
Scanning the global landscape today, something more hopeful has come into view.
A movement for racial justice and equality has emerged with unprecedented force, reach and impact.
This new awakening — often led by women and young people — has created momentum we must seize upon.
The Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights has launched a transformative agenda to help dismantle systemic racism, ensure accountability, and deliver reparatory justice.
The Human Rights Council has established a new independent mechanism to advance racial justice and equality in law enforcement.
The Permanent Forum of People of African Descent created by the General Assembly is another example of meaningful progress towards a systemic response to systemic racism.
I call on every Member State to take concrete actions – including through policy measures, legislation and more granular data collection – in support of all these efforts at the national and global level.
Together, we must work to recognize the contemporary resonance of past crimes that continue to haunt our present:
The lingering traumas. The transgenerational suffering.
The structural inequalities so deeply rooted in centuries of enslavement and colonial exploitation.
And we must reverse the consequences of generations of exclusion and discrimination – including their obvious social and economic dimensions through reparatory justice frameworks.
The COVID-19 pandemic is damning proof of just how far we still are from righting past wrongs.
In some cases, mortality rates have been three times higher for marginalized groups.
Women from minority groups have often been the worst off – facing an escalation in gender-based violence, losing jobs and educational opportunities in greater numbers than anyone else, and benefiting the least from fiscal stimulus.
Excellencies,
The Durban Declaration and Programme of Action was meant to break the vicious cycle, in which discrimination leads to deprivation, and poverty deepens discrimination.
We can overcome these harmful afflictions and heal.
If we recognize diversity as richness;
If we understand – as Durban did – that the fight against racism is both a global, universal effort, and a concrete struggle in every society.  No country can claim to be free from it.
If we act to redress the global – political, economic, and structural – power imbalances rooted in colonial rule, enslavement and exploitation that continue to blight our present;
If we work to ensure that everyone feels respected in their individual identity while feeling valued as a member of society as a whole;
If we make sure that all of us – regardless of race, colour, descent, national or ethnic origin, gender, religion, sexual orientation or other status– can live lives of dignity and opportunity;
If — and only if — we stand together as one human family. Rich in diversity, equal in dignity and rights, united in solidarity.
At a time when we feel more divided than ever, let us unite around our common humanity.
Let us remember what Nelson Mandela said: no one is born a racist. People must learn to hate.
But if they can learn to hate, Mandela went on to say, “they can be taught to love, for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite.”
Let us heed his hopeful words today and re-commit ourselves to this essential purpose.
Thank you.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/145706-remarks-commemoration-20th-anniversary-durban-declaration-and-programme-action




Date: 22 September 2021
Title: The New Urban Communities Authority (NUCA) of Egypt’s Ministry of Housing, Utilities, and Urban Communities wins the Scroll of Honour 2021
Content: 22 September 2021


Cairo, 21 September 2021 – The New Urban Communities Authority (NUCA) of Egypt is awarded the UN-Habitat Scroll of Honour, one of the world’s most prestigious prizes presented to individuals, cities, organizations, and projects working on sustainable urbanization.

Among 170 nominations from Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin America, NUCA received the prize along with four other organizations from Kenya, China, Estonia, and Chile. The winners were selected based on their outstanding contributions to urban development including innovative urban COVID-19 responses, reducing urban greenhouse gas emissions, and advancing the Sustainable Development Goals, particularly Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable.

NUCA was selected for its pivotal role in the implementation of Egypt’s social housing programme which provided 660,000 units ensuring the fair provision of adequate housing in terms of location, connectivity, affordability, and services such as schools, hospitals, playgrounds, and green spaces in 21 newly built cities, serving over 3 million citizens. The programme caters to different levels of income and offers accessible services including flexible payment schemes to ensure inclusivity and integration. It also targets the inclusion of people with special needs and increased ownership by women.

“Everyone has a fundamental right to housing, and the selection of the New Urban Communities Authority is a recognition of its efforts and of the vision of the Ministry of Housing in providing adequate, healthy and safe housing for all,” said Erfan Ali, UN-Habitat’s Regional Representative of Arab States. “I would like to seize the opportunity to congratulate them for their tremendous efforts and impactful work”.

NUCA will receive the Scroll of Honour award, a plaque engraved with its name and achievement, during the Global Observance of World Habitat Day, which will be celebrated on Monday 4 October 2021 in Yaounde, Cameroon, as part of Urban October “for a Better Urban Future for everyone”.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/145483-new-urban-communities-authority-nuca-egypt%E2%80%99s-ministry-housing-utilities-and-urban




Date: 21 September 2021
Title: Joining hands to fight the pandemic – Germany supports Egypt with 850,560 vaccine doses via COVAX
Content: 21 September 2021
The vaccine donation is being supplied via the COVAX Facility in close cooperation with the Egyptian Ministry of Health and Population, UNICEF and WHO.
Yesterday, Egypt received a delivery of 850,560 AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine doses has arrived in Cairo today. This is a contribution from Germany towards the Egyptian vaccination National campaign. This vaccine donation is being supplied via the COVAX Facility in close cooperation with the Egyptian Ministry of Health and Population, UNICEF and WHO.
On the occasion of the arrival of the vaccine delivery Frank Hartmann, Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to Egypt said:
"Vaccinations are key, not only to protect ourselves and people around us against infection, but also to prevent the risk of further mutations of the virus. I am proud that, with the much-appreciated help of UNICEF and WHO, we can offer this additional support to our Egyptian partners. No country alone can overcome this challenge, we can only tackle it together in a spirit of solidarity. Germany will continue to provide further support to Egypt through additional vaccine deliveries in the near future.”
“As WHO and co-leaders of COVAX, we appreciate the generous timely contribution of the German government and the German people to people of Egypt especially at a time that less than 10% of people living in Egypt have been vaccinated. The donation of vaccine is part of global solidarity to protect 40 % of the population by the end of this year to save lives and decrease the burdens on health care system. WHO strongly recommends that countries prioritize vaccinating the front liners especially the health care workers, together with elderly people and those living with comorbid conditions. United we can overcome this pandemic and reach the goal of health for all by all,” said Dr Naeema Al Gasseer, WHO Representative in Egypt and Head of Mission.
“The donation by countries helps to prepare for the expected surge in cases and fourth wave in countries including Egypt and we will continue to support the acceleration of vaccination and equitable access to the vaccines.” She added.
We thank the Government and people of Germany for sharing with the Egyptian people these life-saving vaccine doses sent through the COVAX Facility”, says Mr. Jeremy Hopkins, UNICEF Representative in Egypt. “Vaccines will help us contain the COVID-19 pandemic, but only if everyone has access to them”, he added. “Getting vaccinated matters, it saves lives and prevents repeated school closures", Mr. Hopkins asserted.
With the delivery of vaccines donated by the Government of Germany, Egypt has received nearly 6 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines via the COVAX Facility. The COVAX Facility is co-led by WHO, Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness and Innovations (CEPI), GAVI - the Vaccine Alliance, and UNICEF as a key implementing partner.
Germany co-founded the ACT‑A distribution platform with its vaccine pillar COVAX and is its second-largest donor, providing 2.2 billion euro. In addition to this commitment, Germany is keen to tackle supply shortages in global vaccine production by donating additional charges of vaccines to countries in need. Germany will thus provide up to 100 million doses by the end of the year to support countries in transition and developing countries and help ensure improved access to vaccines throughout the world.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/146156-joining-hands-fight-pandemic-%E2%80%93-germany-supports-egypt-850560-vaccine-doses-covax




Date: 21 September 2021
Title: Secretary-General's message on the International Day of Peace 2021
Content: 21 September 2021

This year’s International Day of Peace comes at a crisis point for humanity.
COVID-19 has turned our world upside-down.
Conflicts are spinning out of control.
The climate emergency is worsening.
Inequality and poverty are deepening.
And mistrust and division are driving people apart at a time when solidarity and collaboration are needed more than ever.
As a human family, we face a stark choice —
Peace or perpetual peril.
We must choose peace.
That is why I call for a 24-hour ceasefire today.
And by working in solidarity for a lasting, sustainable peace every day, we can tackle the issues facing us.
We need peace to urgently deliver lifesaving vaccines and treatment for COVID-19.
We need peace to recover from the pandemic and re-build shattered systems and shattered lives.
We need peace to level the playing field and reduce inequalities.
We need peace to renew trust in one another — and faith in facts and science.
And we need to make peace with nature — to heal our planet, build a green economy, and achieve our net-zero targets.
Peace is not a naïve dream.
It’s a light in the darkness.
Guiding us to the only pathway to a better future for humanity.
Let’s walk the pathway of peace as if our lives depended on it.
Because they do.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/145379-secretary-generals-message-international-day-peace-2021




Date: 20 September 2021
Title: Secretary-General remarks at the SDG Moment event
Content: 20 September 2021
Excellencies, guests, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends,

Our world is challenged like never before.

From climate change, to conflicts, to COVID-19, which is putting the Sustainable Development Goals further out of reach.

It would be easy to lose hope.

But we are not hopeless.

Or helpless.

We have a path to recovery.

If we choose to take it.

That’s what this SDG Moment is all about, coming together.

Coming together to save our planet and each other.

Coming together also with BTS today, which is a fantastic contribution.

Two weeks ago, I launched Our Common Agenda – a plan to re-boot the multilateral system and gather the world around our common objectives.

Because only by recovering together can we get the Sustainable Development Goals back on track.

I see five areas for urgent action.

First – we need to end this pandemic.

Our response has been too slow and too unequal.

I call on the world to mobilize behind a global vaccination plan that doubles vaccine production, to reach 70 per cent of the world’s population by the middle of next year.

Second – we need to get down to the business of a sustainable and equitable recovery for all, so that we stay on track to end poverty by 2030.

This means making bold investments in systems that support human development – from education and universal social protection, to health care and jobs.

It means putting people above profits, including through progressive taxation, and ending tax evasion, money laundering, and illicit financial flows.

And it means reforming the global financial system, tackling debt distress and ensuring that developing countries benefit from the recent allocation of Special Drawing Rights.

Third – equal rights for women and girls.

We cannot achieve any of the SDGs without gender equality.

We need bold investments to make sure every girl has a seat in the classroom – and the skills she needs to chart her own future.

We need to dismantle the power structures that allow discrimination, violence and economic hardship to keep one half of humanity down.

And we need to make sure that girls and women have a seat at every table.

From the halls of power to the boardrooms of business.

Quatrièmement, nous devons mettre fin à la guerre menée contre notre planète.

Autrement dit: s’engager à zéro émission nette d’ici à 2050.

Adopter des plans climat et biodiversité ambitieux.

Renoncer à toute nouvelle centrale à charbon après 2021.

Mobiliser 100 milliards de dollars par an pour l'action climatique.

Et soutenir les pays en développement dans leur transition vers des économies vertes – une priorité absolue de la prochaine COP26 à Glasgow.

And fifth – we need you, all of you.

All of you are critical to global recovery.

I urge you to work with your governments to put people first in their budgets and recovery plans.

Dear friends,

The pathway is there.

The choice is ours.

Let’s move forward with hope and conviction.

And I thank you.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/145123-secretary-general-remarks-sdg-moment-event




Date: 16 September 2021
Title: Secretary-General's Message on the International Day for the Preservation of the Ozone Layer
Content: 16 September 2021
The Montreal Protocol began life as a mechanism to protect and heal the ozone layer. It has done its job well over the past three decades. The ozone layer is on the road to recovery. The cooperation we have seen under the Montreal Protocol is exactly what is needed now to take on climate change, an equally existential threat to our societies.
The Montreal Protocol is more than just an example of how multilateralism can and should work, it is an active tool to help meet our global vision for sustainable development. Under the Kigali Amendment to the Protocol, nations have committed to phase down hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), powerful greenhouse gases used as coolants. When fully implemented, the Kigali Amendment could prevent 0.4 degrees Celsius of global warming this century.
Furthermore, as we prepare for the Food Systems Summit this month, we are reminded that the Kigali Amendment can also help us to increase food security. By reducing HFCs, increasing energy efficiency and creating more ozone- and climate-friendly technologies, the Kigali Amendment can bring sustainable access to vital cooling services to millions of people.
Such services would reduce food loss in developing countries, where food often spoils before it can reach markets. Getting produce from farmers to where it is needed would help reduce hunger, poverty and the environmental impact of the agricultural sector. Another important benefit of expanding cooling is storage of medicines and vaccines, such as are needed to end the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Montreal Protocol and the Kigali Amendment show us that by acting together, anything is possible. So let us act now to slow climate change, feed the world’s hungry and protect the planet that we all depend on.
António Guterres
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/144669-secretary-generals-message-international-day-preservation-ozone-layer




Date: 15 September 2021
Title: From recovery to resilience: Hanging together or swinging separately?
Content: 15 September 2021

UNCTAD’s Trade and Development Report 2021, released on 15 September, says this year will see the global economy bounce back thanks to the continuation of radical policy interventions begun in 2020 and a successful (if still incomplete) vaccine roll-out in advanced economies. Global growth will hit 5.3%, its fastest rate in nearly five decades.
The recovery, however, is uneven across geographical, income and sectoral lines. Within advanced economies, the rentier class has experienced an explosion in wealth, while low-earners struggle.
Constraints on fiscal space (Figure 1), lack of monetary autonomy and access to vaccines are holding many developing economies back, widening the gulf with advanced economies and threatening to usher in another lost decade.
Figure 1: Additional primary outlays in 2020 relative to inherited debt ratios in developing and developed economies

Source: UNCTAD secretariat calculations, based on IMF database.
“These widening gaps, both domestic and international, are a reminder that underlying conditions, if left in place, will make resilience and growth luxuries enjoyed by fewer and fewer privileged people,” said Rebeca Grynspan, the secretary-general of UNCTAD.
“Without bolder policies that reflect reinvigorated multilateralism, the post-pandemic recovery will lack equity, and fail to meet the challenges of our time.”
UNCTAD’s proposals, outlined in more detail below, are drawn from the lessons of the pandemic, and include concerted debt relief and even cancellation in some cases; a reassessment of the role of fiscal policy in the global economy; greater policy coordination across systemically important economies; and bold support for developing countries in vaccine deployment.
In 2022, UNCTAD expects global growth to slow to 3.6%, leaving world income still 3.7% below where its pre-pandemic trend would have put it (Figure 2); an expected cumulative income loss of about $13 trillion[1] in 2020-22. Timid policy or, even worse, backsliding, could pull growth down further.
Figure 2: World output level, 2016–2022
(Index numbers, 2016 = 100)

Source: Trade and Development Report 2021.
Across the world, but particularly in developing regions, the damage from the COVID-19 crisis has been greater than that from the global financial crisis (GFC), most notably in Africa and South Asia (Figure 3).
Even barring significant setbacks, global output will only resume its 2016-19 trend by 2030. This fact conceals the deeper problem that the pre-COVID-19 income growth trend was itself unsatisfactory; average annual global growth in the decade after the GFC was the slowest since 1945.
Figure 3: The economic impact of GFC, 2009–2010, vs. Covid-19, 2020–2021

Source: UNCTAD secretariat calculations, based on official data and estimates generated by United Nations Global Policy Model.
Note: Estimated loss from GFC corresponds to the accumulated income loss of 2009 and 2010, relative to 2006 to 2008 trend; and the estimated loss from COVID-19 corresponds to the accumulated income loss of 2020 and 2021, relative to 2017 to 2019 trend.
Temporary price hikes caused by unsynchronized supply and demand side pressures may become excuses to reverse policies required to sustain recovery in advanced economies. Despite a decade of massive monetary injections from leading central banks, inflation targets have been missed and, even with the current strong recovery in advanced economies, there is no sign of a sustained rise in prices.
After decades of a declining wage share, real wages in advanced countries need to rise well above productivity for a long time before a better balance between wages and profits is achieved again. That said, UNCTAD believes the rise in food prices could pose a serious threat to vulnerable populations in the South, already financially weakened by the health crisis.
Globally, international trade in goods and services has recovered, after the overall flow dropped by 5.6% in 2020. The downturn proved less severe than had been anticipated, as month-on-month merchandise trade flows in the latter part of 2020 rebounded almost as strongly as they had fallen earlier.
The report’s modelling projections point to real growth of global trade in goods and services of 9.5% in 2021. Still, the recovery has been extremely uneven, and scars will continue to weigh on the trade performance in the years ahead.
In 2021, the positive trajectory of commodity prices from the trough observed in the second quarter of 2020 has continued. The aggregate commodity index registered an increase of 25% from December 2020 to May 2021, mainly due to the price of fuels, which surged by 35%, while that of minerals, ores and metals registered an increase of 13%.
“The pandemic has created an opportunity to rethink the core principles of international economic governance, a chance that was missed after the global financial crisis,” said Richard Kozul-Wright, director of UNCTAD’s globalization and development strategies division.
“In less than a year, wide-ranging policy initiatives in the United States have begun to effect concrete change in the case of infrastructure spending and expanded social protection, financed through more progressive taxation. The next logical step is to take this approach to the multilateral level.”
Internationally, US support for the new special drawing rights (SDR) allocation, global minimum corporate taxation, and a waiver of vaccine-related intellectual property rights in the World Trade Organization hold out the possibility of a renewal of multilateralism.
But this will need much stronger backing from other advanced economies and the inclusion of developing country voices if the world is to tackle the excesses of hyperglobalization and the deepening environmental crisis in a timely manner.
The biggest risk for the global economy is that a rebound in the North will divert attention from long-needed reforms without which developing countries will remain in a weak and vulnerable position.
Eighteen months into the COVID-19 pandemic, the world is waking up to the indispensable role of international cooperation in achieving economic resilience, a principle endorsed at Bretton Woods when the multilateral system was founded. But the resolve to rebalance the global economy and reform the international economic architecture is still missing.
First, any talk of financial resilience in developing countries would be premature since in many cases investment flows remain volatile and the burden of indebtedness intolerable. Although spiralling sovereign debt crises were avoided in 2020, developing countries’ external debt sustainability deteriorated further.
That higher interest rates could spark a run on developing country assets and balance-of-payments problems reflects just how little has changed since the GFC. This fragile state of affairs heightens external solvency and international liquidity constraints.
Over the coming years, pressures on external debt sustainability will persist because many developing countries face a wall of upcoming sovereign debt repayments in international bond markets.
Together, developing countries (excluding China) face total repayments on sovereign bonds already issued to a value of $936 billion until 2030, the year earmarked for achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
UNCTAD calls for concerted debt relief and in some cases outright cancellation in order to reduce the debt overhang in developing countries and avoid another lost decade for development.
Second, the pandemic has seen an emergent consensus around the need for significant public sector intervention, but there is less agreement on what this will involve beyond countercyclical measures. There is a risk that expansionary fiscal measures will be regarded only as fire-fighting tools, while, in fact, they are critical instruments of long-term development.
UNCTAD calls for the political space created by the pandemic to be used to re-assess the role of fiscal policy in the global economy, as well as the practices that have widened inequalities.
Third, delivering the necessary support to build back better will require much greater policy coordination across systemically important economies; reforms to the international economic architecture that were promised after the 2008-09 crisis but were quickly abandoned in the face of resistance from the rentier class.
Fourth, the reluctance of other advanced economies to follow the US lead on the vaccine waiver is not only a worrying sign of disjointed obduracy in the North; it is a particularly costly one for already financially constrained economies. On one recent estimate, the cumulative cost of delayed vaccination will, by 2025, amount to $2.3 trillion with the developing world shouldering the bulk of that cost.
Renewed international support is needed for developing countries, many of which face a spiraling health crisis, even as they struggle with a growing burden of debt and face the prospects of a lost decade.


[1] Based on 2015 constant dollars and exchange rates.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/144537-recovery-resilience-hanging-together-or-swinging-separately




Date: 09 September 2021
Title: OHTAG meeting identifies key actions and prioritize recommendations to address PZDs including COVID-19 and AMR
Content: 09 September 2021
Cairo - Emergency Centre for Transboundary Animal Disease (ECTAD) of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO-Egypt) in cooperation with WHO Egypt has organized, the second meeting in 2021 for the One Health Technical Advisory Group (OH_TAG) to discuss on ongoing efforts by the animal, human and environmental sectors to address PZDs including COVID-19 and antimicrobial resistance and identify key actions and recommendations to effectively address them.
The main topics discussed during the meeting included COVID-19, Avian Influenza, rabies and other endemic diseases.

“Enhancing cooperation between One Health approach members who representing various health authorities in Egypt is one of the main objectives of this meeting with the aim of addressing zoonotic diseases, which are among the major causes of human diseases, as well as developing basic scenarios for AMR” said Nasredin Hag Elamin, FAO Representative in Egypt
More than 40 participants attended the meeting representing the General Organization for Veterinary Services (GOVS), National Laboratory for Quality Control of Poultry Production (NLQP), Animal Health Research Institute (AHRI), Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP), Ministry of Environment (MOE), Veterinary faculty of Cairo University, WHO and FAO.
"Covid-19 pandemic has shown us the size of the gaps in health systems, as well as the great interdependence between human, animal, plant health, environment and the air, which necessitates the need for cooperation and coordination, overcoming obstacles and barriers, and turning them into motivators through One Health approach in order to ensure the achievement of wellness, development and prosperity." said Dr Naeema Al-Gasseer, WHO Representative in Egypt.
The foundation of a One Health approach is collaboration, communication, and coordination across all relevant sectors and disciplines to address a shared health concern together, with the ultimate goal of achieving optimal health outcomes for both people and animals.
“Multidisciplinary collaboration under One Health approach is essential at this point in order to effectively prepare for detection, assessment and intervention to address zoonosis and other health threats including AMR and food safety.” Abdul Hakim Ali, Chairman of the General Organization for Veterinary Services, said.
"Egypt has made great strides and has a rich experience in combating epidemic diseases, including Avian Influenza. There are joint works with the ministries of agriculture and environment to activate the recommendations of the Central Higher Committee. It is necessary to act as one unit in everything related to public health especially under the threat of Covid-19 pandemic,” Mohamed Abdel-Fattah, head of the Central Department of Preventive Medicine at MOHP, said.
The meeting enabled to discuss and share information on the current situation of COVID-19 globally, regionally and at national level In addition, the meeting discussed the global update on H5N8 situation, national updates on influenza surveillance activities in humans, poultry and wild birds.
The meeting also followed up on the results and recommendations of joint risk assessment (JRA) for HPAI and Brucellosis as well as the future action for endorsement , progress of OH- working group for Rabies and AMR finally, Egypt preparedness for Rift Valley Fever– before heavy rainfall and flooding Moreover, FAO’s planned activities to strengthen multi-sectoral collaboration were presented, discussed and endorsed by the meeting.
The One Health Technical Advisory Group (OH_TAG) was established in 2017 to facilitate the collaboration among sectors and serve as a platform for sharing information and best practices on current and new events of zoonotic diseases as well as identify joint/multi-sectoral actions that aim to detect and mitigate the risk of zoonotic diseases and AMR.
It is worth noting that ECTAD programs and activities in Egypt are funded by The United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
End
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/143631-ohtag-meeting-identifies-key-actions-and-prioritize-recommendations-address-pzds-including




Date: 08 September 2021
Title: Deputy Secretary-General's, MS. AMINA MOHAMMED, Video Message to Egypt’s International Cooperation Forum - ICF
Content: 08 September 2021
Your Excellency Dr. Mostafa Madbouly [Prime Minister],
Your Excellency Dr. Rania Al-Mashat, [Minister of International Cooperation],
Distinguished participants,

It is a pleasure to participate in this First Edition of the International Cooperation Forum, organized under the patronage of His Excellency, President Al-Sisi.
With less than a decade left until 2030, the COVID-19 pandemic is posing severe risks to the SDGs.
The climate crisis is already wreaking havoc across the globe. Widening inequalities, exacerbated by the pandemic, pose a moral question for our collective conscience and a growing threat to social cohesion and mutual trust.
Despite these challenges, the 2030 Agenda remains our globally-agreed blueprint for action.
The SDGs are our best hope to emerge from the pandemic and accelerate the transition to an equitable, sustainable, inclusive and resilient future, with human rights and human dignity for all.
Strong and effective international cooperation and multilateralism are key to accelerate progress towards the SDGs.
This can drive innovation, supported by sustainable financing at scale.
Recent success in developing COVID-19 vaccines at record speed was the result of effective cooperation across a range of stakeholders, supported by innovative financing.
International cooperation and multilateralism can deliver timely solutions to the most pressing challenges. But much more needs to be done.
Achieving the SDGs will require transferring and sharing knowledge and experiences between countries and across borders.
The ICF is an important platform to explore the potential of all development stakeholders in addressing development challenges and sharing catalytic solutions, especially in the African context.
Our United Nations country teams around the world stand ready to support you in adapting these solutions and engaging with all relevant stakeholders.
I congratulate the Government of Egypt for its leadership in convening this important forum, with the participation of all stakeholders, to work jointly on building a strong recovery from the pandemic and accelerating progress on the SDGs.
I wish the forum all success and thank President Al-Sisi for his leadership.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/143482-deputy-secretary-generals%C2%A0ms-amina-mohammed-video-message-egypt%E2%80%99s-international-cooperation




Date: 07 September 2021
Title: Secretary-General's Message on International Day of Clean Air for blue skies 7 September
Content: 07 September 2021

Today, as many as nine out of ten people breathe polluted air, leading to some 7 million premature deaths each year, of whom 600,000 are children.
Unless we act decisively, this number could double by 2050.
Like many societal ills, air pollution reflects global inequalities, with most deaths related to air pollution occurring in low- and middle-income countries, and in poorer neighbourhoods in wealthier nations
Poverty forces people to live close to sources of pollution, like factories and highways.
And poverty makes 3 billion people continue to burn solid fuels or kerosene for cooking, heating and lighting.
The pollution that is damaging our health is also driving the climate crisis. But air pollution can be solved.
On the International Day of Clean Air for blue skies, I call on all countries to do more to improve air quality.
Better monitoring can identify sources of air pollution.
Evidence-based national legislation can help meet World Health Organization Air Quality Guidelines.
And stronger emissions standards on vehicles, power plants, construction and industries can cut pollution.
I welcome the recent global phase-out of leaded petrol. We must also accelerate access to clean cooking and clean heating.
We must invest in renewable energy instead of fossil fuels.
Coal use must be phased out.
And we must transition to zero emission vehicles.
If we take these steps, we can save as many as 150 million lives this century and help clean our atmosphere.
So, today and every day, let us work together to clean the air that we breathe so we may protect both people and the planet.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/143316-secretary-generals-message-international-day-clean-air-blue-skies-7-september




Date: 31 August 2021
Title: Secretary-General's message on the International Day for People of African Descent
Content: 31 August 2021
This day is a celebration of the enormous contributions of people of African descent to every field of human endeavour.
Today we observe the first-ever International Day for People of African Descent.
This day is a celebration of the enormous contributions of people of African descent to every field of human endeavour.
It is a long overdue recognition of the profound injustices and systemic discrimination that people of African descent have endured for centuries, and continue to confront today.
And it is an urgent call to action for everyone, everywhere, to commit to rooting out the evil of racism.
Twenty years after the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, and more than halfway into the International Decade for People of African Descent, we are experiencing unprecedented momentum towards ending the global scourge of racism. We must not squander this opportunity.
United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organisation’s (UNESCO) Slave Route Project calls upon us to speak openly and honestly about the horror and greed of slavery. United Nations Fund for Population Activities’s (UNFPA) initiative towards investing in young people of African descent focuses on expanding opportunities. And the Agenda Towards Transformative Change for Racial Justice and Equality - launched by the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights - seeks to dismantle systemic racism, ensure accountability, and deliver reparatory justice.
The Permanent Forum on People of African Descent, initiated by the General Assembly, and the new independent mechanism to advance racial justice and equality in law enforcement, established by the Human Rights Council, are important examples of Member States’ commitment to act.
Acknowledging the entrenched legacy of enslavement, redressing the wrongs of history, and shattering the evil lie of supremacy, demands persistence and action every day, at every level, in every society.
Together, let us commit to do our part and advance the promise of equality, justice and dignity for all.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/142496-secretary-generals-message-international-day-people-african-descent




Date: 30 August 2021
Title: International Day of the Victims of Enforced Disappearances.. Secretary-General's message 2021
Content: 30 August 2021
Enforced disappearance – while strictly prohibited under international human rights law in all circumstances – continues to be used across the world as a method of repression, terror, and stifling dissent. Paradoxically, it is sometimes used under the pretext of countering crime or terrorism. Lawyers, witnesses, political opposition, and human rights defenders are particularly at risk.
Enforced disappearance deprives families and communities of the right to know the truth about their loved ones, of accountability, justice and reparation. The COVID-19 pandemic has added to the agony and anguish of enforced disappearance, by limiting capacities to search for missing persons and investigate alleged enforced disappearance.
The Convention for the Protection of all Persons against Enforced Disappearances is indispensable in helping to tackle this cowardly practice. But it requires the will and commitment of those with the power to do so.
States must fulfil their obligations to prevent enforced disappearance, to search for the victims, and to investigate, prosecute and punish the perpetrators.
On this International Day, I reiterate my call to all States to ratify the Convention and to work with the United Nations Committee and Working Group on Enforced Disappearances.
Together, we can and we must end all enforced disappearances.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/142277-international-day-victims-enforced-disappearances-secretary-generals-message-2021




Date: 22 August 2021
Title: World Food Day 2021 - Media Competition
Content: 22 August 2021
Although people are conscious that our health and well-being depend on the availability of and access to nutritious foods, many are unfamiliar with the concept ‘agri-food systems’ – how we participate in these systems on a daily basis and how our choices and actions impact them.

World Food Day 2021 will raise awareness of the need for supporting the transformation to MORE efficient, inclusive, resilient and sustainable agri-food systems for better production, better nutrition, a better environment, and a better life, leaving no one behind. It will call for action across sectors to ensure that our agri-food systems deliver enough affordable, nutritious and safe food for all.

Every year, FAO Egypt joins forces with the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation in celebrating WFD by organizing several events starting from16 October 2021. Included in these events is a “Media Competition” in cooperation with the United Nation Information Centre, to which all media representatives from print, on-line, TV, Radio and Social Media are invited to participate.
About the “Media Competition”
Forms
Media representatives are required to present coverage in the form of an article, TV interview/reporting, radio interview/programme, social media posts.
Topics
Criteria of selection
Prizes
Prizes will be items (such as i-phones, Samsung Tablets, and Samsung Galaxy Note mobile) equivalent to the following amounts:
Timeline
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/141243-world-food-day-2021-media-competition




Date: 21 August 2021
Title: The Secretary-General's Message on The International Day of Remembrance of  and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism
Content: 21 August 2021
Today, we remember and pay tribute to all victims and survivors of terrorism.  We stand in solidarity with those whose loved ones have been killed, those who still suffer from physical and psychological harm, and those communities and societies that have been permanently scarred by terrorist acts.

We support survivors by listening to and amplifying their voices, upholding their rights and providing the support, justice and dignity to which they are entitled.  This year’s observance focuses on the importance of connections, especially during the ongoing pandemic, which continues to restrict movements, limit peoples’ ability to see loved ones and, for victims and survivors, denies them the opportunity to come together to support each other.

Connection can be a powerful agent of healing, helping terrorism survivors around the world to feel heard, seen and less alone.  Connections between survivors, victims’ associations, civil society and Member States are also crucial in helping better uphold the rights and support the needs of victims now and in the future.  I look forward to seeing how we can further these efforts during the first ever United Nations Global Congress of Victims of Terrorism to be held later this year.

The United Nations is committed to a world free from terrorism.  On this International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism, and on all days, let us stand in solidarity with all victims and survivors so we may support them in healing their trauma and bring them hope.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/141239-secretary-generals-message-international-day-remembrance-and-tribute-victims-terrorism




Date: 19 August 2021
Title: The secretary-general's message on World Humanitarian Day
Content: 19 August 2021
Humanitarian workers are here to help the world’s most vulnerable people when disaster strikes.
But around the world, aid workers face growing threats. In the past 20 years, shootings, kidnappings, and other attacks on humanitarian organisations have increased tenfold. This year alone, at least 72 humanitarian workers have been killed in conflict zones.
On World Humanitarian Day, we pay tribute to aid workers everywhere, and commit to doing everything possible to protect them and their vital work.
This year's campaign for World Humanitarian Day focuses on the climate crisis, which threatens the homes, livelihoods and lives of some of the world’s poorest people.
By signing up to #[hashtag] TheHumanRace, your daily exercise will help send a message to global leaders that climate action can leave no one behind.
The climate emergency is a race we are losing. But it's a race we can and must win.
Let’s lace up our running shoes, join #TheHumanRace campaign, and together, make sure everyone reaches the finish line.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/140794-secretary-generals-message-world-humanitarian-day




Date: 19 August 2021
Title: Cairo Tower lights up on the World Humanitarian Day
Content: 19 August 2021
Cairo - Cairo Tower lights up tonight on the World Humanitarian Day in an effort by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) to mark the day in which a bomb attack on the Canal Hotel in Baghdad, Iraq, killed 22 humanitarian aid workers, including the UN Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello on 19 August 2003. Five years later, the General Assembly adopted a resolution designating 19 August as World Humanitarian Day (WHD).
Each year, WHD focuses on a theme, bringing together partners from across the humanitarian system to advocate for the survival, well-being and dignity of people affected by crises, and for the safety and security of aid workers. This year, we highlight the immediate human cost of the climate crisis by pressuring world leaders to take meaningful climate action for the world’s most vulnerable people.
Earlier this month, OCHA launched #TheHumanRace: a global challenge for climate action in solidarity with people who need it the most. The call to action is centered around calling for developed countries delivering on their decade-old pledge of $100 billion annually for climate mitigation and adaptation in developing countries.
“The climate emergency is wreaking havoc across the world at a scale that the humanitarian community and people on the front lines cannot manage, and the Arab World is no exception.” Said Mohammed Zeid Khater, Head of OCHA’s Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa. “In addition to the humanitarian crises resulting from the several conflicts in the region, serious water scarcity is facing countries like Iraq, Syria and Egypt among others. Lack of access to water threatens current levels of food insecurity and may to public health. Wild fires in Syria, Lebanon, Tunisia, Algeria and Morocco are resulting in deaths and injuries. In Yemen, bee keeping is seriously hit by climate change thus livelihoods. This is exactly what brings us to campaign for climate action.” He added.
The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies estimates that following climate-related disasters, the number of people in humanitarian need could double to over 200 million by 2050. People who live in conflict areas and are already vulnerable cannot easily deal with climate shocks. Around 90 per cent of refugees are from countries that are the most vulnerable and least ready to adapt to the impact of climate change. Conflict combined with the pandemic and the effects of climate change is severely affecting food systems worldwide and causing severe hunger and even famine conditions.
#TheHumanRace is taking place with support from some of the biggest names in sports, and in partnership with other UN agencies, non-governmental organizations, the Red Cross Movement and climate activists.
Anyone can participate in #TheHumanRace campaign by:
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/140795-cairo-tower-lights-world-humanitarian-day




Date: 12 August 2021
Title: The UN in Egypt virtually celebrates International Youth Day under the theme of “Transforming Food Systems: Youth Innovation for Human and Planetary Health”
Content: 12 August 2021

Today, the United Nations in Egypt and the Egyptian government, represented by the Ministry of Youth and Sports celebrated International Youth Day through convening an online platform that accommodated 500 participants from different youth initiatives across Egypt.
This year, the theme of International Youth Day is “Transforming Food Systems: Youth Innovation for Human and Planetary Health”, highlighting solutions developed by young innovators to address challenges to our food systems to tackle inequities in food security, biodiversity loss and threats to our environment.
The primary objective of this event was to provide a platform for Egyptian youth where they can engage, make a contribution and provide entrepreneurial solutions towards food security and biodiversity conservation.
The day started with broadcasting the UN Secretary-General António Guterres video message on International Youth Day, in which he asserted that “Young people are on the frontlines of the struggle to build a better future for all.” “Guided by the United Nations system-wide Youth Strategy, Youth2030, the UN is strengthening its work for and with young people worldwide,” he added, while urging all stakeholders to guarantee that young people should have a role as we build a world based on inclusive, fair, and sustainable development for all.
The UN Secretary-General video message was followed by a keynote speech by Mrs. Elena Panova, where she mentioned that “The International Youth Day is a special celebration as it recognizes the potentials of young women and men in Egypt who constitute about 60% of Egypt’s population. It is also special in 2021 as it addresses the potentials of youth in transforming food systems, restoring the planet and protecting lives where the engagement of young people in making informed decisions on food choices is the driver behind the acceleration of the implementation of the sustainable development goals.”  She also added; “We are very proud that this celebration is taking place in cooperation with the Ministry of Youth and Sports with the UN Family in Egypt for many years now and it is becoming tradition in our cooperation as it gives the opportunity for young women and men in Egypt who are actively making a change to advance our goals for a better future and for a decent life ‘Hayah Karima’”.


Mrs. Frederika Meijer, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Representative in Egypt,  highlighted that “In Egypt over 60% of the population is below the age of 29. It is therefore of critical importance to invest in young people and empower them with knowledge and skills so that they can fulfill their full potential. Subsequently, Egypt can reap the benefit from its demographic dividend, and make good progress in the achievement of the SDGs in Egypt’s 2030 agenda.”
The opening remarks were concluded by a speech by his Excellency, the Minister of Youth and Sports, Dr. Ashraf Sobhy where he addressed the youth stating that “We have various integrated projects and ambitious plans in Egypt with the aim of empowering young people in various political, economic, social, cultural, sports and development fields in general, all of which work according to the directions of His Excellency, The Egyptian President, Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, who gives unprecedented support, attention and care to the Egyptian youth by maximizing their contributions and putting their needs at the forefront of the agenda of national priorities."
An introductory session about “Food systems” was then presented by a representative from FAO – The Food and Agriculture organization where basic concepts about the processes of the food system were explained, in addition to the challenges we are facing to provide nutritious food, and to contribute to enhanced livelihood opportunities in an environmentally sustainable way.
The introductory session about “Food Systems” paved the way for an intriguing discussion and Q&A session with one of Egypt’s most prominent nutritionists and social media influencers, Dr. Nourhan Kandil. Dr. Nourhan discussed the importance of adopting healthy, balanced diets in addition to sharing health tips and recommended foods to boost the immunity since the COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the dire need for this kind of transformational change.
Different sessions were then demonstrated by representatives from the Ministry of Youth and Sports and several UN organizations where entrepreneurial solutions towards youth education, health care and biodiversity conservation were tackled.
The event was concluded by streaming an inspirational song by the young talented singer “Nouran Abu Taleb”.
The United Nations in Egypt is working closely with the Ministry of Youth and Sports towards achieving more youth engagement and empowerment, whilst ensuring young people are well informed about the the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), noting that the success of such a global effort will not be achieved without the meaningful participation of young people.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/140341-un-egypt-virtually-celebrates-international-youth-day-under-theme-%E2%80%9Ctransforming-food-systems




Date: 09 August 2021
Title: Secretary-General's statement on the IPCC Working Group 1 Report on the Physical Science Basis of the Sixth Assessment
Content: 09 August 2021
Today’s IPCC Working Group 1 Report is a code red for humanity.  The alarm bells are deafening, and the evidence is irrefutable:  greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel burning and deforestation are choking our planet and putting billions of people at immediate risk. Global heating is affecting every region on Earth, with many of the changes becoming irreversible.
The internationally agreed threshold of 1.5 degrees Celsius is perilously close.
We are at imminent risk of hitting 1.5 degrees in the near term. The only way to prevent exceeding this threshold is by urgently stepping up our efforts, and pursuing the most ambitious path.
We must act decisively now to keep 1.5 alive.
We are already at 1.2 degrees and rising. Warming has accelerated in recent decades. Every fraction of a degree counts.  Greenhouse gas concentrations are at record levels. Extreme weather and climate disasters are increasing in frequency and intensity. That is why this year’s United Nations climate conference in Glasgow is so important.
The viability of our societies depends on leaders from government, business        and civil society uniting behind policies, actions and investments that will limit temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius.  We owe this to the entire human family, especially the poorest and most vulnerable communities and nations that are the hardest hit despite being least responsible for today’s climate emergency.
The solutions are clear.  Inclusive and green economies, prosperity, cleaner air and better health are possible for all if we respond to this crisis with solidarity and courage.  All nations, especially the G20 and other major emitters, need to join the net zero emissions coalition and reinforce their commitments with credible, concrete and enhanced Nationally Determined Contributions and policies before COP26 in Glasgow.
We need immediate action on energy. Without deep carbon pollution cuts now, the 1.5-degree goal will fall quickly out of reach. This report must sound a death knell for coal and fossil fuels, before they destroy our planet.  There must be no new coal plants built after 2021.  OECD countries must phase out existing coal by 2030, with all others following suit by 2040.  Countries should also end all new fossil fuel exploration and production, and shift fossil    fuel subsidies into renewable energy.  By 2030, solar and wind capacity should quadruple and renewable energy investments should triple to maintain a net zero trajectory by mid-century.
Climate impacts will undoubtedly worsen.  There is a clear moral and economic imperative to protect the lives and livelihoods of those on the front lines of the climate crisis.  Adaptation and resilience finance must cease being the neglected half of the climate equation.  Only 21 per cent of climate support is directed towards adaptation.  I again call on donors and the multilateral development   banks to allocate at least 50 per cent of all public climate finance to protecting people, especially women and vulnerable groups.  COVID-19 recovery spending must be aligned with the goals of the Paris Agreement.  And the decade-old promise to mobilize $100 billion annually to support mitigation and adaptation in developing countries must be met.
The climate crisis poses enormous financial risk to investment managers, asset owners, and businesses.  These risks should be measured, disclosed and mitigated.  I am asking corporate leaders to support a minimum international carbon price and align their portfolios with the Paris Agreement.  The public and private sector must work together to ensure a just and rapid transformation to a net zero global economy.
If we combine forces now, we can avert climate catastrophe.  But, as today’s report makes clear, there is no time for delay and no room for excuses. I count on government leaders and all stakeholders to ensure COP26 is a success.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/139407-secretary-generals-statement-ipcc-working-group-1-report-physical-science-basis-sixth




Date: 08 August 2021
Title: UNIDO visits a number of Egyptian universities to choose the host for first educational and service center of its kind in Egypt to support tomato manufacturers and growers
Content: 08 August 2021

Cairo - Within the framework of the fruitful cooperation between the Egyptian government and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization to implement the partnership program with Egypt, which includes among its projects the “Inclusive and sustainable development of the Tomato Value Chain in Egypt”, which is implemented in partnership with the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation, Funded by the Italian government represented by the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS), The project team led by Dr. Omar Abdin -the national coordinator of the project- made a number of field visits to Egyptian universities and research centers that submitted a proposal to host the first Egyptian educational and service center which will support the processed tomato value chain, including suppliers, farmers, and manufacturers of various tomato products. These visits come as part of the process of evaluating the proposals submitted by the various parties, with the intention of identifying the host of this center within the coming weeks.
It is worth noting that the center is expected to play a leading role in supporting and developing the entire tomato value chain in Egypt without geographical restrictions for specific governorates, and will work to provide training and advisory services to all actors in the tomato cultivation and industry sector in Egypt, including farmers, processors, entrepreneurs and agricultural associations and students of the Egyptian universities.

It should also be noted that Egypt ranks fifth among the list of countries producing fresh tomatoes in the world with about 8 million tons.
The volume of Egypt's production of processed tomatoes is not commensurate with its manufacturing capabilities and the volume of its production of fresh tomatoes, hence the need to establish the center to reduce the gap between Egypt's agricultural and industrial production of tomatoes.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/139409-unido-visits-number-egyptian-universities-choose-host-first-educational-and-service-center




Date: 08 August 2021
Title: Ministry of Education, UNFPA sign Partnership Strategic Interventions to integrate population issues education into educational system
Content: 08 August 2021

The Ministry of Education and Technical Education and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) signed a Partnership Strategic Interventions (PSI) on August 8, to integrate comprehensive population education into the educational system, with the aim of raising awareness around population issues, Within the context of the European Union (EU) Support to Egypt’s National Population Strategy.
The document was signed by Minister of Education and Technical Education Dr. Tarek Shawki and UNFPA Representative in Egypt Ms. Frederika Meijer.
Several activities will be conducted under the partnership between the Ministry and UNFPA, including enhancing teachers’ capacity in population education, providing technical support for the development of comprehensive frameworks for teachers and students and enhancing the capacity of teachers, supervisors and students, on family planning and population issue.
The activities will also include supporting students to address relevant matters with their peers and communities as well as supporting the implementation of peer and innovative education activities within the school, among several other interventions.
Dr. Tarek Shawki said that the government’s approach to the population issue focuses on the integration of efforts of all relevant entities to implement a strategic plan for the development of the Egyptian family. He explained that that the main objective of the plan is to manage the population issue through a comprehensive approach to improve the quality of life of citizens and ensure the sustainability of the development process, by working to stabilize population growth on the one hand, and improving demographic characteristics on the other, so that the Egyptian manpower becomes an effective, educated and healthy force that enjoys a better quality of life.
Dr. Shawki added that the Ministry is working closely with UNFPA to raise awareness around the importance of population issues, noting that the Ministry organizes many events and activities aimed at educating students on various environmental, population and health issues at the local, regional and global levels.
On her part, Ms. Frederika Meijer said, “In our continuous efforts to engage young people in developmental issues, this partnership is particularly important. The Ministry of Education and Technical Education AND UNFPA share the same goal; Equipping young people with skills and knowledge, invest in their health and wellbeing so that Egypt can reap the benefits of the demographic dividend. Young people today constitute more than 60 percent of the population; hence empowered young people are key in the achievement of the SDGs of Egypt’s 2030 agenda.”
One of UNFPA’s main pillars, namely under the EU Support to Egypt’s National Population Strategy project, with the support of an EU-grant of €27 Million, and the Addressing Challenges of Population Growth in Egypt through Demand Creation for Family Planning and Combating Harmful Practices project, with the support of the Royal Norwegian Embassy, is engaging young people and people in reproductive age in the pursuit of developmental gains, including the health and wellbeing of young people and the value of the small family size.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/139408-ministry-education-unfpa-sign-partnership-strategic-interventions-integrate-population




Date: 02 August 2021
Title: UN regional commissions launch most comprehensive Covid-19 Stimulus Tracker to date
Content: 02 August 2021
Beirut-- Government fiscal support to recover from the devastating effects of the COVID-19 pandemic has reached nearly $19 trillion; however, the 132 low- and middle-income countries—i.e. 85% of the world’s population—account for only 10% of it, while the 62 high-income countries account for 90%.

This stark inequality, raising questions on the world’s ability to recover quickly and equitably from the pandemic, is one of the many findings of the COVID-19 Stimulus Tracker, a global observatory on the social protection and economic measures of 194 Governments of UN Member States developed by the UN Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA), in cooperation with the UN Economic Commission for Africa (ECA).



The Tracker is a pioneering tool which gathers, in an unprecedented effort, all government support measures for both people and the economy in one dynamic digital platform. It facilitates comparison and analysis of adequacy of those measures and determines their beneficiaries to help identify those left behind.

The Tracker provides a wealth of information on global stimulus as a whole and sheds light on the required further financial needs for better recovery. It also contains a comprehensive catalogue of policy responses, classified under the different categories of social protection and economic support.

“Since the outbreak of the gravest crisis of the century, demand for social protection virtually exploded. Our tracker shows that, as of May 2021, Governments all over the world had deployed 1,850 social protection responses, compared with only 103 in March 2020,” ESCWA Executive Secretary Rola Dashti underscored. However, “the wide disparity in fiscal responses combined with current challenges of access to the vaccine pose high risks for equity in global recovery,” she continued.

Dashti stressed that “the pace of recovery is expected to be low in regions that have high fiscal constraints”. Estimates from the Tracker show that low- and middle-income countries need an additional $5 trillion to recover from COVID-19 and catch up to the global average of fiscal support as a share of GDP, which currently amounts to about 23%.

The Tracker enables peer learning among countries to improve government readiness for responding to future shocks. It shows, for instance, that Governments have adopted several innovative measures to support livelihoods during the pandemic, such as expanding the coverage of social protection to informal sector workers. It also highlights that countries with limited financial resources have mostly resorted to doing without expected revenues, including waivers for rentals and utilities, as well as tax exemptions.

“A global call for supporting countries in strengthening social protection systems in the larger framework of recovery plans is timely. The Tracker backs this call with evidence, helping us to understand patterns emerging from policy actions and providing important lessons on how to build forward better,” Dashti concluded.

The Tracker was launched on 13 July on the sidelines of the High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development. “It is a living database,” said Amina Mohammed, UN Deputy Secretary-General on the occasion. “We encourage member States to contribute and sustain it with data,” she added.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/139090-un-regional-commissions-launch-most-comprehensive-covid-19-stimulus-tracker-date




Date: 01 August 2021
Title: Young people celebrate National Population Day with musical performance
Content: 01 August 2021
The concert comes as part of the Shamandora initiative, which employs music to mobilize young people, to contribute to changing social norms and raise awareness around different population issues.

“Her mother says she is old enough and needs to be cut, her father says you are holding on to age old traditions,” read the lyrics to one of the songs performed on Thursday by young volunteers.
UNFPA, in partnership with the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Etijah Youth and Development Consultancy Institute and Zad Art Team commemorated National Population Day on July 29, with a musical performance and a short film at the Olympic Center theatre in Maadi.
The concert comes as part of the Shamandora initiative, which employs music to mobilize young people, to contribute to changing social norms and raise awareness around different population issues.
The songs produced are part of the awareness program within the Population Awareness Clubs, operating within the Ministry of Youth’s youth centers. The program offers young participants the skills to improvise songs that address different issues that include child marriage and FGM in a music and singing camp, where they take part in several workshops.
The workshops not only tackle different population issues, but also hone the participants’ musical skills and reinforce teamwork dynamics.
The event also showcased other edutainment techniques through which young people aim to raise awareness around different population issues, namely a short film produced by Nawah Network volunteers tackling child marriage. The film called “Birds for sale”. Worth mentioning the master song of the film is improvised during one of the Shamandora camps.
The program is supported by the European Union in Egypt, the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation, and the Royal Norwegian Embassy in Egypt.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/138252-young-people-celebrate-national-population-day-musical-performance




Date: 01 August 2021
Title: IOM Egypt Marks World Day against Trafficking in Persons with Community Event on Ending Child Labour
Content: 01 August 2021
Cairo - Marking World Day against Trafficking in Persons, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Egypt has organized a community event yesterday Saturday 31 July 2021 with a focus on ending child labour. The event was attended by 165 of participants, including migrants and Scouts.
The aim of the event was raising awareness of migrant communities on trafficking in persons, distributing booklets on relevant information on migrants’ rights, Egypt’s laws which protect victims, and access to national resources to seek assistance and mitigate exposure to and risk of exploitation.
Child labour is one of the most frequent forms of trafficking involving children. Other forms that mainly target children include forced begging, sexual exploitation and forced domestic work.
“IOM reiterates its solidarity with all victims of child labour and all first responders who provide protection. It is only by working together that we can put an end to such horrible abuse and exploitation.  This year, IOM celebrates the World Day against Trafficking with a focus on ending child labor; such events remind us of the importance of empowerment of communities in combatting this crime in all its forms” said Laurent de Boeck, IOM Chief of Mission to the Arab Republic of Egypt.
Ali Abdelrahman representing the Eritrean community stated that “We were very happy to interact with each other in this event. It has been 3 years that some of our community members have not gone out of their homes. Many people did not know about the COVID-19 vaccination and were worried about it. Today, we were able to understand the difference between several vaccines and the importance of getting vaccinated. About human trafficking, we suffer from risks of smuggling and child labour. Through this event, we were able to gain awareness about these global crimes.”

Ladies from ‘Rawad El Rahma’, Eritrean Community Based Organization, representing Eritrean community have mentioned that they liked Yoga so much and said it was a wonderful activity. They would like to have more sports activities, including swimming as they have not been to a pool since they came to Egypt 3 years ago.

Amal, a Sudanese community leader, mentioned that they enjoyed the day where they knew about counter trafficking, nutrition, and practiced Yoga. She quoted “The children were very happy to the extend they refuse to leave the place as they do not hang out often. The day was very special in which there were competitions and prizes for children. We would like to thank IOM for giving us this opportunity”.
Through games and interactive sessions, the event included awareness raising on trafficking in persons, mental health and psychosocial support, nutrition, and fitness. In addition, information sessions on positive parenting, and child protection was provided for parents. This included preventative measures to stay safe both online and offline for children. The ‘National Council for Childhood and Motherhood’ (NCCM) and ‘Holol for Development and Consulting’ presented their services and provided their brochures for further migrant assistance.
The event was organized with the generous support of the below:
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/138284-iom-egypt-marks-world-day-against-trafficking-persons-community-event-ending-child-labour




Date: 30 July 2021
Title: The Secretary-General--Message on World Day Against Trafficking in Persons
Content: 30 July 2021
“Victims’ Voices Lead the Way”

In the midst of a global pandemic, accompanied by rising inequalities and economic devastation, the voices of human trafficking survivors and victims risk being drowned out.

But listening to their stories is more crucial than ever as the COVID-19 crisis increases fragilities and drives up desperation.

As many as 124 million more people have been pushed into extreme poverty by the pandemic, leaving many millions vulnerable to trafficking.
Children are at great and growing risk: they represent one-third of victims globally — a share that has tripled in the last 15 years. Half of victims in low-income countries are children, most of whom are trafficked for forced labour. Criminals everywhere are using technology to identify, control and exploit vulnerable people. Children are increasingly targeted through online platforms for sexual exploitation, forced marriage and other forms of abuse.

Trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation continues to be one of the most widespread and abhorrent forms of human trafficking. Migrants account for more than half of those trafficked in most regions.

Governments must take urgent steps to strengthen prevention, support victims and bring perpetrators to justice. This includes implementation of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons.

Our efforts must be guided by survivors of trafficking. Their contribution is essential to address risk factors and patterns, and to identify and protect victims and ensure their access to justice and recovery, while holding their exploiters accountable.

The United Nations is committed to listening and responding to the voices of victims and survivors of human trafficking, ensuring their rights and dignity, amplifying their stories and learning from them in our fight to prevent and put an end to this terrible crime.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/138090-secretary-general-message-world-day-against-trafficking-persons




Date: 27 July 2021
Title: World Day Against Trafficking in Persons: Victim-Centered Response
Content: 27 July 2021
Joint Press Release by the NCCPIM&TIP, UNODC, IOM and EU, in commemoration of the World Day against Trafficking in Persons on the 30th of July
Cairo, Egypt - Every year the entire world commemorates the World Day against Trafficking in Persons on the 30th of July as a reminder of the crucial role we should continue to play in raising awareness on this crime and its forms, in preventing it from taking place and protecting the vulnerable populations from falling prey to criminal groups, in supporting victims of trafficking in persons, and in prosecuting offenders and bringing them to justice. This year the day comes at a time when all countries and communities including Egypt are confronting challenges brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic has affected the lives of men and women, adults and children from diverse backgrounds and with the deterioration of the economic conditions, their vulnerability to be trafficked has increased.

According to UNODC’s 2020 Global Report on Trafficking in Persons, the detected victims in North Africa and the Middle East showed that sexual exploitation, forced labour and exploitative begging have equivalent shares (nearly 30 per cent each)  amongst the different forms of exploitation. In North Africa, while the majority (69 per cent) of detected victims are adults, a significant proportion of detected victims were children (31 per cent).

Ambassador Naela Gabr, Chairperson of the National Coordinating Committee for Combating and Preventing Illegal Migration and Trafficking in Persons (NCCPIM&TIP), stated that “The Government of Egypt adopted a victim-centered approach since 2007 with a central tenet of victims and witness protection. For the second year, we are marking the World TiP Day while we are facing the COVID-19 pandemic that has a major negative effect specially for the most vulnerable groups. This year Egypt is proud of establishing the new protection system for the victims, as the government deeply believes that empowering the victims is a corner stone in our national route map to eradicate this inhuman crime.”

According to international reports, Egypt has made remarkable efforts towards fighting this crime -despite the existing challenges- by inaugurating a new specialized shelter for female and child trafficking victims, increasing prosecutions, and expanding efforts to train officials and raise public awareness. The National Council for Human Rights (NCHR) launched a trafficking-specific hotline; the National Council for Women (NCW), the National Council for Children and Motherhood (NCCM), and Administrative Control Authority (ACA) also operated hotlines to which the public could report trafficking cases”

Mr. Laurent De Boeck, IOM’s Egypt Chief of Mission stated that “This year, at the occasion of the World Day against Trafficking in persons, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) Egypt pays a special tribute to those government officials, non-governmental social workers, the media, private businesses, United Nations staff, and community-leaders, who actively promote the end of violence against children. Over 25% of the victims of trafficking worldwide are children, with over 60% of those are girls. More particularly, IOM wants to reiterate its solidarity with all girls and boys’ victims of this horrible crime, as well as all first-responders who provide protection, in order to leave no one behind. It is only together, whole-of-the-society, that we may put an end to this abuse against innocent children.”

This year, the National Coordinating Committee for Combating and Preventing Illegal Migration and Trafficking in Persons (NCCPIM&TIP), the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the European Union (EU) have partnered to reinforce our sense of shared responsibility for the protection of victims of trafficking in persons by a video featuring statements of His Excellency the Prime Minister of the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Public Prosecutor, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Social Solidarity, the Chairperson of NCCPIM&TIP, NCCM Secretary General, UNODC Regional Representative, IOM Chief of Mission, and the Head of the European Union Delegation to Egypt.

Ms. Cristina Albertin, UNODC Regional Representative for the Middle East and North Africa affirmed that “This year’s global theme for the World TiP Day stresses the importance of putting the victims and survivors of human trafficking at the centre of our work highlighting the importance of giving a voice and listening to and learning from survivors of human trafficking turning their suggestions into concrete actions for a victim-centred and effective approach in combating human trafficking.”

Ambassador Christian Berger, Head of the European Union Delegation to the Arab Republic of Egypt stated that “The European Union works closely with governments and partners to protect the most vulnerable. The Covid-19 pandemic has unfortunately created more vulnerabilities, which carries a risk for an increase in trafficking in human beings. The European Union partnership with the Government of Egypt, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and the International Organization for Migration (IOM) is key to the global efforts to prevent trafficking in human beings. This also in line with the EU Strategy on Combatting Trafficking in Human Beings 2021-2025.”

Towards commemorating this important day, the Cairo Nile Tower will be lit in blue with the slogan of the National Anti-Human Trafficking Campaign to demonstrate our commitment towards fighting this crime and standing together with the victims of trafficking in persons. In addition, NCCPIM&TIP will launch an SMS campaign urging the citizen to report the crime through the trafficking-specific hotlines.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/137560-world-day-against-trafficking-persons-victim-centered-response




Date: 18 July 2021
Title: The Secretary-General -- message on Nelson Mandela International Day
Content: 18 July 2021
Nelson Mandela International Day is an opportunity to reflect on the life and legacy of a legendary global advocate for dignity, equality, justice and human rights.

Each year, on this day, Nelson’s Mandela’s birthday, we pay tribute to this extraordinary man who embodied the highest aspirations of the United Nations and the human family.

Madiba’s calls for solidarity and an end to racism are particularly relevant today, as social cohesion around the world is threatened by division.

Societies are becoming more polarized, with hate speech on the rise and misinformation blurring the truth, questioning science and undermining democratic institutions.

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has made these ills more acute and rolled back years of progress in the global fight against poverty.

As always in times of crises, it is the marginalized and discriminated against who suffer the most, often while being blamed for problems they did not cause.

The pandemic has shown the vital importance of human solidarity and unity, values championed and exemplified by Nelson Mandela in his lifelong fight for justice.

No one is safe until all are safe.  And each of us has a part to play.

Let us be inspired by Madiba’s message that each of us can make a difference in promoting peace, human rights, harmony with nature and dignity for all.

Let us all honour Madiba’s call to action and be empowered by his legacy.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/136603-secretary-general-message-nelson-mandela-international-day




Date: 14 July 2021
Title: The Ministry of International Cooperation & The Resident Coordinator Office in Cairo
Content: 14 July 2021
The high level of active engagement between the Government Egypt and the UN in Egypt shows the high level and sincere commitment of Egypt towards the implementation of its sustainable development agenda and 2030 global development agenda.
With the participation of more than 30 government entities and 28 UN agencies in Egypt, the Ministry of International Cooperation led on the national consultations of the new United Nations Development Cooperation Framework

Under the leadership of H.E. Dr. Rania Al-Mashat, the Minister of International Cooperation, the national consultations between the Government of Egypt and the United Nations in Egypt started yesterday the development of the new UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for the period 2023 – 2027 in cooperation with the United Nations Resident Coordinator Office in Egypt.

The workshop witnessed the active participation of more than 50 representatives from more than 30 government agencies including line ministries, national councils and government centers along with the representatives of 28 UN agencies in Egypt to exchange views around the national priorities of the development agenda of Egypt and set together the national priorities of the new cooperation agreement between the Government of Egypt and the United Nations in Egypt for the next five years.

The high level of active engagement between the Government Egypt and the UN in Egypt shows the high level and sincere commitment of Egypt towards the implementation of its sustainable development agenda and 2030 global development agenda. This was reflected in the valuable input of the participants who presented concrete and actionable ideas for designing the joint cooperation framework which represents all possible ways to achieve the SDGs.

“As the Minister of International Cooperation, we are glad to lay down the cooperation agenda with the UN agencies; learning from the UNPDF 2018-2022 and aligning the future interventions with the Government of Egypt’s development vision. At the Ministry, we believe in the power of multilateralism, curating impactful partnerships that cater to both the national and global targets. The ‘New Government Action Plan’ is the Ministry’s blueprint for development; following the Country’s areas of focus,” said H.E. Dr. Rania A. Al-Mashat.

The United Nations Resident Coordinator of Egypt, Elena Panova commented; “The United Nations in Egypt is so keen to continue working hand in hand with the Government of Egypt to meet the promise of leaving no one behind and building forward  better through a coherent and inclusive partnership strategy guided by the national development priorities and the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. Planning and implementing together is the guarantee of achieving tangible results and meeting the aspirations of more than 100 million people in Egypt.”

It is important to highlight that the UN Cooperation Framework is the most strategic instrument for planning and implementation of the UN development activities at the country level to support the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda as outlined in the General Assembly resolution #72/279.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/135855-ministry-international-cooperation-resident-coordinator-office-cairo




Date: 11 July 2021
Title: The Secretary-General - Message for World Population Day
Content: 11 July 2021
As we mark World Population Day, let us pledge to ensure the reproductive health rights of everyone, everywhere.
The COVID-19 pandemic continues to upend our world, reaching one grim milestone after another. In addition to the millions of lives tragically lost, there has been a less visible toll:  a shocking rise in domestic violence as women were forced into isolation with their abusers; empty maternity wards as women postponed motherhood; and unintended pregnancies due to curtailed access to contraceptive services.

Our latest estimates indicate that COVID-19 will push 47 million women and girls into extreme poverty. Many girls who are out of school may never return.

In every corner of the world, we are seeing a reversal of hard-won gains and an erosion of women’s reproductive rights, choices and agency. With the onset of the pandemic, resources for sexual and reproductive health services were diverted.

These gaps in access to health rights are unacceptable. Women cannot be alone in this fight.

As we mark World Population Day, let us pledge to ensure the reproductive health rights of everyone, everywhere.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/135551-secretary-general-message-world-population-day




Date: 09 July 2021
Title: Remarks of UN Secretary-General António Guterres to third G20 Meeting of Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors
Content: 09 July 2021
Your Excellency,
Distinguished Ministers and Central Bank Governors,
Ladies and gentlemen,


We are now in the second year of a global pandemic that has killed four million people. Extreme climate events regularly devastate vulnerable communities. And I do not need to tell you: it is far from over.

Indeed, the pandemic has gathered pace. It took nine months for the virus to claim one million lives; and about three months for it to take the second and third million. The fourth million died in just two and a half months.

You have come together to determine the course of some of the most pressing issues we face: access to vaccines; extending an economic lifeline to the developing world; and more and better public finance for ambitious climate action.

Many developed countries appear to be overcoming the pandemic, but developing countries are still struggling to survive, let alone recover. While 70 percent of people in some developed countries are vaccinated, that figure stands at less than 1 per cent for low-income countries.

A global vaccine gap threatens us all because as the virus mutates, it could become even more transmissible, or even more deadly.

Pledges of doses and funds are welcome – but they are not enough. We need not one billion, but at least eleven billion doses to vaccinate 70 percent of the world and end this pandemic.

This calls for the greatest global public health campaign in history, to vaccinate everyone, everywhere.

The world needs a Global Vaccine Plan, to at least double production of vaccines and ensure equitable distribution, using COVAX as the platform; to coordinate implementation and financing; and to support countries’ readiness and capacity to roll out immunization programmes, while tackling vaccine hesitancy.

To realize this plan, I am calling for an Emergency Task Force that brings together the countries that produce and can produce vaccines, the World Health Organization, the global vaccine alliance GAVI, and international financial institutions, able to deal with the relevant pharmaceutical companies and manufacturers, and other key stakeholders.

The G20 is best placed to lead the world in preparing and implementing such a plan.

You have the production and financial capacities to defeat COVID-19.

Right now, it is important to support the $50 billion investment roadmap, to be led by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the World Health Organization and the World Trade Organization.

Distinguished Ministers and governors, ladies and gentlemen,

Solidarity does not stop there.

Many developing countries are teetering on the verge of debt default. They need an economic lifeline.

In advanced economies, fiscal packages have reached nearly 28 percent of GDP. In middle-income countries, this figure drops to 6.5 percent; in least developed countries, to 1.8 percent.

Developing countries face significant funding constraints, curtailed in many cases by interest payments and by reduced opportunities to raise taxes.

In parallel, the COVID-19 pandemic is set to increase the number of poor people by up to 124 million people. Eight out of 10 of these ‘new poor’ are in middle-income countries, which currently remain ineligible for debt relief programs.

I am encouraged by the swift action of the International Monetary Fund and its members to allocate a new round of $650 billion in Special Drawing Rights.

Solidarity requires that richer countries channel their unused shares of these funds to developing countries, including vulnerable middle-income countries and small island developing states. I encourage advanced economies to channel unused SDRs into the new Resilience and Sustainability Trust.

Special Drawing Rights also need to be considered as additional funding, not deducted from Official Development Assistance.

I hope the G20 will expand the Debt Service Suspension Initiative and Common Framework for Debt Treatment to include vulnerable middle-income countries and small island developing states; and fully operationalize the Common Framework as the basis for a reformed, and more equitable, international debt architecture.

Distinguished ministers and governors, ladies and gentlemen,

Strengthening the financial architecture is also critical to fight climate change.

A promising movement for carbon neutrality is now taking shape.
By next month, countries representing more than 65 per cent of harmful greenhouse gases and more than 70 per cent of the world economy will have committed to achieve net zero emissions.
But we are still struggling to hold the global temperature increase to the 1.5-degree target of the Paris Agreement.

1.5 degrees is not an arbitrary number.

At 1.2 degrees, we are already seeing the devastation of climate change on an almost weekly basis.

If COP26 in Glasgow is to be a turning point, we need all G20 countries to commit to achieve net zero by mid-century, and to present Nationally Determined Contributions beforehand aiming at a cut in global emissions by 45 per cent by 2030, compared to 2010 levels.

Developing countries also need reassurance that their ambition will be met with financial and technical support.

I am deeply concerned over the lack of progress on public climate finance.

Twelve years ago in 2009, developed countries agreed to mobilize 100 billion dollars annually from public and private sources for mitigation and adaptation action by 2020. They repeated this pledge in the Paris Agreement in 2015.

$100 billion is a bare minimum. From the Caribbean to the Pacific, developing economies have been landed with enormous infrastructure bills because of a century of greenhouse gas emissions they had no part in. But the agreement has not been kept.

A clear plan to fulfil this pledge is not just about the economics of climate change; it is about establishing trust in the multilateral system.

Solidarity begins with the $100 billion. It should extend to allocating 50 percent of all climate finance to adaptation, including resilient housing, elevated roads and early warning systems that save lives and livelihoods.

This adaptation finance should not come at the expense of mitigation. We need both.
Development banks have an essential role to play here, helping developing countries to transition from coal, oil, and gas to renewable energy by adding green jobs and reducing inequalities.

Banks need a clear strategy to avoid entrenching developing countries in high-carbon, fossil fuel-intensive investments that are at risk of becoming stranded assets.

While public finance is key, large scale private finance is also essential. This now appears possible, for the first time.

Over160 financial firms, responsible for $70 trillion of assets, have joined the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero.

The Assets Owners Alliance, representing $6.6 trillion in assets under management, is leading the way with concrete plans and targets.

To reinforce these efforts, the G20 must set ambitious, clear and credible climate policies, and ensure the private sector has the framework it needs through mandatory climate-related financial disclosures.

This will pull forward investment in your economies, grow jobs and accelerate the transition to sustainable, renewable energy.

And we need all financiers to commit to no new international funding for coal, by the end of 2021.

Distinguished ministers and governors, ladies and gentlemen,

To restore trust in multilateralism, we need to deliver on vaccines, economic recovery and climate finance. Developed economies need to demonstrate solidarity that goes beyond words into meaningful, concrete actions.

With your leadership and political will, we can do it.

The next six months will be critical.

I urge you to work together to build a strong recovery from the pandemic, reinforce the foundations of the global economy, and prevent catastrophic climate change.

Thank you.
For UN media inquiries, please contact:

Dan Shepard: shepard@un.org
Matthew Coghlan: matthew.coghlan@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/135342-remarks-un-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres-third-g20-meeting-finance-ministers-and




Date: 07 July 2021
Title: IOM Egypt Launches its Five-Year Migration Strategy for Egypt
Content: 07 July 2021
Cairo - The International Organization of Migration (IOM) in Egypt has today launched its ‘Achievements Report for 2020’ and its ‘Strategy for 2021- 2025’. The event was attended by various key state actors, partners and UN officials including H.E Ambassador Neveen El Husseiny, Deputy Assistant Minister for Migration, Refugees and Combatting Human Trafficking, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Arab Republic of Egypt, Ms Elena Panova, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in the Arab Republic of Egypt and Mr Laurent de Boeck, IOM Chief of Mission to the Arab Republic of Egypt.

The ‘Achievements Report’ has highlighted IOM focus for 2020 which has witnessed the shift from ‘Quantity to Quality’ approach, to enhance the provided services to the most affected migrants during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is worth noting that IOM Egypt has also adapted its workplan with a Strategic Preparedness and Response Plan. This adapted approach enabled IOM to work on continuing addressing the migration governance in Egypt, while providing urgent assistance to those migrants and host communities most in need.

The ‘Strategy 2021-2025’ reflects IOM Egypt role in supporting the Government of Egypt to achieve its Vision 2030, ultimately leveraging the potential of migrants and migration through a whole-of-government approach to achieve sustainable development outcomes for all. It also articulates IOM plans for supporting the achievement of the Global Compact for Migration (GCM) objectives, especially after Egypt being a GCM Champion country.

“Collaboration between the Government of Egypt and IOM has increasingly developed throughout the years in different areas of migration governance,” said Mr de Boeck, IOM Chief of Mission in Egypt. “This year, 2021, we are celebrating 30 years of IOM partnership in Egypt. It is based on such solid partnership that IOM Egypt is pleased to present its Strategy for the years 2021-2025. IOM is committed to ensure safe, regular and orderly migration. My Office is looking forward to working with its partners on the operationalization of the Strategy 2021-2025 in alignment with Egypt priorities to ensure that no one is left behind.”

“Migration governance is embedded in Egypt Sustainable Development Strategy: Vision 2030, embracing the three main pillars linked to economic, social and environment dimensions” affirmed H.E. Ambassador El Husseiny. “I want to commend the active support of IOM in proposing positive responses to support migrants in Egypt”.

IOM strategy contributes to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, Goal 10 “Reduced Inequalities”, specifically target 10.7 “Facilitate orderly, safe, regular and responsible migration and mobility of people, including through the implementation of planned and well-managed migration policies”, Goal 16 “Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions, and Goal 17 “Partnerships for the Goals”.

Migration remains one of the most significant features and issues in the 21st century. Achieving the sustainable development goals and good migration governance requires collective action based on trust, partnership and shared humanity is needed now more than ever. “I wish IOM greatest success with its new strategy and look forward to constructive years ahead with IOM continuing its key role in the field of sustainable development and humanitarian action” said Ms Panova during her opening remarks.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/135077-iom-egypt-launches-its-five-year-migration-strategy-egypt




Date: 07 July 2021
Title: Countries hit by the pandemic look to Sustainable Development Goals to drive effective recovery
Content: 07 July 2021
Timely, decisive action critical to charting a healthier, more equal and sustainable future
Reeling from the setbacks caused by the COVID-19 crisis, countries are striving to find the most effective policies to overcome the pandemic and its impacts, while advancing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as the guiding post for building more inclusive, resilient and healthier societies. They will share their lessons, successes, shortcomings and plans at the High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development from 6 to 15 July.
“The High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development  will put the spotlight on how to respond to the crisis and embark on a sustainable, inclusive and resilient recovery that can put us back on track to build a better world,”  said UN ECOSOC President Munir Akram. “Countries will share and reflect on the actions they have been taking to overcome the pandemic, to address its impacts and to build back better. A core issue would be whether and how they are using the SDGs as the blueprint for their response to COVID-19,” he added.

This year, 43 countries will present their Voluntary National Reviews of actions they have taken to improve people’s standard of living within planetary boundaries despite the impact of the pandemic, starting on 12 July and continuing through 15 July. To date, 168 countries have presented their progress on the SDGs since the start of the Forum in 2016.
Convened by the UN Economic and Social Council, the Forum not only evaluates progress by countries to advance the SDGs in those difficult times but also identifies areas that need more attention and policies likely to have maximum impacts on the SDGs. Over 1000 participants — from governments to businesses and civil society organisations — will gather at the Forum to learn from each other on how to pursue the SDGs implementation while promoting the COVID-19 recovery so far.
The Forum – which will feature both in person and virtual meetings – takes place under the theme of sustainable and resilient recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. Nine SDGs —  Goals 1, 2, 3, 8, 10, 12, 13, 16, 17 — will be the focus of conversations, laying the ground for the upcoming Food Systems Summit in September, the UN Climate Conference in November and other high-level events.
Progress has been slow since the SDGs were adopted six years ago. Rising inequalities, hunger, climate change, lack of access to education, growing unemployment, and extreme poverty were pervasive even before the emergence of COVID-19. The pandemic has erased years of progress on some SDGs, spotlighting structural fragilities and pushing countries to chart a recovery path that is people-centered and underpinned by economic reform, digital transformation, vaccine equity and climate action.
A Snapshot of the 2021 Voluntary National Reviews
Climate Action
Antigua and Barbuda, in partnership with the Caribbean Natural Resources Institute (CANARI), is implementing a US$ 1.3 million project to improve its civil society access to climate financing. For Norway, measures to combat climate change are woven into the national policies and strategies. Preliminary figures show that the total Norwegian emission of greenhouse gases in 2020 were 50 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents. This is the lowest level since 1993, 12 per cent below the peak level in 2007 and a reduction of 1.5 million tonnes since 1990.
Economic Reform
Responding to the pandemic, Angola has focused on key economic reforms, aimed at macroeconomic stabilization, privatization and diversification away from its dependence on oil. On its part, China will account for almost a third of the world’s growth in 2021 driven by stronger private consumption and investment - supported by an accelerating vaccine rollout - coupled with buoyant exports.
Leaving no one behind
For many countries, building back better has translated into investing in human capital, social protection systems and improved labour markets to help the most vulnerable populations.
Egypt launched the Decent Life initiative to improve the lives of millions of poor in rural areas while Denmark inaugurated its “Children First” project, which seeks to ensure better conditions for equal opportunities in childhood.
Namibia passed the Social Protection Policy in 2021 to enhance existing social protection programmes and Cyprus adopted a support package for employees, the self-employed, vulnerable groups and businesses, which in 2020 amounted to €2.6 bln or 12.5% of GDP.
SDG Acceleration Actions
The SDGs Acceleration Actions, initiatives by governments and non-state actors to achieve the SDGs and support the Decade of Action for Sustainable Development, have increased from 147 in 2020 to over 300 today. Some of the actions include the launch of a project “Closing gaps – making social protection work for women in Mexico”, a digital transformation of small and medium businesses in Qatar and easier access to the justice system for persons with disabilities in Poland.
Launch of the SDGs Report 2021
The annual Sustainable Development Goals Report provides an overview of the world’s efforts to implement the SDGs to date, highlighting areas of progress and spheres where more action needs to be taken to ensure no one is left behind. The 2021 SDGs report will be launched on 6 July.
Other Special Events:
In addition to over 300 side events, there will be several special events, including the SDG Learning, Training and Practice (6-12 July),  the SDG Acceleration Action event (8 July), the SDG Film Festival (12 July), the Local and Regional Governments Forum (12-13 July), the Chief Sustianability Officers Special Event (15 July).
For more information: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/hlpf/2021#other
SDG Media Zone (6 to 16 July)
Under the theme, Global Challenges, Local Solutions, the SDG Media Zone at the Forum will feature media-led conversations on socioeconomic recovery and SDG action from around the world. Programme: https://www.un.org/en/sdgmediazone/programme. Watch on UN Web TV

For more information: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/hlpf/2021#intro
All HLPF events will be live-streamed on UN Web TV: http://webtv.un.org

Media contacts:
Sharon Birch-Jeffrey, UN Department of Global Communications, Email: birchs@un.org
Paul Simon, UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Email: simonp@un.org
Helen Rosengren, UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Email: rosengrenh@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/134910-countries-hit-pandemic-look-sustainable-development-goals-drive-effective-recovery




Date: 04 July 2021
Title: 60 Egyptian Prosecutors Received IOM Training on Countering Trafficking and Smuggling of Migrants
Content: 04 July 2021
IOM Egypt supports the Government of Egypt to build a whole-of-government approach to fair and protection-oriented migration management policies and practices.
The International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Egypt, together with the Office of the Prosecutor General (OPG) and the National Coordinating Committee on Combating and Preventing Illegal Migration and Trafficking in Persons (NCCPIM & TIP), have completed trainings on counter trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants in Cairo and Alexandria. The trainings were attended by 60 Egyptian Prosecutors.
The three-days long training – entitled “Strengthening the Capacities of Egyptian Prosecutors on Investigating and Prosecuting of the Crimes of Trafficking in Persons and Smuggling of Migrants”, have been delivered three times at two different locations. The first training was held in Cairo on 12-14 June 2021; while the second and the third were held on 15-17 June and 22-24 June 2021 in Alexandria.
Egypt has a key geo-political role in the region, both in migration from Sub-Saharan Africa and flows across the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). The country’s position in the region makes it a point of destination and transit for migrants, and a destination country for smugglers and traffickers seeking to take advantage of such vulnerable groups. In order to address these trends, IOM Egypt supports the Government of Egypt to build a whole-of-government approach to fair and protection-oriented migration management policies and practices. “I privilege the excellent relations we benefit from the OPG and the NCCPIM & TiP. I find it crucial to look at best ways for jointly ensuring that prosecution and protection are two aspects strictly interlinked”, reiterated Laurent de Boeck, Chief of Mission of the IOM in Egypt.
The trainings come in line with international and national legal frameworks including the Egyptian Counter Trafficking Law 64/2010 as well as Counter Smuggling Law 82/2016. The trainings have also included sessions on financial investigation, evidence collection, victim, and witness protection safeguard among other areas. Throughout the trainings, the prosecutors were also given the chance to discuss practical case studies and best practices from national and international contexts.
The trainings were made possible through the support offered by the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark under the project “Strengthening the Sphere of Protection For Victims of Trafficking and Vulnerable Migrants in Egypt while Preventing Irregular Migration and Human Trafficking – Phase II (SPHERE II)”, together with “Africa Regional Migration Programme (ARMP), funded by the Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration, US Department of State; and the “Regional Development and Protection Programme (RDPP)”, which is funded by the European Union.
The trainings contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Goal 8 “Economic Growth and Decent Work”, specifically target 8.7 “End modern day slavery and human trafficking”, Goal 10 “Reduced Inequalities”, Goal 16 “Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions” and Goal 17 “Partnerships for the Goals”. The training series come also in-line with the objectives of Egypt’s Sustainable Development Strategy (SDS) Vision 2030, particularly its social justice pillar.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/134516-60-egyptian-prosecutors-received-iom-training-countering-trafficking-and-smuggling-migrants




Date: 27 June 2021
Title: IOM Egypt Organizes Training of Trainers for Forensic Medical Authority Experts on Passport Examination
Content: 27 June 2021
Alexandria, 27 June 2021 – The International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Egypt, continues its support to the Forensic Medicine Authority (FMA) through organizing a six-day Training of Trainers (ToT) on passport examination procedures for 19 Forensic Experts, including five female experts, from nine various governorates.
This Training project aims at strengthening the capacities of the Forensics Medical Authority experts on advanced passport examination procedures. The training was facilitated by Mr. Neil Roberts, IOM expert in Immigration and related matters. During the training sessions, participants acquired in-depth and hands-on experience on passport examination, using verification equipment to identify forged and counterfeit documents. The skills and techniques acquired by the experts will be shared by them to train others on passports examination procedures.
IOM is committed to supporting the Government of Egypt to ensure safe, orderly, and regular migration. This includes the activities intended for strengthening the capacities to identify and detect unlawful activities related to migration. The training for the Forensic Medicine Authority follows similar trainings already conducted with law enforcement officers.
This capacity building activity was implemented under the PRM-funded Africa Regional Migration Program. The training supports the Government of Egypt in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, Goal 10 “Reduced Inequalities”, specifically Target 10.7 “Facilitate orderly, safe, regular and responsible migration and mobility of people, including through the implementation of planned and well-managed migration policies”, and Goal 16 “ Partnerships for Goals”, specifically Target 16.3 “Promote the rule of law at the national and international levels and ensure equal access to justice for all”. The training comes also in line with the objectives of Egypt’s Sustainable Development Strategy (SDS) Vision 2030.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/133466-iom-egypt-organizes-training-trainers-forensic-medical-authority-experts-passport




Date: 25 June 2021
Title: UNODC World Drug Report 2021: pandemic effects ramp up drug risks, as youth underestimate cannabis dangers
Content: 25 June 2021


VIENNA – Around 275 million people used drugs worldwide in the last year, while over 36 million people suffered from drug use disorders, according to the 2021 World Drug Report, released today by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC).

The Report further noted that in the last 24 years cannabis potency had increased by as much as four times in parts of the world, even as the percentage of adolescents who perceived the drug as harmful fell by as much as 40 per cent, despite evidence that cannabis use is associated with a variety of health and other harms, especially among regular long-term users.

"Lower perception of drug use risks has been linked to higher rates of drug use, and the findings of UNODC’s 2021 World Drug Report highlight the need to close the gap between perception and reality to educate young people and safeguard public health,” said UNODC Executive Director Ghada Waly.

“The theme of this year’s International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking is “Share facts on drugs. Save lives”, emphasizing the importance of strengthening the evidence base and raising public awareness, so that the international community, governments, civil society, families and youth can make informed decisions, better target efforts to prevent and treat drug use, and tackle world drug challenges.”

According to the Report, the percentage of Δ9-THC – the main psychoactive component in cannabis - has risen from around six per cent to more than 11 per cent in Europe between 2002-2019, and around four per cent to 16 per cent in the United States between 1995-2019, while the percentage of adolescents that perceived cannabis as harmful declined by 40 per cent in the United States and by 25 per cent in Europe.

Moreover, most countries have reported a rise in the use of cannabis during the pandemic. In surveys of health professionals across 77 countries, 42 per cent asserted that cannabis use had increased. A rise in the non-medical use of pharmaceutical drugs has also been observed in the same period.

Drug Use Rising, but Science-Based Treatment More Available

Between 2010-2019 the number of people using drugs increased by 22 per cent, owing in part to global population growth. Based on demographic changes alone, current projections suggest an 11 per cent rise in the number of people who use drugs globally by 2030 -- and a marked increase of 40 per cent in Africa, due to its rapidly growing and young population.

According to the latest global estimates, about 5.5 per cent of the population aged between 15 and 64 years have used drugs at least once in the past year, while 36.3 million people, or 13 per cent of the total number of persons who use drugs, suffer from drug use disorders.

Globally, over 11 million people are estimated to inject drugs, half of whom are living with Hepatitis C. Opioids continue to account for the largest burden of disease attributed to drug use.

The two pharmaceutical opioids most commonly used to treat people with opioid use disorders, methadone and buprenorphine, have become increasingly accessible over the past two decades. The amount available for medical use has increased six-fold since 1999, from 557 million daily doses to 3,317 million by 2019, indicating that science-based pharmacological treatment is more available now than in the past.

The Dark Web

Drug markets on the dark web only emerged a decade ago but major ones are now worth at least US$ 315 million in annual sales. Although this is just a fraction of overall drug sales, the trend is upwards with a fourfold increase between 2011 to mid-2017 and mid-2017 to 2020.

Rapid technological innovation, combined with the agility and adaptability of those using new platforms to sell drugs and other substances, is likely to usher in a globalized market where all drugs are more available and accessible everywhere. This, in turn, could trigger accelerated changes in patterns of drug use and entail public health implications, according to the Report.

The Drug Market Rebounds and Shifts

The new report shows that drug markets have swiftly resumed operations after the initial disruption at the onset of the pandemic; a burst that has triggered or accelerated certain pre-existing trafficking dynamics across the global drug market. Among these are: increasingly larger shipments of illicit drugs, a rise in the frequency of overland and water-way routes used for trafficking, greater use of private planes for the purpose of drug trafficking, and an upsurge in the use of contactless methods to deliver drugs to end-consumers.

The resilience of drug markets during the pandemic has demonstrated once again traffickers’ ability to adapt quickly to changed environments and circumstances.

The Report also noted that cocaine supply chains to Europe are diversifying, pushing prices down and quality up and thereby threatening Europe with a further expansion of the cocaine market. This is likely to widen the potential harm caused by the drug in the region.

The number of new psychoactive substances (NPS) emerging on the global market fell from 163 in 2013 to 71 in 2019. This reflects trends in North America, Europe and Asia. The findings suggest national and international control systems have succeeded in limiting the spread of NPS in high income countries, where NPS first emerged a decade ago.

Drug Risks, New Developments Spurred by Pandemic

COVID-19 has triggered innovation and adaptation in drug prevention and treatment services through more flexible models of service delivery. Many countries have introduced or expanded telemedicine services due to the pandemic, which for drug users means that healthcare workers can now offer counselling or initial assessments over the telephone and use electronic systems to prescribe controlled substances.

While the impact of COVID-19 on drug challenges is not yet fully known, the analysis suggests that the pandemic has brought increasing economic hardship that is likely to make illicit drug cultivation more appealing to fragile rural communities. The social impact of the pandemic – driving a rise in inequality, poverty, and mental health conditions particularly among already vulnerable populations – represent factors that could push more people into drug use.

***

The World Drug Report and further content is available here: https://wdr.unodc.org/

The 2021 World Drug Report provides a global overview of the supply and demand of opiates, cocaine, cannabis, amphetamine-type stimulants and new psychoactive substances (NPS), as well as their impact on health, taking into account the possible effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/133090-unodc-world-drug-report-2021-pandemic-effects-ramp-drug-risks-youth-underestimate-cannabis




Date: 23 June 2021
Title: The Secretary-General -Message on the International Widows Day 23 June
Content: 23 June 2021
For many widows, losing their husband also means losing identity, land rights, property, income, and possibly their children.  Their physical safety is at greater risk, just when they may be suffering serious emotional trauma.
Human rights, including the right to inherit and own property, should not be contingent on marital status.  Inheritance laws and social safety nets should ensure that widows are protected and secure.
The COVID-19 pandemic has both increased the number of widows globally and exacerbated many of the challenges they face, including access to bank accounts and pensions. As governments provide economic and social support in response to the pandemic, they must consider the world’s 250 million widows.  Even before the pandemic hit, nearly one in ten widows lived in extreme poverty.
Social assistance, including cash transfers and pensions, can help support widows who are often left to take full responsibility for their families.  Governments should make special efforts to ensure these measures reach women with low visibility, for example, those without identity cards or bank accounts.
I urge every country, as a critical element of my Call to Action on Human Rights, to pass and implement legislation and policies that promote gender equality, and to repeal all discriminatory laws that perpetuate women’s subjugation and exclusion.  The persecution and disinheritance of widows, by law and custom, is one of the worst examples of gender discrimination.
On International Widows’ Day, let’s commit to making sure all widows occupy a respected place in our societies, with access to legal and social protection, so they can live their lives in peace and reach their full potential.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/133037-secretary-general-message-international-widows-day-23-june




Date: 20 June 2021
Title: Secretary-General's message on World Refugee Day 20 June 2021
Content: 20 June 2021

War, violence and persecution have forced more than 80 million people around the world to flee their homes, leaving everything behind to save themselves and their families.

Refugees must begin their lives anew.

But for so many, the pandemic has wiped out their livelihoods, led to stigmatization and vilification and exposed them disproportionately to the virus.

At the same time, refugees once again demonstrated their invaluable contribution to their adoptive societies as essential and frontline workers.

We have a duty to help refugees rebuild their lives.

COVID-19 has shown us that we can only succeed if we stand together.

On World Refugee Day, I call on communities and governments to include refugees – in health care, education, and sport.

We heal together when we all get the care we need.

We learn together when we are all given the chance to study.

We shine together when we play as a team and respect everyone.

On World Refugee Day, I commend the countries that have welcomed refugees. But we need more support – from States, the private sector, communities and individuals – if we are to move together towards a more inclusive future, free of discrimination.

The refugees I have met have shown me what it means to rebuild your own life while summoning the strength to enrich the lives of others.

As High Commissioner for Refugees for 10 years, I was inspired by their courage, resilience and determination.

I thank refugees and displaced persons across the world and reiterate my personal admiration for what they have taught us all about the power of hope and healing.

This World Refugee Day and every day, we stand together with refugees.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/132342-secretary-generals-message-world-refugee-day-20-june-2021




Date: 19 June 2021
Title: The Secretary General - Message on the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict
Content: 19 June 2021

New York, 19 June 2021

Sexual violence in conflict is a cruel tactic of war, torture, terror and repression.
It reverberates down generations, and threatens both human and international security.
In places affected by conflict, the turmoil caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has made it even more difficult to hold perpetrators of sexual violence to account.
At the same time, survivors face new obstacles to reporting crimes and accessing support services.
Even as we respond to the pandemic, we must investigate every case, and maintain essential services for every survivor.
We cannot allow this already underreported crime to slip further into the shadows. Perpetrators must be punished.
Investment in recovery from the pandemic must tackle the root causes of sexual and gender-based violence.
On this International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict, let’s resolve to uphold the rights and meet the needs of all survivors, as we work to prevent and end these horrific crimes.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/132483-secretary-general-message-international-day-elimination-sexual-violence-conflict




Date: 18 June 2021
Title: UNFPA Deputy Executive Director Ib Petersen concludes first official visit to Egypt
Content: 18 June 2021
United Nations Assistant Secretary-General and United Nations Population Fund Deputy Executive Director, Management, Ambassador Ib Petersen conducted a visit to Egypt on June 13-17, to understand the population program in Egypt and discuss how UNFPA can further support the Government of Egypt to achieve its 2030 agenda.
Ambassador Petersen held meetings with the Minister of Health and Population Dr. Hala Zayed, Minister of Planning and Economic Development Dr. Hala El-Said, Minister of Social Solidarity Dr. Nevine El-Kabbage, Minister of International Cooperation Ms. Rania Al-Mashat and Minister of Youth and Sports Dr. Ashraf Sobhy.
He also met the President of the National Council for Women Dr. Maya Morsy, as he participated in a meeting with the National Committee for the Eradication of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM), headed by the National Council for Women and the National Council for Childhood and Motherhood, in light of the UNFPA’s joint efforts with the Government of Egypt to eradicate FGM and child marriage. Ambassador Petersen also paid a visit to the anti-violence against women coordination unit established by UNFPA in the National Council for Women.
A reception was also held in his honor as well as to announce actress Amina Khalil as UNFPA Egypt Honorary Ambassador. The event brought together Minister of International Cooperation Dr. Rania Al-Mashat, General Ismail El Far, Director of the Central Administration for Training and Projects, on behalf of Dr. Ashraf Sobhy, the Minister of Youth and Sports, President of the National Council for Women Dr. Maya Morsy, along with several ambassadors and eminent leaders from civil society, private sector and the media.
Another highlight of Ambassador Petersen’s program was a conversation with His Holiness Pope Tawadros II, Pope of Alexandria, and Patriarch of the See of St Mark and Grand Imam of Al-Azhar Ahmed El-Tayeb.
Working with faith-based organizations is essential for UNFPA since religious leaders and community leaders play important roles in people’s lives and wellbeing.
Ambassador Petersen’s visit came at an opportune moment as the Government of Egypt embarks on an ambitious newly-endorsed accelerated National Action Plan for the Egyptian Family Development lead by the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development. Petersen discussed the program with different ministers, since it is a multi-sector program, with women empowerment at its heart.
He discussed ways UNFPA can best support Egypt in implementing this action plan and was interested in seeing special attention given to young people and adolescent girls in other programs like the presidential initiative Hayah Karima among others.
“All the ministers I’ve met are extremely committed to the government’s priorities when it comes to population and gender equality,” Ambassador Petersen said, “we have a lot of opportunity to use that space now.”
Ambassador Ib Petersen also paid a visit a community center operated by CARE International, a longtime partner of UNFPA in the fight against harmful practices, where he attended different activities organized by YPEER, UNFPA’s youth leadership network.
“It always a highlight to meet young people on the ground, who showed us how they are working with communities,” he said, “It is great to see people who are young and engaged.”
The United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres appointed Ambassador Petersen of Denmark as Assistant Secretary-General to serve as the Deputy Executive Director, Management of UNFPA in June 2020.
Ambassador Petersen recently served as Director for the Department of Migration, Conflict and Stabilization of the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and has over 30 years of experience within the spheres of bilateral and multilateral affairs and development.
Prior to his position as Department Director, Ambassador Petersen served as the Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Denmark to the United Nations from 2013-2019, during which he held several important duties.
Currently in its 10th program cycle (2018-2022), UNFPA’s programs of intervention are aligned with national development priorities outlined in the National Action Plan on Egyptian Family Development, as well as Egypt’s Vision 2030 and the National Population Strategy.
Interventions aim at enhancing reproductive health and family planning services, raising awareness through innovative methods with communities and young people, as well as addressing social norms around family size and violence against women and girls.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/132215-unfpa-deputy-executive-director-ib-petersen-concludes-first-official-visit-egypt%C2%A0




Date: 14 June 2021
Title: Statement attributable to Geir O. Pedersen, United Nations Special Envoy for Syria
Content: 14 June 2021
Attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure are unacceptable and must cease.

I strongly condemn the attack on Al-Shifaa hospital in Afrin city in northern Syria, which resulted in the killing and injuring of civilians, including medical personnel, and the destruction of parts of the hospital. Such appalling attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure, including healthcare facilities and workers, are unacceptable and must cease. All parties must fully comply with their obligations under international humanitarian law, including the protection of civilians and civilian objects. I also reiterate the Secretary-General’s call for accountability for crimes committed in Syria.
This attack and the continuing violence once again underscore the importance of putting in place a nationwide ceasefire in Syria and a renewed effort to make progress in the implementation of Security Council resolution 2254 (2015).
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/131316-statement-attributable-geir-o-pedersen-united-nations-special-envoy-syria




Date: 13 June 2021
Title: Secretary-General's message on International Albinism Awareness Day
Content: 13 June 2021
On International Albinism Awareness Day, I reiterate my solidarity with persons with albinism.
This year’s theme is Strength Beyond All Odds.
It reflects the resilience, perseverance and achievements of people with albinism in the face of pervasive misconceptions, discrimination and violence.
Despite these obstacles to well-being and security, leaders of organizations representing persons with albinism continue to work hard to support the most vulnerable.
I am encouraged that persons with albinism are increasingly taking their rightful place in decision-making platforms around the world, leading to meaningful commitments, such as the Plan of Action on Albinism in Africa.
And I welcome the work of the United Nations independent expert on albinism, in promoting the rights of persons with albinism.
Yet, much remains to be done.
There is deep need to demystify the condition and end discrimination.
I take this opportunity to urge all nations and communities to protect and fulfil the human rights of all persons with albinism and provide necessary support and care.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/131232-secretary-generals-message-international-albinism-awareness-day




Date: 13 June 2021
Title: 100-day countdown to International Day of Peace 2021
Content: 13 June 2021
Secretary-General's message
Every year on 21 September, the United Nations invites people around the world to celebrate peace by observing 24 hours of ceasefire and non-violence.
As we strive to heal from the COVID-19 pandemic and reimagine a better future for people and planet, this year’s theme is “Recovering better for an equitable and sustainable world.”
Peace is the foundation of that recovery. The global vaccination effort cannot advance amidst armed conflict.
Nor can we build a sustainable, resilient, peaceful world while we are at war with nature. Recovery efforts offer an opportunity to transform our relationship with our planet and our environment.
The world cannot go back to what it was. As we count down to the International Day of Peace, I call on people everywhere to be part of a transformation for peace, by standing up against hatred and discrimination, by caring for the planet, and by showing the global solidarity that is so vital at this time.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/131243-100-day-countdown-international-day-peace-2021




Date: 13 June 2021
Title: Media Advisory- UNFPA Deputy Executive Director Ib Petersen begins his first official visit to Egypt
Content: 13 June 2021
During his 5-day visit Mr. Ib Patersen will be briefed on the population program in Egypt and discuss how UNFPA can further support the Government of Egypt to achieve its 2030 agenda.

UNFPA Cairo, June 13, 2021 - United Nations Assistant Secretary-General and United Nations Population Fund Deputy Executive Director, Management, Ib Petersen started a visit to Egypt today Sunday June 13, 2021.
During his 5-day visit Mr. Patersen will be briefed on the population program in Egypt and discuss how UNFPA can further support the Government of Egypt to achieve its 2030 agenda.
Mr. Petersen is expected to hold several high-level meetings with different ministers, heads of national councils and representatives of faith-based organizations.
Mr. Petersen’s visit comes at an opportune moment as the Government of Egypt embarked on an ambitious newly-endorsed accelerated National Action Plan for the Egyptian Family Development led by the Ministry of Planning and Development. Petersen will discuss the program with different ministers, since it is a multi-sectoral program, with women empowerment at its heart.
UNFPA Deputy Director and the Fund’s regional and country officials will also discuss with Egyptian partners the UNFPA support in implementing this action plan. He is also interested in seeing special attention to youth and adolescent girls in other programs like the presidential initiative Hayah Karima among others.
During his visit, Petersen will also have meetings with officials from the League of Arab States to discuss UNFPA at the regional level and the long standing cooperation between the fund and  League of Arab States.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/131230-media-advisory-unfpa-deputy-executive-director-ib-petersen-begins-his-first-official-visit




Date: 10 June 2021
Title: The United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt visits WFP’s Programmes in Luxor
Content: 10 June 2021
The United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt, Elena Panova, along with the World Food Programme’s (WFP) Representative and Country Director in Egypt, Menghestab Haile, visited this week the joint Government and WFP programmes in the city of Luxor in Upper Egypt, looking at projects promoting regional cooperation, women’s economic empowerment, rural development, and education.

The visit included a courtesy meeting with H.E. Counselor Mostafa Elham, Governor of Luxor who expressed his appreciation to the multiple programmes implemented by WFP in Luxor City, especially the Luxor Center for Innovation and Knowledge Sharing that was recently established by the Government of Egypt and WFP for the purpose of exchanging lessons learned and success stories in resilience building, rural development, social protection and digitalization. The center has been acknowledged by the Government of Egypt, as a model for South-South & Triangular cooperation as it addresses the needs of local communities and helps build partnerships in the areas of innovation and technology.

Ms. Panova commented; “ I commend the partnership between the Government of Egypt led by the Ministry of Agriculture and WFP in establishing a sustainable people-led development initiative ‘Luxor Center for Innovation and Knowledge Sharing’ as it builds resilient communities through working on social protection, rural transformation, developing human capital, women empowerment and digital transformation of people living in Luxor which lays the foundation for south-south cooperation.”
Elena Panova: “the UN programmes in Upper Egypt are truly meaningful as they are improving lives and livelihood of people. They are aligned with Egypt’s national flagship initiatives that contribute to the advancement of Egypt’s sustainable development agenda, including the Decent life Initiative Hayah Karima. Our visit to Luxor showed us initiatives with lots of potential and results in the transformation of livelihoods of rural communities with focus on economic empowerment, food security and nutrition, education, rural development and regional cooperation. I am confident that with the support of our stakeholders, the entire UN family can further expand its development interventions to support Egypt in meeting its sustainable development commitments, reflected ‘Egypt’s Vision 2030’ and the African Union’s Agenda 2063.”
The delegation also visited El-Boghdadi village, one of the 174 communities supported under the rural development programme implemented by WFP and the Government of Egypt. The programme provides a holistic package of assistance to the entire household, including providing women with in-kind loans to finance off-farm activities such as animal keeping and simple agro-processing (e.g. tomato drying) with support from the village’s Community Development Association. The delegation also toured consolidated land plots and got to learn about improved agro-processing and irrigation techniques. Together, the interventions implemented have increased smallholder farmers’ income by 30 percent and significantly reduced crop-losses, as well as water usage by more than 25 percent. The programme has managed to empower many families and their communities in El-Boghdadi village to achieve a lasting positive change in the fields of agriculture, nutrition, food security, and education aligning with Egypt Vision 2030 in improving food security and resilience of vulnerable communities.

The delegation also visited El Boghdadi Community School –one of the 120 flagship ‘community hubs’ developed jointly by the Ministry of Education and WFP that have been technologically and physically upgraded (with internet access, tablets, projectors and show screens) into ‘Community Hubs.’ The hubs model promotes digital learning for students with access to the Egyptian Knowledge Bank, facilitates teacher trainings, and provides the community with access to awareness session on key topics delivered by local stakeholders

In addition, the delegation met with mothers benefitting from the ‘First 1,000 Days’ programme implemented by WFP in partnership with the Ministry of Social Solidary under the Takaful and Karama national initiative. Beneficiaries of the programme spoke of the positive impact the assistance has had on them and their families enabling them to provide healthy nutrition for their children under the age of two.

“This field visit to Luxor was a great opportunity to show Ms. Panova the results of our joint collaboration with the Government of Egypt. Under the Presidential ‘Decent Life’ initiative, WFP and the Government are expanding proven models in rural development, education, women empowerment and South-South collaboration. This is among the many notable advancements other UN Agencies are achieving in Egypt, which I believe will continue to grow as we further ‘Deliver as One UN’, creating synergies and optimizing our joint contribution to the 2030 Agenda, Egypt Vision 2030 as well as the upcoming 2023-2027 UN Partnership Development Framework,” said WFP Representative and Country Director in Egypt Menghestab Haile.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/130993-united-nations-resident-coordinator-egypt-visits-wfp%E2%80%99s-programmes-luxor




Date: 08 June 2021
Title: Secretary-General's message for World Oceans Day 2021
Content: 08 June 2021
This year’s observance of World Oceans Day falls as the world wrestles with the COVID-19 pandemic, a climate crisis and humankind’s continuing assault on oceans, seas and marine resources.
The recently issued Second World Ocean Assessment confirmed that many of the benefits that the global ocean provides to humankind are being undermined by our own actions.
Our seas are choking with plastic waste, which can be found from the remotest atolls to the deepest ocean trenches.
Overfishing is causing an annual loss of almost $90 billion in net benefits – which also heightens the vulnerability of women, who are vital to the survival of small-scale fishing businesses.
Carbon emissions are driving ocean warming and acidification, destroying biodiversity and causing sea level rise that threatens heavily inhabited coastlines.
The theme of this year’s observance, “The Ocean: Life and Livelihoods”, underscores the importance of oceans for the cultural life and economic survival of communities around the world.
More than three billion people rely on the ocean for their livelihoods, the vast majority in developing countries.
As we strive to recover from COVID-19, let’s end our war on nature.
This will be critical to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, keeping within reach the 1.5-degree target of the Paris Agreement, and ensuring the health of our oceans for today’s and future generations.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/130639-secretary-generals-message-world-oceans-day-2021




Date: 05 June 2021
Title: The Secretary-General's message on World Environment Day  5 June 2021
Content: 05 June 2021


We are rapidly reaching the point of no return for the planet.

We face a triple environmental emergency –biodiversity loss, climate disruption and escalating pollution.

For too long, humanity has cut down the Earth's forests, polluted its rivers and oceans, and ploughed its grasslands into oblivion.

We are ravaging the very ecosystems that underpin our societies.

And, in doing so, we risk depriving ourselves of the food, water and resources we need to survive.

The degradation of the natural world is already undermining the well-being of 3.2 billion people – or 40 per cent of humanity.

Luckily, the Earth is resilient.

But she needs our help.

We still have time to reverse the damage we have done.

That is why, on this World Environment Day, we are launching the United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration.

This global movement will bring together governments, businesses, civil society and private citizens in an unprecedented effort to heal the Earth.

By restoring ecosystems, we can drive a transformation that will contribute to the achievement of all the Sustainable Development Goals.

The task is monumental.

We need to replant and protect our forests.

We need to clean up our rivers and seas.

And we need to green our cities.

Accomplishing these things will not only safeguard the planet’s resources.

It will create millions of new jobs by 2030, generate returns of over $7 trillion dollars every year and help eliminate poverty and hunger.

The United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration is a global call to action.

It will draw together political support, scientific research and financial muscle to massively scale up restoration.

Everyone can contribute.

Science tells us these next 10 years are our final chance to avert a climate catastrophe, turn back the deadly tide of pollution and end species loss.

So, let today be the start of a new decade – one in which we finally make peace with nature and secure a better future for all.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/130163-secretary-generals-message-world-environment-day-5-june-2021




Date: 29 May 2021
Title: The Secretary-General's message for the International Day of UN Peacekeepers 29 May 2021
Content: 29 May 2021

The International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers honors the more than one million women and men who have served on the frontlines of conflict and the more than 4,000 who have lost their lives in the line of duty. Their service and sacrifices will never be forgotten.

I express my deep gratitude to the 85,000 civilian, police and military personnel currently deployed in some of the world’s most challenging hotspots to protect the vulnerable and help to build peace. Despite the restrictions imposed by the pandemic, as well as the risk of infection, these men and women have pursued their mission while also supporting local authorities in the fight against COVID-19. I offer sincere condolences to the families of peacekeepers who have fallen victim to this terrible disease.

This year’s observance focuses on the central question of youth, peace and security. In every country where our peacekeepers work, peace can only be achieved with the active participation of young people. The world needs to do far more to address their needs, amplify their voices and ensure their presence at decision-making tables.

Our Missions play an important role in protecting and supporting young people, in particular young women and girls, to reduce violence and sustain peace. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, MONUSCO is working with youth who are vulnerable to recruitment by armed groups, to provide viable and sustainable alternatives to violence. In South Sudan, the inclusion of youth groups in peace processes has helped strengthen relations between subnational and national actors. In the Central African Republic and in Mali, MINUSCA and MINUSMA have worked closely with youth representatives to increase voter turnout in recent elections.

One of our greatest strengths is our own young peacekeepers, in particular young women peacekeepers who contribute every day to debunking deeply entrenched gendered stereotypes and inspire young women and girls to seek non-traditional paths and opportunities.

United Nations peacekeeping helps nurture peace in some of the world’s most dangerous places. Today and every day, we salute the dedication and bravery of our peacekeepers in helping societies turn away from war and towards a safer, more stable future.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/129151-secretary-generals-message-international-day-un-peacekeepers-29-may-2021




Date: 27 May 2021
Title: Leveraging the power of youth for a better peace
Content: 27 May 2021
Over the past year, to be a United Nations peacekeeper in the field has meant adopting new levels of flexibility and resilience in the face of evolving challenges. A hard job has become even harder.
As this global pandemic wreaks havoc, tens of thousands of women and men serving in the 12 peacekeeping missions deployed around the world have adapted to the new reality, taking every precaution to stay safe themselves and prevent the spread of the virus, while continuing to support national and local responses and deliver on lifesaving work. Despite the unprecedented challenge of Covid-19, the work of UN peacekeeping continues.
In the context of our various missions, we have witnessed a remarkable partnership between peacekeepers -- military, police and civilians -- and the local communities they serve, including and, in particular, when it comes to collaboration with the youth.
In many of our host countries, young people are uniting as a positive force to respond to emerging challenges.
As we mark the International Day of UN Peacekeepers on 29 May, we are placing our focus on the power of youth. The writing on the wall is clear: for youth to actively contribute to building peace, their needs must be addressed, their participation encouraged, their voices amplified, and their engagement advanced.
UN Peacekeeping has long recognized the value of collaborating with youth as an essential demographic in host countries. In conflict areas, they possess invaluable knowledge about their communities and are often agents of change.
Peacekeepers across our operations help young people acquire skills and tools to participate in decision-making processes by extending training and other forms of support, and by sensitizing authorities on the importance of engaging youth meaningfully and comprehensively.
In places like Cyprus, we are supporting intercommunal cooperation among youth as well as empowering them to implement their own environmental campaigns.
In the Central African Republic and in Mali, our missions have established mechanisms that enable young people to contribute to the development of security strategies. Efforts have also focused on working closely with youth representatives to increase voter turnout in recent elections in both countries.
In South Sudan, the inclusion of youth groups in peace processes has helped strengthen relations between subnational and national actors. The UN peacekeeping mission in the country, UNMISS, works closely with the government and other partners to facilitate peace forums that provide youth with opportunities to participate in political and peace processes.
In the midst of persistent conflict in eastern DRC, the UN mission, MONUSCO, is working with youth vulnerable to recruitment by armed groups, helping to provide them with viable and sustainable alternatives to violence.
At the same time, peacekeepers are addressing disinformation campaigns susceptible to political manipulation, that seek to exploit youth in nefarious ways, and to the detriment of those invested in building a brighter future.  This may not be the traditional work of a peacekeeping mission, but we have found that it is an investment that pays for itself many times over.
This progress simply could not be achieved without a majority of our extraordinary workforce: young UN peacekeepers. They inject energy and enthusiasm into their work. They innovate, help lift overall performance, and serve as role models to other young people. In fact, promoting the participation of youth, both, as the core of peacekeeping and within the societies in which they serve, is a key aspect of our overall approach.
Our young peacekeepers are inspired to serve under the blue flag for many reasons, and are recruited as civilian personnel from our UN’s careers website or join our ranks as uniformed personnel through their own national armed forces or police forces. Some want new experiences and life lessons, while others are motivated by the potential they see in the UN to help promote peace and security.
Peacekeeping is made up of these remarkable young people. People like Nanah Kamara from Sierra Leone -- a country that once hosted one of the world’s largest peacekeeping missions -- who serves in South Sudan as a UN Police officer and contributes to strengthening rule of law by training national police officers. Or 28-year-old Lieutenant Eric Manzi, a Rwandan mechanized troop officer, who helps maintain armored vehicles in the Central African Republic, so that peacekeepers can safely conduct protection of civilians patrols. Both peacekeepers saw the effects of horrific conflict in their own countries and decided to focus their careers on supporting other nations on the long and sometimes arduous road to peace.
Our young civilian personnel, including those serving as United Nations Volunteers, also make remarkable contributions in many areas, and ultimately play a pivotal role in integrating the Youth, Peace and Security agenda into the work of peace operations.

Kamara and Manzi and tens of thousands of other peacekeepers – the young and the not-so-young – work tirelessly in some of the world’s most difficult places to build a better and more durable peace. They deserve our appreciation and they need our unwavering support. It is simply the least we can do.



UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/128839-leveraging-power-youth-better-peace




Date: 25 May 2021
Title: UN Headquarters Observes International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers on 27 May
Content: 25 May 2021
Five fallen Egyptian peacekeepers among those to be honoured at UN HQ ceremony --
UN Headquarters will observe the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers on Thursday, 27 May 2021. Secretary-General António Guterres will lay a wreath to honour the more than 4,000 UN peacekeepers who have lost their lives since 1948 and will preside over a ceremony at which the Dag Hammarskjöld Medal will be awarded posthumously to 129 military, police and civilian peacekeepers, who lost their life serving under the UN flag last year and in the first month of this year.
Among the fallen peacekeepers to be honoured are five from Egypt:  Sgt Ahmed Mohsen,
Cpl Islam Mahmoud Ismail, Pvt Mohammed Elamir, Sgt Ahmed Mahmoud Rizk who served with the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA); and Police WO Abdelwanis Rahoma who was with the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA).

Egypt is 7th largest contributor of uniformed personnel to UN Peacekeeping.  It currently deploys nearly 3,100 military and police personnel to the UN peace operations in Abyei, the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mali, Sudan, South Sudan and the Western Sahara.
At the ceremony, the Secretary-General will also award the ‘2020 Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award’ to Major Steplyne Buyaki Nyaboga a Kenyan military officer who served with the African Union – United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur, (UNAMID). Created in 2016, the Award “recognises the dedication and effort of an individual peacekeeper in promoting the principles of UN Security Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security.”
In a message to mark the Day, the Secretary-General said of the fallen peacekeepers: “Their service and sacrifices will never be forgotten.”  He further said: “I express my deep gratitude to the 85,000 civilian, police and military personnel currently deployed in some of the world’s most challenging hotspots to protect the vulnerable and help to build peace. Despite the restrictions imposed by the pandemic, as well as the risk of infection, these men and women have pursued their mission while also supporting local authorities in the fight against COVID-19. I offer sincere condolences to the families of peacekeepers who have fallen victim to this terrible disease.”
The theme for this year’s observance is “The road to a lasting peace: Leveraging the power of youth for peace and security.” Tens of thousands of young peacekeepers deployed around the world play a key role in helping UN missions implement their mandated activities, with the active participation of young people from host communities.  Across our missions, peacekeepers collaborate with youth to reduce violence and sustain peace, including through DDR and Community violence reduction programmes.
Jean-Pierre Lacroix, Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations, said: “We salute the dedication and bravery of our peacekeepers, who serve and perform admirably in challenging environments only compounded by the ongoing pandemic. I also honor our young peacekeepers who bring energy and innovation, and serve as role models to youth populations working tirelessly to ensure meaningful representation and participation in political processes.”
He added: “Our peacekeepers deserve our full support, and we must continue to work together to do all we can to improve their safety and security and give them the tools to succeed.”

The International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers was established by the General Assembly in 2002, to pay tribute to all men and women serving in peacekeeping, and to honour the memory of those who have lost their lives in the cause of peace. The General Assembly designated 29 May as the International Day of UN Peacekeepers in commemoration of the day in 1948 when the UN’s first peacekeeping mission, the UN Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), began operations in Palestine.

Since then, more than 1 million women and men have served in 72 UN peacekeeping operations, directly impacting millions of people, and saving countless lives. Today, UN Peacekeeping deploys more than 89,000 military, police and civilian personnel in 12 operations.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/127588-un-headquarters-observes-international-day-united-nations-peacekeepers-27-may




Date: 25 May 2021
Title: Secretary-General's message on Africa Day
Content: 25 May 2021
This year’s Africa Day highlights arts, culture and heritage as levers for building the Africa we want.  Africa’s rich and diverse cultural and natural heritage is important for sustainable development, poverty reduction, and building and maintaining peace.  It can provide a strong foundation for inclusive economic progress as the continent strives to meet the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.

COVID-19 has triggered a global recession that has exposed deep-seated inequalities and vulnerabilities.  It is endangering hard-won development gains throughout Africa and beyond.  The pandemic has also heightened the drivers of conflict by increasing inequalities and revealing the fragility of governance in many nations, particularly in the delivery of basic services such as healthcare, education, electricity, water and sanitation.  The impact of the pandemic has also been exacerbated by the climate crisis, which disproportionately affects developing nations.

To end the pandemic, support economic recovery and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, we need to ensure equitable and universal access to COVID-19 vaccines.  Currently, there is a profound imbalance in vaccine distribution among countries.  The latest figures show that to date, African countries have received just two per cent of vaccines.

On this Africa Day, I renew my call to developed nations to stand in solidarity with Africa.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/127592-secretary-generals-message-africa-day




Date: 22 May 2021
Title: Secretary-General's message on the International Day for Biological Diversity 22 May
Content: 22 May 2021
We need to protect nature, restore ecosystems and establish a balance in our relationship with the planet.
A healthy planet is critical for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
Yet biodiversity is declining at an unprecedented and alarming rate, and the pressures are intensifying.
We are depleting resources faster than nature can replenish them.
COVID-19 has further reminded us of the intimate relationship between people and nature.
The current crisis provides an opportunity to recover better.
We need to protect nature, restore ecosystems and establish a balance in our relationship with the planet.
The rewards will tremendous.
By reversing biodiversity loss, we can improve human health, realize sustainable development and address the climate emergency.
Solutions exist to protect our planet’s genetic diversity on land and at sea.
Everybody has a part to play.
Sustainable lifestyle choices are the key.
The choice to live sustainably must be made available to everyone, everywhere.
That means better policies that promote government, business and individual accountability.
We all need to be part of a movement for change.
This year, governments will meet in Kunming, China, to agree on an ambitious new global framework for biodiversity.
Let us support their mission by advocating for nature.
On this International Day for Biodiversity, let us all be part of the solution.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/127369-secretary-generals-message-international-day-biological-diversity-22-may




Date: 12 May 2021
Title: IOM Egypt continues its support for migrants and Egyptians through the Federation of Egyptian Industries (FEI) apprenticeship and hiring scheme
Content: 12 May 2021



Cairo – IOM continues to support livelihoods promotion and migrant integration through increased social cohesion between migrant and Egyptian host communities. The initiative, implemented with FEI entitled, “Providing Livelihood opportunities for Migrants and Egyptians through Apprenticeship Scheme and Job Referral Mechanisms” aims to provide an apprenticeship scheme for 100 participants from migrant and Egyptian host communities. Livelihoods focus on vocational training and on the job skills training. Throughout the scheme, participants will be provided with an introductory training by FEI, covering employability and core work skills. Following this, beneficiaries of the scheme will join a six-month apprenticeship program in one of the enterprises represented by the FEI, followed by a retention rate of 60% for involved participants.

As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the economic slowdown and subsequent impact on migrant and Egyptians’ livelihood opportunities, the apprenticeship programme will assist vulnerable migrant and Egyptian communities in improving their employability prospects. The programme aims at empowering migrants and Egyptians, through providing them with vocational training opportunities and employment skills, aiming to increase their chances of absorption into formal labor market.
This initiative comes in the framework of the cooperation agreement that was signed between IOM and the FEI. IOM will also be working with FEI in order to further equip chamber members to be able to train and hire migrant and host community candidates.

FEI is significant partner for joint activities. It is one of the country’s largest employers’ associations accredited by the government, with 19 active industrial chambers as members representing over 102,000 industrial enterprises out of which more than 90% belong to the private sector. Additionally, FEI has been promoting and supporting Egyptian industries, as a pillar of the sustainable development and tool to alleviate poverty and underemployment. FEI acknowledges its shared responsibility as an employers’ organization to participate in creating a conducive business environment that enable migrants to enrich Egyptian society through their human, economic and social capacities, and thus facilitate their contributions to sustainable development at all levels.

This activity falls within the framework of the Regional Development and Protection Programme in North Africa (RDPP NA II), aiming to address challenges to migrant socio-economic integration, as well as the promotion of a culture of rights, dialogue and social cohesion between migrants and Egyptian host communities. Additionally, this intervention supports the achievement of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive, and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all, and Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/128840-iom-egypt-continues-its-support-migrants-and-egyptians-through-federation-egyptian




Date: 29 April 2021
Title: UNIDO and Egypt to accelerate inclusive and sustainable industrialization through Programme for Country Partnership (PCP)
Content: 29 April 2021
CAIRO - LI Yong, Director General of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), and Mostafa Madbouly, Prime Minister of the Arab Republic of Egypt, today signed the five year, EUR172 million Programme for Country Partnership (PCP) to advance Egypt’s inclusive and sustainable industrialization. Building on UNIDO’s long-standing technical cooperation activities, the PCP will support Egypt’s transformation in line with the country’s national policies and development strategies as well as the UN Partnership Development Framework for Egypt and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
“By combining UNIDO’s advisory and normative services, its technical assistance and its convening function, the PCP will support the efforts of the Government of Egypt in achieving its industrial development goals set forth in the Sustainable Development Strategy: Egypt Vision 2030, the Roadmap for Inclusive and Sustainable Industrial Development 2020-2024, and the MSMEs and Entrepreneurship National Strategy 2020-2025”, said UNIDO Director General Li. “Strong government leadership and a multi-stakeholder partnership are distinctive PCP features, which will integrate and mainstream development to spur industrial growth”.
Since December 2018, when Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi and UNIDO Director General LI Yong agreed on the principles of a PCP, the Government of Egypt and UNIDO worked closely to design and develop an integrated service package to leverage additional investment in sectors with high growth potential and the capacity to generate quality jobs.
“The Egyptian government emphasizes the participatory efforts to make the most of the PCP as a national platform for integrating all industrial development projects, programmes and initiatives in cooperation with all development partners”, said Prime Minister Madbouly. “We look forward to the successful implementation of the programme in Egypt as an effective approach to solve structural issues that hinder the sector in its path to comprehensive and sustainable development”. Prime Minister Madbouly added: “We also aim at improving the sector's diversification and innovation capacity and enhance the competitiveness of our products in regional and global markets”.
During the 2019 PCP programming phase, which was initiated with the support of the Government of China, UNIDO and key national ministries conducted a country diagnostic, including several consultations with the UN country team, international financial institutions, the donor community, other development partners, and the private sector. The diagnostic showed that manufacturing in Egypt registered some notable achievements in the last decade: in terms of economic contribution, the share of manufacturing has been increasing in three main dimensions, employment, exports and FDI inflows, while in terms of trade competitiveness, Egypt has improved in agriculture, textiles, chemicals and plastics, as evidenced by an increase in the number of revealed comparative advantages (RCAs). However, the country has not yet achieved its full potential to upgrade its manufacturing sector (the share of MVA in total GDP is about 15%) as well as to promote renewable energy sources, the valorization of waste and to enhance its preparedness to reap the benefits of the fourth industrial revolution.
Accordingly, the PCP will focus on industrial policy and governance, investment promotion, green industry, smart cities and sustainable industrial parks, value chains, and mainstreaming Industry 4.0 in priority industrial sectors, including chemicals, electronics, food, textiles, leather, furniture, and handicrafts.
Today’s ceremony was also attended by Minister of Trade and Industry Nevine Gamea, Permanent Representative of Egypt to UNIDO Mohamed Hamdy El-Molla, UN Resident Coordinator in Egypt and numerous representatives of UN agencies, international financial institutions, and the donor community.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/125966-unido-and-egypt-accelerate-inclusive-and-sustainable-industrialization-through-programme




Date: 16 April 2021
Title: Pope Tawadros II signs three declarations to support family planning and combat FGM and violence against women with the European Union, UNFPA
Content: 16 April 2021

Pope Tawadros II signs three declarations to support family planning and combat female genital mutilation and violence against women with the European Union, UNFPA

Pope Tawadros II, Pope of Alexandria, and Patriarch of the See of St Mark signed three declarations to support family planning and combat female genital mutilation (FGM) as well as confirm a zero tolerance approach to all forms of violence against women in an event under the EU Support to Egypt’s National Population Strategy project.

The EU Support to Egypt’s National Population Strategy project aims to increase the use of voluntary, rights-based family planning, with the support of an EU-grant of €27 Million, in cooperation with UNFPA.

The event took place on April 15 at the Seat of the Coptic Orthodox Pope, St. Mark's Coptic Orthodox Cathedral and was chaired by Pope Tawadros II, Pope of the Alexandria and Patriarch of the See of St. Mark and HG Bishop Yolious, the Bishop and director of the Bishopric of Public, Ecumenical, and Social Services (BLESS).

The signing also brought together President of the National Council for Women Dr Maya Morsy, Secretary General of the National Council for Childhood and Motherhood Dr Sahar al-Sonbaty, Ambassador Christian Berger, Head of the European Union Delegation to Egypt, Head of Development and Business Cooperation at the Norwegian Embassy in Cairo Counsellor Arild Oksnevad, and UNFPA Representative Mrs Frederika Meijer.

“We reject violence against women, in all its forms,” Pope Tawadros II said at the event, “FGM is a crime and all parties involved in it should be punished. Lastly, family planning is part of planning of the whole community.”

In its declaration, the Coptic Orthodox Church recognized the importance of family planning, essential to confront the population problem, which threatens Egypt’s economy, resources and future. The church also stipulated that family planning methods should not be harmful to the mother or baby’s health.

The church also said it regards FGM as “an evident violation of human rights,” in its other declaration, posing a serious threat to girls’ and women’s health that may have long-term physical, psychological and social impact.

The third declaration also confirms the Coptic Orthodox Church’s position on the principles of gender equality as stated in the Bible, and rejects all forms of physical, psychological and sexual violence against women and girls. The Church also stipulates that all women have the right to healthy and safe lives free from all forms of violence whether at home, at work or in public spaces.

In this declaration the Church also says that “all forms of domestic and partner violence are not tolerated,” and that each wife, daughter and mother has the right to feel protected and supported by her male family members, who are the primary source of well-being and stability of the household.

“The first question we are always asked is about the view of religion … Today we celebrate six years of partnership with the church, working in different governorates and undertaking visits with outreach workers. This is a perfect example of national collaboration,” Dr Maya Morsy said.

On her part, Frederika Meijer stressed that “religion is an integral part of the sociocultural fabric of many communities.”

“Religious leaders can dispel cultural misconceptions that are wrongly attributed to religion, and can shed light on the benefits of improved quality of life, the well-being of families and communities, improved maternal and new-borns’ health, reduced poverty and girls’ education,” she added.

The declarations will be circulated among the public, as well as posted around 120 churches.

Under the EU Support to Egypt’s National Population Strategy project, UNFPA partners have worked closely with faith-based organizations such as the Bishop and director of the Bishopric of Public, Ecumenical, and Social Services (BLESS) and Al-Azhar University’s International Islamic Center for Population Studies and Research to engage religious leaders to amplify the project’s mandate among their communities.

During the ceremony, Ambassador Christian Berger, Head of the European Union Delegation to Egypt, lauded the outstanding commitment of Pope Tawadros II, Pope of Alexandria, and Patriarch of the See of St Mark, and the diligent efforts of BLESS for the strong messages and actions to support family planning as well as to fight all forms of Violence Against Women in general and Female Genital Mutilation in particular.
“The European Union is committed to supporting the implementation of Egypt’s National Population Strategy through increasing awareness on family planning and population issues in support of Egypt’s Sustainable Development strategy,” he said. Ambassador Berger reiterated that the EU is one of the key supporters worldwide to combat Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) and Violence Against Women (VAW). “I commend every significant effort exerted to combat all forms of violence against women in particular the ones led by the National Council for Women, line ministries, religious institutions in Egypt like the Coptic Church and Al Azhar, UN Organizations, and civil society for their avid commitment and strong actions towards an environment free from gender based violence.”

During the first three years of the project, around 4000 male and female both Muslim and Coptic religious leaders participated in different activities under the project, including 1000 reached by campaigns, over 800 participated in ToT workshops, resulting in the training of around 2000 other leaders, who ultimately reached 16,000 members of their communities.

Around 200 Muslim and Coptic religious leaders also participated in joint sessions advocating for family planning.

In a pilot phase in 2020, 1000 community members in Cairo, Qaliubiya and Assiut also engaged in the local carnivals organized by BLESS to discuss forms of violence against women and gender discrimination in the household. An estimate of 500 female members of the Women Community Clubs (in Aswan, Alexandria, Cairo, Minya, Beni Suef and Sohag) attended handcrafts, awareness-raising discussions to learn about forms of domestic violence and empowerment for women subjected to forms of violence.

Over the past years, the EU has been committed to ending violence and harmful practices against women and girls in Egypt. Through the EU-funded bilateral cooperation projects with Egypt and in the framework of the UNFPA-UNICEF Joint Programme for Eliminating FGM, the EU supported reinforced capacities of national and civil society partners to address various issues of gender-based violence. EU funded actions have been implemented in partnership with different UN agencies and in close cooperation with national partners, including the National Committee for the Eradication of FGM.

For six years, Norway has been supporting BLESS in implementing interventions to combat violence and harmful practices against women and girls, including FGM. Norway also prioritizes women empowerment and enables girls to build a better future.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/125073-pope-tawadros-ii-signs-three-declarations-support-family-planning-and-combat-fgm-and




Date: 15 April 2021
Title: SCAM under the name of UN Organization
Content: 15 April 2021
The UN Egypt issued this press statement regarding Mr. Ahmed Madkour, who falsely alleges to be UN representative in Egypt.
Cairo. The United Nations in Egypt issued this press statement regarding Mr. Ahmed Madkour, who is presenting himself as an “Ambassador” working for the office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in Cairo.  He appears on social media platforms, through a CLUB House account, and participates in several talks, lectures with different groups of people, alleged to be a “UN Representative” stating his opinion on critical topics regarding political issues in Egypt.

Mr. Ahmed Madkour does not represent the UN in any capacity.

In this regard, the United Nations in Egypt rejects any violation conducted under its name and any wrongdoing or interference in the internal affairs that take place in its name, stressing that the United Nations expresses its views through official statements to the newspapers and the United Nations webpages and social media accounts.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/124922-scam-under-name-un-organization




Date: 14 April 2021
Title: Nearly half of all women are denied their bodily autonomy, says new UNFPA report, My Body is My Own
Content: 14 April 2021

NEW YORK - Nearly half of women in 57 developing countries are denied the right to decide whether to have sex with their partners, use contraception or seek health care,
according to UNFPA's 2021 flagship State of World Population report, released today.

For the first time, a United Nations report focuses on bodily autonomy: the power and agency to make choices about your body, without fear of violence or having someone else decide for you.

This lack of bodily autonomy has massive implications beyond the profound harms to individual women and girls: potentially depressing economic productivity, undercutting skills, and resulting in extra costs to health care and judicial systems.

Key findings: my body, but not my choice

Through this groundbreaking report, UNFPA is measuring both women’s power to make their own decisions about their bodies and the extent to which countries’ laws support or interfere
with a woman’s right to make these decisions. The data show a strong link between decision-making power and higher levels of education.

The report shows that in countries where data are available:
● Only 55 per cent of women are fully empowered to make choices over health care,
contraception and the ability to say yes or no to sex.
● Only 71 per cent of countries guarantee access to overall maternity care.
● Only 75 per cent of countries legally ensure full, equal access to contraception.
● Only about 80 per cent of countries have laws supporting sexual health and well-being.
● Only about 56 per cent of countries have laws and policies supporting comprehensive sexuality education.

“The fact that nearly half of women still cannot make their own decisions about whether or not to have sex, use contraception or seek health care should outrage us all,” says UNFPA Executive Director Dr. Natalia Kanem. “In essence, hundreds of millions of women and girls do not own their own bodies. Their lives are governed by others.”

The report also documents many other ways that the bodily autonomy of women, men, girls and boys is violated, revealing that:
● Twenty countries or territories have “marry-your-rapist” laws, where a man can escape
criminal prosecution if he marries the woman or girl he has raped.
● Forty-three countries have no legislation addressing the issue of marital rape (rape by a spouse).
● More than 30 countries restrict women’s right to move around outside the home.
● Girls and boys with disabilities are nearly three times more likely to be subjected to sexual violence, with girls at the greatest risk.

Solutions: the power to say yes, the right to say no

The report shows how efforts to address abuses can lead to further violations of bodily autonomy. For example, to prosecute a case of rape, a criminal justice system might require a
survivor to undergo an invasive so-called virginity test.

Real solutions, the report finds, must take into account the needs and experiences of those affected. In Mongolia, for example, persons with disabilities organized to give direct input to the
government about their sexual and reproductive health needs. In Angola, young people educated about their bodies, health and rights have been able to seek health care, use family
planning, decline sex and petition for justice after sexual violence.

“The denial of bodily autonomy is a violation of women and girls’ fundamental human rights that reinforces inequalities and perpetuates violence arising from gender discrimination,” says Dr. Kanem “It is nothing less than an annihilation of the spirit, and it must stop.

“By contrast,” Dr. Kanem says, “a woman who has control over her body is more likely to be empowered in other spheres of her life. She gains not only in terms of autonomy, but also
through advances in health and education, income and safety. She is more likely to thrive, and so is her family.”

The State of World Population report is UNFPA’s annual flagship publication. Published yearly since 1978, it shines a light on emerging issues in the field of sexual and reproductive health and rights, bringing them into the mainstream and exploring the challenges and opportunities they present for international development.

Notes to editors

As the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency, UNFPA helps people obtain contraception and life-saving reproductive health services and information and empowers
women and girls to make informed decisions about their bodies and lives.

● You can access the UNFPA State of World Population report, My body is my own: Claiming the right to autonomy and self-determination, here: unfpa.org/SOWP-2021
● For more information about UNFPA, please visit: www.unfpa.org

The Report is also available in English, Arabic, and French and can be downloaded here: https://www.unfpa.org/publications/state-world-population-2021
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/124812-nearly-half-all-women-are-denied-their-bodily-autonomy-says-new-unfpa-report-my-body-my-own




Date: 06 April 2021
Title: The UN in Egypt supports all national efforts to end FGM in Egypt
Content: 06 April 2021


Cairo, 6th of April 2021
---

The United Nations in Egypt congratulates all women and girls, their families and communities on the Cabinet of Ministers’ unprecedented measures and endorsed by the Parliament of Egypt to end Female Genital Mutilation (FGM).

These newly adopted measures are a result of strategic and significant advocacy and coordination, driven by the National Committee for the Eradication of FGM—headed by the National Council for Women and the National Council of Childhood and Motherhood— and supported by the highest political leadership.

It is a historic moment as Egypt continues to deepen its legislation to prevent FGM, ensuring this includes legal clauses which will have serious implications on those who perform or promote FGM. The enforcement of the new amendments will address FGM medicalization, as doctors and other medical professionals involved in FGM shall be banned from practicing their profession for up to five years.

FGM is prevalent in Egypt with regional disparities. It occurs in many parts of the country، especially in rural areas, which puts many women and girls at risk.  We are confident that the new amendments will lead to eradicating this severely harmful practice.

The UN family in Egypt is proud of its partnership with the National Committee for the Eradication of FGM in Egypt in their fight to end FGM.  Accelerating steps to eradicate FGM requires the continuation of collective and coordinated work in strengthening national systems to respond to cases of girls at risk/survivors while ensuring the engagement and voice of all actors: girls and boys, adolescents, women, men, teachers, parents, community and religious leaders, service providers and advocates to bring about social transformation and to reinforce the implementation of legislation.

Ms. Elena Panova, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt commented “it is a proud moment to see, under the leadership of H.E. President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, the growing number of leaders, parliamentarians and community supporters who fought to ensure the needed legislative measures to prevent and respond to FGM became a reality. We, at the UN, look forward to partnering with the country in ending FGM and advancing women’s and girls’ rights in many socio-economic fronts”.

الأمم المتحدة في مصر تدعم كافة الجهود الوطنية للقضاء على "ختان" الإناث في مصر
بيان مشترك من الأمم المتحدة في مصر حول الإجراءات غير المسبوقة من قبل السلطات المصرية للقضاء على ختان الإناث.



القاهرة -  تهنئ الأمم المتحدة في مصر جميع النساء والفتيات وأسرهن ومجتمعاتهن على الإجراءات غير المسبوقة التي اتخذها مجلس الوزراء وصدّق عليها البرلمان المصري للقضاء على ظاهرة "ختان" الإناث في مصر.

هذه التدابير التي أُقرت حديثًا هي نتيجة للدعوة والتنسيق الاستراتيجي الهام، اللذين قادتهما اللجنة الوطنية للقضاء على ختان الإناث - والتي يرأسها كل من المجلس القومي للمرأة والمجلس القومي للطفولة والأمومة - وبدعم من القيادة السياسية العليا.

إنها لحظة تاريخية حيث تواصل مصر تعميق تشريعاتها لمنع ختان الإناث، مما يضمن أن يشمل ذلك فقرات قانونية سيكون لها آثار خطيرة على أولئك الذين يمارسون الختان أو يروجون له، حيث سيساهم إنفاذ التعديلات الجديدة في  مكافحة تطبيب ختان الإناث، حيث يُحرم الأطباء وغيرهم من العاملين في المجال الطبي المشاركون في إجراء ختان الإناث من ممارسة مهنتهم لمدة تصل إلى خمس سنوات.

تنتشر ظاهرة ختان الإناث في مصر مع وجود تباينات على مستوى الأقاليم، حيث تحدث الممارسة في أجزاء كثيرة من البلاد وخاصة في المناطق الريفية مما يعرض العديد من النساء والفتيات للخطر. ونحن على ثقة من أن التعديلات الجديدة ستؤدي إلى القضاء على هذه الممارسة الشديدة الضرر.

تفخر أسرة الأمم المتحدة في مصر بشراكتها مع اللجنة الوطنية للقضاء على ختان الإناث في مصر في كفاحها لإنهاء هذه الممارسة الضارة. إن تسريع الخطوات للقضاء على ختان الإناث يتطلب استمرار العمل المُنسق في تعزيز النظم الوطنية للاستجابة لحالات الفتيات المعرضات للخطر/ الناجيات مع ضمان مشاركة جميع الجهات الفاعلة: الفتيات والفتيان والمراهقون والمراهقات والنساء والرجال والمدرسون والمدرسات وأولياء الأمور والمجتمع والقيادات الدينية  ومقدمو الخدمات لإحداث التحول الاجتماعي وتعزيز تنفيذ التشريعات.

وعلقت السيدة إيلينا بانوفا، المُنسقة المقيمة للأمم المتحدة في مصر، قائلة: "إنها لحظة فخر أن نرى، تحت قيادة فخامة الرئيس عبد الفتاح السيسي، ازدياد عدد القادة والبرلمانيين وأنصار المجتمع الذين ناضلوا لضمان التدابير التشريعية اللازمة لمنع ختان الإناث والاستجابة لها أصبح حقيقة واقعة. نحن في الأمم المتحدة نتطلع إلى الشراكة مع الدولة في إنهاء هذه الظاهرة وتعزيز حقوق النساء والفتيات في العديد من المجالات الاجتماعية والاقتصادية "
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/124111-un-egypt-supports-all-national-efforts-end-fgm-egypt




Date: 05 April 2021
Title: UNDP and Catalyst Private Equity Sign Memorandum of Understanding to promote impact investing in Egypt
Content: 05 April 2021
Cairo - The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Catalyst Private Equity (CPE) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on April 4, to promote impact investing in Egypt as key means to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The MoU signature took place at the Misr Holding Company premises by UNDP Resident Representative in Egypt, Randa Aboul-Hosn, CPE Managing Director, Mr. Abdelaziz Abdel Nabi, and the presence of Misr Insurance Holding Chairman Mr. Basel El Hini Chairman, Advisor to the Minister of International Cooperation (MoIC) on Digitalization and Entrepreneurship Mr. Tamer Taha, UNDP representatives, private sector, and development partners.
Impact investing is coming to Egypt. Companies and investors will be looking into investments made into companies, organizations, and funds to generate a measurable social and environmental impact alongside a financial return. CPE is the first in Egypt and the Middle East to join UNDP to put impact investing into practice.
“We now need impact investing more than ever to grow, accelerate and improve. As COVID-19 shocked the world, the need to achieve the SDGs is inevitable. Our partnership with CPE will catalyze the private sector’s investments and make it possible to invest in the right direction.” Said UNDP Resident Representative Randa Aboul-Hosn. “Businesses will need to realign their investments and capital to make a conscious impact that can be measured.”
Globally recognized impact measurement principles, standards, and tools will be applied to a concrete pool of investment-ready SMEs to measure and manage their impact through a practical measurement manual and a user-friendly digital platform.
“It is an honor for Misr Insurance Holding Company (MIHC) to host the signature of this important MOU which marks the distinction of Catalyst PE Fund (CPE) as an impact investor, the first of its kind in Egypt. This important development pays further tribute to MIHC Group involvement as the largest investor in CPE. I take this opportunity to applaud UNDP for its keenness to introduce the principles of impact investing in the Egyptian market and I look forward to witnessing first-hand the impact which the target SME’s will have on the society.” Said the chairman and managing director of Misr Insurance Holding Company - Mr. Basel El-Hini.
“SMEs find it challenging to partner with the appropriate investors that provide capital and impactful support; thus, we, CPE, have decided to launch our new fund Catalyst Capital Egypt (CCE) to be the first impact investing fund in Egypt and MENA region dedicated to SMEs. Through this partnership we will spearhead and concretize the investment philosophy of profit with purpose under SDG impact standards; and to be a seed for market practice.” Said CPE Managing Director, Mr. Abdelaziz Abdel Nabi.
UNDP works across sectors. Its global expertise and network will provide guidance and vision through a set of principles and measures needed to use investments that would help realize the SDGs by 2030. The signed MoU adds to MoIC and UNDP’s joint efforts to promote SDG Impact Investing, building on Environmental, Social and Governance principles.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/123916-undp-and-catalyst-private-equity-sign-memorandum-understanding-promote-impact-investing




Date: 02 April 2021
Title: UNESCO Director-General to visit Egypt to celebrate the country’s millennial heritage and support its conservation
Content: 02 April 2021

Paris —The Director-General of UNESCO, Audrey Azoulay, will carry out her first official visit to Egypt from 3 to 5 April to celebrate the country’s rich heritage and support its safeguarding, notably with regard to the challenges of urbanization and sustainable tourism.

The Director-General will attend a ceremony marking the transfer of mummies from the Museum of Cairo to the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization. “Seeing the mummies enter the new National Museum of Egyptian Civilization, knowing they are now more accessible, marks the end of much work to improve their conservation and exhibition. This raises emotions that go much further than the mere relocation of a collection. We will see the history of Egyptian civilization unfold before our eyes,” declared Ms Azoulay.

After a visit to Cairo and its landmarks, the Director-General will travel to Aswan.

Relations between UNESCO and Egypt have been particularly strong since the campaign to safeguard the Nubian monuments of Abu Simbel (1963-1968), which lay the ground for UNESCO’s World Heritage Convention of 1972. Egypt is a sound partner of the Organization in all its fields of competence: culture, science and education. It is an active participant in work to meet the challenges of the future, such as artificial intelligence, open science and Priority Africa.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/123814-unesco-director-general-visit-egypt-celebrate-country%E2%80%99s-millennial-heritage-and-support-its




Date: 01 April 2021
Title: 854,400 COVID-19 vaccine doses shipped by COVAX to Egypt
Content: 01 April 2021
CAIRO – Last night, Egypt received more than 850,000 COVID-19 vaccine doses shipped via the COVAX Facility.  Almost a year after Egypt had to face the spread of the coronavirus, a plane landed in Cairo carrying 854,400 doses of the Astra Zeneca Oxford vaccine.
According to the Ministry of Health and Population plan, the first segments of the population that will receive the 854,400 doses will be health workers, elders and people with chronic diseases.
Minister of Health and Population, Dr. Hala Zayed expressed her thanks to WHO and UNICEF for their constant support to Egypt’s plan to contain the Coronavirus pandemic. This support continues with the arrival of the first shipment of COVID-19 vaccinations to Egypt as part of the COVAX agreement in cooperation with GAVI which will encompass 40 million vaccinations that will arrive consecutively.
The Minister of Health and Population stressed on the importance of collaboration with partners from International agencies in addressing the pandemic. Her excellency also highlighted that this vaccine delivery will contribute to the completion of the vaccination process targeting the most at risk citizens including the elderly and those with underlying conditions to protect them from the virus.
“COVID-19 vaccines arrival through the COVAX Facility is a historical step of solidarity for humanity during the unprecedented time that we are passing through. This is an important step to insure the equitable global distribution of COVID-19 vaccines bringing hopes to many, including people in Egypt through escalating the vaccination of people at risk especially the front-line healthcare and essential services providers. In respect to rigorous and scientific reviews, WHO has approved COVID-19 vaccines for Emergency Use based on their safety and effectiveness. We collectively hand in hand are to halt the pandemic as individuals, families , communities and public and private institutions through continuing of the application of effective preventive public health and social measures such as sanitation, avoiding crowdedness especially in closed areas, keeping physical distance and wearing masks until most of the people are vaccinated.’ Dr Naeema Al Gasseer, WHO Representative in Egypt.
“I would like to highlight the importance for the Health workers to receive the vaccines. They are at the forefront of the fight against the Coronavirus. It is a race against time to end the Corona pandemic and vaccinate people, and in this race, it is critical that as many safe and effective vaccines as possible are available for the health workers”, said Mr. Jeremy Hopkins, UNICEF Representative in Egypt.
The COVAX initiative, which has been pivotal in last night delivery, is trying to narrow the gap between the millions being vaccinated in some countries compared to many less in other parts of the world. This positive and encouraging news is somewhat of a light at the end of the tunnel, with an exit to this pandemic finally in sight. It is also an important symbol of all the efforts that UNICEF and WHO are supporting to reduce disparities between countries in the access to vaccines.
COVAX is co-led by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), working in partnership with UNICEF as well as the World Bank, civil society organizations, manufacturers, and others.
The establishment of the COVAX Facility represents a collective recognition of the need for equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines. No-one is safe until everyone is safe. On behalf of all those who will be vaccinated through COVAX in Egypt, MOHP, WHO AND UNICEF extend our thanks to the governments from the United States of America, Germany, United Kingdom, EU, Japan, Canada and many others for their support towards this goal.
U.S. Ambassador to Egypt, Jonathan R. Cohen stated: “The United States is donating $4 billion to support COVAX’s vital work. We are excited to see them deliver the first of millions of vaccines to Egypt tonight. This is the first of many deliveries that will help our strategic partner Egypt beat this epidemic.”
Dr. Cyrill Jean Nunn, the Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to Egypt, said:
“Global challenges can only be tackled on an international level -the pandemic does not stop at borders. The delivery of vaccines we see today is the tangible result of a great ongoing international effort and Germany is very proud to be part of it. ACT-A and COVAX are our multilateral and inclusive answer to the pandemic. No country can be safe as long as others are not.”
Sir Geoffrey Adams, British Ambassador to Egypt, said: “I am delighted to see that the first shipment under the COVAX vaccine scheme has now arrived in Egypt. Since the beginning of this crisis, the UK has been committed to ensuring equitable vaccine distribution among all countries, protecting those most at need. This is why the UK has pledged £1.3bn of aid to end the COVID-19 pandemic as quickly as possible, and we’ve put over £548m into the COVAX AMC scheme. These 850,000 doses delivered today are a great first step - or a shot in the arm, as we say in the UK. But we need to keep up the momentum. We are pledging £1.65bn to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, over the next five years - ensuring fair and equitable vaccine access for all.
“Today Egypt receives its first COVAX delivery. The European Union launched its “Team Europe” initiative, together with the EU Member States and European Financial Institutions, to support partner countries in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic and its consequences. The “Team Europe” package reaches almost €38.5 billion. The European Union is committed to ensuring that everyone who needs a vaccine gets it, anywhere in the world. No one is safe until everyone is safe. COVAX is the best vehicle for delivering on international vaccine solidarity. Team Europe has contributed over €2.2 billion, including €1 billion from the EU budget, for the COVAX Facility to help secure 1.3 billion doses of vaccination. This comes in addition to national contributions by EU Member States.  One out of three vaccines delivered by COVAX has been possible through Team Europe support. I am pleased that the first COVAX delivery arrived in Egypt, a key partner country in the region. Since March 2020, the Team Europe approach provided the framework for a coordinated COVID-19 response in Egypt. We have mobilised €1.8 billion in grants, loans and guarantees to help mitigate the impact of the outbreak in response to the immediate health crisis and the resulting socio-economic and sanitary needs,” said Ambassador Christian Berger, Head of the European Union Delegation to Egypt.
“Canada is committed to a robust global effort to end COVID-19 and the devastating health, social and economic effects it has on the most vulnerable, both here in Egypt and around the world.”, said H.E. Louis Dumas, Ambassador of Canada in Egypt.
Notes to Editors
LINK: Download multimedia content including photos and B-roll of the vaccines landing in Cairo, Egypt after being transported by UNICEF (Additional Multimedia material will be updated a.s.a.p).
List of donor pledges to the Gavi COVAX AMC is available here.
COVAX is working to ensure that all countries participating in the Facility (currently 190 including Egypt) have equitable access to at least 2 billion doses of the COVID-19 vaccine by the end of 2021. The additional consignments of the vaccines for Egypt are expected to arrive in the second quarter of 2021.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/123746-854400-covid-19-vaccine-doses-shipped-covax-egypt




Date: 15 March 2021
Title: IOM and NCCPIM&TIP conduct the first training for the staff of the only shelter for Victims of Trafficking in Egypt
Content: 15 March 2021
Cairo - On 28th February to 2nd March 2021, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) mission to the Arab Republic of Egypt conducted a training for 16 staff members of the only government-run shelter for victims of trafficking (VoTs) in Egypt – one of the joint priorities towards the enhancement of the framework of protection for VoTs. The training was organized within the framework of the project “Strengthening the Sphere of Protection for Victims of Trafficking and Vulnerable Migrants in Egypt While Preventing Irregular Migration and Human Trafficking” (SPHERE ll), which aims to expand and strengthen the scope of protection and assistance to victims of trafficking and vulnerable migrants at risk of exploitation in Egypt on a rights-based approach, supported by the Government of Denmark.
The training was developed and conducted by IOM and various government stakeholders such as the Ministry of Social Solidarity, the Office of the Prosecutor General, the National Council for Childhood and Motherhood (NCCM), in cooperation with the National Coordinating Committee for Combating and Preventing Illegal Migration and Trafficking in Persons (NCCPIM&TIP), with a special focus on shelter management and protection provision for VoTs. The three-day training programme covered a number of fundamental elements on this topic: definition of human trafficking, national referral mechanism for cases of trafficking, how to deal with victims at the shelter, data management, provision of psychosocial support, and more; all in order to enhance the participants’ knowledge in identifying the victims’ needs, understanding their profiles, and adopting the best approach for a holistic protection and reintegration plan. The training also addressed and provided tools for staff to manage and deal with stress, burnout syndrome, and compassion fatigue.
The Minister of Social Solidarity, Dr. Nevin Al-Kabbaj, alongside H. E. Ambassador Svend Olling, Denmark’s Ambassador to Egypt, Ambassador Naela Gabr, Chairperson of NCCPIM&TIP, Laurent De Boeck, the Chief of Mission of IOM Egypt, and NCCM, commenced the training with opening remarks.

“We believe it is essential to work together across borders to secure that migrants and victims of trafficking are treated with decency and humanity. The shelter is a key protection intervention in this matter, and we are very glad to have it as a product of SPHERE project. We look forward to further see the fruits of the joint efforts between Denmark and Egypt.”, said H. E. Ambassador Svend Olling, Denmark’s Ambassador to Egypt.

“Through a collaborated effort of several governmental stakeholders, we were able to provide protection services, including dedicated shelter, to victims of all forms of trafficking and allocate adequate resources and staffing for these services”, said Laurent De Boeck, IOM Chief of Mission in Egypt.
SPHERE ll project supports the realization of Egypt’s Sustainable Development Strategy: Egypt’s Vision 2030. It also falls in line with the United Nations’ Agenda 2030, specifically the UN Sustainable Development Goals, namely, Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth; Goal 10: Reduced Inequalities; Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions and Goal 17: Partnership for the Goals.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/116365-iom-and-nccpimtip-conduct-first-training-staff-only-shelter-victims-trafficking-egypt




Date: 09 March 2021
Title: UNIDO and Japan to support Egypt with alternative approach to single-use plastics production and consumption
Content: 09 March 2021
The project will support government efforts to reduce the amount of plastic waste leaking into the environment by demonstrating alternative greener approaches.

Cairo – Mr. NOKE Masaki, Ambassador of Japan to Egypt, and Dr. Bassel El Khatib, Director and UNIDO Representative of the Regional Hub in Egypt signed an Exchange of Notes as a joint commitment to promote circular economy practices on Egypt’s single-use plastics value chain in order to reduce the plastic waste leaking into the environment.

The signing ceremony was witnessed by H.E. Dr. Rania Al-Mashat, Minister of International Cooperation, H.E. Dr. Yasmine Fouad, Minister of Environment and H.E. Ms. Nevine Gamea, Minister of Trade and Industry, as well as a number of senior governmental officials.

Egypt’s plastic industry has made significant contributions to the country’s economic development and the growth in various key sectors, including packaging, healthcare, the consumer durables and the automotive industries, among others. However, plastic, especially single-use plastic products like bags and packaging, is not properly disposed of when no longer needed and is causing a range of problems including a negative impact on tourism, contributing to flash floods due to clogged sewer systems, and blocking agricultural land drainage systems.

The project will support government efforts to reduce the amount of plastic waste leaking into the environment by demonstrating alternative greener approaches through technical assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and working to raise awareness of existing sustainable plastic production and consumption patterns among stakeholders, producers, and consumers. This multi-level approach is expected to support the development of policies, regulations, and economic tools that will facilitate the adoption of greener processes and sourcing and business models within the single-use plastic value chain.

At the Japan Presidency for G20 2019, having prioritized the global marine litter challenge and aiming for an implementation framework for concerted action, “G20 Osaka Blue Ocean Vision” was shared. It is an initiative aiming to reduce additional pollution by marine plastic litter to zero by 2050. To support it, Japan launched the “MARINE Initiative” to advance effective actions to combat marine plastic litter at a global scale.

Under this initiative, funded by Japan, UNIDO has been conducting a plastic value chain study in Egypt, in collaboration with JICA, to seek the possibility of introducing sustainable technological options such as alternative materials, packaging technology and recycling technology.

Today’s signing is the result of the successful completion of this research, demonstrating the steady realization of the commitment made by Japan at the highest level.

The project will contribute to UNIDO’s Programme for Country Partnership (PCP) for Egypt, launched in February 2020, which aims at achieving inclusive and sustainable industrial development. The PCP is formulated around six components, namely: Industrial Policy and Governance, Investment Promotion, Green Industry, Smart Cities & Sustainable Industrial Parks, Value Chains and Mainstreaming Industry 4.0.

At the signing ceremony, the Minister of International Cooperation, Dr. Rania Al-Mashat, stated “This agreement expresses the joint cooperation between the Government of Egypt, UNIDO and the Government of Japan. It will promote the circular economy and preserving the environment with a focus on integrating the private sector and SMEs into this field, which will support the economic development in our country.”

The Minister of Environment, Dr. Yasmine Fouad, mentioned “This project came after years of hard work towards reducing the consumption of single-use plastic products in Egypt. This sector still faces many challenges, on top of which is the necessary legislation and financial services provided to SMEs in this sector, hence the importance of this project.”

The Minister of Environment showed a number of success stories of SMEs and entrepreneurs who work on designing and producing innovative products to replace single-use plastic products.

“This project reflects the strategic cooperation with UNIDO within the framework of the PCP which is being implemented over the next five years. The project is in line with the national priorities of greening the industry. The government issued a decree to stop providing financial services for single-use plastic manufacturers as they have a significant negative impact on the environment; at the same time a technical support services will be provided to these projects to shift towards environmentally friendly alternatives.” Ms. Nevine Gamea, Minister of Trade and Industry, said.

Ambassador Noke said “the Japanese government has tirelessly promoted 3R (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) with cooperation of industry and citizens since the 1990s. Plastic packages and bottles in Japan are now known to have most waste-free designs. I am sure technology transfer through this assistance will lead to concrete actions that will protect the bountiful sea around Egypt for future generations. I also hope this project will act as a catalyst for Egypt’s plastic industry to become a new engine of growth in the era of post-Coronavirus and when the efforts to achieve circular economy are accelerating around the globe.”

Director and UNIDO Representative in Egypt, Dr. Bassel Al Khatib, said “we appreciate Japan’s continuous support to UNIDO and Egypt. This project is part of the Green Industry Component of the PCP- Egypt. This Component aims at increasing productivity and reducing the negative environmental impact in the Egyptian manufacturing sector. The new project will follow an integrated framework to enable the green transition of single-use plastics production and consumption, combining regulation, instituional support, firm level support, new technologies and skills enhancement for sustainable manufacturing. This will help achieving the inclusive and sustainable industrial development in Egypt.”

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/115456-unido-and-japan-support-egypt-alternative-approach-single-use-plastics-production-and




Date: 07 March 2021
Title: UK joins Kemama campaign contributing to the socio-economic empowerment of women in Upper Egypt
Content: 07 March 2021
Through the campaign, around EGP 300,000 were raised, securing the jobs of more than 100 women beneficiaries working at the factory in the governorate of Qena to fight COVID-19.
CAIRO - The UK joins the UN Development Programme (UNDP) in Egypt’s ‘Kemama’ campaign, in partnership with the Alternative Finance Lab (AltFinLab) and Neya. The campaign supports women in Upper Egypt working for El Nidaa Foundation while curbing the adverse socio-economic impacts of COVID-19.
As the world faces a pandemic, countries are working on addressing its impact on people’s lives, livelihoods, and the economy. In Egypt, Kemama was launched last year amid the COVID-19 outbreak as El Nidaa/ENID quickly responded by shifting its activities from producing ready-made-garments to producing medical masks. Through the campaign, around EGP 300,000 were raised, securing the jobs of more than 100 women beneficiaries working at the factory in the governorate of Qena to fight COVID-19.
The factory has produced nearly 63,000 masks at competitive prices for Qena, Sohag & Luxor’s vulnerable communities since the launch of the campaign. The UK’s £10,000 financial contribution is supporting women’s economic empowerment in Upper Egypt and sustaining livelihoods which would otherwise have been lost due to COVID-19.
British Ambassador to Egypt Sir Geoffrey Adams said: “We are proud to be part of this initiative, which has already had real success in helping vulnerable communities protect themselves against Covid-19. By supporting this campaign, we are also directly supporting the employment and economic empowerment of Egyptian women, a top priority for the UK. This is part of our wider partnership with Egypt and other countries around the world to ensure that - whether through PPE supplies, medical training, or vaccine access - we all build back better from Covid-19.”
Managing Director of the Egypt Network for Integrated Development (ENID) and Member of the Board of Trustees of El Nidaa Foundation Dr. Heba Handoussa highlighted that "El Nidaa Foundation is very happy to partner with the British Embassy, which has joined “Kemama” along with UNDP and Neya, and is offering generous support towards our mask production in Qena. This is a model for all private sector companies to partner with civil society organizations to fight the COVID-19 pandemic while contributing to women’s empowerment! The women’s testimonials show how strong they are when fighting against stereotypes in one of the most conservative communities in Egypt. El Nidaa takes pride in being able to change mindsets in Qena, where parents and husbands now support their daughters and wives to step up and lead the way, beyond taking care of house chores"
UNDP Egypt’s Resident Representative, Ms. Randa Aboul Hosn, outlined the importance of the Kemama campaign in creating an enabling environment for the socio-economic empowerment of the most vulnerable communities of Upper Egypt. She highlighted that “The poorest are the least able to cope with the effects of the pandemic. Supporting ENID means more employment and income generation opportunities for people, particularly for women and a direct contribution to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals.”
Founder & CEO of Neya, Hana El Sadat, stated “We are happy to be able to support our local community and partners through such a difficult time.”
The Kemama campaign is part of the UNDP regional “Solidarity Against COVID-19” campaign aiming to engage communities in supporting local solutions to this global crisis. Join Kemama campaign online by using: #TogetherAgainstCOVID19 #Kemama.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/115176-uk-joins-kemama-campaign-contributing-socio-economic-empowerment-women-upper-egypt




Date: 01 March 2021
Title: Secretary-General's video message to the Aswan Forum for Sustainable Peace and Development, 1-5 March 2021
Content: 01 March 2021
2021 must be the year to get on track.  Pandemic recovery is our chance.
It is a pleasure to greet this year’s Aswan Forum.  I welcome your focus on “Shaping Africa’s New Normal: Recovering Stronger, Rebuilding Better.”
COVID-19 continues to upend lives and economies across the world, endangering our work for peace, human rights and the Sustainable Development Goals.
2021 must be the year to get on track.  Pandemic recovery is our chance.
African countries and the African Union have shown leadership and unity in response to this unparalleled test.   I reiterate the solidarity of the United Nations with the people and governments of Africa at this time.
The rollout of vaccines has generated hope.  I commend the African Union’s efforts through the COVID-19 African Vaccine Acquisition Task Force to secure vaccine doses for African countries.
Last week the COVAX facility delivered its first shipments of vaccines to Ghana and Cote d’Ivoire.  This is a historic step towards ensuring equitable distribution of COVID-19 vaccines globally. Vaccines must be a global public good, available and affordable for everyone, everywhere.
The world urgently needs a Global Vaccination Plan, and I am urging the G20 to bring together countries, companies and international organizations and financial institutions with the required power, scientific expertise and production and financial capacities.
I am also calling on the international community to support the world’s most vulnerable people and countries, from strengthening health systems to providing debt relief.
Pandemic recovery is also an opportunity to address the fragilities and inequalities that have been exposed by the pandemic, and to pursue a more inclusive and sustainable path that advances gender equality and safeguards the global environment.
Ambitious climate action is a key part of the picture.  Despite its relatively limited contribution to global emissions, Africa continues to pay a high price for climate change.  As we strive to mobilize a global coalition to reach net zero carbon emissions by the middle of the century, we also need a breakthrough on adaptation.
In recent years, Africans have done much to advance the well-being of the continent’s people.  Economic growth has been strong; the digital revolution has taken hold; a free trade area has been agreed.
The United Nations will continue to support Africa’s efforts across this agenda, including to silence the guns.  In that spirit of common purpose, I offer my best wishes for a successful forum.
Thank you.


رسالة الأمين العام لمنتدى أسوان للسلام والتنمية المستدامين، 1-5 مارس/آذار

يُسعدني أن أوجه التحية لمنتدى أسوان لهذا العام. أرحب بتركيزكم على "صياغة رؤية للواقع الإفريقي الجديد: نحو تعاف أقوى وإعادة بناء أفضل".
لا يزال كوفيد-19 يقلب حياة الناس والاقتصادات في أنحاء العالم رأسا على عقب، ويهدد عملنا من أجل السلام، وحقوق الإنسان وأهداف التنمية المستدامة.
ينبغي أن يكون 2021 عام العودة إلى المسار. والتعافي من الجائحة هو فرصتنا.
ولقد أظهرت البلدان الأفريقية والاتحاد الأفريقي قيادة ووحدة في الاستجابة لهذا الاختبار غير المسبوق. وإنني أؤكد من جديد تضامن الأمم المتحدة مع الشعوب والحكومات الأفريقية في هذا التوقيت.
لقد بث إتاحة اللقاحات الأمل. وأود أن أشيد بجهود الاتحاد الأفريقي من خلال قوة المهام الأفريقية المعنية بالحصول على لقاحات لكوفيد-19 من أجل تأمين جرعات من اللقاحات للبلدان الأفريقية.
في الأسبوع المنصرم، قام مرفق كوفاكس المعني بالإتاحة العادلة للقاحات بتسليم أول شحنة من اللقاحات إلى غانا وكوت ديفوار. هذه خطوة تاريخية باتجاه ضمان التوزيع العادل للقاحات كوفيد-19 حول العالم. يجب أن يكون اللقاح مسألة تتعلق بالصالح العام، وأن تكون متاحة وفي متناول جميع الناس في كل مكان.
إن العالم بحاجة ماسة إلى خطة عالمية لتقديم اللقاحات، وإنني أحث مجموعة العشرين على أن تجمع البلدان والشركات والمنظمات الدولية والمؤسسات المالية ذات القوة اللازمة والخبرة العلمية والإنتاج والقدرات المالية.
كما وأدعو المجتمع الدولي إلى دعم شعوب وبلدان العالم الأكثر ضعفا، بدءا من تعزيز الأنظمة الصحية إلى إتاحة تخفيف للديون.
كذلك فإن التعافي من الجائحة يُمثل فرصة للتصدي لأوجه الهشاشة وانعدام المساواة التي أماطت الجائحة اللثام عنها، وانتهاج مسار أكثر شمولا واستدامة يُعزز المساواة بين الجنسين ويحمي البيئة العالمية.
إن العمل المناخي الطموح هو جزء لا يتجزأ من الصورة. وعلى رغم المساهمة المحدودة نسبيا من قبل أفريقيا في الانبعاثات العالمية، إلا أن القارة تدفع ثمنا باهظا لتغير المناخ. وبينما نكافح لحشد تحالف عالمي من أجل الوصول بانبعاثات الكربون إلى مستوى الصفر بحلول منتصف القرن، فإننا بحاجة أيضا إلى اختراق على صعيد التكيف.
لقد قام الأفارقة بالكثير في السنوات الأخيرة لتعزيز رفاه شعوب القارة. كان التعافي الاقتصادي قويا؛ وترسخت الثورة التكنولوجية؛ وتم الاتفاق على منطقة للتجارة الحرة.
ستواصل الأمم المتحدة دعم جهود أفريقيا عبر هذه الخطة، بما في ذلك لإسكات البنادق. وبروح الهدف المشترك، أتقدم بأطيب التمنيات بنجاح المنتدى.
شكرا لكم.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/114227-secretary-generals-video-message-aswan-forum-sustainable-peace-and-development-1-5-march




Date: 28 February 2021
Title: Egypt’s Ministry of International Cooperation, UNDP and Catalyst Partners team up on “Impact Investing”
Content: 28 February 2021
The initiative responds to growing interest from investors and businesses alike in making a positive impact on society beyond pure financial returns.
Cairo - Private sector engagement is at the forefront of Egypt’s development agenda; with ongoing efforts push forward the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Egypt’s Ministry of International Cooperation (MOIC), together with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) explore joint efforts to promote SDG Impact Investing, covering the ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) principles and the alignment of investor capital with the SDGs.
As part of this broader scope of work, UNDP and the Egyptian private equity Catalyst Private Equity (CPE) will put in practice an impact measurement towards the SDGs of private sector enterprises and private investments. The initiative responds to growing interest from investors and businesses alike in making a positive impact on society beyond pure financial returns.
Globally, it is estimated that an additional US$2.4 trillion a year will be needed to achieve the SDGs by 2030. A large portion of this financing will need to come from the private sector which is increasingly investing in businesses that contribute positively to the SDGs in addition to being financially as profitable or more compared to mainstream investments.
“Egypt is committed to the principles of stakeholder capitalism; formulating inclusive economic policies to incorporate all societal actors and aligning them towards a common purpose including environmental, social and governance (ESG) indicators. Creating sustainable value creation through impact investing plays a fundamental role in achieving positive measurable outcomes for the society in addition to adequate financial returns”, H.E. Dr. Rania A. Al-Mashat, Minister of International Cooperation stated.
To jump-start practices in Egypt, UNDP and CPE partnership will apply globally recognized impact measurement principles, standards and tools to a concrete pool of investment-ready SMEs that will help these enterprises measure and manage their impact with a practical impact measurement manual and a user-friendly digital platform.
“UNDP is keen to help trigger investment that has positive impact towards the SDGs and UNDP has been promoting Impact Investment and impact management at the global level and in Egypt since 2018. This partnership is a first step towards putting in practice global SDG Impact standards in the nascent impact business ecosystem in Egypt”, says Randa Aboul-Hosn, UNDP Resident Representative in Egypt.
“At Catalyst Partners, we invest capital and knowledge in purpose-driven business, strengthening their development, profitability & social impact, leading to a growth multiplier on millions of lives. To make a social impact through a fully engaged investing approach; we bring extensive expertise and advisory support to the firms we invest in,” notes CPE Managing Director, Mr. Abdelaziz Abdel Nabi.
Underscoring the Ministry's efforts at large and to mainstream support for Impact investment, H.E. Minister Al Mashat added “In 2020, the Ministry of International Cooperation concluded an extensive first-of its kind comprehensive mapping exercise of all development projects financed through Official Development Assistance to identify their alignment with the relevant SDGs, including private-sector led financing. To continue pushing forward achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, this partnership brings impact investing further into the mainstream, providing new firepower to help address development needs and build towards an inclusive economy.”

UNDP Egypt Resident Representative, Ms. Randa Aboul-Hosn, emphasized “Today is a first practical step, but the path we are embarking on is long and important: linking credibly and quantitatively the intended impact of businesses, with their management decisions and their results, creates a powerful feedback loop that harnesses the size and energy of the private sector.”
According to the 2020 Annual Report of the Ministry of International Cooperation Report, Egypt secured USD 9.89 billion in development financing to meet the 2030 target sustainable development, including USD 6.7 billion to finance sovereign projects and USD 3.191billion to support the private sector.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/114080-egypt%E2%80%99s-ministry-international-cooperation-undp-and-catalyst-partners-team-%E2%80%9Cimpact-investing




Date: 13 January 2021
Title: Successful accomplishment for the preparation of the strategic plan Markaz Al Badari in Assiut Governorate
Content: 13 January 2021
Badary Center project allows verifying the proposed projects' effectiveness and suitability at the city-wide level with villages plans.
Despite the negative impact of the new Coronavirus (Covid-19) on project implementation, UN-Habitat has succeeded in achieving an important step supporting the General Authority for Urban Planning's efforts during 2020 accelerate integrated urban development through the project Badary Center Scheme in Assiut Governorate.
By planning the Badary Center as one of the local administration levels and linking the governorates' strategic plans and urban and rural-urban complexes' plans, the project allows verifying the proposed projects' effectiveness and suitability at the city-wide level with villages plans. It integrates urban/rural linkages via a holistic approach that enhance urban/rural value chain and productivity through spatial aspects and the functional relationship.
The project proposes a new approach for preparing a "strategic plan for urban development for administrative centres" within the governorate's strategic plan framework. This latest entry provides a successful recipe for sustainable urban development. It includes the regional level of the centre and at the same time the level of villages and the rural units. The project crystallizes the Government of Egypt’s efforts responding to SDGs2030 and Egypt's Vision 2030, uplifts social justice, built environment and quality of life. The project deploys urban/ruler efficiency, functional and interconnectivity.
The project achieved spatial and sectoral integration by organizing the relationship between the various activities at the centre's level and its urban complexes. The findings increase the proposed development projects' effectiveness, ensure their sustainability, enhance economic growth, and provide job opportunities. The KPIs balanced spatial development, reducing development disparities between the villages, rural units and cities.
The project processes have passed through three basic steps i) assessment for the basic features of the current situation, ii) formulate an integrated strategic vision and iii) integrated framework for the urban/rural development within the project boundary. The project provides an integrated investment plan for priority projects, implementation mechanisms, business model and following up performance indicators.

خطوة مهمة في جهود مصر خلال 2020 لتسريع التنمية الحضرية المتكاملة.. الانتهاء من إعداد المخطط الاستراتيجي لمركز البداري بمحافظة اسيوط
يُقدم مشروع مخطط مركز البداري خطة تنمية عمرانية واحدة تشمل المستوي الإقليمي للمركز وفي نفس الوقت مستوي التجمعات العمرانية، حيث يمثل المركز أحد مستويات الإدارة المحلية وحلقة الوصل ما بين مستوى تخطيط المحافظة ومستوى تخطيط المدينة والوحدات الريفية والقرى.
على الرغم من التأثير السلبي الذي أحدثه فيروس كورونا المستجد (كوفيد -19) على أداء تنفيذ المشروعات، فقد نجحت الهيئة العامة للتخطيط العمراني بالتعاون مع برنامج الأمم المتحدة للمستوطنات البشرية UN Habitat بتحقق خطوة مهمة في جهود الدولة خلال 2020 لتسريع التنمية الحضرية المتكاملة من خلال مشروع مخطط مركز البداري بمحافظة اسيوط. حيث انه بتخطيط مركز البداري باعتباره أحد مستويات الإدارة المحلية وحلقة الوصل بين المخططات الإستراتيجية للمحافظات ومخططات التجمعات العمرانية الحضرية والريفية يتيح التحقق من مدي فعالية وملاءمة المشروعات المقترحة بمخططات المدن والقري للخصائص الاجتماعية والاقتصادية والبيئية والخصوصية المكانية والعلاقة الوظيفية بين التجمعات العمرانية على مستوي المركز.
يطرح المشروع مدخل جديد لإعداد "المخطط الإستراتيجي للتنمية العمرانية للمراكز الإدارية" في إطار المخطط الإستراتيجي للمحافظة، ويقدم هذا المدخل الجديد خطة تنمية عمرانية واحدة تشمل المستوي الإقليمي للمركز وفي نفس الوقت مستوي التجمعات العمرانية. يمثل المركز أحد مستويات الإدارة المحلية وحلقة الوصل ما بين مستوى تخطيط المحافظة ومستوى تخطيط المدينة والوحدات الريفية والقرى.
نجح المشروع فى بلورة جهود الدولة المتمثلة في تحقيق اهداف الاستدامة (SDGs) ورؤية مصر 2030 بما تتضمنه من تحقيق العدالة الاجتماعية وتحسين البيئة العمرانية وجودة الحياة و تحقيق الترابط الوظيفى و العضوى بين مدن وقرى مركز البداري بمحافظة أسيوط وذلك في إطار قيام الهيئة العامة للتخطيط العمراني بتفعيل قانون البناء رقم 119 لعام 2008 (مادة 13) و في إطار اعتماد المركز كمستوي من مستويات التخطيط العمراني في اصدار قانون الإدارة المحلية.
و قد حقق المشروع التكامل المكاني والقطاعي من خلال تنظيم العلاقة بين الأنشطة المختلفة علي مستوي المركز وتجمعاته العمرانية. و زيادة فاعلية المشروعات التنموية المقترحة وضمان إستدامتها باللإضافة إلى تعزيز النمو الإقتصادي وتوفير فرص العمل في ضوء الميزات النسبية النابعة من الخصوصية المكانية للمركز ووحداته الحضرية والريفية. هذا و قد نتج عن المشروع تحديد مؤشرات الاداء للتنمية المكانية المتوازنة والحد من التفاوتات التنموية بين الوحدات المكانية للمركز وإقامة مدن ومجتمعات محلية مستدامة.
هذا و قد مرت عملية إعداد المخطط الإستراتيجي لمركز البداري وتحديث مخططات التنمية العمرانية للمدن والتجمعات العمرانية الريفية به بثلاث مراحل أساسية (الاولي تم فيها رصد الملامح الأساسية للوضع الراهن بالقطاعات المختلفة وتحليل ذلك من اجل الانتقال الي المرحلة الثانية التي تم فيها صياغة رؤية استراتيجية متكاملة لجميع التجمعات ومن ثم الوصول الي المرحلة الثالثة التي تم فيها استخراج المخططات لكل تجمع (قرية/ مدينة) بشكل منفرد في اطار اسقاط توجهات التنمية الناتجة من صياغة الرؤية علي مستوي المركز بالمرحلة السابقة مع صياغة الخطة الاستثمارية  للمشروعات التنموية المقترحة وتحديد آليات تنفيذها ومتابعة مؤشرات الأداء لتحقيق الرؤية القومية 2030 والاهداف العالمية للتنمية المستدامة 2030.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/107672-successful-accomplishment-preparation-strategic-plan-markaz-al-badari-assiut-governorate




Date: 22 December 2020
Title: FAO & MALR invite extension agents to use “El Mufeed” app and disseminate among targeted groups
Content: 22 December 2020
FAO and the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation held a meeting to introduce "El Mufeed in Food and Agriculture" app and encourage digital agriculture.
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR) in Egypt held a virtual meeting to present the mobile application of "El Mufeed in Food and Agriculture" to the extension agents in all of Egypt’s Governorates.
A total of 148 participants attended the meeting representing extension agents, researchers from the Agriculture Research Centre, academia, farmers, rural women, and NGOs, in addition to participants from FAO Representations in Egypt, Jordan and Iraq.
The meeting aimed at introducing “El Mufeed” application to extension agents, to show them how to download and use it, and highlighted its contents. During the meeting, the new content regarding "food safety in response to COVID-19” was also introduced, and the registration method and interaction with this platform was explained.
The meeting encouraged the extension agents to use the app and disseminate it widely among targeted groups.
“Supporting digital agriculture and digital extension is one of the most important modern trends developed by FAO to help farmers and rural communities coping with the COVID-19 pandemic to continue the production and marketing processes so that food security and income generation are not negatively affected,” said Nasredin Hag El Amin, FAO Representative in Egypt.
“The Ministry of Agriculture gives great importance to digital agriculture applications and digital extension in an effort to develop the agricultural sector and provide advanced digital services to farmers to facilitate their production and marketing processes, livestock production, and disease and pest control practices,” said Alaa Azouz, Director of the Extension at MALR.
Digital Agriculture is a global community of practice that facilitates dialogue, information exchange and sharing of ideas related to the use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) for sustainable agriculture and rural development.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/106025-fao-malr-invite-extension-agents-use-%E2%80%9Cel-mufeed%E2%80%9D-app-and-disseminate-among-targeted-groups




Date: 18 December 2020
Title: Symbolic walk at the foot of the pyramids calls for the inclusion of persons with disabilities and ensuring their participation without barriers using assistive technologies
Content: 18 December 2020
Outside his home country Lebanon, the Egypt Walk is the first of a series, which Michael Haddad seeks to perform across the world, under his initiative "Stepping Ahead of COVID." The walks aim to raise awareness and mobilize resources to help mitigate the negative impacts of the pandemic on the most affected groups - especially persons with disabilities - and to call for a green and inclusive post-pandemic recovery.
Cairo – With the ancient pyramids of Giza as their witness, around fifty Egyptian differently abled athletes completed today the Egypt Walk for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities (PwD) to highlight the importance of assistive technologies in expanding horizons of independence and public participation of PwD in Egypt. Endurance sports professional and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) Goodwill Ambassador for Arab States, Michael Haddad, accompanied them on the walk.
“I was happy to participate today with this distinguished group of Egyptian young women and men, who arm themselves with sport to challenge a wide range of disabilities, asserting themselves and their right to actively participate in all social and economic activities,” said HE Dr Ashraf Sobhy, Minister of Youth and Sports under whose patronage the walk was organized. "Egypt has made great achievements in the past few years to integrate and empower persons with disabilities and safeguard their rights, which we will celebrate next week in the annual presidential conference entitled “Differently Abled,” he added.
“The Egypt walk for Inclusion gives a regional and global dimension to the ‘Differently Abled’ presidential conference, and sheds light on Egypt’s efforts towards the empowerment and inclusion of Persons with Disabilities”, said Amal Mobadda, Chairwomen of the Egyptian Sports Federation for Intellectual Disabilities, which organized the walk in partnership with UNDP, under the auspices of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and in collaboration with the Ministry of Tourism & Antiquities.
“In adopting Agenda 2030 and its associated Sustainable Development Goals, world leaders made a solemn promise to inclusiveness and to leaving no one behind. Assistive technologies that facilitate the lives of persons with disabilities and enhance their participation in their communities, play an important role in achieving that promise," said Randa Aboul Hosn, UNDP Resident Representative in Egypt. “We are pleased to cooperate with all relevant authorities to support efforts aimed at providing appropriate assistive technologies for all, developing them and producing them locally," she added.
Persons with disabilities represent 10-15% of the world’s population, exceeding a billion people, of whom about 12 million live in Egypt. They depend on various kinds of assistive technologies, which help them perform basic daily functions that otherwise may be difficult or sometimes seem impossible. These technologies range from simple ones, such as movement-supporting aids, including crutches and hand-wheelchairs, to intermediate and advanced technologies, including computer- and mobile-phone-based devices and software to aid hearing, vision, speech and memory, and state-of-the-art electronic and mechanical artificial limbs and prosthetic devices.
“We were delighted to host this walk today at the Giza Pyramids complex, confirming Egypt's commitment to rendering its most revered global cultural heritage monuments, accessible to all humanity, without barriers,” said HE Dr Kahled ElAnani, Minister of Tourism and Antiquities. “Disability-inclusive tourism is not only one of our most important products, but we consider it, as well, a moral responsibility and a commitment to ensure that all Egyptians, and all citizens of the world, enjoy and appreciate the achievements of the world's most ancient civilization,” he added.
Outside his home country Lebanon, the Egypt Walk is the first of a series, which Michael Haddad seeks to perform across the world, under his initiative "Stepping Ahead of COVID." The walks aim to raise awareness and mobilize resources to help mitigate the negative impacts of the pandemic on the most affected groups - especially persons with disabilities - and to call for a green and inclusive post-pandemic recovery. Haddad is performing the series as part of his role as UNDP’s Regional (Arab States) Goodwill Ambassador of for Climate Action.
"Today, I was honoured to join my sisters and brothers of differently abled Egyptian athletes to send together a message of hope and determination to work tirelessly to promote the full participation of persons with disabilities in Egypt, across the Arab region, and indeed the whole world, in all aspects of life, in equality and without barriers,” said Michael Haddad. "There is no other place that I would have wanted to start this global endeavour from other than Egypt—mother of the world, as we say, which occupies a very special place of appreciation in my heart, shared by many in the region and globally."
Haddad is an endurance athlete, who was paralyzed from the chest down as a child. He has devised his own unique “step-to-gait” method of movement, using a high-tech exoskeleton to stabilize his chest and legs. His method currently inspires research at the American University of Beirut and the Lebanese American University, among others, which holds promise to millions of people with similar disability.
“As we strive together to achieve the sustainable development goals across the world, today’s walk plays a decisive role to draw attention to necessity of seizing the opportunity to benefit from the potential of technology and innovation to change lives for the better in all areas, from eliminating poverty to reducing inequality to ensuring access to quality education,” said Achim Steiner, UNDP Administrator, in his tribute video message to the walk. “Michael and his fellow Egyptian differently abled athletes, through their walk today, are the best people who can demonstrate the importance of putting such potential of technology at centre stage”
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/105640-symbolic-walk-foot-pyramids-calls-inclusion-persons-disabilities-and-ensuring-their




Date: 15 December 2020
Title: MEDIA ADVISORY.. Egypt Walk for the Inclusion of Persons with Disability
Content: 15 December 2020
The walk is intended to help raise awareness on the importance of assistive technologies to the empowerment and independence of persons with disabilities.


A call to focus attention on the importance of assistive technologies to expand horizons
of independence and public participation of persons with disabilities

Cairo, 15 December 2020 – The United Nations Development Programme’s (UNDP) Goodwill Ambassador for Arab States, Michael Haddad, will embark on a 5-kilometres walk alongside a group of fellow differently abled Egyptian athletes, to call for measures to enhance inclusion of persons with disabilities (PwD) in social and economic activities without barriers, through the use of assistive technologies.
UNDP is partnering with the Egyptian Sports Federation for Intellectual Disabilities to organize the walk, which will take place at the foot of Egypt’s Great Pyramids, under the auspices of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and in collaboration with the Ministry of Tourism & Antiquities.
The walk is intended to help raise awareness on the importance of assistive technologies to the empowerment and independence of PwD, as a new area of programming that UNDP is planning to pursue in Egypt, in line with the promise of the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development to leave no one behind.
An endurance athlete who is paralyzed from the chest down, Haddad has devised his own unique “step-to-gait” method of movement, using a high-tech exoskeleton to stabilize his chest and legs. The Egypt walk is part of a series of walks that he is planning in several countries under his “Stepping Ahead of COVID” initiative, which aims to raise awareness and mobilize resources to help mitigate the adverse impacts of the pandemic on the most vulnerable and advocate for inclusive and green post-pandemic recovery.

What?  :  The Egypt Walk for the Inclusion of Persons with disabilities
When? :  Friday, 18 December 2020. Opening: 09:30 - 10:15, Walk: 10:15–13:00 & Conclusion: 13:00 – 13:30
Where?: The walk starts at the Helipad in the Giza Pyramids complex and ends between the Pyramids of Chephren (Khafra) and Cheops (Khufu).
Who?   :  Speaking at the opening ceremony
Michael Haddad            UNDP Regional Goodwill Ambassador for Climate Action
Achim Steiner               UNDP Administrator (video message)
HE Dr Ashraf Sobhy     Minister of Youth and Sports

Speaking at the closing ceremony
Randa Aboul Hosn        UNDP Resident Representative in Egypt
HE Dr Kahled ElAnani Minister of Tourism and Antiquities
HE Dr Ashraf Sobhy     Minister of Youth and Sports

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/105273-media-advisory-egypt-walk-inclusion-persons-disability




Date: 09 December 2020
Title: Nawah Community Arts Festival concludes with awarding distinguished theatre performances and members
Content: 09 December 2020
Featuring 13 theatrical productions in additions to music performances, the festival aimed at spreading awareness and highlight the main role that Community Theater plays in development.
Nawah Community Arts Festival concluded its activities with Zad Art Team on Monday December 7, in a ceremony attended by the Minister of Youth and Sports Dr. Ashraf Sobhy, Head of the European Union Delegation to Egypt, Ambassador Christian Berger, Dr. Martino Melli, Director of the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation, UNFPA Representative in Egypt Dr. Aleksandar Bodiroza and Hisham El-Ruby, CEO of Etijah Youth and Development Consultancy Institute.
The festival was launched on November 21 and ran until December 7 at the Civic Education Center in Zamalek and featured 13 theatrical productions in additions to music performances. It aimed to spread awareness and highlight the main role that Community Theater plays in development.
Dr. Sobhy and Dr. Bodiroza presented the first place award to both 10th of Ramadan Nawah team and Aswan Nawah team for their performances “Life Circus,” and “Failure” respectively.
The second place award went to both the Fayoum and Haram Nawah teams for their performances “Porto Saboura” and “Keys” The Minya and Menufiya Nawah teams were awarded third place for their performances “Hit Like,” and “A Second Life” respectively.
The Special Jury Award was presented to Qena Nawah Team for their performance that used the “playback technique” in addition to some individual awards to distinguished teams and volunteers during the various stages of the project throughout the year.
The performances were evaluated by a committee of experts that assed the performances based on 3 main criteria which included: how the performance addressed a community issue, interaction with the audience andthe artistic aspects of the performances.
The jury committee included a representative from UNFPA, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Etijah in addition to two well-known theatre experts; Director Abir Ali Hozaien and Critic Mohamed Elrouby. Hozaien is a theatre director, writer, theatre trainer and a member of the Theater Committee and the Supreme Committee for the Experimental Festival of the Supreme Council of Culture in Egypt. Elrouby is the Editor in Chief of “Our Theater” newspaper, a lecturer at the Academy of Arts and a judge in many local and international festivals.
Dr. Sobhy praised the idea of using theatre as a tool to change social norms, saying that he trusts the idea of investing in creative young people, adding that he hopes they turn into professional theatre performers in the future.
Ambassador Berger also praised the performances.
“We have listened to the beautiful voices of young artists at this festival supported by the EU and our partner UNFPA; their messages expressed in songs and poetry informing young people about family planning and promoting the benefits of smaller-sized families. Indeed two key aspects to achieve the goals of Egypt’s National Population Strategy,” he said.
On his part, Dr. Bodiroza lauded UNFPA’s partnership with the Ministry of Youth and Sports, saying that it stems from the fact and understanding that 62 percent of the population are under the age of 29, and “from understanding that investing in the leadership of young people will translate into change and help Egypt achieve its 2030 agenda.”
He added that it also came from understanding and investing in young girls and that their health and wellbeing will be “the deciding element that will help us get to 2030.”
The festival comes as part of the Population Program and the Humanitarian Program, operating under the Ministry of Youth and Sports in cooperation with UNFPA and Etijah.
It was held with the support of with the support of the European Union under the EU Support to Egypt’s National Population Strategy project, and the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation.
The €27 million EU project aims to increase the use of voluntary, rights-based family planning through improved supply of family planning services and commodities, increased demand for family planning, and enhanced governance for implementation of the National Population Strategy.
The Population and Humanitarian Program employs entertainment and art tools, which include music and interactive theater, and aims to raise awareness on gender-based violence, family planning, the concept of the small family and harmful practices against girls. It is carried out at Population Awareness Clubs around Egypt’s governorates.
The performances are a result of workshops conducted with the help of Zad Art Team, who coached volunteers on developing theatrical scripts and songs through online workshops to raise the awareness of their communities on various issues including female genital mutilation, family planning and gender-based violence.
Population Awareness Clubs operate within different Youth Centers across the country, hosting various activities on population issues and their impact on youth using different tools. UNFPA also operates 14 safe spaces for women and girls in seven different governorates, hosted with implementing partners such as CARE International and Etijah, within the youth centers of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The Safe Spaces operate with the support of various donors including the European Union, the Italian Agency for Cooperation and Development, the Canadian Embassy in Egypt, and the Norwegian Embassy in Egypt.
Thirteen theater groups were established in the Safe Spaces and Population Awareness Clubs in 13 governorates, bringing together amateurs of all ages and genders.
The festival was livestreamed on UNFPA as well as Etijah’s social media accounts.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/104537-nawah-community-arts-festival-concludes-awarding-distinguished-theatre-performances-and




Date: 09 December 2020
Title: Ministry of Emigration and WFP launch “Bedaya Digital” initiative
Content: 09 December 2020
The newly launched platform provides vocational and skills-building trainings for Egyptian youth and returning migrant Egyptian workers who have recently lost their jobs due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
CAIRO – The Ministry of Emigration and Egyptian Expatriates Affairs (MOEEA) and the World Food Programme (WFP) launched today the e-learning platform, ‘Bedaya Digital,’ under the presidential initiative ‘Life-Saving Boats” that aims at raising awareness on the dangers of illegal immigration.

The newly launched platform provides vocational and skills-building trainings for Egyptian youth and returning migrant Egyptian workers who have recently lost their jobs due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Trainings will be provided by the Arab Academy for Science, Technology & Maritime Transport, a key partner of WFP and of this joint initiative.

This platform reduces the risks of irregular migration by promoting job opportunities for youth and returning migrants through skills development linking them with services provided by the Government of Egypt, WFP and the private sector.

Users of the platform will have access to vocational training to increase their employability as well as professional e-recruitment services with private sector partners. They will also be able to use the platform to apply for loans for small and medium-sized enterprises and other income-generating projects to improve their incomes and living conditions.

“WFP is very proud to collaborate with the MOEAA to complement the Egyptian Government’s proactive efforts to mitigate the negative impact COVID-19 pandemic had on youth who have been pushed into unemployment or illegal migration,” said WFP Representative and Country Director Menghestab Haile. “We aim to significantly decrease the number of youth at risk of illegal migration through this one-stop shop that will help bridge the gap between youth’s skillsets and market demands.”

WFP and the MOEAA have been joining efforts to boost the achievement of the Ministry's Sustainable Development Strategy within the framework of "Egypt's Vision 2030" and through the creation of community champions at village levels to raise awareness on the risks of irregular migration and its safe alternatives.

“The MOEAA has always the pleasure to collaborate with WFP in regard to several fields and initiatives,” said Minister of Emigration and Egyptian Expatriate Affairs Nabila Makram. “We are keen on consolidating our efforts together to come up with positive and perfect results within the framework of the ministry’s Sustainable Development Strategy, especially in the field of combating illegal immigration and within the global repercussions of the Covid-19 outbreak”.

In coordination with the Ministry of Education, due to COVID 19, this activity continues through remote online training reaching more teachers and communities.

It is thanks to partnerships like these, with government, donors and non-governmental organizations that WFP has been able to deliver needed assistance to the most vulnerable.

#                           #                            #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/104529-ministry-emigration-and-wfp-launch-%E2%80%9Cbedaya-digital%E2%80%9D-initiative




Date: 07 December 2020
Title: Heads of UN Agencies in Egypt show commitment to end violence against women and girls
Content: 07 December 2020
Heads of Agencies have come together to stress that there is no excuse for violence against women and girls and to emphasize the importance of working together to end it.
Cairo - Heads of United Nations Agencies in Egypt today show their commitment to ending all forms of violence against women and girls. This comes within the 16 days of activism against gender based violence, an annual campaign held between November 25th which marks the International Day of Elimination of Violence against women and the December 10th which marks the International Day for Human Rights.

The importance of this year’s campaign is compounded because of COVID-19. Lockdowns and loss of sources of income has increased domestic tension and violence with reports of domestic violence increasing globally including harmful practices such as child and early marriage, and female genital mutilation.
اليوم تدشين حملة جديدة يُعبر من خلالها رؤساء منظمات الأمم المتحدة في #مصر🇪🇬 عن التزامهم بإنهاء جميع أشكال العنف ضد النساء والفتيات.البداية مع السيدة كريستين عرب، ممثلة @unwomenegypt 👇👇ترقبوا المزيد! #١٦يوم #لوّن_العالم_برتقالياً#جيل_المساواة #16days #orangetheworld pic.twitter.com/NgWMUVg46g— United Nations Egypt (@UNEgypt) December 6, 2020
اليوم تدشين حملة جديدة يُعبر من خلالها رؤساء منظمات الأمم المتحدة في #مصر🇪🇬 عن التزامهم بإنهاء جميع أشكال العنف ضد النساء والفتيات.البداية مع السيدة كريستين عرب، ممثلة @unwomenegypt 👇👇ترقبوا المزيد! #١٦يوم #لوّن_العالم_برتقالياً#جيل_المساواة #16days #orangetheworld pic.twitter.com/NgWMUVg46g
Heads of Agencies have come together to stress that there is no excuse for violence against women and girls and to emphasize the importance of working together to end it.Christine Arab, UN Women Representative in Egypt states “the 16 Days of Activism remind all of us that only through working together – as families, communities, friends, nations - can all forms of gender-based violence be stopped.”
Heads of @UN agencies in #Egypt show their commitment to ending all forms of violence against women and girls. See what @JeremyUNICEF of @UNICEF_Egypt said👇👇#16Days #OrangeTheWorld #GenerationEquality pic.twitter.com/uv8y6UYxdI— United Nations Egypt (@UNEgypt) December 7, 2020
Heads of @UN agencies in #Egypt show their commitment to ending all forms of violence against women and girls. See what @JeremyUNICEF of @UNICEF_Egypt said👇👇#16Days #OrangeTheWorld #GenerationEquality pic.twitter.com/uv8y6UYxdI

The 16 Days of Activism aims at preventing and ending violence against women while supporting survivors and promoting protection and improved services for women and girls. The theme color for the 16 days is orange as it symbolises a brighter future, free from violence against women and girls.

القاهرة - عبر رؤساء منظمات الأمم المتحدة في مصر اليوم عن التزامهم بإنهاء جميع أشكال العنف ضد النساء والفتيات. يأتي ذلك ضمن حملة اـ١٦ يومًا من النشاط ضد العنف القائم على النوع الاجتماعي والتي تقام سنويا بين يومي ٢٥ نوفمبر وهو اليوم العالمي للقضاء على العنف ضد المرأة و١٠ ديسمبر الذي يتزامن مع اليوم العالمي لحقوق الإنسان.

وتزداد أهمية هذه الحملة هذا العام في ظل جائحة كوفيد-١٩حيث أدت تدابير الإغلاق وفقدان سبل العيش إلى زيادة التوترات والعنف المنزلي فازدادت البلاغات عالميا كما ازدادت الممارسات الضارة مثل زواج الأطفال والزواج المبكر وختان الإناث.

ويجتمع رؤساء المنظمات ليؤكدوا أن لا مبرر على الإطلاق للعنف ضد النساء والفتيات وليؤكدوا على أهمية العمل معا للقضاء عليه. وتقول كريستين عرب، ممثلة هيئة الأمم المتحدة للمرأة في مصر، "تذكرنا حملة الـ 16 يوما من النشاط أنه فقط من خلال العمل معاً – كعائلات ومجتمعات وأصدقاء وبلدان – يمكننا وقف جميع أشكال العنف ضد المرأة."

وتهدف حملة ال16 يوم إلى منع العنف ضد المرأة والقضاء عليه،  ودعم الناجيات والتركيز على الوقاية وتحسين الخدمات المقدمة للسيدات والفتيات.  يرمز اللون البرتقالي التابع لحملة ال16 يوم  إلى مستقبل أكثر إشراقا، خال من العنف ضد السيدات والفتيات.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/103998-heads-un-agencies-egypt-show-commitment-end-violence-against-women-and-girls




Date: 05 December 2020
Title: International Volunteer Day celebrates volunteer action during COVID-19
Content: 05 December 2020
This year on the 4th and 5th of December 2020, the United Nations Volunteers Programme (UNV) in Egypt, along with its partners, are celebrating the International Volunteer Day (IVD) by recognizing volunteers’ efforts and impact during COVID-19 pandemic.
The year 2020 was different for all of us; a global Pandemic was introduced, people lost jobs, families lost loved ones, and economies recorded unprecedented losses. However, it is through the darkest moments in human history that we prevail together as one, and this time is no different.

This year on the 4th and 5th of December 2020, the United Nations Volunteers Programme (UNV) in Egypt, along with its partners, are celebrating the International Volunteer Day (IVD) by recognizing volunteers’ efforts and impact during COVID-19 pandemic. Volunteers have acted against the direct threat posed by the pandemic outbreak and wider challenges in a significant outpouring of solidarity. By voluntary actions, people on the margins can become more included in societies. This is why volunteers played a vital role in 2020 throughout the COVID-19 Pandemic.

“Together we can, through Volunteering” a slogan of the International Volunteer Day 2020, at a time where volunteers were needed the most in hospitals, relief camps and different medical facilities. They were also needed to mitigate the social and economic consequences of the pandemic on their communities. During the two-days celebration, participants will engage - online and in person - in a series of workshops designed to support their effort during COVID-19, they will have the chance to play DIY development games, develop their volunteering capacities to better serve their communities and learn how to protect their mental health during times of crisis.

Emphasizing on the vital role of volunteers in contributing and creating an organized, optimized, and community-focused approach actions to the pandemic, volunteers will be trained on the principles, skills and types of volunteerism. They will be introduced to impactful volunteering local initiatives; in order to inspire and boost their endeavors and local contributions.

As volunteers together with the health workers are at the front-line response, they have the COVID-19 implications on their mental health. Positioning volunteers at the front line mean that volunteers can be exposed to further harm. Through the workshop, volunteers will learn how to live a healthy lifestyle, help their immune systems to be in the best shape possible to tackle pathogens, and protect their mental health and will discuss how to protect their surroundings through a self-care and peer-support program. They will also meet public figures making significant voluntary actions in the communities and listen to inspirational volunteering youth initiatives fighting COVID-19.

The organization of the two-days event could have not been possible without the help of our partners: Beena Initiative at the Egyptian Ministry of Social Solidarity, Plan International, The Egyptian Red Crescent, The Scout, Sofara ‘Ambassadors of Voluntary Work’ NGO, Mashroo Watan NGO and CEOSS.


International Volunteer Day has always given us the opportunity to promote volunteerism within local governments, societies and global communities. In a time where unity is the key to passing the current predicament, the IVD will continue promoting its goals, ideologies and will continue to encourage those who are able to volunteer to join the cause and help the world usher in a new dawn.

Join us in celebrating those who were at the frontlines with medical personal and first responders fighting COVID-19.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/103835-international-volunteer-day-celebrates-volunteer-action-during-covid-19




Date: 29 November 2020
Title: The National Council for Women and UN Women Egypt Launch a Series of Public Screenings for the Film “Between Two Seas” in several Governorates across Egypt
Content: 29 November 2020
“Between Two Seas” aims to raise awareness among women and men about the various issues that the film tackles such as violence against women and Female Genital Mutilation (FGM).

Cairo - Within the framework of the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence, the National Council for Women (NCW), in partnership with UN Women Egypt, launch a series of public screenings for the film “Between Two Seas” in a number of governorates across Egypt, with the aim of raising the awareness of women and men about the various issues that the film tackles such as violence against women and Female Genital Mutilation (FGM).

The series of public screenings commenced in Qena governorate, where two public screenings were organized on 27 and 28 November in Al-Ashrafiyah and Al-Kallasa villages. Approximately 100 women and men attended the screenings in Qena and participated in the group discussion that followed the screenings. The discussion was facilitated by the NCW Rapporteur in the governorate to discuss the issues that were presented in the film and allow the audience to share their opinions and questions in order to address the related misconceptions. The public screenings will be held until mid-December in the governorates of Assiut, Luxor, Damietta, Kafr El Sheikh and Alexandria.

"Between Two Seas" is the first feature film produced through cooperation between the NCW, UN Women as part of their belief in the important role that cinema plays in changing negative perceptions towards women in different societies, and it was made possible through the generous support of Government of Japan and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). The film is written by Mariam Naoum, directed by Anas Tolba and produced by Axeer.  The story of the film revolves around a short visit by “Zahra” to her hometown in one of the suburbs of Cairo, where her daughter experience a tragic event, after which Zahra seeks to gain her daughter’s rights and insists on completing her education and enlightening her community. The film highlights the various societal issues facing women, especially in rural areas.

The film has won 14 awards so far during its tour in Arab and international festivals, winning two awards at the Aswan International Women’s Film Festival; the Nout Award for Best Film Supporting Women’s Issues; and the Best Director Award from the Cinema Syndicate. The film also won two awards for best director and the best screenplay award from the Taza International Diversity Film Festival in Morocco, in addition to the Certificate of Achievement and the best film award from the Brooklyn International Film Festival. It has also been screened at several festivals in Europe.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/103101-national-council-women-and-un-women-egypt-launch-series-public-screenings-film-%E2%80%9Cbetween-two




Date: 26 November 2020
Title: The National Council for Women and UN Women Egypt Light up the Great Pyramids of Giza in Orange to kick off the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-based Violence
Content: 26 November 2020
Throughout the period of the 16 Days of Activism, the National Council for Women and UN Women Egypt in collaboration with several development partners are organizing a number of on ground and virtual activities, while taking COVID-19 precautionary measures into consideration, bringing together different stakeholders to promote a change in mindset and culture in efforts to eliminate all forms of violence.


Cairo, 26 November 2020 - The National Council for Women (NCW), in partnership with UN Women Egypt Country Office, lit up in orange the Great Pyramids of Giza and the Sphinx on the 25th November, joining the global community in launching the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence. The 16 Days of Activism commences every year on the 25th of November, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and runs until International Human Rights Day on the 10th of December.

#OrangetheWorld and lighting the Great Pyramids of Giza and the Sphinx in orange falls within the UN Secretary General’s UNiTE campaign through which the colour orange symbolizes a future that is free from all forms of violence against women and girls worldwide. During the 16 Days of Activism, around the World iconic buildings and monuments are lite up in orange as a call for global action to increase awareness and galvanize advocacy efforts while sending a message to the whole world that violence against women and girls is unacceptable.

Dr. Maya Morsy, the President of the NCW said "Violence against women represents a gross violation of human rights, and has many negative effects on women, whether physical or psychological, which prevents them from actively participating in society. It is also a strong factor that has a great impact on the economic, social, political and cultural levels, whether locally or internationally, which requires everyone to work jointly and mobilize efforts to confront this problem and address it and to raise awareness on its impact and repercussions on women and all members of the family, society and the entire nation.”

“2020 saw the world grappling with the impact of a pandemic never before imagined. Prior to and during the pandemic, violence against women and girls continues to be a global phenomenon that not only has negative consequences for women but also their families, communities, and nations. But violence against women and girls can be overcome with our joint efforts, investments, and voice.” stated Ms. Christine Arab, UN Women Egypt Country Representative.

Throughout the period of the 16 Days of Activism, the National Council for Women and UN Women Egypt in collaboration with several development partners are organizing a number of on ground and virtual activities, while taking COVID-19 precautionary measures into consideration, bringing together different stakeholders to promote a change in mindset and culture in efforts to eliminate all forms of violence.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/102603-national-council-women-and-un-women-egypt-light-great-pyramids-giza-orange-kick-16-days




Date: 09 November 2020
Title: Final training webinar for journalists on misinformation discusses developing a unified media action to address COVID-19
Content: 09 November 2020
This is the final discussion of a series of  8 sessions held weekly from September 2020 to address misinformation and disinformation during COVID-19, a phenomenon which exacerbates the pandemic.
Media Advisory

UNESCO Regional Bureau for Sciences in the Arab States, World Health Organization Eastern Mediterranean Regional Office, The UN Information Centre in Cairo and in collaboration with The American University in Cairo’s Kamal Adham Center for Television and Digital Journalism, cordially invite you to the final discussion, 8th  webinar of a series of training webinars for media professionals on combatting misinformation and disinformation in the context of COVID-19.

The virtual session:  Final Discussion: "Towards developing a unified media action to address COVID-19" will be held on Wednesday, 4 November 2020 at 3:00pm Cairo Local Time (GMT+2).

Speakers:


Moderator:


Participants will be able to interact through the chat feature.

Register here to attend: : https://unesco-org.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJUpcu6rqzMoGdKgtsGTUZUkHz9DHfGzJY0j


You will receive confirmation and connection details on your email upon registration.

The webinar will be held in Arabic. Simultaneous interpretation in English and French will be provided.

This is the final discussion of a series of  8 sessions held weekly from September 2020 to address misinformation and disinformation during COVID-19, a phenomenon which exacerbates the pandemic. Media professionals play an essential role in shaping information ecology, general debate and public awareness.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/99835-final-training-webinar-journalists-misinformation-discusses-developing-unified-media-action




Date: 01 November 2020
Title: IOM and Embassy of Denmark sign Agreement to implement the second phase of SPHERE Project in Egypt
Content: 01 November 2020
SPHERE aims at expanding and strengthening the national response in migration management while protecting and assisting victims of trafficking and vulnerable migrants at risk of exploitation in Egypt on a rights-based approach.

Cairo, 1st November 2020 - The International Organization for Migration, Mission to the Arab Republic of Egypt, and the Embassy of Denmark in Egypt signed an agreement for the implementation of the second phase of the SPHERE project.

The first phase of the project was implemented by IOM Egypt in partnership with the Government of Egypt and, in particular among other institutions, with the National Coordinating Committee for Combatting and Preventing Illegal Migration and Trafficking in Persons, the Ministry of Social Solidarity, the National Council for Childhood and Motherhood, the National Council for Women as well as the National Council for Human Rights.

The new phase of the project builds on the achievement of the completed phase. SPHERE aims at expanding and strengthening the national response in migration management while protecting and assisting victims of trafficking and vulnerable migrants at risk of exploitation in Egypt on a rights-based approach.

The new project also provides resources to further support the capacity of the Government of Egypt to identify, face and respond to irregular migration challenges and to counter migration-related crimes.
While the Government of Egypt has progressed migration management and control of irregular migration both from and to Egypt, migration has recently been included as a pillar of the country’s Vision 2030. The momentum of this inclusion will support enhancement of protection and strengthening of institutional capacities to ensure safe, humane and orderly migration for all.

“I am very glad to launch the second phase of SPHERE II combatting trafficking and irregular migration with the IOM, highlighting our Danish priorities and our strategy for development cooperation and humanitarian action and signifying the joint efforts of Egypt and Denmark to enhance the protection of migrants and combat trafficking,” said H. E. Mr. Svend Olling, Ambassador of Denmark to Egypt.

“IOM is grateful for the cooperation with the Govenrment of Egypt and the support of the Government of Denmark in enhancing the migration management and countering the pertaining crimes while protecting the rights of migrants and human trafficking victims. The new phase of SPHERE project will contribute to this aim and to consolidate the partnership with the scope of making the response effective in the interest of the most vulnerable categories of the society, whose conditions have been worsening even more due to the COVID-related crisis” said Mr. Laurent De Boeck, IOM Chief of Mission in Egypt.
SPHERE project supports the realization of Egypt’s Sustainable Development Strategy: Egypt’s Vision 2030. It also falls in line with the United Nations’ Agenda 2030, specifically the UN Sustainable Development Goals, namely, Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth; Goal 10: Reduced Inequalities; Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions and Goal 17: Partnership for the Goals.

المنظمة الدولية للهجرة وسفارة الدنمارك توقعان اتفاقية لتنفيذ المرحلة الثانية من مشروع "سفيير" في مصر

القاهرة -  وقعت المنظمة الدولية للهجرة وسفارة الدنمارك في مصر اتفاقية لتنفيذ المرحلة الثانية من مشروع سفيير.

تم تنفيذ المرحلة الأولى من المشروع من قبل المنظمة الدولية للهجرة في مصر بالشراكة مع الحكومة المصرية، وبالتعاون مع مؤسسات أخرى، مثل اللجنة الوطنية التنسيقية لمكافحة ومنع الهجرة غير الشرعية والاتجار بالبشر، ووزارة التضامن الاجتماعي، و مجلس الطفولة والأمومة والمجلس القومي للمرأة والمجلس القومي لحقوق الإنسان.

وتستند المرحلة الجديدة من المشروع إلى الإنجازات التي تم تحقيقها في المرحلة الأولى. يهدف مشروع "سفيير" إلى توسيع وتعزيز الاستجابة الوطنية في إدارة الهجرة مع حماية ومساعدة ضحايا الاتجار والمهاجرين المعرضين لخطر الاستغلال في مصر على أساس نهج قائم على الحقوق.

كما يوفر المشروع الجديد أيضًا موارد لدعم قدرة الحكومة المصرية على تحديد تحديات الهجرة غير النظامية ومواجهتها والاستجابة لها والتصدي للجرائم المتعلقة بالهجرة.
بينما أحرزت الحكومة المصرية تقدمًا في إدارة الهجرة والسيطرة على الهجرة غير النظامية من مصر وإليها، فقد تم مؤخرًا إدراج الهجرة كأحد الأعمدة الرئيسية لرؤية البلاد لعام 2030. وسوف يدعم زخم هذا الإدماج تعزيز الحماية وتعزيز القدرات المؤسسية لضمان الهجرة الآمنة والإنسانية والمنظمة للجميع.

"يسعدني جدًا إطلاق المرحلة الثانية من مشروع سفيير لمكافحة الاتجار والهجرة غير النظامية مع المنظمة الدولية للهجرة، مع تسليط الضوء على أولوياتنا الدنماركية واستراتيجيتنا للتعاون الإنمائي والعمل الإنساني والدلالة على الجهود المشتركة لمصر والدنمارك لتعزيز حماية المهاجرين" - سعادة السفير، سفيند أولينج، سفير الدنمارك في مصر.

"المنظمة الدولية للهجرة ممتنة للتعاون مع حكومة مصر ودعم حكومة الدنمارك في تعزيز إدارة الهجرة والتصدي للجرائم ذات الصلة مع حماية حقوق المهاجرين وضحايا الاتجار بالبشر. ستساهم المرحلة الجديدة من مشروع سفيير في تحقيق هذا الهدف وتعزيز الشراكة مع نطاق جعل الاستجابة فعالة لصالح الفئات الأكثر ضعفاً في المجتمع، والتي ساءت ظروفها أكثر بسبب الأزمة المرتبطة بـ كوفيد19" - السيد لوران دي بويك، رئيس بعثة المنظمة الدولية للهجرة في مصر.
يدعم مشروع سفيير تحقيق استراتيجية التنمية المستدامة في مصر، رؤية مصر 2030. كما أنه يتماشى مع جدول أعمال الأمم المتحدة 2030، وتحديداً أهداف الأمم المتحدة للتنمية المستدامة، الهدف 8: العمل اللائق والنمو الاقتصادي؛ الهدف 10: الحد من عدم المساواة؛ الهدف 16: السلام والعدل والمؤسسات القوية والهدف 17: الشراكة من أجل الأهداف.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/98551-iom-and-embassy-denmark-sign-agreement-implement-second-phase-sphere-project-egypt




Date: 26 October 2020
Title: 7th  webinar of a series of training webinars for media professionals on combatting misinformation to focus on journalist safety
Content: 26 October 2020
The session is part of a series of  training webinars for media professionals on combating misinformation and disinformation in the context of COVID-19.
Media Advisory

UNESCO Regional Bureau for Sciences in the Arab States, World Health Organization Eastern Mediterranean Regional Office, The UN Information Centre in Cairo and in collaboration with The American University in Cairo’s Kamal Adham Center for Television and Digital Journalism, cordially invite you to the 7th  webinar of a series of training webinars for media professionals on combatting misinformation and disinformation in the context of COVID-19.

The virtual session “Ensuring Journalist Safety During COVID-19” will be held on Wednesday, 28 October 2020 at 3:00pm Cairo Local Time (GMT+2).

Speakers:

Moderator:
Ms. Suzan ElKalliny, Dean, Media Faculty, Emirates College of Technology , UAE.


Participants will be able to interact through the chat feature.

Register here to attend: : https://unesco-org.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJUpcu6rqzMoGdKgtsGTUZUkHz9DHfGzJY0j


You will receive confirmation and connection details on your email upon registration.

The webinar will be held in Arabic. Simultaneous interpretation in English and French will be provided.

This is the 7th of  8 sessions held weekly through September and October to address misinformation and disinformation during COVID-19, a phenomenon which exacerbates the pandemic. Media professionals play an essential role in shaping information ecology, general debate and public awareness.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/97757-7th-%C2%A0webinar-series-training-webinars-media-professionals-combatting-misinformation-focus




Date: 26 October 2020
Title: “Our Story; Youth, Migration and Covid-19” Campaign
Content: 26 October 2020
IOM Egypt Launches a Digital Campaign on the Stories of Migrants During the COVID-19 Pandemic.



Cairo, 26 October 2020 - Today, IOM Egypt is launching its campaign “Our Story; Youth, Migration and Covid-19) online. COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in severe economic and social impacts around the world. Migrant youths are amongst the vulnerable groups affected by the disruption caused by the pandemic. Under these circumstances, it is important that youths, including migrant youths, are heard alongside other community voices in the rollout of health and non-health interventions in response to COVID-19 pandemic “Leaving No One Behind”.
The campaign sheds light on the migrant youths in different migration patterns and how their lives have been affected by Covid-19 pandemic in education, work, health, travel, mental health, etc. Through real personal stories narrated by the youth themselves, we hear the voice of migrant youths and the challenges they face in the times of the pandemic. The stories include youths from different nationalities, educational and social backgrounds.
This initiative has been produced through the support of the Embassy of the Kingdom of Netherlands in Cairo and the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation.
The campaign is also very proud to host Egyptian Singer Maram in one of the stories.
بيان صحفى
حكايتنا؛ الشباب، الهجرة، وكوفيد-19


المنظمة الدولية للهجرة في مصر تطلق حملة رقمية حول قصص المهاجرين أثناء جائحة كوفيد19
القاهرة، 26 أكتوبر 2020 - تطلق المنظمة الدولية للهجرة اليوم حملة بعنوان (حكايتنا؛ الشباب،والهجرة،وكوفيد-19).
لقد تسببت جائحة كوفيد-19 في آثار إجتماعية وإقتصادية جسيمة حول العالم،  الشباب المهاجر هو واحد من الفئات الأكثر ضعفاً والتي تأثرت بالإضطرابات التي أحدثتها الجائحة. في هذه الظروف، يكون من المهم سماع صوت الشباب، ومن ضمنهم الشباب المهاجر، في سياق الإستجابة للجائحة والتي تشمل الجوانب الصحية، وغير الصحية، حتى لا يتخلف أحد عن الركب.
تسلط الحملة الضوء على الشباب المهاجر في أنماط  مختلفة للهجرة وكيف تأثرت حياتهم بجائحة كوفيد-19، في التعليم، العمل، الصحة، السفر، الصحة النفسية، وغيرهم. من خلال قصص حقيقية يرويها الشباب أنفسهم، نستطيع أن نسمع صوت الشباب المهاجر، والتحديات التي يواجهونها في وقت الجائحة .القصص يرويها شباب من جنسيات عديدة، ومن خلفيات إجتماعية ومستويات تعليمية متنوعة.
لقد تم إطلاق هذه المبادرة بدعم من سفارة المملكة الهولندية بالقاهرة والوكالة الإيطالية للتعاون الإنمائي.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/97357-%E2%80%9Cour-story-youth-migration-and-covid-19%E2%80%9D-campaign




Date: 25 October 2020
Title: Partnering with GFF 2020, Sawiris Foundation & UNHCR Celebrate their Collaboration, Announce 2021 – 2022 Commitment to Refugee Children in Egypt
Content: 25 October 2020
During the reception, Mr. Karim Atassi, UNHCR Representative to Egypt and to the League of Arab States and Eng. Samih Sawiris, representing Sawiris Foundation for Social Development will sign a partnersh.

In partnership with El Gouna Film Festival 2020, and under the slogan of "Cinema for Humanity," Sawiris Foundation and the UN Refugee Agency in Egypt, UNHCR, are organizing today a panel discussion and a high-level networking event to celebrate their 2020 collaboration and confirm their 2021-2022 commitment to support marginalized refugee children in Egypt.
The networking reception, which takes place at the Festival Plaza today, will be attended by Mrs. Yousriya Loza – Sawiris, Founder and Chairwoman of the Board of Sawiris Foundation, Eng. Naguib Sawiris, Founder and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Sawiris Foundation, Chairman of Orascom Telecom Media and Technology Holding, and Eng. Samih Sawiris, Founder and Board Member of the Sawiris Foundation and Chairman of Orascom Development Holding, in addition to celebrities and industry professionals.
During the reception, Mr. Karim Atassi, UNHCR Representative to Egypt and to the League of Arab States and Eng. Samih Sawiris, representing Sawiris Foundation for Social Development will sign a partnership agreement to support refugee children for the next two years.
“Being aware of the humanitarian crisis that touches tens of thousands of families in the region, it is our duty to support the refugee and marginalized children in Egypt. They all deserve safety, proper health care and education, as basic needs that would help them have a better tomorrow. It is together with the UNHCR and its vast network that we can positively impact the lives of refugee children, creating hope, providing opportunities and improving prospects for their futures,” commented Eng. Samih Sawiris.
This will be the second agreement to be signed this year between UNHCR and SFSD, solidifying and furthering the commitment to supporting vulnerable refugees in Egypt.
Earlier in 2020, SFSD made a generous contribution of EGP 15 million that supported more than 2,800 refugee households in Egypt, identified by UNHCR as highly vulnerable in the face of COVID-19.
“UNHCR is grateful to the support the Sawiris Foundation provided at a critical time this year to support thousands of refugee families affected by COVID-19 crisis. This is the beginning of a long-term partnership between UNHCR and the Sawiris Foundation and both of us are committed to continue to provide crucial assistance to the most vulnerable refugees in Egypt, especially to refugee children in 2021 and 2022,” said Mr. Atassi.
The event is preceded by a panel discussion titled “Children Matter: A Better Today for a Brighter Tomorrow” at the TUB Campus El Gouna. Moderated by the famous TV presenter Raya Abirached, the panel features a virtual talk with acclaimed film director Nadine Labaki, and brings together Mr. Atassi, Dr. Haifa Abu Ghazaleh, Assistant Secretary General, and Head of Social Affairs Sector of the League of Arab States, Eng. Noura Selim, Executive Director of SFSD and Syrian actress and UNHCR High Profile Supporter Kinda Alloush. The panelists will focus on the role of humanitarian organizations, policymakers, cultural elites and film industry in raising awareness and helping to ensure that plights of refugee children are well addressed.
Egypt is home to approximately 260,000 registered refugees and asylum-seekers representing 57 nationalities; 40 percent of them are children aged under 18. The majority of them live in urban areas alongside host communities, where UNHCR works with government authorities, local and international NGOs and foundations to provide and enhance access to protection services, health care and education.
----
About Sawiris Foundation for Social Development (SFSD)
Since its inception in 2001, as one of the first family-funded foundations in Egypt, SFSD addressed many pressing developmental issues in Egypt such as poverty, unemployment, health and education. For almost 20 years, SFSD has created an obvious difference in the lives of 300,000 Egyptians in 24 governorates. This was done through the economic and social empowerment interventions, education and scholarships, with a total fund of 1.4 billion EGP. Through numerous successful partnerships, the SFSD, has also contributed in underpinning the relationship with the social society organization in Egypt.
Contact Information: www.sawirisfoundation.org | wragab@Sawirisfoundation.org www.facebook.com/SawirisFoundation | www.twitter.com/SawirisSFSD
About UNHCR Egypt
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is a global organization dedicated to saving lives, protecting rights and building a better future for refugees, asylum seekers, forcibly displaced communities and stateless people.
UNHCR has been working in Egypt since 1954 and it provides protection services such as registration, documentation, refugee status determination and resettlement. UNHCR also provides different types of financial assistance to the most vulnerable persons registered with the office. Refugees and asylum seekers registered with the office are mainly from Syria, Eastern and Sub-Saharan Africa, Iraq and Yemen.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/97359-partnering-gff-2020-sawiris-foundation-unhcr-celebrate-their-collaboration-announce-2021-%E2%80%93




Date: 06 October 2020
Title: Egyptian MFA, UN in Egypt Launch Response Plans to Support Refugees and Asylum-Seekers
Content: 06 October 2020
The response plans aim to support Syrian refugees and members of the host community as well as refugees and asylum-seekers from Sub-Saharan Africa, Iraq and Yemen.
Cairo, 6 October
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs hosted the launch of the Egypt Chapter in the Regional Refugee & Resilience Plan 2020 – 2021 in response to the Syria Crisis (3RP) and the Egypt Response Plan for Refugees and Asylum-seekers from Sub-Saharan Africa, Iraq and Yemen 2020 – 2021 (ERP) on 5 October.
To support Syrian refugees and members of the host community, 3RP Partners are appealing for a budget of USD 159.1m in 2020 and USD 172m in 2021. Launched for the third consecutive year, the ERP targets refugees and asylum-seekers from Sub-Saharan Africa, Iraq and Yemen as well as host community members. This year’s partners are appealing for USD 89.6m in 2020 and USD 99.6m in 2021.
Targeted sectors for interventions include education, protection, health, basic needs, cash assistance, livelihoods, and food security.
“More resources are needed to support the public services and foster community resilience. Support is also needed to improve the education of refugee children in public schools, in addition to providing secondary and tertiary healthcare for refugees,” said Ambassador Ihab Fawzi, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs for Multilateral Affairs and International Security.
Meeting the pressing needs of the refugee population over the past few years has been a major challenge for the Government of Egypt, UNHCR and appealing agencies due to recurrent underfunding. Consequently, the outbreak of COVID-19 has only heightened these challenges, with refugees at the forefront.
Richard Dictus, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt highlighted, “the COVID-19 pandemic has had far-reaching consequences beyond the spread of the disease itself. It caused a severe socio-economic shock with millions at risk of falling into extreme poverty. Refugees and asylum seekers are among the most vulnerable populations, hit particularly hard by the pandemic.” He added, “The United Nations in Egypt has been working closely with the Government of Egypt since the outbreak of COVID-19 to alleviate the socio-economic impacts of COVID 19 striving towards an approach that leaves no one behind.”
Egypt is among the 3RP countries receiving one of the lowest levels of funding. In 2019, only 43.3 percent of the total requirements under the 3RP and 42.6 percent under the ERP were received. As of 31 August 2020, Egypt hosts 258,855 refugees and asylum-seekers registered with UNHCR in Egypt.
Mr. Karim Atassi, UNHCR Representative to Egypt and to the League of Arab States expressed his sincere appreciation to the generous donors “who are funding UNHCR operation and allowing us to support persons in need of international protection hosted in Egypt.” Mr. Atassi added “I call on donors to support the Government of Egypt for hosting refugees. To my knowledge, Egypt is not directly receiving today any financial support from the international community for supporting refugees. This is very unfortunate and does not reflect the principle of international solidarity encompassed in the Global Compact on Refugees among host states and donor countries.”
The event comes as part of the Government of Egypt’s sustained efforts to support refugees and asylum-seekers from all nationalities in Egypt. It was attended by representatives from donor countries, appealing UN agencies, international and national NGOs, and media.
You can watch the video of the 3RP and ERP launch here.
……………………………………………………………………………
About UNHCR in Egypt
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is a global organization dedicated to saving lives, protecting rights and building a better future for people forced to flee their homes because of conflict and persecution. We deliver assistance in Egypt like education, protection, health, basic needs, cash assistance, livelihoods, and food security. As of September 2020, Egypt hosts 258,855 refugees and asylum seekers registered with UNHCR from 57 countries of origin.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/94227-egyptian-mfa-un-egypt-launch-response-plans-support-refugees-and-asylum-seekers




Date: 06 October 2020
Title: Strengthening Joint Risk Assessment Capacity at the Human-Animal- Environment Interface in Egypt
Content: 06 October 2020
FAO, WHO, and OIE continue their successful partnership with the Government of Egypt in promoting the One Health approach
Cairo, 6 October 2020
The Tripartite collaboration among the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), World Health Organization (WHO), and World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) is taking root as evidenced by their joint effort in developing, piloting, and implementing the Joint Risk Assessment (JRA) tool in member countries, including Egypt.

Multidisciplinary and multisectoral collaboration has become a requisite practice to effectively address health threats that emerge at the human-animal-environment interface including antimicrobial resistance and food safety threats.

Developed by the Tripartite since 2014, the JRA operational tool provides an avenue for collaboration among the animal, human and environmental health sectors in order to assess the level and magnitude of risk of health hazards that emerge at the interface.

Cognizant of this and responding to a request from the Government of Egypt, the Tripartite organized a JRA workshop in Cairo from 5th - 7th October 2020, which benefitted 47 One Health practitioners drawn from the human, animal and environmental health sectors.

“Training of local experts on joint risk assessment would be a milestone for controlling zoonotic diseases in the country through a One Health approach,” said Zelalem Tadesse, FAO-ECTAD Egypt Team Leader.

The workshop enabled health experts to jointly assess two selected priority health hazards, while being trained on the use of the JRA tool for assessing the risk level of other priority health hazards in the future.

“The success of joint risk assessment depends on effective communication among concerned sectors throughout the process, ideally leading to a consensus on the outcome of the assessment and production of joint recommendations. This allows decision-makers to build and implement science-based risk management measures and communication messages that can be aligned between sectors or implemented jointly.” said Heba Mahrous, One Health Consultant, WHO, EMRO.

The workshop is supported by technical experts from the headquarters and regional offices of FAO, WHO and OIE, who have also delivered remarks during the opening of the three-day workshop.

The JRA workshop is being coordinated by the Ministry of Health (MOH), Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MOALR), and Ministry of Environment (MOE), along with FAO and WHO county offices.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/94424-strengthening-joint-risk-assessment-capacity-human-animal-environment-interface-egypt




Date: 04 October 2020
Title: Egyptian Housing Strategy to be launched Monday
Content: 04 October 2020
The Housing Strategy in Egypt represents a unified and integrated vision that effectively guides the housing sector over the next twenty years and fulfills the aspirations of all Egyptians to access decent housing while recognizing that the primary role of the government is regulation and empowerment.
Coinciding with World Habitat Day entitled: Housing for All - A Better Urban Future; the Ministry of Housing, Utilities and Urban Communities, represented by the Housing and Utilities sector, and in cooperation with the United Nations Human Settlements Program, launches the first Arab National Housing Strategy for Egypt through a webinar on Monday 5 October 2020 at 10:00 AM. During the webinar, the strategy will be presented, discussed, and questions received to begin implementing the strategy through the housing and utilities sector in cooperation with UN-Habitat.
To attend the webinar, please use the registration link below:
https://us02web.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_L9opLFTTRb-F01zquG4QPQ
The Housing Strategy in Egypt represents a unified and integrated vision that effectively guides the housing sector over the next twenty years and fulfills the aspirations of all Egyptians to access decent housing while recognizing that the primary role of the government is regulation and empowerment.
Adequate housing has been recognized as part of the right to an adequate standard of living in international treaties, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in which Article (25) states: “Every person has the right to a standard of living sufficient to maintain the health and well-being of himself and his family including nutrition and clothing, housing and medical care, as well as the necessary social services”. The Egyptian constitution that was amended in 2014 in Article 78 affirms this right.
Accordingly, the Ministry of Housing, Utilities and Urban Communities prioritized addressing the issue of housing accessibility, as an important and advanced issue among the list of social and economic priorities. The Ministry has taken leading steps to define solid directions that clarify the responsibilities of the state and define policy frameworks in a way that addresses the current problems and fulfills the hopes of the Egyptian people to access adequate housing for all. Hence, the Ministry, through the housing and utilities sector, launched the Egypt housing profile in 2016 in cooperation with the United Nations Human Settlements Program, which includes monitoring of the current situation and a comprehensive analysis of the housing sector and aims to provide the necessary support to activate a comprehensive discussion based on a true understanding of the sector.
Based on the analytical results of the housing profile, the strategy was prepared over several years with the participation of various governmental, academic, research and community groups; and in accordance with the guidelines of the global housing strategy and the recommendations of the Arab strategy for housing and urban development. The strategy also comes in line with global and regional requirements, including (the sustainable development goals 2030, the New Urban Agenda, the sustainable development strategy (Egypt Vision 2030), the National Strategic Plan for Urban Development 2050). The strategy is also characterized by a great deal of flexibility related to practical implementation based on implementation experiences and changing circumstances.
The launch of the strategy coincides also with complex challenges as the world struggles to control the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, and once again housing has proven to be a fundamental human right and a catalyst for many other rights.
To view the strategy, please follow the link below:
https://unhabitat.org/egypt-housing-strategy
To view the housing file, please use the link below:
https://unhabitat.org/egypt-housing-profile
For more about World Habitat Day:
https://www.un.org/en/observances/habitat-day
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/94034-egyptian-housing-strategy-be-launched-monday




Date: 30 September 2020
Title: On World Food Day 2020, Two competitions for children and youth in Egypt
Content: 30 September 2020
The two competitions draw attention to the fact that food is the essence of life and the basis of our cultures and societies. Maintaining access to safe and nutritious food has been and will remain an essential part of the response to COVID-19, especially for the poorest and most vulnerable.

Marking World Food Day 2020, which comes this year under the slogan "Grow, Nourish, Sustain. Together. Our Actions are our Future", a number of United Nations organizations in Egypt are launching two competitions; one for children and  another for youth.
The two competitions draw attention to the fact that food is the essence of life and the basis of our cultures and societies. Maintaining access to safe and nutritious food has been and will remain an essential part of the response to COVID-19, especially for the poorest and most vulnerable, as they are the ones who have been most affected by the pandemic and its economic consequences.
The "Children's Competition for World Food Day 2020" will be a full day of fun and different activities organized to commemorate World Food Day on 22 October, in addition to learning about many interesting topics related to our daily lives and  emphasizing the importance of reducing food waste. The title “Food Saver Heroes” will be awarded to the winners of the competition, which will be open to children from 10-14 years old.
For more information and details about this competition: https://bit.ly/36avFsd
It is important now more than ever, that we recognize the need to support our heroes: food champions - farmers and workers across all sectors of the food system - who strive to get food from farm to table, even in the midst of the unprecedented disruptions caused by the current COVID-19 crisis.
The World Food Day 2020 Youth Competition is meant to encourage young people to spread awareness about the importance of food in our lives, the need to follow a healthy diet that contributes to a healthy life, the importance of social participation by volunteering with food banks or community kitchens, and encouraging the cultivation of food at home while promoting respect for food champions and the importance of reducing food waste.
The youth competition is open to young people aged 18 to 35 and requires participants to submit awareness messages in various formats by October 18.
For more information and details about this competition: https://bit.ly/2GfdQgC
Our future food systems must provide affordable and healthy food for all and provide decent livelihoods for those working in the food sector, while preserving natural resources and biodiversity, and countering challenges like climate change.
The United Nations Organizations who setup these two competitions as part of activities commemorating World Food Day 2020 include the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations Information Centre (UNIC), UNICEF, the World Food Program (WFP), the World Health Organization (WHO), in addition to the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation.
It’s estimated that the global economy is suffering USD 3.5 trillion in annual losses due to the impact of malnutrition in all its forms - undernutrition and deficiency of micronutrients, in addition to overweight and obesity. Nearly 690 million people are suffering from hunger, an increase of about ten million people since the beginning of 2019. The COVID-19 pandemic could add between 83 and 132 million more to this number, depending on the economic growth scenario.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/93319-world-food-day-2020-two-competitions-children-and-youth-egypt




Date: 21 September 2020
Title: UN75: The Future We Want, The UN We Need
Content: 21 September 2020
Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, the UN’s worldwide consultation reveals a strong call for action on inequalities and climate change, as well as more solidarity


In January 2020, the United Nations launched the global consultation to mark its 75th anniversary. Through surveys and dialogues, it asked people about their hopes and fears for the future – representing the UN’s most ambitious effort to date to understand expectations of international cooperation and of the UN in particular.  It is also the largest survey to date on priorities for recovering from the COVID-19 pandemic.

As of 21 September 2020, over a million people from all countries and all walks of life had taken part. Their answers provide unique insights into what the public wants at this challenging time for the world. They are released today to coincide with the UN General Assembly’s official commemoration of the 75th anniversary, held under the banner: the future we want, the UN we need. Key findings include:

Priorities for action
Perceptions of the UN

“Across this anniversary year, we have engaged in a global conversation. And the results are striking.
People are thinking big – they are also expressing an intense yearning for international cooperation and global solidarity. Now is the time to respond to these aspirations and realize these aims. In this 75th anniversary year, we face our own 1945 moment. We must meet that moment. We must show unity like never before to overcome today’s emergency, get the world moving and working and prospering again, and uphold the vision of the Charter.” - United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres

Full report and press kit: https://www.un.org/un75/presskit
Join the conversation: www.un75.online

Background



UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/91810-un75-future-we-want-un-we-need




Date: 20 September 2020
Title: Egypt’s Minister of International Cooperation Leads Visit to WFP Projects in Luxor
Content: 20 September 2020
WFP is supporting more than 120,000 people in Luxor through climate change interventions, awareness and nutrition projects, as well as school feeding and other initiatives so that communities may become more self-reliant.
CAIRO – Egypt’s minister of International Cooperation visited projects in Upper Egypt’s governorate of Luxor where the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) is supporting more than 120,000 people through climate change interventions, awareness and nutrition projects, as well as school feeding and other initiatives so that communities may become more self-reliant.

Minister Rania El Mashat began her visit in El-Boghdadi village where she met with smallholder farmers. The village is one of 64 villages in Upper Egypt assisted through a Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR) and WFP joint project.  This successful partnership between WFP and MALR is helping smallholders face climate shocks, promotes the use of water saving techniques and using other innovative solutions. Project participants have increased their incomes by 45% and the project is expanding to reach 1 million farmers in 500 villages by 2023.

The Minister was accompanied by the Governor of Luxor, WFP’s Representative and Country Director in Egypt as well as a delegation from the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation.

"Listening to the stories told by the farmers and women entrepreneurs manifests the real human impact these programmes are achieving. Concerted efforts are needed to push forward with the United Nations SDGs, with the sustainable development of agriculture being a center pillar in this endeavor," said Egypt’s Minister of International Cooperation, H.E Dr Rania Al-Mashat. “Together with WFP, we are focusing on ensuring food security going into the future and empowering communities to build for a resilient and green economy.”

The field mission also included a visit to El-Fatatih community school in El-Toud district, Luxor. This one-room, multi-grade school provides quality primary education for exceptionally vulnerable children aged 6-14 who would otherwise not be attending school. This is the first “smart community school” in Luxor acting as an integrated centre for knowledge to all village members.

Over the past year, the Ministry of Education (MOE) in partnership with WFP, has been transforming community schools into hubs by connecting them to  the internet and providing tablets and other equipment to provide children and their families with an innovative learning experience and knowledge sharing platform. To date, 57 community hubs have been established in 7 governorates in Upper Egypt with a plan to scale up to 1300 community hubs by 2021.

The Minister also met with several women who shared their life changing experience through She Can initiative, a joint programme between the Ministry of Social Solidarity and WFP, where women are trained on entrepreneurship  and are provided with concessional micro-loans to start their own income generating projects in an effort to encourage families to keep their children in schools.

“We are proud to have been a strong partner of the Government of Egypt in implementing programmes that are aligned with the Country’s 2030 Vision,” said WFP Representative and Country Director in Egypt Menghestab Haile. “As a result of this solid collaboration, we are able to scale up successful integrated development models to assist more communities in need, especially at such difficult times resulting from the COVID-19 crisis where more and more people are becoming vulnerable.“

WFP is the sole UN agency in Egypt providing food security to the most vulnerable populations and continues to count on the contributions of donors to sustain and upscale assistance to the most vulnerable populations in Egypt throughout its COVID-19 response and recovery phases.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/91755-egypt%E2%80%99s-minister-international-cooperation-leads-visit-wfp-projects-luxor




Date: 31 August 2020
Title: Press statement of the United Nations in Egypt regarding the recent published video for a Lady who claimed her affiliation to the United Nations while assaulting a police officer during his duty
Content: 31 August 2020
The United Nations in Egypt rejects any violation conducted under its name and stresses that under the Charter of the United Nations, there are no privileges or immunities that exempt its employees from observing the laws and police regulations in the host country.


Cairo - The United Nations family in Egypt and all its employees affirm their full commitment to the laws of the Arab Republic of Egypt and their respect for all Egyptian State Agencies and all its employees performing their duties. The United Nations in Egypt also rejects any violation conducted under its name and stresses that under the Charter of the United Nations, there are no privileges or immunities that exempt its employees from observing the laws and police regulations in the host country.

The United Nations also reminds every one of the need to follow the current precautionary measures that help in limiting the spread of Coronavirus according to the instructions of the Egyptian Ministry of Health and the World Health Organization, including wearing masks in public places to preserve public health.


بيان توضيحي من أسرة الأمم المتحدة بشأن الفيديو المتداول حالياً لسيدة تدعي انتمائها للأمم المتحدة  أثناء تعديها على ضابط شرطة خلال تأدية عمله

القاهرة - تؤكد أسرة الأمم المتحدة في مصر وجميع موظفيها على التزامهم الكامل بقوانين جمهورية مصر العربية، واحترامهم لجميع أجهزة الدولة المصرية وكافة العاملين و العاملات بها أثناء تأدية عملهم. كما ترفض أسرة الأمم المتحدة أي تجاوز يتم باسمها مؤكدة أنه وبموجب ميثاق الأمم المتحدة لا توجد امتيازات أو حصانات تعفي موظفي الأمم المتحدة من مراعاة القوانين وأنظمة الدولة  التي يوجدون فيها.

كما تهيب الأمم المتحدة الجميع بضرورة اتباع الإجراءات الوقائية المتبعة حالياً للحد من انتشار وباء كورونا بحسب تعليمات وزارة الصحة المصرية ومنظمة الصحة العالمية بما فيها ارتداء الكمامات في الأماكن العامة حفاظا على الصحة العامة.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/89121-press-statement-united-nations-egypt-regarding-recent-published-video-lady-who-claimed-her




Date: 25 August 2020
Title: Government of Japan and UNDP commit to addressing Socio-Economic Impact of COVID-19 in Egypt through human security approach
Content: 25 August 2020
The new project will focus on supporting national and sub-national capacities for planning, coordination and crisis management in addition to addressing the socio-economic impact of COVID-19 particularly on the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and vulnerable groups.


(Cairo) Responding to the socio-economic impact of COVID-19 is a key priority. Together with the health response, it is integral to direct support that will keep households and businesses running. In this connection, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Government of Japan are expanding their strategic partnership to support Egypt’s inclusive and multi-sectoral crisis management and responses and to address the socio-economic impact of COVID-19 in Egypt with around 2.73 million USD grant to UNDP.

In a meeting held today Tuesday 25 August 2020, the partners discussed the next steps for the project, titled “Supporting an Inclusive and Multi-Sectoral Response to COVID-19 and Addressing its Socio-Economic Impact in Egypt”. The new project will focus on supporting national and sub-national capacities for planning, coordination and crisis management in addition to addressing the socio-economic impact of COVID-19 particularly on the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and vulnerable groups. It is expected for example to benefit 3.7 million MSMEs, especially in retail and handcraft sectors, thanks to support to digitalization and improved market access through e-commerce.

The meeting witnessed the attendance of Ambassador Masaki NOKE - Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Japan to Egypt, Dr. Ahmed Kamaly – Deputy Minister of Planning and Economic Development, Ms. Randa Aboul-Hosn, UNDP Egypt Resident Representative, Ambassador Lamia Mekhemar – Director of International Cooperation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA), Ambassador Ahmed Ihab Gamaledin - Assistant Minister, MoFA and Secretary General of the Standing Supreme Committee for Human Rights (SSCHR), and Engineer Tarek Shash – Deputy Executive Director, MSMEDA, and senior representatives from Ministry of International Cooperation.

“Thanks to the generosity of Japan, we are delighted to work closely with the Embassy of Japan to support Egypt’s efforts to respond and recover from COVID-19. Millions of people and vulnerable households are affected by the socio-economic shocks resulting from the COVID-19,” said Randa Aboul-Hosn, UNDP Resident Representative in Egypt.

“The COVID-19 is a human security crisis, posing threat to not only the health and the lives, but also the dignity of individuals. We need thus an inclusive response based on the human security philosophy, focusing on the protection and empowerment of each person, leaving nobody behind, especially the most vulnerable. International solidarity is indispensable, and Japan will continue working closely with the Egyptian government and the UNDP.” Masaki NOKE, the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the Egypt noted.

As the UN’s lead agency on socio-economic impact and recovery, UNDP provides the technical lead in the UN’s socio-economic recovery efforts, supporting the overall coordination role of the Resident Coordinators, with UN teams working as one across all aspects of the response.

Over the past decades, UNDP and the Government of Japan have developed an important partnership. Together, UNDP and the Government of Japan will continue this partnership for development and a vital collaboration to end poverty and inequality, and to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/88520-government-japan-and-undp-commit-addressing-socio-economic-impact-covid-19-egypt-through




Date: 12 August 2020
Title: Launch of Virtual Event on International Youth Day 2020 themed # Egyptian_ Youth _Participate
Content: 12 August 2020
Over the two days, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the United Nations organizations in Egypt discuss effective participation and host young people who have influential roles in their societies through innovative initiatives, volunteer work and awareness campaigns.


United Nations Information Centre in Cairo- The United Nations family in Egypt and the Egyptian government, represented by the Ministry of Youth and Sports launched a virtual event to celebrate International Youth day today, under the slogan #Egyptian _Youth _Participate. Five hundred young women and men from 26 governorates participated. The celebration comes in exceptional circumstances this year in light of the COVID-19 pandemic and addresses the importance of youth participation in international efforts to face challenges and overcome crises.
The day started with a keynote speech from Mrs. Cristina Albertin, The United Nations Resident Representative in Egypt (a.i), in which she stated that “Youth can play a major role in managing this crisis, in recovery and in rebuilding better for more inclusive and equitable societies.” She stressed on the impact of the global youth movement of climate change activists calling for the return of healthy environmentally and ecologically safe places for the sake of future generations.

The Minister of Youth and Sports, Dr. Ashraf Sobhy also stated in his speech that within the context of the COVID-19 crisis facing the world, "we have found innovative youth initiatives in Egypt in various fields to protect society from the effects of the virus on the health, social and economic levels." He also added that “The Egyptian government, represented by the Ministry of Youth and Sports was keen to hold many virtual conferences and forums for the Egyptian youth at the local, regional and global levels to share visions and ideas with the participation of different societies in overcoming the COVID-19 crisis."

Over the two days, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the United Nations organizations in Egypt discuss effective participation and host young people who have influential roles in their societies through innovative initiatives, volunteer work and awareness campaigns. The sessions discuss important and various topics such as cybercrime and combating misinformation in the time of COVID-19, new societal innovations, gender equality and women's empowerment, population issues, volunteerism, migration, achieving food security and helping young people find job opportunities. These events aim to encourage effective participation and build capacities to enable young people to make informative decisions.

The virtual celebration held on 12 and 13 August is broadcasted live on the social media pages of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the United Nations in Egypt.

As this celebration coincides with the 75th anniversary of the foundation of the United Nations, the United Nations family in Egypt invited youth to join the largest global dialogue about the future they want, within the #UN75 initiative, by participating in a survey to voice their opinion on global priorities now and in the future. Their views, concerns and ideas will be presented to world leaders and senior United Nations officials at the official celebration of the United Nations General Assembly's seventy-fifth anniversary in September 2020. Discussions will follow to find the best means to address the priorities and suggestions.

To participate in the survey:
https://un75.online/?lang=eng

انطلاق احتفالية افتراضية بمناسبة اليوم العالمي للشباب ٢٠٢٠
تحت شعار #الشباب المصري يشارك
مركز الأمم المتحدة للإعلام بالفاهرة - انطلقت منذ قليل فعاليات اليوم العالمي للشباب، التى تنظمها أسرة الأمم المتحدة في مصر والحكومة المصرية، مُمثلة في وزارة الشباب والرياضة تحت شعار #الشباب_المصري_يشارك وبمشاركة 500 شابة وشاب من 26 محافظة. الاحتفالية تأتي في ظروف استثنائية في ظل جائحة كوفيد_19 وتتناول أهمية مشاركة الشباب في الجهود الدولية لمواجهة التحديات وتخطي الأزمات.

بدأ اليوم بكلمة افتتاحية من السيدة كريستينا البرتين، الممثل المقيم للأمم المتحدة فى مصر بالإنابة، أكدت فيها أنه "يمكن للشباب أن يلعبوا دورًا رئيسيًا في إدارة هذه الازمة والتعافي منها وإعادة البناء بشكل أفضل لمجتمعات أكثر شمولاً وإنصافًا." واستشهدت بتأثير الحركة الشبابية العالمية لنشطاء تغير المناخ والذين يطالبون بعودة الحياة إلى أماكن صحية وآمنة بيئيًا و ايكولوجياً من أجل الأجيال القادمة.

كما صرح الدكتور أشرف صبحي، وزير الشباب والرياضة في كلمته، أن في إطار أزمة كوفيد-١٩ التي يمر بها العالم "وجدنا إبداعات و مبادرات الشباب في مصر مبتكرة في شتى المجالات لحماية المجتمع من أثار الفيروس على المستوى الصحي والاجتماعي والاقتصادي." وأضاف أن الحكومة المصرية ممثلة في وزارة الشباب والرياضة حرصت على "عقد العديد من المؤتمرات والملتقيات الافتراضية للشباب المصري على المستوى المحلى والإقليمي والعالمي لتلاقى الرؤى والأفكار لمشاركة المجتمعات فى تخطى أزمة كوفيد-19."


على مدار اليومين، تقدم وزارة الشباب والرياضة ومنظمات أسرة الأمم المتحدة في مصر نماذج للمشاركة الفعالة وتستضيف شبابا كان لهم دور مؤثر في مجتمعاتهم من خلال مبادرات مبتكرة، وعمل تطوعي وتوعوي. و تناقش الجلسات موضوعات مهمة ومختلفة مثل التصدي للجرائم الإلكترونية في زمن كوفيد ومكافحة المعلومات المضللة، الابتكارات المجتمعية الجديدة، المساواة بين الجنسين وتمكين المرأة، القضايا السكانية، التطوع، الهجرة الآمنة والمنظمة والنظامية، تحقيق الأمن الغذائي ومساعدة الشباب في إيجاد فرص العمل. وتهدف هذه  الفعاليات إلى تشجيع المشاركة الفعالة وبناء القدرات بما يمكن الشباب من اتخاذ القرارات في الكثير من القضايا.

تستمر الاحتفالية الافتراضية على مدار يومي ١٢ و١٣ أغسطس وتبث مباشرة على صفحات التواصل الاجتماعي لوزارة الشباب والرياضة والأمم المتحدة في مصر.

وإذ تتزامن هذه الاحتفالية مع الذكرى الـ75 لإنشاء الأمم المتحدة، دعت أسرة الأمم المتحدة في مصر الشباب المشارك للانضمام إلى أكبر حوار عالمي حول المستقبل الذي يريدونه، ضمن مبادرة #UN75 وذلك عبر المشاركة في استطلاع الرأي حول الأولويات العالمية الآن وفي المستقبل. وستعرض وجهات نظرهم وشواغلهم وأفكارهم على قادة العالم وكبار مسؤولي الأمم المتحدة في احتفال الجمعية العامة للأمم المتحدة الرسمي بالذكرى السنوية الخامسة والسبعين في سبتمبر 2020. وسوف يتم مناقشة أفضل السبل الممكنة لمعالجة ما استُخلص من أولويات ومقترحات.


للمشاركة في الاستطلاع: https://un75.online/?lang=ara

للمزيد من الأخبار حول نشاطات الأمم المتحدة في العالم والمنطقة العربية وجمهورية مصر العربية، تابعوا موقعنا على الإنترنت وصفحات التواصل الاجتماعي حيث ننقل لكم  آخر المستجدات الخاصة بعمل الأمم المتحدة.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/88034-launch-virtual-event-%C2%A0international-youth-day-2020-themed-egyptian-youth-participate




Date: 27 July 2020
Title: WFP launches a EURO 15 million project in Egypt with the German Development Bank
Content: 27 July 2020
The new two-year project will support 136,000 poor families with their nutrition and education needs and provide income generation opportunities for women and youth.
CAIRO – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in Egypt received a generous contribution of EURO15 million from the Egyptian-German Debt Swap Programme for 2020.

This new contribution builds on a previous successful partnership between WFP and the German Development Bank (KfW) on ‘Food for Education Through a Life Cycle Approach’ implemented under the previous Egyptian-German Debt Swap Programme.

WFP and its government partners will use the fund to launch a new two-year project that will support 136,000 poor families with their nutrition and education needs and provide income generation opportunities for women and youth. The ‘Investing in Human Capital in Rural Upper Egypt’ project will build the resilience of families to cope with the social and economic impacts of the COVID-19 crisis.

The project will benefit students in community schools – one-classroom schools – providing them with a daily in school nutritious snack that provides 25% of their daily nutritional needs. In addition, to encourage regular attendance in schools and combat child labour and early marriage, families of students will receive monthly cash assistance conditional on their children’s regular school attendance.

“At the heart of this project is a human-centric vision that recognizes the abilities, skills and potential of Egyptians with women and youth in particular and takes into context their needs in order to adequately respond to them,” said Egypt’s Minister of International Cooperation Rania Al-Mashat. “Aligned with the Ministry’s Vision and Global Partnerships Narrative; People & Projects & Purpose, this contribution showcases our collaborative commitment to rebuilding towards a more inclusive and resilient recovery, and accelerate progress to the Sustainable Development Goals.”

The project will also support the transformation of community schools into ‘smart schools’ equipped with technology to help foster an improved learning and knowledge environment for students, educators, as well as for other community members.
It will also raise the capacity of local community stakeholders, including the Community Development Associations and NGOs to facilitate microloans for women and skills development for youth.

Additionally, the project will provide food assistance for pregnant and nursing mothers, and children under two, conditional upon regular medical checkups at health clinics. This will be complemented with improved access to public primary health, nutrition care services, and large-scale nutrition education and awareness activities reaching millions of Egyptians nationwide.

"The contribution reflects the fruitful and sound tradition of German-Egyptian Cooperation. In the light of the challenges caused by the worldwide pandemic, we must not forget the most vulnerable among us," said German Ambassador to Egypt Cyrill Jean Nunn.

Together with the Ministry of International Cooperation, WFP is implementing the project in coordination with the Ministries of Education, Health and Population, Social Solidarity, Supply and Internal Trade, Local Development, Agriculture and Land Reclamation, the National Council of Women, as well as the National Nutrition Institute and the Egyptian Knowledge Bank.

“We have good experience working with WFP as a part of this year’s Egyptian-German Debt Swap Programme and as a partner of choice in implementing successful models of integrated development in Egypt,” said Director of the KfW Cairo Office Bernd Siegfried. “Egypt and Germany are aligned in their priorities towards sustainable development, peace, and prosperity all of which are aspects highlighted in this new project.”

WFP is the sole UN agency in Egypt providing food security to the most vulnerable populations and continues to count on the contributions of donors to sustain and upscale assistance to the most vulnerable populations in Egypt throughout its COVID-19 response and recovery phases.

“Thanks to Governments of Egypt and Germany, our project will help advance national priorities in the areas of social protection, education, nutrition, food security, youth and women economic empowerment, “said WFP Representative and Country Director in Egypt Menghestab Haile. “WFP highly appreciates the Ministry of International Cooperation and the Government of Egypt’s trust and support in allocating resources to the benefit of vulnerable communities and to ensure no one is left behind as per the Sustainable Development Goals and Egypt’s Vision 2030.”

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/54339-wfp-launches-euro-15-million-project-egypt-german-development-bank




Date: 22 July 2020
Title: Launching of the Egyptian Component of the regional project Dismantling human trafficking and migrant smuggling criminal networks in North Africa
Content: 22 July 2020
The project aims at achieving several objectives including strengthening the capacities of first responders to identify and investigate cases of migrant smuggling and human trafficking while protecting trafficking victims and vulnerable migrants.

Cairo, Egypt -   On the 22nd of July 2020, the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, in cooperation and coordination with the European Union (EU) and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) launched the related activities to the Egyptian component under the regional project “Dismantling human trafficking and migrant smuggling criminal networks in North Africa.” The 15 million Euro project funded by the North Africa Window of the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Africa will be implemented by the UNODC Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa (ROMENA) over a period of three years and will include regional activities bringing together all North African countries, as well as country-specific activities in Egypt, Libya, Morocco, and Tunisia.
The project aims at achieving several objectives including strengthening the capacities of first responders to identify and investigate cases of migrant smuggling and human trafficking while protecting trafficking victims and vulnerable migrants.
Through the project, UNODC, with the funding and support of the European Union, will build on its long partnership with the Government of Egypt to strengthen the country’s holistic response to human trafficking and migrant smuggling and will aim to achieve sustainable results through supporting efforts to dismantle the criminal networks involved in these crimes.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/54008-%C2%A0launching-egyptian-component-regional-project-dismantling-human-trafficking-and-migrant




Date: 15 July 2020
Title: UN Women welcomes unprecedented national efforts to support survivors of sexual assault and harassment
Content: 15 July 2020
UN Women Egypt notes with encouragement the national efforts taken to end all forms of violence against women.
Cairo - Egypt is witnessing incredible social momentum in support of survivors of gender-based violence, including sexual assault and harassment.  The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) in Egypt applauds the courage of the many women who have experienced violence and have spoken out and welcomes the strong national response, led by the National Council for Women (NCW), in support of survivors of violence against women to ensure accountability of perpetrators.

UN Women Egypt notes with encouragement the national efforts taken to end all forms of violence against women, particularly through recent legislative reforms and policy initiatives to uphold and safeguard the rights of women survivors of violence that are enshrined in the Egyptian constitution; provide greater access for survivors experiencing violence to quality essential multi-sectoral services; and implement national programmes aimed at prevention of and response to violence against women. These advancements are significant steps to achieving the universal 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, particularly Sustainable Development Goal 5 and its target (5.2) on the “elimination of all forms of violence against all women and girls in public and private spheres, including trafficking and sexual and other types of exploitation” and the National Strategy for the Empowerment of Egyptian Women 2030, which explicitly seeks to end all forms of violence against women.

“Violence against women is a global phenomenon that women and girls in particular continue to face world-wide. Eliminating all forms of violence against women requires not only robust legislation and nationally led, accessible support services, but also requires communities, families, peers, employers…all of us….to support the voice of survivors and to end the stigma associated with coming forward. The space and respect which survivors of sexual assault and harassment in Egypt are being given right now is unprecedented and it is a beacon to other countries in the region to take note and take stock of how women survivors are treated.” stated Christine Arab; UN Women Country Representative.

UN Women Egypt reconfirms its commitment to support the national efforts to ensure that Sustainable Development Goal 5 to achieve gender equality is accomplished by 2030.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/53646-un-women-welcomes-unprecedented-national-efforts-support-survivors-sexual-assault-and




Date: 08 July 2020
Title: Canada and UNDP sign an agreement to support Egypt’s efforts to fight COVID-19
Content: 08 July 2020
The agreement will deliver testing and equipment which responds to Egypt’s needs as initiated by the Ministry of International Cooperation in its message to the international community earlier this year and identified by the Ministry of Health and Population.
The world is facing an unprecedented threat from COVID-19. To respond to the crisis and the impacts of the pandemic, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Government of Canada signed an agreement worth CAD 500,000 (approx. USD 360,000) to support Egypt’s efforts to fight COVID-19, particularly the screening and testing capacity in Egypt.

The agreement will deliver testing and equipment which responds to Egypt’s needs as initiated by the Ministry of International Cooperation in its message to the international community earlier this year and identified by the Ministry of Health and Population.

The project was announced in a virtual meeting attended by H.E. Dr. Rania El Mashat, Minister of International Cooperation, H.E. Ambassador Jess Dutton, Ambassador of Canada to Egypt, Ambassador Lamia Mekhemar, Director of International Cooperation for Development, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Mohamed Hassany, Minister Assistant for Public Health, Ministry of Health and Population, Ms. Randa Aboul-Hosn, UNDP Resident Representative in Egypt, Dr. Omar Abdel Aziz Abou El Ata, World Health Organization Technical Officer – Surveillance, Preparedness and Response, and representatives from all partners.

“We are pleased to partner with the Government of Canada. Its generous grant will support Egypt’s health system at a critical moment and build on consistent cooperation with UNDP on many different fronts. This is the time to invest and strengthen health systems to serve the people of Egypt”, said Ms. Randa Aboul-Hosn, UNDP Resident Representative in Egypt. “We will continue to support the country in preparing, responding, and recovering from the Coronavirus”.

“Canada is pleased to have entered into a contribution arrangement with UNDP to provide $500,000 CAD for the purchase of CT scanners and diagnostic testing kits. This project is expected to increase the capacity of the Ministry of Health and Population for advanced screening and testing for COVID-19”, said H.E. Ambassador Jess Dutton, Ambassador of Canada to Egypt. “Canada is proud to support Egypt`s response to COVID-19, and all of our projects are currently supporting either a health response or a socio-economic response to the coronavirus pandemic.”

The rapidly spreading nature of the virus and the pressure it causes on the health systems prompt the need to continue implementing the most effective measures to control the virus transmission.

حكومة كندا وبرنامج الأمم المتحدة الإنمائي يوقعان اتفاقية لدعم الجهود المصرية لمكافحة كورونا (كوفيد-19)

(القاهرة، الاثنين 7 يوليو 2020) يواجه العالم تهديدا غير مسبوق من جراء جائحة كورونا (كوفيد-19) وللتصدي لهذه الازمة والآثار الناجمة عن تلك الجائحة، وقع كل من برنامج الأمم المتحدة الإنمائي وحكومة كندا اتفاقا قيمته 500 ألف دولارا كنديا (أي ما يقرب من 360 ألف دولارا أمريكيا) لدعم جهود مصر لمكافحة فيروس كورونا (كوفيد-19)، لا سيما فيما يتعلق بقدرات الفحص والاختبار بمصر.

سيتم من خلال الاتفاقية توفير معدات التشخيص والاختبار التي تلبي احتياجات مصر التي بادرت بطلبها وزارة التعاون الدولي خلال رسالتها للمجتمع الدولي في وقت سابق من هذا العام، وذلك بناء على ما حددته وزارة الصحة والسكان.

وقد أعلن عن المشروع خلال اجتماع افتراضي حضره كل من: معالي الدكتورة/ رانيا المشاط، وزيرة التعاون الدولي، ومعالي السفير/ جيس دوتون، سفير كندا لدى مصر، ومعالي السفيرة/ لمياء مخيمر، مدير التعاون الدولي من أجل التنمية بوزارة الخارجية، والدكتور/ محمد حساني، مساعد وزيرة الصحة والسكان لمبادرات الصحة العامة، والسيدة/ رندا أبو الحسن، الممثل المقيم لبرنامج الأمم المتحدة الإنمائي في مصر، والدكتور/عمر عبد العزيز أبو العطا، مسئول برنامج الترصد والاستعداد والاستجابة بمنظمة الصحة العالمية في مصر، وممثلون عن جميع الشركاء.

وصرحت السيدة/ رندا أبو الحسن، الممثل المقيم لبرنامج الأمم المتحدة الإنمائي في مصر، قائلة: "تسرنا المشاركة مع حكومة كندا؛ وستسهم تلك المنحة السخية التي تقدمها حكومة كندا إلى مصر في دعم المنظومة الصحية خلال لحظة حرجة، وستدعم التعاون المستمر مع برنامج الأمم المتحدة الإنمائي على مختلف الأصعدة. إن هذا لهو أنسب وقت لاستثمار وتعزيز الأنظمة الصحية بهدف خدمة شعب مصر. وسنستمر في دعم البلاد في التأهب لفيروس كورونا والتصدي له والتعافي منه".

وأعرب سعادة السفير/ جيس دوتون، سفير كندا لدى مصر، قائلا: "يسر حكومة كندا إبرامها اتفاق بشأن المساهمة مع برنامج الأمم المتحدة الإنمائي لتوفير مبلغ 500 ألف دولارا كنديا لشراء مسحات ومعدات تشخيصية. ومن المتوقع أن يزيد هذا المشروع من قدرة وزارة الصحة والسكان على إجراء الفحص والاختبار المتقدم لفيروس كورونا (كوفيد-19). وتفخر حكومة كندا بدعم استجابة مصر لمكافحة هذا الفيروس، وكل مشاريعنا حاليا تدعم إما الاستجابة في المجالات الصحية أو الاجتماعية والاقتصادية لمكافحة وباء فيروس كورونا".

ويؤدى انتشار الفيروس والضغط الذي يسببه على المنظومة الصحية إلى الحاجة لمواصلة تنفيذ تدابير أكثر فعالية للسيطرة على انتقال الفيروس وانتشاره.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/52332-canada-and-undp-sign-agreement-support-egypt%E2%80%99s-efforts-fight-covid-19




Date: 07 July 2020
Title: UN report finds COVID-19 is reversing decades of progress on poverty, healthcare and education
Content: 07 July 2020
The effects of the pandemic have devastated the most vulnerable and left them further behind.
The 15-year global effort to improve the lives of people everywhere through the achievement of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030 was already off track by the end of 2019. And now, in only a short period of time, the COVID-19 pandemic has unleashed an unprecedented crisis, causing further disruption to SDG progress, with the world’s poorest and most vulnerable affected the most, according to a new report released today by the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs.

According to the Sustainable Development Goals Report 2020, the world had been making progress—although uneven and insufficient to meet the Goals — in areas such as improving maternal and child health, expanding access to electricity and increasing women’s representation in government. Yet even these advances were offset elsewhere by growing food insecurity, deterioration of the natural environment, and persistent and pervasive inequalities.

Now, the COVID-19 pandemic has quickly become the worst human and economic crisis of our lifetime, spreading to all countries, with the global death toll exceeding 500,000 and the number of confirmed cases at more than 10 million people.

“As Member States recognized at the SDG Summit held last September, global efforts to date have been insufficient to deliver the change we need, jeopardizing the Agenda’s promise to current and future generations,” said UN Secretary-General António Guterres. “Now, due to COVID-19, an unprecedented health, economic and social crisis is threatening lives and livelihoods, making the achievement of Goals even more challenging.”

The Secretary-General stressed that COVID-19 was not affecting everyone the same. “Although the novel coronavirus affects every person and community, it does not do so equally. Instead, it has exposed and exacerbated existing inequalities and injustices.”

Using the latest data and estimates, this annual stocktaking report on progress across the 17 Goals shows that it is the poorest and most vulnerable – including children, older persons, persons with disabilities, migrants and refugees – who are being hit the hardest by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Women are also bearing the heaviest brunt of the pandemic’s effects.

Among the key findings:

The report also shows that climate change is still occurring much faster than anticipated. The year 2019 was the second warmest on record and the end of the warmest decade of 2010 to 2019. Meanwhile, ocean acidification is accelerating; land degradation continues; massive numbers of species are at risk of extinction; and unsustainable consumption and production patterns remain pervasive.

The annual report,  a joint effort of the global statistical community, is being launched on the opening day of the UN High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development as leaders from governments and different sectors of society gather to chart strategies and efforts to fully implement the SDGs. The report provides essential data that allows decision-makers to guide efforts toward a sustainable recovery.

“The principles on which the SDGs were established are key to building back better in the post-COVID-19 recovery,” said UN Under-Secretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs, Liu Zhenmin. “The continued pursuit of these universal Goals will keep Governments focused on growth, but also on inclusion, equity and sustainability. Our collective response to the pandemic can serve as a ‘warm-up’ for our preparedness in preventing an even larger crisis – that is, global climate change, whose effects are already becoming all too familiar. ”

To download the full report, please visit: https://unstats.un.org/sdgs

ABOUT THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS REPORTS
The annual reports provide an overview of the world’s implementation efforts to date, highlighting areas of progress and where more action needs to be taken. They are prepared by the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, with input from international and regional organizations and the United Nations system of agencies, funds and programmes. Several national statisticians, experts from civil society and academia also contribute to the reports.
For more information, please visit: https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/

ABOUT THE HIGH-LEVEL POLITICAL FORUM
The High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development is the central global forum for providing political leadership, guidance and recommendations on implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 SDGs, which were unanimously adopted by world leaders in September 2015. The Forum provides an opportunity for countries, civil society and businesses to highlight the efforts they are taking to achieve the SDGs, exchange ideas and best practices.

For more information, please visit: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/hlpf/2020

MEDIA CONTACTS
UN Department of Global Communications
Dan Shepard  | +1 212 963 9495| shepard@un.org

UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs
Yongyi Min  | +1 212 963 9293  | min3@un.org

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/52913-un-report-finds-covid-19-reversing-decades-progress-poverty-healthcare-and-education




Date: 25 June 2020
Title: “The United Nations Charter: 75 years of Peace-building, Conflict Resolution, Human Rights and Sustainable Development”
Content: 25 June 2020
Egypt was one of the first nations which signed the UN Charter, testimony to the important role that Egypt has played  in promoting the principles, values as well as operations and programmes of the United Nations since its establishment.
Statement by The United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt

Today marks the seventy-fifth (75th) anniversary of the signatory of the United Nations Charter that took place on June 26, 1945 in San Francisco. The principles of the UN Charter have been shaping the foundation for worldwide peace, justice and security, conflict-resolution, respect for  human rights and freedoms fostering cooperation among nations to solve economic, social, cultural, environmental and humanitarian problems.

Egypt was one of the first nations which signed the UN Charter, testimony to the important role that Egypt has played  in promoting the principles, values as well as operations and programmes of the United Nations since its establishment. The United Nations have been present in Egypt since 1948. Today, Egypt hosts   thirty-two (32) UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes in Egypt, including a number of regional UN Offices. All UN agencies work together  closely with the Government of Egypt, the society and development partners in promoting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the overarching Sustainable Development Agenda 2030 through providing evidence-based policy advice, support to institutional capacity building, and providing direct support and services to a broad range of target groups, including vulnerable population groups.

We are marking the 75th anniversary of the UN at the time of the global pandemic the world has faced since decades. We all have been affected by COVID-19 in one, multiple and inter-related ways in our own health and life, in that of our families, communities, economies and institutions. The pandemic has brought to light faultlines in our societies, including persistent inequalities, vulnerabilities and violence and we face huge losses in employment, business opportunities and finance.

COVID-19 calls on us to be united and compassionate working together in solidarity towards recovery across borders, sectors and generations. Our collective commitment and response will determine the future of all of us together across the world.

This year, in light of the 75th anniversary of the UN, the United Nations Secretary General UNSG has launched the biggest global dialogue on building a better future for all. Through the dialogue, the United Nations seek the people’s views on global trends, their concerns and priorities for the recovery from COVID-19 and our future at large. It is time to listen to the people’s voices to shape the recovery. On this 26 June, I invite you all to make your voice heard and participate in the UN75 one-minute survey on the following link (https://un75.online/). The results of the UN75 survey will be presented the world leaders in September 2020 at the official commemoration of the 75th anniversary. Your voice counts!

"ميثاق الأمم المتحدة: خمس وسبعون عامًا من بناء السلام وتسوية النزاعات وحقوق الإنسان والتنمية المستدامة"
لقد كانت مصر من أوائل الدول التي وقعت على ميثاق الأمم المتحدة، وهي شهادة على الدور الهام الذي لعبته مصر في الترويج لمبادئ وقيم وعمليات وبرامج الأمم المتحدة منذ إنشائها.

-----

يصادف اليوم الذكرى الخامسة والسبعون (٧٥) على توقيع ميثاق الأمم المتحدة وذلك في السادس والعشرين (٢٦) من يونيو عام ١٩٤٥ في سان فرانسيسكو. على مدار هذه السنوات، شكلت مبادئ ميثاق الأمم المتحدة الأساس للسلام والعدالة والأمن العالمي، وحل النزاعات، واحترام حقوق الإنسان والحريات التي تعزز التعاون بين الدول لحل المشاكل الاقتصادية والاجتماعية والثقافية والبيئية والإنسانية.

لقد كانت مصر من أوائل الدول التي وقعت على ميثاق الأمم المتحدة، وهي شهادة على الدور الهام الذي لعبته مصر في الترويج لمبادئ وقيم وعمليات وبرامج الأمم المتحدة منذ إنشائها. تعمل الأمم المتحدة في مصر منذ عام ١٩٤٨. واليوم، تستضيف مصر اثنتين وثلاثين (٣٢) وكالة وصناديق وبرامج تابعة للأمم المتحدة في مصر، بما في ذلك عدد من مكاتب الأمم المتحدة الإقليمية. تعمل جميع وكالات الأمم المتحدة بشكل وثيق مع الحكومة المصرية والمجتمع وشركاء التنمية في الترويج لأهداف التنمية المستدامة وأجندة التنمية المستدامة الشاملة ٢٠٣٠ من خلال تقديم المشورة في مجال السياسات المستندة إلى الأدلة، ودعم بناء القدرات المؤسسية، وتوفير مباشرة الدعم والخدمات لمجموعة واسعة من الفئات المستهدفة، بما في ذلك الفئات السكانية الأكثر ضعفاً.

تتزامن الذكرى السنوية الخامسة والسبعين للأمم المتحدة مع أزمة الوباء العالمي الذي يوجهه العالم. لقد تأثرنا جميعًا بأزمة كورونا (كوفيد١٩) سواء بشكل فردي أو جماعي على نواحي متعددة ومتداخلة في صحتنا وحياتنا، وفي صحة عائلاتنا ومجتمعاتنا واقتصاداتنا ومؤسساتنا. لقد أدى هذا الوباء إلى تسليط الضوء على مواطن الخلل في مجتمعاتنا، بما في ذلك استمرار عدم المساواة ونقاط الضعف والعنف ونواجه خسائر فادحة في التوظيف وفرص الأعمال والتمويل.

تدعونا هذه الأزمة إلى أن نكون متحدين ومتعاطفين للعمل معًا في تضامن من أجل الانتعاش عبر الحدود والقطاعات والأجيال. وسيحدد التزامنا واستجابتنا الجماعية مستقبلنا جميعًا معًا في جميع أنحاء العالم.

في هذا العام، وفي ضوء الذكرى السنوية الخامسة والسبعين للأمم المتحدة، أطلق الأمين العام للأمم المتحدة أكبر حوار عالمي حول بناء مستقبل أفضل للجميع. من خلال الحوار، تسعى الأمم المتحدة للتعرف على آراء جميع الناس حول الاتجاهات العالمية، وشواغلهم وأولوياتهم للتعافي من أزمة كورونا ومستقبلنا بشكل عام. حان الوقت للاستماع إلى أصوات الناس لتشكيل مستقبلنا. في ٢٦ يونيو٢٠٢٠، أدعوكم جميعًا لجعل صوتكم مسموعًا والمشاركة في استطلاع لمدة دقيقة واحدة على الرابط التالي (https://un75.online/) . و الذي سيتم عرض نتائجه مسح على قادة العالم في سبتمبر ٢٠٢٠  في الاحتفال الرسمي بالذكرى الخامسة والسبعين. صوتكم مهم!

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/50909-%E2%80%9C-united-nations-charter-75-years-peace-building-conflict-resolution-human-rights-and




Date: 15 June 2020
Title: The United Nations in Egypt Supports National Accelerated Efforts to Eradicate Female Genital Mutilation (FGM)
Content: 15 June 2020
The United Nations further welcomes the Egyptian Government’s inclusive approach to galvanize the efforts of all stakeholders to end FGM and looks forward to expanding its support to the government and working closely with development partners and civil society to protect the rights of women and girls and bring this harmful practice to an end.

Cairo, 15 June 2020 –

On the occasion of the National Day to Eradicate FGM, the United Nations in Egypt joins the Government of Egypt in honoring the memory of all victims and survivors of this inhumane crime, while  condemning the most recent incident of the father who deceived and forced his three daughters to undergo FGM at the hands of a doctor, risking their lives and potentially causing long lasting physical and psychological implications.
The United Nations in Egypt commends the unprecedented national efforts exerted, under the leadership of the National Committee for the Eradication of FGM co-chaired by the National Council for Women (NCW) and the National Council for Childhood and Motherhood (NCCM), for its timely response in the provision of legal and psycho-social support to the three girls.
The United Nations highly welcomes the most recent measures and plans announced yesterday  by the National Committee for the Eradication of FGM and underscores the importance of the existence of a strong political will, solid legal framework and its enforcement, national data and baselines to inform targeting, policy making, and programming to eradicate FGM. The United Nations further welcomes the Government’s inclusive approach to galvanize the efforts of all stakeholders to end this demeaning and humiliating practice which is against all human rights treaties to which Egypt is signatory, and its Constitution.
The United Nations notes the progress achieved since the establishment of the National Committee for the Eradication of FGM in May last year, scaling up initiatives and adopting new innovative approaches, including ‘Protect Her from FGM’ National Campaign that reached millions of households across Egypt. Ms. Cristina Albertin, the United Nation’s Resident Coordinator a.i. in Egypt said, “FGM is a horrid violation of women and girl’s rights. It will only come to end with the collective will and efforts of the whole society. The United Nations in Egypt through its different agencies works hand in hand with the Government of Egypt to address all forms of violence against women and girls, and together we will put an end to this abhorrent phenomenon.” She added, "The efforts of the National Committee for the Eradication of FGM are highly timely and decisive as they work towards ending this practice through addressing its root causes.”
The United Nations family looks forward to expanding its support to the Government of Egypt and working closely with development partners and civil society to protect the rights of women and girls and bring this harmful practice to an end; towards the  realization of  Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 5 on achieving gender equality.

For media inquiries about this press release, please contact:
Iman Mahdy Amer, Communications and Advocacy Officer – Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in Egypt
E-mail: iman.amer@one.un.org
Phone: +2 010 11854776


Merhan Ghaly, Public Information and Media Focal Point – The UN Information Center in Cairo
E-mail: merhan.ghaly@un.org
Phone: +2 01225949909
الأمم المتحدة في مصر تدعم تسريع الجهود الوطنية للقضاء على ختان الإناث

للنشر الفوري


القاهرة، 15 يونيو/حزيران 2020 –


بمناسبة اليوم الوطني  للقضاء علي ختان الإناث، تنضم الأمم المتحدة في مصر إلى حكومة مصر إحياء لذكرى جميع الضحايا والناجيات من هذه الجريمة اللاإنسانية، بينما تدين الواقعة الأخيرة لثلاث فتيات خدعهن والدهن واصطحبهن ليخضعهن لختان الإناث على يد طبيب، مما تسبب في تعريضهن إلى احتمال الوفاة واثار جسدية ونفسية على المدي الطويل.

وتشيد الأمم المتحدة في مصر بما يتم بذله من جهود غير مسبوقة، من قبل اللجنة الوطنية للقضاء على ختان الإناث برئاسة كل من المجلس القومي للمرأة والمجلس القومي للطفولة والأمومة، وذلك لاستجابتها السريعة من خلال توفير الدعم القانوني والنفسي والاجتماعي للفتيات الثلاث.
كما وترحب الأمم المتحدة بشدة بالإجراءات والخطط التي أعلنتها اليوم اللجنة الوطنية للقضاء على ختان الإناث وتشدد على أهمية تواجد إرادة وطنية قوية، وإطارعمل تشريعى قوى وتطبيقه، وبيانات وخطوط مرجعية وطنية يُسترشد بها فى النتائج المستهدفة، وعمليات صنع القرار، وتصميم البرامج.

كذلك ترحب الأمم المتحدة بشدة بنهج الحكومة الشامل لحفز جهود جميع أصحاب المصلحة من أجل إنهاء هذه الممارسة المسيئة والمذلة التي تتنافى وكافة معاهدات حقوق الإنسان التي مصر طرف فيها، والمكرسة في دستورها.

وتنوه الأمم المتحدة إلى التقدم المُحرز منذ تأسيس اللجنة الوطنية للقضاء على ختان الإناث في مايو 2019، بتعزيز المبادرات وتبني نُهج ابتكارية جديدة، بما في ذلك مبادرة "احميها من الختان" التي وصلت رسائلها إلى ملايين الأسر في أنحاء مصر. وقالت السيدة كريستينا ألبرتين، المنسق المقيم للأمم المتحدة بالإنابة، "تشويه الأعضاء التناسلية للإناث هو انتهاك فظيع لحقوق جميع النساء والفتيات  ولن يتم وضع حد لهذه الممارسة سوى بالإرادة الجماعية وجهود المجتمع كله. تعمل الأمم المتحدة في مصر من خلال هيئاتها المختلفة يدا بيد مع حكومة مصر من أجل التصدي لجميع أشكال العنف ضد النساء والفتيات، ومعا سنضع حدا لهذه الممارسة المقيتة." وأضافت السيدة ألبرتين أن "جهود اللجنة الوطنية للقضاء على ختان الإناث تأتي في الوقت المناسب تماما وحاسمة إذ تعمل باتجاه إنهاء هذه الظاهرة من خلال التصدي لأسبابها الجذرية."

وتتطلع أسرة الأمم المتحدة في مصر إلى توسيع دعمها بالعمل عن كثب مع حكومة مصر، وشركاء التنمية والمجتمع المدني لحماية حقوق النساء والفتيات ووضع نهاية لهذه الممارسة الضارة والمساهمة في تحقيق الهدف 5 من  أهداف التنمية المستدامة، المتعلق بإعمال المساواة بين الجنسين.



للاستفسارات الإعلامية بشأن هذا البيان الصحفي، يُرجى الاتصال ب:

إيمان مهدي عامر ، مسؤول الاتصال بمكتب الممثل المقيم للأمم المتحدة في مصر

البريد الالكتروني: iman.amer@one.un.org
الهاتف: 010 11854776 2+


ميرهان غالى ، مسؤول الاتصال بمكتب الأمم المتحدة للإعلام بالقاهرة

البريد الالكتروني: merhan.ghaly@un.org
الهاتف: 01225949909  2+
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/49393-united-nations-egypt-supports-national-accelerated-efforts-eradicate-female-genital




Date: 05 June 2020
Title: The United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt
Content: 05 June 2020
“Preserving our environment guide UN’s COVID response and recovery programmes”

“Preserving our environment guide UN’s COVID response and recovery programmes”


The United Nations chose 5 June to be the World Environment Day to stress the importance of our environment, nature and planet for all people globally. It is an opportunity to raise awareness of decision makers and communities about environmental challenges and related threats that goes beyond nations and generations.

This year, we are witnessing one of the most severe global crises that is affecting everyone around the world. COVID-19 is not just a pandemic that hit the health sector, but its consequences reached out to all aspects of our lives including the environmental sectors. The impact of the measures undertaken to mitigate the risks of the pandemic had dual effect on environment. The mandatory usage of facial masks, gloves and hand sanitizers resulted in generation of a massive amount of medical wastes in the environment.  On the other hand, the gas emissions are getting lower since the suspension of flights and transport systems.


Cristina Albertin (The United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt ad interim) stated that “The United Nations in Egypt is strongly committed to supporting Egypt in overcoming the challenges resulted from COVID-19 by putting the environmental sustainability and natural resource management among the priorities of its response and recovery plans.” The core of these priorities is supporting national efforts to manage Egypt’s natural resources, mitigate environmental hazards and foster a greener economy and society. It is time to further position environment preservation and sustainable development as an engine for growth. It generates opportunities in areas such as agriculture, waste management, renewable energy, hence improving the lives of people.

Each one can play an active role in protecting the nature and biodiversity which will also result in protecting us against pandemics.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/48590-united-nations-resident-coordinator-egypt




Date: 03 June 2020
Title: COVID-19: UNDP Solidarity Campaign to Support Women in Upper Egypt Produce Medical Masks
Content: 03 June 2020
The Kemama campaign is part of the Solidarity Against COVID-19 campaign aims to engage communities in supporting local solutions to this global crisis.

Cairo, Egypt - In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Egypt in partnership with the UNDP Alternative Finance Lab (AltFinLab) and Neya Foundation, have launched ‘Kemama’, a campaign to support the Egypt Foundation for Integrated Development (ENID/EL Nidaa) in raising funds to expand their production of medical masks in Upper Egypt.
In the midst of the global pandemic, demand for medical and personal protective equipment has reached unprecedented levels. While these shortages are felt globally, it threatens the most vulnerable. In Upper Egypt, the market gap for medical equipment is growing. Qena alone has 3.2 million people needing 100,000 masks a day to limit the spread of COVID-19.
Since the outbreak of the virus and to respond to the growing need for masks in Upper Egypt, ENID has quickly shifted their operations at their factory, funded by the Big Heart Foundation, in Al Meana village in Qena from producing ready-made garments to medical masks.
UNDP Egypt’s Resident Representative, Ms. Randa Aboul-Hosn outlined the importance of the Kemama campaign to protect Upper Egypt from COVID-19, she highlighted that “A multisectoral whole-of-society approach is crucial to face the challenges to the health sector and beyond, to limit the spread of COVID-19 and to mitigate the potentially devastating impact it may have on vulnerable populations and the economy. Supporting ENID means fighting the virus, and more employment and income generation opportunities for people, particularly for women and a direct contribution to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals”.

Dr. Heba Handoussa, Managing Director of ENID/El Nidaa stated that "El Nidaa Foundation is proud to have been one of the first NGOs in Egypt to produce face masks in response to COVID-19. Our women beneficiaries in Qena insisted on braving the pandemic and breaking their lockdown to contribute to the fight against the virus. For production to expand, we need more machines, more raw material and more of our women trainees to operate the new factory floors that are available”.
ENID has trained women in Qena to produce high-quality masks at competitive prices who have already created 16,000 masks to date. In addition, through workshops across 17 villages, more than 600 women are trained and ready to produce more masks, providing vital personal protection equipment and directly contributing to the mitigation of COVID-19. At the foundation, while women are working to fight the virus, the current production of masks in Qena is less than 4,000 masks per day. Currently, they are the only source of medical masks in the South of Upper Egypt.
Hana El Sadat, Founder & CEO of Neya, highlighted the need to work together to bridge gaps of resources especially during times of crises. “Access to personal protective equipment for everyone is of the upmost importance to fight COVID-19 and ensure the health and safety of all Egyptians. Neya provides a platform to channel all available resources, to collectively create value and thus have the greatest impact in improving the conditions for all Egyptians. We are proud to have partnered with UNDP Egypt on Kemama to ensure collective action is taken to fight the pandemic and ensure sustainable development while leaving no one behind”.


Kemama supports these women to boost their production capacities and distribute the masks needed to protect Qena and neighboring governorates. For every 5 LE raised, the women in Upper Egypt can produce 2 more masks, helping protect one person for a day.
Donate Now: https://give.undp.org/campaign/kemama/c286936 or https://elneya.org/product/kemama-a-story-of-protection/
Join Kemama campaign online by using: #TogetherAgainstCOVID19 #Kemama
About UNDP
UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality, and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and planet.
Learn more at undp.org or follow at @UNDP.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/48167-covid-19-undp-solidarity-campaign-support-women-upper-egypt-produce-medical-masks




Date: 09 May 2020
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- MESSAGE MARKING THE TIME OF REMEMBRANCE AND RECONCILIATION FOR THOSE WHO LOST THEIR LIVES DURING THE SECOND WORLD WAR
Content: 09 May 2020
New York - At this time of remembrance and reconciliation, we pay tribute to the millions of people who lost their lives in the Second World War, and remember their sacrifices.
We must never forget the Holocaust and the other grave and horrendous crimes committed by the Nazis.
The victory over fascism and tyranny in May 1945 marked the beginning of a new era.
An appreciation for international solidarity and our shared humanity led to the birth of the United Nations, with the overriding mission of saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war.
Our world is still suffering the impact of conflict. Even during the current COVID-19 crisis, we see new efforts to divide people and spread hatred.
As we mark this 75th anniversary, let’s remember the lessons of 1945 and work together to end the pandemic and build a future of peace, safety and dignity for all.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/45118-secretary-general-message-marking-time-remembrance-and-reconciliation-those-who-lost-their




Date: 09 May 2020
Title: UNRWA Launches New Coronavirus US$ 93.4 Million Emergency Appeal  for Palestine Refugees
Content: 09 May 2020
In order to ensure the continuity of education to over 530,000 students enrolled in UNRWA schools and 8,270 young people in vocational centres, the Agency Education in Emergencies (EiE)  approach, developed in response to conflicts in Syria and Gaza, has been adjusted to the COVID-19 crisis and implemented.
The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) is urgently seeking US$ 93.4 million for its response to COVID-19 in the areas of health care, sanitation and hygiene and education over the next three months. The required amount is an update from the Agency’s earlier appeal, with a large portion of the funding aimed at covering cash and food assistance to this particularly vulnerable population, as the socio-economic consequences of the public health crisis continue to weigh heavily on households.

Since the start of the crisis, the Agency has worked diligently to deliver essential, lifesaving services to Palestine refugees throughout the Middle East. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) has been distributed to thousands of front line health staff, triage systems have been introduced in all health centres to screen patients with respiratory symptoms and minimize contact with other patients, non-critical health services have been suspended and telemedicine and door-to-door delivery of medicine and food were introduced to reduce foot traffic at health clinics and food distribution centres.

In order to ensure the continuity of education to over 530,000 students enrolled in UNRWA schools and 8,270 young people in vocational centres, the Agency Education in Emergencies (EiE)  approach, developed in response to conflicts in Syria and Gaza, has been adjusted to the COVID-19 crisis and implemented. To avoid any additional public health hazard, sanitation works and solid waste collection have continued in all camps, and protective measures for sanitation workers have increased. The Agency is continuing its vital food and cash assistance programs for the most vulnerable.

“We have seen how the crisis is disproportionally hitting the poorest and most destitute communities around the world. This is sadly also true for Palestine refugees who are amongst the most vulnerable populations in the Middle East,” said UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini. “Most refugees UNRWA serves live under the poverty line and lack the safety net needed to absorb the financial and medical shocks created by the COVID-19 pandemic. They are now facing devastating consequences to their physical, social and economic wellbeing.”

The UNRWA emergency appeal will work to prevent a disastrous situation that could leave thousands of lives in the balance and will protect against the most severe impacts of the pandemic by providing basic needs such as food, water and lifesaving health care and preventing against further deterioration to refugees’ health and socio-economic safety.

“As long as the global crisis persists, UNRWA will continue to adapt the way it works so that it responds to the needs and expectations of Palestine refugees. I count on the solidarity of the international community to help us ensure Palestine refugees remain safe and able to weather the economic storm that could push this vulnerable community to the brink of disaster. This could trigger more instability in an already volatile region,” said Lazzarini.

Read the full Updated UNRWA Flash Appeal for the COVID-19 response here.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/45128-unrwa-launches-new-coronavirus-us-934-million-emergency-appeal-palestine-refugees




Date: 08 May 2020
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  --  GLOBAL APPEAL TO ADDRESS AND COUNTER  COVID-19-RELATED HATE SPEECH
Content: 08 May 2020
We must act now to strengthen the immunity of our societies against the virus of hate.  That’s why I’m appealing today for an all-out effort to end hate speech globally.


COVID-19 does not care who we are, where we live, what we believe or about any other distinction.  We need every ounce of solidarity to tackle it together.  Yet the pandemic continues to unleash a tsunami of hate and xenophobia, scapegoating and scare-mongering.

Anti-foreigner sentiment has surged online and in the streets. Anti-Semitic conspiracy theories have spread, and COVID-19-related anti-Muslim attacks have occurred.  Migrants and refugees have been vilified as a source of the virus -- and then denied access to medical treatment.  With older persons among the most vulnerable, contemptible memes have emerged suggesting they are also the most expendable.  And journalists, whistleblowers, health professionals, aid workers and human rights defenders are being targeted simply for doing their jobs.

We must act now to strengthen the immunity of our societies against the virus of hate.  That’s why I’m appealing today for an all-out effort to end hate speech globally.

I call on political leaders to show solidarity with all members of their societies and build and reinforce social cohesion.

I call on educational institutions to focus on digital literacy at a time when billions of young people are online – and when extremists are seeking to prey on captive and potentially despairing audiences.

I call on the media, especially social media companies, to do much more to flag and, in line with international human rights law, remove racist, misogynist and other harmful content.

I call on civil society to strengthen outreach to vulnerable people, and religious actors to serve as models of mutual respect.

And I ask everyone, everywhere, to stand up against hate, treat each other with dignity and take every opportunity to spread kindness.

Last year, I launched the United Nations Strategy and Plan of Action on Hate Speech to enhance United Nations efforts against this scourge.   As we combat this pandemic, we have a duty to protect people, end stigma and prevent violence.

Let’s defeat hate speech – and COVID-19 - together.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/45022-secretary-general-global-appeal-address-and-counter-covid-19-related-hate-speech




Date: 07 May 2020
Title: COVID-19.. UN in Egypt working around the clock to support government response
Content: 07 May 2020
The campaign showcases a multi-faceted response by the entire UN system in the country.

Being an integral part of the Egyptian social fabric, the UN agencies and entities in Egypt continue to do their work in support of the government’s efforts in response to the COVID-19 situation that made it imperative to change their tactics, including working remotely.

Reflecting their continuing commitment and responsibility, the UN in Egypt has launched a social media campaign to highlight the coordinated, critical work being done around the clock by different UN entities towards a more efficient response to COVID-19.

The campaign showcases a multi-faceted response by the entire UN system in the country. That includes efforts to enhance the healthcare and social protection systems, ensuring the continued learning for all children in light of the closure of schools, making sure that refugees, asylum-seekers and other vulnerable communities are taken into account in national response plans.

Furthermore, given the growing concerns that women will be severely affected by crisis, the campaign underscores the UN system in Egypt’s efforts towards ensuring that gender perspective is properly addressed in the country’s COVID-19 response plans.

Echoing the United Nations Secretary-General’s call to support the World Health Organization (WHO) which has been leading the multilateral response since the beginning of the crisis, UN agencies in Egypt are also using their digital platforms to amplify messages by the UN health agency, and counter widespread misinformation around coronavirus.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/44812-covid-19-un-egypt-working-around-clock-support-government-response




Date: 06 May 2020
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  --  REMARKS AT LAUNCH OF POLICY BRIEF  ON PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES AND COVID-19
Content: 06 May 2020
We must guarantee the equal rights of people with disabilities to access healthcare and lifesaving procedures during the pandemic.

The COVID-19 crisis is affecting every aspect of our societies, revealing the extent of exclusion that the most marginalized members of society experience.

Today, I would like to highlight how the pandemic is affecting the world’s 1 billion people with disabilities.

Even under normal circumstances, persons with disabilities are less likely to access education, healthcare and income opportunities or participate in the community.

This is exacerbated for those in humanitarian and fragile contexts.

People with disabilities are more likely to live in poverty, and they experience higher rates of violence, neglect and abuse.

The pandemic is intensifying these inequalities -- and producing new threats.

Today we are launching a report that recommends a disability-inclusive response and recovery for everyone.

People with disabilities are among the hardest hit by COVID-19.

They face a lack of accessible public health information, significant barriers to implement basic hygiene measures, and inaccessible health facilities.

If they contract COVID-19, many are more likely to develop severe health conditions, which may result in death.

The share of COVID-19 related deaths in care homes -- where older people with disabilities are overrepresented -- ranges from 19 per cent to an astonishing 72 per cent.

In some countries, healthcare rationing decisions are based on discriminatory criteria, such as age or assumptions about quality or value of life, based on disability.

We cannot let this continue.

We must guarantee the equal rights of people with disabilities to access healthcare and lifesaving procedures during the pandemic.

Persons with disabilities who faced exclusion in employment before this crisis, are now more likely to lose their job and will experience greater difficulties in returning to work.

Yet, only 28 per cent of people with significant disabilities have access to benefits -- and only 1 per cent in low-income countries.

People with disabilities -- particularly, women and girls -- face a greater risk of domestic violence, which has surged during the pandemic.

I urge governments to place people with disabilities at the center of COVID-19 response and recovery efforts and to consult and engage people with disabilities.

Persons with disabilities have valuable experience to offer of thriving in situations of isolation and alternate working arrangements.

Looking to the future, we have a unique opportunity to design and implement more inclusive and accessible societies to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.

Last year, I launched the United Nations Disability Inclusion Strategy to ensure the UN system is doing its part.

The Strategy represents the UN’s commitment to achieve transformative and lasting change.

When we secure the rights of people with disabilities, we are investing in our common future.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/44624-secretary-general-remarks-launch-policy-brief-persons-disabilities-and-covid-19




Date: 05 May 2020
Title: World Hand Hygiene Day: Nurses and midwives, clean care is in your hands!
Content: 05 May 2020
Health workers and community members alike can help to prevent infections by practicing regular and frequent handwashing.
World Hand Hygiene Day will be celebrated on 5 May 2020. This year’s campaign theme, “SAVE LIVES: Clean your hands”, aligns with the International Year of the Nurse and the Midwife. The campaign aims to recognize nurses and midwives as front-line heroes who deserve acknowledgement, appreciation and protection, and to highlight their critical role in infection prevention and control.
Handwashing is one of the most effective actions everyone can take to reduce the spread of pathogens and prevent infections, including infection with the COVID-19 virus. Health workers and community members alike can help to prevent infections by practicing regular and frequent handwashing.
Welcoming World Hand Hygiene Day, Dr Ahmed Al-Mandhari, WHO Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean, reiterated the importance of hand hygiene as a vital infection prevention and control (IPC) measure that has been proven to improve the quality of patient care and decrease infections acquired during health care.
“Good hand hygiene practices are crucial to improve patient safety and is becoming the front line of defense for the health care team, including nurses and midwives. Now more than ever, the SAVE LIVES: Clean Your Hands campaign is vital – in our Region and all around the world – to promote hand hygiene and combat the novel corona virus (COVID-19) pandemic,” Dr Al-Mandhari said.
Celebrated every year on 5 May, World Hand Hygiene Day mobilizes people across the globe to increase adherence to hand hygiene in health care facilities, thus protecting health care workers and patients from infections.
Ensuring adequate hand hygiene in health care facilities is an ongoing challenge – 2 in every 5 health care settings lack hand hygiene facilities at point of care. Hand hygiene is essential to support the safety and dignity of nurses, midwives and other health workforce. It can be achieved simply and at low cost, provided basic facilities are put in place.
The COVID-19 global pandemic has highlighted the critical importance of sound hand hygiene practices as a first line of IPC. Not only is good hand hygiene essential to defeat COVID-19, but it also helps to limit the risk from other health care-associated infections, which constitute a severe burden on health systems and exert a terrible toll of sickness and deaths that could have been avoided.
As part of the 2020 campaign, WHO and partners aim to make hand hygiene a global priority and engage health care workers as key agents in preventing infection. The campaign also ties in with the United Nations Secretary-General’s Global Call to Action to prioritize action on water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) in health care facilities
On World Hand Hygiene Day 2020, WHO calls on everyone – health care professionals, patients and their visitors, and the general public as well as policy-makers, health care providers and IPC leaders – to come together to raise awareness of hand hygiene in their communities to contribute to making the regional vision health for all by all a reality.
Dr Al-Mandhari summed up the core messages of the campaign: “I address nurses and midwives, in particular, and the communities that surround them and ask them to ensure that they apply safe hand hygiene practices to protect themselves and their patients. They are responsible for making their environment better and safer by asking for the essentials such as running water, soap and alcohol based sanitizers in the health facilities they work in. I am also asking them to be the role models to teach their families and communities the great value of the simple act of proper hand hygiene.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/44322-world-hand-hygiene-day-nurses-and-midwives-clean-care-your-hands




Date: 02 May 2020
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL -- VIDEO MESSAGE ON WORLD PRESS FREEDOM DAY 2020  “Journalism Without Fear or Favour” New York, 3 May 2020
Content: 02 May 2020
Today, we thank the media for providing facts and analysis; for holding leaders – in every sector – accountable; and for speaking truth to power.

We particularly recognize those who are playing a life-saving role reporting on public health.
Journalists and media workers are crucial to helping us make informed decisions. As the world fights the COVID-19 pandemic, those decisions can make the difference between life and death.

On World Press Freedom Day, we call on governments -- and others -- to guarantee that journalists can do their jobs throughout the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond.

As the pandemic spreads, it has also given rise to a second pandemic of misinformation, from harmful health advice to wild conspiracy theories.

The press provides the antidote: verified, scientific, fact-based news and analysis.

But since the pandemic began, many journalists are being subjected to increased restrictions and punishments simply for doing their jobs.

Temporary constraints on freedom of movement are essential to beat COVID-19. But they must not be abused as an excuse to crack down on journalists’ ability to do their work.

Today, we thank the media for providing facts and analysis; for holding leaders – in every sector – accountable; and for speaking truth to power.

We particularly recognize those who are playing a life-saving role reporting on public health.

And we call on governments to protect media workers, and to strengthen and maintain press freedom, which is essential for a future of peace, justice and human rights for all.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/43963-secretary-general-video-message-world-press-freedom-day-2020-%E2%80%9Cjournalism-without-fear-or




Date: 01 May 2020
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  --  VIDEO MESSAGE TO LAUNCH POLICY BRIEF ON OLDER PERSONS
Content: 01 May 2020
Today we are launching a policy brief that provides analysis and recommendations to address these challenges. Our response to COVID-19 must respect the rights and dignity of older people.


New York



The COVID-19 pandemic is causing untold fear and suffering for older people across the world.

The fatality rate for older people is higher overall, and for those over 80, it is five times the global average.

Beyond its immediate health impact, the pandemic is putting older people at greater risk of poverty, discrimination and isolation. It is likely to have a particularly devastating impact on older people in developing countries.

As an older person myself, with responsibility for an even older mother, I am deeply concerned about the pandemic on a personal level, and about its effects on our communities and societies.

Today we are launching a policy brief that provides analysis and recommendations to address these challenges. Our response to COVID-19 must respect the rights and dignity of older people.

There are four main messages.

First, no person, young or old, is expendable. Older people have the same rights to life and health as everyone else.

Difficult decisions around life-saving medical care must respect the human rights and dignity of all.

Second, while physical distancing is crucial, let’s not forget we are one community and we all belong to each other. We need improved social support and smarter efforts to reach older people through digital technology.

That is vital to older people who may face great suffering and isolation under lockdowns and other restrictions.

Third, all social, economic and humanitarian responses must take the needs of older people fully into account, from universal health coverage to social protection, decent work and pensions.

The majority of older people are women, who are more likely to enter this period of their lives in poverty and without access to healthcare. Policies must be targeted at meeting their needs.

And fourth, let’s not treat older people as invisible or powerless.

Many older people depend on an income and are fully engaged in work, in family life, in teaching and learning, and in looking after others. Their voices and leadership count.

To get through this pandemic together, we need a surge in global and national solidarity and the contributions of all members of society, including older people.

As we look to recover better, we will need ambition and vision to build more inclusive, sustainable and age-friendly societies that are fit for the future.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/43895-secretary-general-video-message-launch-policy-brief-older-persons




Date: 01 May 2020
Title: COVID-19: New UNDP data dashboards reveal huge disparities among countries in ability to cope and recover
Content: 01 May 2020
Indicators such as the level of poverty, healthcare capacity, access to internet and social protection can portray how severe the effects of the COVID-19 crisis might be in each of 189 countries.




New York, April 30, 2020 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) today released two new data dashboards that highlight the huge disparities in countries’ abilities to cope with and recover from the COVID-19 crisis.

The pandemic is more than a global health emergency. It is a systemic human development crisis, already affecting the economic and social dimensions of development in unprecedented ways. Policies to reduce vulnerabilities and build capacities to tackle crises, both in the short and long term, are vital if individuals and societies are to better weather and recover from shocks like this.

Preparedness of countries to respond to COVID-19

UNDP’s Dashboard 1 on Preparedness presents indicators for 189 countries – including level of development, inequalities,  the capacity of a healthcare system and internet connectivity– to assess how well a nation can respond to the multiple impacts of a crisis like COVID-19.

While every society is vulnerable to crises, their abilities to respond differs significantly around the world.

For example, the most developed countries – those in the very high human development category- have on average 55 hospital beds, over 30 physicians, and 81 nurses per 10,000 people, compared to 7 hospital beds, 2.5 physicians, and 6 nurses in a least developed country.

And with widespread lockdowns, the digital divide has become more significant than ever. 6.5 billion people around the globe – 85.5 percent of the global population – still don’t have access to reliable broadband internet, which limits their ability to work and continue their education.

[GIF DATA VISUALIZATION 2 – see dropbox folder]

Vulnerabilities of countries in crisis like COVID-19

Preparedness is one thing. But, once a crisis hits, how vulnerable are countries to the fallout? UNDP’s Dashboard 2 on Vulnerabilities present indicators that reflect countries’ susceptibility to the effects of this crisis. y

Those already living in poverty are particularly at risk. Despite recent progress in poverty reduction, about one in four people still live in multidimensional poverty or are vulnerable to it, and more than 40 percent of the global population does not have any social protection.

The COVID-19 pandemic also reminds us that disruptions in one place are contagious, triggering problems elsewhere. For example, in some countries, like Kyrgyzstan, a significant part of their GDP comes from remittances. While places as diverse as Montenegro, Maldives and Cabo Verde, rely heavily on tourism (almost 60% of GDP in the Maldives for example), which is being hit very hard by travel bans and lockdowns.

[INSERT GIF DATA VISUALIZATION 2 – see dropbox folder]

***
For more information and media interviews, contact:
Adam Cathro; adam.cathro@undp.org; +1 212 906 5326
Anna Ortubia anna.ortubia@undp.org +1 212 906 5964
__________________________________
ABOUT UNDP:
UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality, and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and planet. Learn more at www.undp.org or follow at @UNDP.


ABOUT THESE DASHBOARDS:

These colour-coded tables monitor the level of preparedness of countries to respond to the COVID-19 crisis and their level of vulnerability. The dashboards allow partial grouping of countries by each indicator in the table. For each indicator countries are divided into five groups of approximately equal size with the intention not to suggest threshold or target values for the indicators but to allow a crude assessment of a country’s performance relative to others. A country that is in the top quintile group performs better than the 80 percent of countries, and country in the middle quintile group performs better than 40 percent but also worse than 40 percent. Five-color coding visualizes the partial grouping of countries and helps users to immediately discern a country performance across the set of selected indicators. Data presented in these tables come from the official international sources.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/43848-covid-19-new-undp-data-dashboards-reveal-huge-disparities-among-countries-ability-cope-and




Date: 28 April 2020
Title: Statement of Regional Director: Dr Ahmed Al-Mandhari
Content: 28 April 2020
Dear colleagues and friends,
Ramadan Kareem. Thank you for joining us once more as we continue our collective fight against COVID-19.
Over the past few weeks, this fight has become even more challenging with the appearance of the virus in countries such as the Syrian Arab Republic, Libya and Yemen. Decades and years of conflict — sometimes coupled with natural disasters and previous outbreaks — have left these countries with weakened health systems, shortages in health workers, and limited access to even the most basic medical care services.
Millions of already vulnerable people in these countries are also more prone to infectious diseases due to overcrowded living conditions, weakened immunity due to years of food insecurity, and insufficient treatment for other underlying medical conditions.
Many of these countries are also politically fragmented, resulting in limited humanitarian access to populations in some areas, and challenges in the sharing of information between controlling parties and WHO in a timely and transparent manner.
In Syria, partial implementation of public health measures because of economic difficulties due to war and sanctions, slow testing levels which leads to delays in detection, isolation, and contact tracing means that cases are likely to increase in the coming weeks. The situation is even more critical in areas in the northwest and northeast of the country under control by opposing forces, where we have limited humanitarian access and where hundreds of thousands of people are at greater risk.
In the northeast, where one case has so far been confirmed, there are challenges in consolidating the numbers of reported cases with those across the rest of the country, due to lack of cooperation among the different controlling authorities.
In Libya, fighting continues in Tarhouna, south of Tripoli, and shelling continues near Mitiga airport in Tripoli. Residents of greater Tripoli continue to be affected by severe water shortages. These are just some of the threats that impede our work to protect innocent people from COVID-19 and other health risks.
In Yemen -- the world’s worst humanitarian disaster – more than 13 million people a month are dependent on food assistance, 2.5 million children under 5 require nutritional support, and 8.8 million require health care, making them more susceptible to contracting infectious diseases like COVID-19 due to compromised immune systems. Yemen’s health system is fragile, and the emergence of COVID-19 could be catastrophic—overwhelming already ravaged hospitals, health facilities and health care workers. Operating conditions and access in some areas across the country are restrictive, leaving millions of people exposed and vulnerable.
I would like to stress here that health is a human right. Our mandate as WHO is -- and has always been -- to serve all people in need of health aid, regardless of gender, race, geographic location, or political affiliation.
Our WHO representatives, staff and health partners working in these and other countries are often operating under extremely difficult conditions. But they all have one common goal: to protect the health of the people they serve and to leave the politics behind.
As humanitarians, we have no hidden agendas or bias. We abide by our core mandate that health is neutral and ensure humanitarian access for all people, everywhere.
In previous years, we have successfully advocated for health as a bridge to peace and negotiated ceasefires for vaccination campaigns and other life-saving activities. These efforts continue now as it becomes even more critical to ensure that all cases of COVID-19 are quickly identified and properly isolated and treated, and with all contacts traced to avoid further transmission.
Dear colleagues,
While the disease continues to spread across our region, there has been a slight decrease in the number of cases reported week by week in some countries. Some of these countries have developed an exit strategy and have started lifting restrictions, including easing of curfews and airport closures. Without careful planning, and in the absence of scaled up public health and clinical care capacities, this premature lifting of physical distancing measures is likely to lead to an uncontrolled resurgence in COVID 19 transmission and an amplified second wave of cases.
There has been much discussion on whether patients who have been infected with the virus are now immune to reinfection. We have limited information on whether a person infected with the virus can develop an antibody response and for how long, and there is no evidence that a serological test can show that an individual is immune to COVID-19 after having contracted the disease and recovered.
WHO is working with researchers to accelerate the development of vaccines and therapeutics for COVID-19. More than 80 vaccines are in development globally, including six vaccines in clinical evaluation, and several therapeutics are in clinical trials. A solidarity trial for vaccine development will be launched, in addition to the current trail for therapeutics.
We are committed to ensuring that as medicines and vaccines are developed, they are shared equitably with all countries and people.
Over the past four months, this pandemic has taught us all many lessons on the need for united global action to face a global threat. This is not the time for politics, accusations, or mistrust. We can only succeed by working together as nations, humanitarian, communities, and individuals, and by ensuring that our actions – based on solidarity, real partnership, mutual trust, and transparency -- serve even the most vulnerable for the common good.
There is no better time than now for unity and collaboration between nations – whether stable nations or those facing conflict. Let this unprecedented pandemic be an opportunity for all to put aside their differences, find common ground, and work together for the sake of humanity.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/43706-statement-regional-director-dr-ahmed-al-mandhari




Date: 27 April 2020
Title: A new normal: UN lays out roadmap to lift economies and save jobs after COVID-19
Content: 27 April 2020
There will be no return to the “old normal”, governments must act to create a new economy and more jobs.
New York, 27 April 2020 – The urgent health crisis that is COVID-19 has created a historic recession with record levels of deprivation and unemployment, creating an unprecedented human crisis that is hitting the poorest hardest, especially women and children. In a new framework released today as a roadmap to support countries’ path to social and economic recovery, the United Nations calls for an extraordinary scale-up of international support and political commitment to ensure that people everywhere have access to essential services and social protection.
The “United Nations Framework for the immediate socio-economic response to COVID-19: Shared responsibility, global solidarity and urgent action for people in need”  calls for protecting jobs, businesses and livelihoods to set in motion a safe recovery of societies and economies as soon as possible for a more sustainable, gender-equal, and carbon-neutral path—better than the “old normal”.
“This is not only a health crisis but a human crisis; a jobs crisis; a humanitarian crisis and a development crisis. And it is not just about the most vulnerable. This pandemic shows that we are all at risk because we are only as strong as the weakest health system. Its unprecedented scale demands an unprecedented response,” said United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres, who presented his report on the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19 “Shared Responsibility, Global Solidarity” in March.
“Everything we do during and after this crisis must be with a strong focus on building more equal, inclusive and sustainable economies and societies that are more resilient in the face of pandemics, climate change and the many other global challenges we face,” he said. This new framework released today sets the way United Nations entities will deliver this vision on the ground.
Decisions made in the next few months will be crucial for the progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the UN’s framework for social and economic recovery stresses.
Noting that during the Ebola outbreak in 2014, more people died from the interruption of social services and the economic breakdown than from the virus itself, the framework focuses on protecting the needs and rights of those most affected by the pandemic, starting with the most vulnerable countries, groups, and those who risk being left behind.
Drawing lessons from the 2008-2009 global economic and financial crisis, the framework notes that countries with strong social protection systems and basic services suffered the least and recovered the fastest. To prevent billions of people from sliding into poverty, governments around the world will need to rapidly adapt, extend and scale-up safety ‘cushions’, such as cash transfers, food assistance, social insurance schemes and child benefits to support families.
For the impacts of COVID-19 to be reduced, the UN calls for an extraordinary scale-up of support to cope with the challenges ahead, including immediate social protection responses that consider differentiated impacts on vulnerable groups, children, women, men, and those in the informal sector. This is particularly urgent considering that 4 billion people, more than half of the world population—including two out of three children—have no or inadequate social protection.
NOTES FOR THE EDITORS
The UN will focus on five key streams in its response, which places communities at the centre of recovery efforts: 1.protecting existing health services and strengthening health systems’ capacity to respond to COVID-19; 2. helping people cope with adversity, through social protection and basic services; 3. protecting jobs, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, and informal sector workers through economic recovery programmes; 4. guiding the necessary surge in fiscal and financial stimulus to make macroeconomic policies work for the most vulnerable and strengthening multilateral and regional responses; and 5. promoting social cohesion and investing in community-led resilience and response systems. These five streams are connected by action to meet the need for environmental sustainability, if countries are to recover and “build back better”, and be better prepared to address future shocks, including pandemics.
UN teams covering 162 countries and territories will rollout this recovery plan in the next 12 to 18 months, under the leadership of UN Resident Coordinators (RC), supported by a network of global and regional expertise. As the technical lead in the socio-economic recovery efforts, the UN Development Programme (UNDP) will support RCs, with UN teams working as one across all aspects of the response.
While a significant proportion of the existing US$17.8 billion portfolio of sustainable development programmes across UN entities will be adjusted towards COVID-19 needs, given the scale and scope of the socio-economic impact of the pandemic, additional funds will be required. To support these efforts, the Secretary-General launched the United Nations COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund, a UN inter-agency fund mechanism to help support low- and middle-income programme countries overcome the health and development crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and support people most vulnerable to economic hardship and social disruption. The financial requirements of the Fund are projected at $1billion in the first nine months and will be subsequently reviewed. The Secretary-General also called for a multilateral response that amounts to at least 10 per cent of global gross domestic product (GDP) to mount the most effective response to crisis the world has ever seen.
There will be no return to the “old normal”, the framework document states. The pandemic is a blow to developing and emerging economies that already face binding constraints of debt and limited fiscal space, with several developing countries needing urgent debt relief. Its impacts will be especially devastating for the most vulnerable countries – those in humanitarian or conflict settings. The UN also calls for a massive fiscal and financial repurposing in the next weeks and months, including the redirection of fossil fuel subsidies to aid the response. The UN stresses that the status quo and business-as-usual are policy choices, and they are not inevitable. For a sustainable development that benefits more people, the choice must be for a recovery from COVID-19 that is fast, fair, green and inclusive.
About the framework document : The “United Nations Framework for the immediate socio-economic response to COVID-19: Shared responsibility, global solidarity and urgent action for people in need”, released today puts in practice the UN Secretary-General’s Shared Responsibility, Global Solidarity report on the same subject. It is one of three critical components of the UN’s efforts to save lives, protect people, and rebuild better, alongside the health response, led by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the humanitarian response, as detailed in the UN-led COVID-19 Global Humanitarian Response Plan. Three funding mechanisms support the comprehensive response pillars: The COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund, managed by the UN Foundation and the Swiss Philanthropy Foundation for the immediate health needs; the  “Global Humanitarian Response Plan” for the humanitarian appeal; and the United Nations COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund for the socio-economic recovery.
About the UN Development System: The United Nations development system is the world’s largest international actor on social protection and basic services. The UN System is present in 162 countries and territories and reaches tens of millions of people through basic services, social transfers and other forms of social protection. The UN Development System has extensive experience in supporting governments in developing social protection systems including social protection floors and delivery of quality social services and to support such services across humanitarian and development contexts. unsdg.un.org
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/43708-new-normal-un-lays-out-roadmap-lift-economies-and-save-jobs-after-covid-19




Date: 24 April 2020
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  --  MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY OF MULTILATERALISM AND DIPLOMACY FOR PEACE
Content: 24 April 2020
Multilateralism is not only a matter of confronting shared threats; it is about seizing common opportunities.  We now have the opportunity to build back better than in the past, aiming at inclusive and sustainable economies and societies.


24 April 2020

The COVID19 pandemic is a tragic reminder of how deeply connected we are. The virus knows no borders and is a quintessential global challenge.  Combatting it requires us to work together as one human family.

We must do all we can to save lives and ease the economic and social devastation.  Crucially, we need to draw the appropriate lessons about the vulnerabilities and inequalities the virus has laid bare, and mobilize investments in education, health systems, social protection and resilience.

This is the biggest international challenge since the Second World War.  Yet even before this test, the world was facing other profound transnational perils – climate change above all.

But multilateralism is not only a matter of confronting shared threats; it is about seizing common opportunities.  We now have the opportunity to build back better than in the past, aiming at inclusive and sustainable economies and societies.

It is not enough to proclaim the virtues of multilateralism; we must continue to show its added value.  International cooperation must adapt to changing times.

We need a networked multilateralism, strengthening coordination among all global multilateral organizations, with regional ones able to make their vital contributions; and an inclusive multilateralism, based on deep interaction with civil society, businesses, local and regional authorities and other stakeholders… where the voice of youth is decisive in shaping our future.

At this key moment for international cooperation, and in this 75th anniversary year of the United Nations, let us strive as one to realize the founders’ vision of a healthy, equitable, peaceful and more sustainable future for all.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/43962-secretary-general-message-international-day-multilateralism-and-diplomacy-peace




Date: 24 April 2020
Title: UN Chief:  People and their rights must be front and centre in COVID-19 Response and Recovery
Content: 24 April 2020
The COVID-19 pandemic is a public health emergency — but it is far more.
It is an economic crisis.  A social crisis.  And a human crisis that is fast becoming a human rights crisis.
In February, I launched a Call to Action to put human dignity and the promise of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights at the core of our work.
As I said then, human rights cannot be an afterthought in times of crisis — and we now face the biggest international crisis in generations.
Today, I am releasing a report highlighting how human rights can and must guide COVID-19 response and recovery.
The message is clear:  People — and their rights — must be front and centre.
A human rights lens puts everyone in the picture and ensures that no one is left behind.
Human rights responses can help beat the pandemic, putting a focus on the imperative of healthcare for everyone.
But they also serve as an essential warning system — highlighting who is suffering most, why, and what can be done about it.
We have seen how the virus does not discriminate, but its impacts do — exposing deep weaknesses in the delivery of public services and structural inequalities that impede access to them.  We must make sure they are properly addressed in the response.
We see the disproportionate effects on certain communities, the rise of hate speech, the targeting of vulnerable groups, and the risks of heavy-handed security responses undermining the health response.
Against the background of rising ethno-nationalism, populism, authoritarianism and a pushback against human rights in some countries, the crisis can provide a pretext to adopt repressive measures for purposes unrelated to the pandemic.
This is unacceptable.
More than ever, governments must be transparent, responsive and accountable.  Civic space and press freedom are critical.  Civil society organizations and the private sector have essential roles to play.
And in all we do, let’s never forget:  The threat is the virus, not people.
We must ensure that any emergency measures — including states of emergency — are legal, proportionate, necessary and non-discriminatory, have a specific focus and duration, and take the least intrusive approach possible to protect public health.
The best response is one that responds proportionately to immediate threats while protecting human rights and the rule of law.
Looking ahead, we need to build back better.  The Sustainable Development Goals — which are underpinned by human rights — provide the framework for more inclusive and sustainable economies and societies.
Strengthening economic and social rights bolsters resilience for the long haul.
The recovery must also respect the rights of future generations, enhancing climate action aiming at carbon neutrality by 2050 and protecting biodiversity.
We are all in this together.
The virus threatens everyone.  Human rights uplift everyone.
By respecting human rights in this time of crisis, we will build more effective and inclusive solutions for the emergency of today and the recovery for tomorrow.
Thank you.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/43054-un-chief-people-and-their-rights-must-be-front-and-centre-covid-19-response-and-recovery




Date: 23 April 2020
Title: MESSAGE ON THE BEGINNING OF RAMADAN
Content: 23 April 2020
I recently called for an immediate global ceasefire to focus on our common enemy — the virus.  I repeat that appeal today, recalling the words of the Holy Quran “and if they incline to peace, then incline to it”.
I extend my warmest wishes as millions of Muslims around the world begin observing the holy month of Ramadan.

This will, of course, be a very different Ramadan.  Many community activities will naturally be affected by measures to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.  Meanwhile, many people in conflict zones will once again be tragically marking this month with war and insecurity all around.

I recently called for an immediate global ceasefire to focus on our common enemy — the virus.  I repeat that appeal today, recalling the words of the Holy Quran “and if they incline to peace, then incline to it”.

Ramadan is also about supporting the most vulnerable.  I thank governments and people throughout the Muslim world who live by their faith, supporting those fleeing conflict in the best Islamic tradition of hospitality and generosity — a remarkable lesson in this world where so many doors have been closed to those in need of protection, even before COVID-19.

Once again, my best wishes to all for mercy, solidarity and compassion in these trying times.

Ramadan Kareem.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/42876-message-beginning-ramadan




Date: 23 April 2020
Title: WHO Regional Director’s weekly COVID-19 statement: Ramadan during the pandemic
Content: 23 April 2020
Dear family, friends and colleagues in the Eastern Mediterranean Region and around the world.
This weekend, around a billion and a half Muslims worldwide will welcome the start of the holy month of Ramadan. While the social and religious traditions associated with this month are well established, the global pandemic currently affecting us all is unique and unprecedented.
This month, we will be celebrating old traditions in a new world, requiring us all to make changes and compromises for the sake of our health and the health of our communities and loved ones.
To protect their populations, countries across the world are implementing measures to limit mass gatherings and other social events based on their risk assessment of the situation on the ground. These measures are necessary to break the chains of transmission and prevent more people from getting infected. For people with preexisting medical conditions who are at higher risk, these protective measures are critical and can be lifesaving.
Some countries are beginning to lift restrictive measures, and while this may be welcomed by the community, we emphasize that easing restrictions is not the end of the epidemic in any country. While many people have contacted COVID, an even larger number of our population in the region remain susceptible and the virus may spread again quickly if social distancing measures are reversed too soon.
We know that COVID-19 spreads fast, and we know that it is deadly. Country decisions on lifting restrictions must be based first and foremost on protecting human health, and guided by what we know about the virus and how it behaves.. That means control measures can only be lifted if the right public health measures are in place.
In order to help countries make informed decisions, WHO has provided specific guidance on safe Ramadan practices in the context of COVID-19. This includes guidance on physical distancing measures that need to be taken during prayers, pilgrimages, communal meals, and other social or religious events. At the same time, it advises that healthy people should be able to fast this year as they have done in previous years, since there is no evidence that fasting increases risk of infection.
When breaking your fast, eat a variety of fresh, unprocessed foods and drink plenty of water to stay hydrated. Avoid tobacco use, which is not recommended even under normal circumstances. Frequent smokers may already have lung disease, or reduced lung capacity, which greatly increases the risk of serious COVID-19 illness.
This year, let Ramadan be a time for private reflection, prayer, and discovering of new ways to help those in need. Instead of coming together for family gatherings, we can demonstrate our love for family and friends by encouraging them to stay safe at home while connecting with them by phone or videocalls. Instead of setting up iftar and sohour banquets for the poor, we can distribute packaged food that they can safely enjoy at home.
Let us also take advantage of our time alone to contemplate and pray for the safe recovery of those who are sick.
We are living through the first pandemic caused by a coronavirus and the world has never before faced a public health event of such proportion, or that has required such restrictive measures to contain it. At the same time, we are seeing unprecedented levels of regional and global solidarity and positive action. This Ramadan, let us continue in this spirit by practicing the key tenets of this holy month: Prayer, reflection, ensuring our physical and mental well-being, causing no harm to others, and helping the poor.
These actions will not only allow us to enjoy the true spirit of Ramadan, but will also help us to play a critical role we all have as individuals and communities to contain this disease, and ensuring the health and wellbeing of all people, by all people.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/42875-who-regional-director%E2%80%99s-weekly-covid-19-statement-ramadan-during-pandemic




Date: 22 April 2020
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL'S REMARKS ON INTERNATIONAL MOTHER EARTH DAY
Content: 22 April 2020
Climate disruption is approaching a point of no return. We must act decisively to protect our planet from both the coronavirus and the existential threat of climate disruption.


On this International Mother Earth Day, all eyes are on the COVID-19 pandemic – the biggest test the world has faced since the Second World War.

We must work together to save lives, ease suffering and lessen the shattering economic and social consequences.

The impact of the coronavirus is both immediate and dreadful.

But there is another deep emergency -- the planet’s unfolding environmental crisis.

Biodiversity is in steep decline.

Climate disruption is approaching a point of no return.

We must act decisively to protect our planet from both the coronavirus and the existential threat of climate disruption.

The current crisis is an unprecedented wake-up call.

We need to turn the recovery into a real opportunity to do things right for the future.

I am therefore proposing six climate-related actions to shape the recovery and the work ahead.

First: as we spend huge amounts of money to recover from the coronavirus, we must deliver new jobs and businesses through a clean, green transition.

Second: where taxpayers’ money is used to rescue businesses, it needs to  be tied to achieving green jobs and sustainable growth.

Third: fiscal firepower must drive a shift from the grey to green economy, and make societies and people more resilient

Fourth: public funds should be used to invest in the future, not the past, and flow to sustainable sectors and projects that help the environment and the climate.

Fossil fuel subsidies must end, and polluters must start paying for their pollution

Fifth: climate risks and opportunities must be incorporated into the financial system as well as all aspects of public policy making and infrastructure.

Sixth: we need to work together as an international community.

These six principles constitute an important guide to recovering better together.

Greenhouse gases, just like viruses, do not respect national boundaries.

On this Earth Day, please join me in demanding a healthy and resilient future for people and planet alike.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/42644-secretary-generals-remarks-international-mother-earth-day




Date: 21 April 2020
Title: The United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt “People are at the center in COVID response”
Content: 21 April 2020
Egypt’s response to COVID-19 has been timely and robust.
The COVID-19 pandemic is global. It changes the lives of people across the globe – faster and more profound than any of us had ever imagined. The United Nations is working closely with Governments across the world to respond immediately to human needs: health care, food and nutrition, the continuation of education (even when children cannot go to school) and jobs.

Egypt’s response to COVID-19 has been timely and robust. Public Health measures were taken early and to date, the pandemic in Egypt has been managed within the capacities of the heath system. Many countries in the world have not managed this, and it should give all of us hope for the future. The Government has taken early action to provide support to working people, companies and small enterprises. We do not know yet how deep the global crisis will be and to what extend it will impact Egypt. Using the time now, for good preparation to rapidly go from crisis to recovery, is essential. The United Nations Country Team, consisting of 19 agencies, is working closely with the Government in supporting the national response.

The UN in Egypt has launched a socio-economic response plan in consultation with the Government of Egypt. The focus of this plan is to effectively support the most vulnerable groups affected by the outbreak, by repurposing existing projects and delivery mechanisms. The UN Resident Coordinator, Mr. Richard Dictus, stressed “At this difficult time for many people in Egypt, the United Nations must immediately reach out to the most vulnerable people of society and help them as much as we can, to get through the next period. The needs are critical, and they are urgent, and this should be reflected in the support we offer”.

In 2018, the United Nations calculated that it directly reached 33 million people in Egypt through its collaboration with Government, Civil Society and the corporate sector. “We are now seeking to firm up these partnerships and try to direct them to as many people in need as we can, as quickly as we can” Mr Dictus said.

The main objectives of the UN’s socio-economic response  are to: (i) mitigate the economic impact on the labour market, MSMEs and high-risk sectors; (ii) ensure the continuity of inclusive access to public services, notably social protection and safety nets, health & nutrition and education services; (iii) alleviate the impact on food security and the agriculture sector; and (iv) support women and girls’ continued access services and economic opportunities. In addition, the response plan is also aiming at enhancing the protection of livelihood opportunities for migrants, refugees and asylum seekers. The response plan covers an initial period of 6 months and will be adjusted based on the evolving context.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/42471-united-nations-resident-coordinator-egypt-%E2%80%9Cpeople-are-center-covid-response%E2%80%9D




Date: 17 April 2020
Title: The secretary-General remarks to media on the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on children
Content: 17 April 2020
UN Secretary-General António Guterres called for urgent action to support the world’s children amid the universal crisis.

As the COVID-19 pandemic spreads across the globe, we are seeing an alarming pattern.

The poorest and most vulnerable members of society are being hardest hit, both by the pandemic and the response.

I am especially concerned about the well-being of the world’s children.

Thankfully, children have so far been largely spared from the most severe symptoms of the disease.

But their lives are being totally upended.

I appeal to families everywhere, and leaders at all levels: protect our children.

Today we are launching a report that highlights the risks they face.
[embed]https://youtu.be/3_EA7KMlro0[/embed]
First, education.

Almost all students are now out of school.

Some schools are offering distance learning, but this is not available to all.
Children in countries with slow and expensive Internet services are severely disadvantaged.

Second, food.

A staggering 310 million schoolchildren – nearly half of the world’s total – rely on school for a regular source of daily nutrition.

Even before Covid-19 the world faced unacceptable rates of childhood malnutrition and stunting.



Third, safety.

With children out of school, their communities in lockdown and a global recession biting deeper, family stress levels are rising.

Children are both victims and witnesses of domestic violence and abuse.

With schools closed, an important early warning mechanism is missing.

There is also a danger that girls will drop out of school, leading to an increase in teenage pregnancies.
And we must not ignore the growing risks children are facing as they spend more time online.

This can leave children vulnerable to online sexual exploitation and grooming.

A lack of face-to-face contact with friends and partners may lead to heightened risk-taking such as sending sexualized images.

And increased and unstructured time online may expose children to potentially harmful and violent content as well as greater risk of cyberbullying.
Governments and parents all have a role in keeping children safe.

Social media companies have a special responsibility to protect the vulnerable.

Fourth, health.

Reduced household income will force poor families to cut back on essential health and food expenditures, particularly affecting children, pregnant women, and breastfeeding mothers.

Polio vaccination campaigns have been suspended.
Measles immunization campaigns have stopped in at least 23 countries.

And as health services become overwhelmed, sick children are less able to access care.

With the global recession gathering pace, there could be hundreds of thousands additional child deaths in 2020.

These are just some of the findings of the report we are issuing today.
Its conclusion is clear.

We must act now on each of these threats to our children.

Leaders must do everything in their power to cushion the impact of the pandemic.

What started as a public health emergency has snowballed into a formidable test for the global promise to leave no one behind.

The report urges governments and donors to prioritize education for all children.

It recommends they provide economic assistance, including cash transfers, to low-income families and minimize disruptions to social and healthcare services for children.

We must also prioritize the most vulnerable – children in conflict situations; child refugees and displaced persons; children living with disabilities.
Finally, we must commit to building back better by using the recovery from COVID-19 to pursue a more sustainable and inclusive economy and society in line with the Sustainable Development Goals.

With the pandemic placing so many
of the world’s children in jeopardy,
I reiterate my urgent appeal: let us protect our children and safeguard their well-being.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/41977-secretary-general-remarks-media-effect-covid-19-pandemic-children




Date: 16 April 2020
Title: ESCWA: 74 million in the Arab region at risk of COVID-19 due to lack of access to a handwashing facility
Content: 16 April 2020
Beirut- While it has been agreed worldwide that handwashing with soap and water is the best prevention against COVID-19 contagion, this simple act proves to be difficult in a region where 74 million people lack access to a basic handwashing facility. A new policy brief (attached) released today by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) highlights the impact of the pandemic on the water-scarce Arab region.
Water demand for handwashing alone is set to increase by 9 to 12 litres per person per day – not to mention laundry, cleaning and food washing demands. This amounts to an average daily increase of household water demand by 4 million to 5 million cubic metres. The situation is further exacerbated by insufficient piped water supply in 10 of the 22 Arab countries.
About 87 million people in the region also lack access to an improved drinking water source in their homes. This exposes them to a greater risk of contagion as they are forced to collect water daily from a public source. Women and girls in rural, peri-urban areas and informal settlements, who usually undertake the water collection task, are thus put at a greater risk.
“It is urgent to ensure access to clean water and sanitation services to everyone everywhere, at no cost for those who cannot afford it, in order to avoid further spread of the coronavirus,” affirmed ESCWA Executive Secretary Rola Dashti. Indeed, several Governments and utility operators have taken extraordinary measures to reconnect services and waive tariffs for an interim period to alleviate economic hardship: this should be emulated in all Arab countries.
Refugees and people living in conflict areas or under occupation bear an additional burden. In the Gaza Strip, one of the most densely populated areas in the world, only 1 in 10 households has access to clean water. An estimated 26 million refugees and internally displaced persons in the region are also at a greater risk of contracting COVID-19 due to lack of adequate water, sanitation and hygiene services.
“Access to water should not be used as a weapon of war,” further said Dashti, reiterating her call for an immediate humanitarian truce and a renewal of efforts to build lasting peace in the region. “Governments should prioritize and coordinate the provision of emergency clean water and handwashing facilities to all areas without coverage,” she concluded.
ESCWA also calls for increased quality assurance measures on water and wastewater treatment systems, as poor water quality raises contagion risks.


This policy brief is part of a series of impact assessments of COVID-19 undertaken by ESCWA to support Arab Governments in joining efforts to mitigate the effects of the pandemic.

***
About ESCWA
One of five United Nations regional commissions, ESCWA supports inclusive and sustainable economic and social development in Arab States, and works on enhancing regional integration.
For more information:
- Ms. Maryam Sleiman, Public Information Assistant, +961-81-769-888; email: sleiman2@un.org
- Ms. Rania Harb, Public Information Assistant, +961-70-008-879; email: harb1@un.org

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/41797-escwa-74-million-arab-region-risk-covid-19-due-lack-access-handwashing-facility




Date: 15 April 2020
Title: UN Chief's Video Message on COVID-19 and Misinformation
Content: 15 April 2020


As the world fights the deadly COVID-19 pandemic – the most challenging crisis we have faced since the Second World War – we are also seeing another epidemic -- a dangerous epidemic of misinformation.
Around the world, people are scared. They want to know what to do and where to turn for advice.
This is a time for science and solidarity.
Yet the global ‘misinfo-demic’ is spreading.
Harmful health advice and snake-oil solutions are proliferating.
Falsehoods are filling the airwaves.
Wild conspiracy theories are infecting the Internet.
Hatred is going viral, stigmatizing and vilifying people and groups.
The world must unite against this disease, too.
The vaccine is trust.
First, trust in science.
I salute the journalists and others fact-checking the mountain of misleading stories and social media posts.
Social media companies must do more to root out hate and harmful assertions about COVID-19.
Second, trust in institutions — grounded in responsive, responsible, evidence-based governance and leadership.
And trust in each other.  Mutual respect and upholding human rights must be our compass in navigating this crisis.
Together, let’s reject the lies and nonsense out there.
Today I am announcing a new United Nations Communications Response initiative to flood the Internet with facts and science while countering the growing scourge of misinformation -- a poison that is putting even more lives at risk.
With common cause for common sense and facts, we can defeat COVID-19 -- and build a healthier, more equitable, just and resilient world.
Thank you.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/41293-un-chiefs-video-message-covid-19-and-misinformation




Date: 11 April 2020
Title: The Secretary-General -- Special Appeal to Religious Leaders
Content: 11 April 2020
Let us renew our faith in one another and draw strength from the good that is gathering in troubled times as communities of diverse faiths and ethical traditions unite to care for one another.

Together, we can and will defeat this virus – with cooperation, solidarity, and faith in our common humanity.




Today, I want to make a special appeal to religious leaders of all faiths to join forces to work for peace around the world and focus on our common battle to defeat COVID19.

I do so at a special time on the spiritual calendar.

For Christians, it is the celebration of Easter.  Jews are marking Passover.  And soon, Muslims will begin the holy month of Ramadan.

I extend my warmest wishes to all those observing these important MOMENTS.

We have always known these occasions to be moments of community.  Of families coming together. Of hugs and handshakes and the gathering of humanity.

But this is a time like no other.

We are all seeking to navigate a strange, surreal world.

A world of silent streets. Shuttered storefronts. Empty places of worship.

And a world of worry.

We are worried about our loved ones who are equally worried about us.

How do we celebrate at a time like this?

Let us all take inspiration from the essence of these holy occasions as moments for reflection, remembrance and renewal.

As we reflect, let us spare a special thought for heroic health workers on the frontlines battling this awful virus – and for all those working to keep our cities and towns going.

Let us remember the most vulnerable of the vulnerable around the world. Those in war zones and refugee camps and slums and all those places least equipped to fight the virus.

And let us renew our faith in one another and draw strength from the good that is gathering in troubled times as communities of diverse faiths and ethical traditions unite to care for one another.

Together, we can and will defeat this virus – with cooperation, solidarity, and faith in our common humanity.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/40796-secretary-general-special-appeal-religious-leaders




Date: 11 April 2020
Title: Joint Appeal by the UN Secretary-General’s Envoys to the Middle East
Content: 11 April 2020
We call on all parties to engage, in good faith and without preconditions, on negotiating immediate halts to ongoing hostilities, sustaining existing ceasefires, putting in place more durable and comprehensive ceasefires, and achieving longer-term resolutions to the persistent conflicts across the region.

On 23 March, the Secretary-General launched an appeal for an immediate Global Ceasefire, urging all warring parties to pull back from hostilities, put aside mistrust and animosity, and silence their guns. Many parties have responded positively to the Secretary-General’s appeal, but more needs to be done to translate these words into actions.
Too many in the Middle East have endured conflict and deprivation for far too long. Their suffering is now compounded by the COVID19 crisis and its likely long-lasting social, economic and political impacts.
We call on all parties to engage, in good faith and without preconditions, on negotiating immediate halts to ongoing hostilities, sustaining existing ceasefires, putting in place more durable and comprehensive ceasefires, and achieving longer-term resolutions to the persistent conflicts across the region.
We also appeal to all to exercise maximum restraint, de-escalate tensions and work to resolve differences through dialogue, negotiation, mediation or other peaceful means. We further call on all to refrain from any activities that can lead to further deterioration of stability and security in any country or the region as a whole.
We urge parties to reach out across conflict lines and cooperate locally, regionally and globally to stop the rapid spread of the virus and, where possible, to share resources, and allow access to medical facilities where needed.
We call on all sides to facilitate humanitarian access and assistance to the internally displaced and refugees, communities under siege, and all who have been ravaged by war and deprivation, without prejudice or discrimination. This requires fast-tracking the passage of health and aid workers at borders and in-country and ensuring they are protected. We further call on all to facilitate safe, voluntary and dignified return of refugees and IDPs to their homes by urgent, effective and meaningful action and measures.
We call for special attention to the plight of the detained, the abducted and the missing, and for humanitarian releases, access for humanitarian organizations, and urgent steps to ensure adequate medical care and protective measures in all places of detention.
We call on all partners at a time when all are facing immense national challenges, to work with the UN on urgent international response plans and recovery measures. No country, region or community can face the challenge of COVID-19 alone. Solidarity is required today and will be very much needed tomorrow.
Our teams will continue to focus on preventive diplomacy, on assisting all efforts to respond to the health and socio-economic consequences of the crisis, support broad cooperation in the interest of peace and the well-being of all, work relentlessly to facilitate humanitarian access to the most vulnerable, and engage resolutely for these objectives.
None of these efforts will succeed if the guns of war and conflict are not silenced. At a time like this, partisanship and narrow interests must yield to the greater cause and the good of the people. That is why we echo the Secretary-General in calling on all parties in the Middle East to work with the UN so we can “focus on the true fight of our lives.”

Geir O. Pedersen, UN Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Syria / OSES
Jan Kubis, UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon / UNSCOL
Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, UN Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq / UNAMI
Martin Griffiths, UN Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Yemen / OSESGY
Nickolay Mladenov, UN Special Coordiantor for the Middle East Peace Process / UNSCO

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/40795-joint-appeal-un-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-envoys-middle-east




Date: 09 April 2020
Title: The Secretary-General Video Message on Women and Covid
Content: 09 April 2020
Early data indicates that the mortality rates from COVID-19 may be higher for men. But the pandemic is having devastating social and economic consequences for women and girls.


The COVID-19 pandemic affects everyone, everywhere.

But it affects different groups of people differently, deepening existing inequalities.

Early data indicates that the mortality rates from COVID-19 may be higher for men. But the pandemic is having devastating social and economic consequences for women and girls.

Today we are launching a report that shows how COVID-19 could reverse the limited progress that has been made on gender equality and women’s rights – and recommends ways to put women’s leadership and contributions at the heart of resilience and recovery.

Nearly 60 per cent of women around the world work in the informal economy, earning less, saving less, and at greater risk of falling into poverty.

As markets fall and businesses close, millions of women’s jobs have disappeared.

At the same time as they are losing paid employment, women’s unpaid care work has increased exponentially as a result of school closures and the increased needs of older people.

These currents are combining as never before to defeat women’s rights and deny women’s opportunities.

Progress lost takes years to regain. Teenage girls out of school may never return.

I urge governments to put women and girls at the centre of their efforts to recover from COVID-19.

That starts with women as leaders, with equal representation and decision-making power.

Measures to protect and stimulate the economy, from cash transfers to credits and loans, must be targeted at women.

Social safety nets must be expanded.

Unpaid care work must be recognized and valued as a vital contribution to the economy.

The pandemic has also led to a horrifying increase in violence against women.

Nearly one in five women worldwide has experienced violence in the past year.  Many of these women are now trapped at home with their abusers, struggling to access services that are suffering from cuts and restrictions.

This was the basis for my appeal to governments earlier this week to take urgent steps to protect women and expand support services.

COVID-19 is not only challenging global health systems, but testing our common humanity.

Gender equality and women’s rights are essential to getting through this pandemic together, to recovering faster, and to building a better future for everyone.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/40612-secretary-general-video-message-women-and-covid




Date: 08 April 2020
Title: Statement by the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt on “World Health Day”
Content: 08 April 2020
It is time for governments and communities to open dialogue to address the challenges facing the health sector and finding ways towards the promotion of the role of nurses in societies.
7 April marks the World Health Day. It is initiated to raise global awareness about health issues and concerns. This year, the World Health Organization (WHO) chose the theme of 2020 to be the international day of “Nurses and Midwifes”. This is to bring to our attention the critical roles of nurses and midwives in contributing to the improvement of healthcare systems which will result in the wellbeing of people, families and societies.

On this occasion, we need to highlight the current status of nurses and other health workers who are at the forefront in responding to the COVID-19 outbreak. They are playing a critical role in providing high-quality health care in such difficult times. They bare the biggest burdens of this pandemic by dealing with unexpected numbers of patients, working for long hours and taking risks of being infected.

In this current context, we can all support the medical systems in our countries and lessen the burden and the psychological pressure on all health workers by following all the regulations needed to combat this pandemic. It is not difficult to practice social distancing, wash our hands regularly, follow the regulations of mobility and stay at home.

It is time for governments and communities to open dialogue to address the challenges facing the health sector and finding ways towards the promotion of the role of nurses in societies.

We all need to take a moment and say “thank you” to all the nurses, midwives, doctors, pharmacists and every health care worker surrounding us who are doing a tremendous effort to keep us safe and healthy.
بيان من المنسق المقيم للأمم المتحدة في مصر في يوم الصحة العالمي
يصادف يوم السابع من أبريل يوم الصحة العالمي، والذي تم إطلاقه بهدف في رفع مستوى الوعي العالمي حول قضايا وهموم الصحة حول العالم.

اختارت منظمة الصحة العالمية أن يكون شعار يوم الصحة العالمي لعام 2020 هو "يوم الممرضات والقابلات" و ذلك للفت الانتباه إلى الأدوار الحيوية التي يساهمون بها في تحسين أنظمة الرعاية الصحية التي  تساهم في رفع مستوى رفاهية الناس والأسر والمجتمعات.

في هذه المناسبة، نحتاج إلى تسليط الضوء على الوضع الحالي للممرضات وغيرهم من العاملين والعاملات في القطاع الصحي لأنهم يقومون الآن بدور خط الدفاع الأول في الاستجابة ومواجهة تفشي وباء كورونا العالمي (كوفيد ١٩) حيث يلعبون دوراً حاسماً في توفير رعاية صحية في هذه الأوقات الصعبة فهم يتحملون أكبر أعباء هذا الوباء من خلال التعامل مع أعداد غير متوقعة من المرضى والعمل لساعات عمل طويلة ويتعرضون للمخاطرة بحياتهم في انتقال العدوى.

وفي هذا السياق، يمكننا جميعًا دعم الأنظمة الطبية في بلداننا وتقليل العبء والضغط النفسي على جميع العاملين  والعاملات في مجال الصحة من خلال اتباع جميع اللوائح اللازمة لمكافحة هذا الوباء. فإنه ليس من الصعب ممارسة الإبعاد الاجتماعي وغسل أيدينا بانتظام واتباع إرشادات التنقلات والبقاء في المنزل

لقد حان الوقت للحكومات والمجتمعات لفتح حوار حول للتصدي للتحديات التي تواجه قطاع الصحة وإيجاد سبل نحو تعزيز دور الممرضات في المجتمعات .

نحتاج جميعًا أن نتوقف لحظة ونقول "شكرًا" لجميع الممرضات والقابلات والأطباء والصيادلة وكل العاملين والعاملات  في مجال الرعاية الصحية الذين يحيطون بنا والذين يقومون بجهد هائل للحفاظ على سلامتنا وصحتنا.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/40396-statement-united-nations-resident-coordinator-egypt-%E2%80%9Cworld-health-day%E2%80%9D




Date: 07 April 2020
Title: SECRETARY-GENERAL’S MESSAGE ON WORLD HEALTH DAY 7 April 2020
Content: 07 April 2020
In these traumatic times, I say to all healthcare workers: we stand with you and we count on you.

World Health Day this year comes at a very difficult time for all of us.

My message today is to our health care workers — the nurses, midwives, technicians, paramedics, pharmacists, doctors, drivers, cleaners, administrators and many others — who work, day and night to keep us safe.

Today, we are more deeply grateful than ever to all of you, as you work, round the clock, putting yourselves at risk, to fight the ravages of this pandemic.

2020 is the International Year of the Nurse and the Midwife, and I want to recognize their specific expertise and commitment.

We have all had reason to give thanks for the care and professionalism of nurses and midwives. I know I do.

Nurses shoulder some of the biggest healthcare burdens.  They perform difficult work and endure long hours, while risking injury, infection and the mental health burden that accompanies such traumatic work.  They often provide comfort at the end of life.

Midwives provide comfort at the beginning of life. During a pandemic, their work is even more challenging, as you bring our newborn safely into this world.

To the nurses and midwives of the world: thank you for your work.

In these traumatic times, I say to all healthcare workers: we stand with you and we count on you.

You make us proud; you inspire us. We are indebted to you.

Thank you for the difference you are making, every day and everywhere.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/40328-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-message-world-health-day-7-april-2020




Date: 07 April 2020
Title: UN Women commends the National Council for Women for its efforts to ensure that a gender perspective is adopted in Egypt’s COVID-19 response plan
Content: 07 April 2020
The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) commends the National Council for Women for its efforts to ensure that a gender perspective is adopted in Egypt’s COVID-19 response plan, as demonstrated early on in the issuance of a policy paper outlining ‘Egypt’s Rapid Response to Women’s Situation during the COVID-19 Outbreak’, and initiation of a bimonthly Gender Policy Tracker, to track the government’s response to the crisis through a gender lens.
The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) commends the National Council for Women for its efforts to ensure that a gender perspective is adopted in Egypt’s COVID-19 response plan, as demonstrated early on in the issuance of a policy paper outlining ‘Egypt’s Rapid Response to Women’s Situation during the COVID-19 Outbreak’, and initiation of a bimonthly Gender Policy Tracker, to track the government’s response to the crisis through a gender lens. These measures reinforce the NCW’s commitment to provide evidence-based policy advice to ensure that gender perspectives are properly addressed in Egypt’s COVID-19 response plans. The policy paper addresses the following pillars of Egypt’s short and medium term response: a) impact on human endowment (health, education and social protection); b) women’s voice and agency (eliminating violence against women, and women’s leadership and representation); c) impact on economic opportunities for women, and d) promoting data and knowledge. The paper also calls for additional measures to be taken in each of these areas.

UN Women is appreciative of the partnership with the Government of Egypt in its efforts to ensure that the COVID-19 response is more effective for everyone, including for women and girls. Notably, the Government’s stimulus package provides more incentives for sectors that have high female labour force participation, such as tourism and agriculture; increases payments to women community leaders in rural areas; increases the number of households in the Takaful and Karama social protection programme with an additional 100,000 households (wherein over 80 per cent of recipients of the Takaful programme are women); and includes clients of the microfinance sector in the Central Bank of Egypt’s decision to delay loan instalments (wherein women constitute over 70 per cent of microfinance clients).

Earlier in March, a decree was issued by the Prime Minister to reduce the number of employees in the public sector. The decree included protections such as granting pregnant employees and working mothers whose children are under 12 years old exceptional leave throughout the decree’s implementation period. In line with this decision, the National Council for Women’s hotline has announced it is receiving complaints from female workers in the public sector who face any challenges with respect to the Prime Minister’s decision.

UN Women appreciates the gender-sensitive approach taken by the Government of Egypt in its response to COVID-19 and will continue to support national efforts to carry out additional measures in line with its responsibilities, which include advancing women’s rights during such difficult times.

هيئة الأمم المتحدة للمرأة تشيد بجهود المجلس القومي للمرأة  لضمان تبني منظور النوع الاجتماعى في الخطة المصرية  لمواجهة فيروس كوفيد-19

القاهرة  ـــ أشادت هيئة الأمم المتحدة للمساواة بين الجنسين وتمكين المرأة (هيئة الأمم المتحدة للمرأة) فى مصر بجهود المجلس القومي للمرأة لضمان تبني منظور النوع الاجتماعي في خطة مصر لمواجهة فيروس كوفيد-19، والذى يتضح من إصدار أول ورقة سياسات تحدد “ خطة الاستجابة السريعة لمصر تجاه وضع المرأة أثناء انتشار فيروس كوفيد-19″، والبدء فى المتابعة الدورية لسياسات الدولة من منظور النوع الاجتماعي من أجل تتبع استجابة الحكومة للأزمة لضمان ان تراعى احتياجات المرأة والرجل معاً.

وتعزز هذه التدابير من التزام المجلس القومي للمرأة بتقديم سياسة المشورة القائمة على الأدلة لضمان تطبيق منظور النوع الاجتماعي بشكل ملائم في خطط الدولة المصرية لمواجهة فيروس كوفيد-19. وتتناول ورقة السياسات المحاور التالية: أ-)  التأثير على المكون الإنساني  (الصحة، التعليم، الحماية الاجتماعية) ؛ ب-)  فعالية المرأة وإتخاذ القرار( منع العنف ضد المرأة وتعزيز قيادة وتمثيل المرأة) ؛ ج-) التأثير على الفرص الاقتصادية ، د-) تعزيز البيانات والمعرفة. وتدعو الورقة أيضاً لاتخاد المزيد من التدابير في كل من هذه الجوانب.

وأعربت هيئة الأمم المتحدة للمرأة عن تقديرها للشراكة مع الحكومة المصرية في ظل جهود الحكومة لضمان أن تكون الاستجابة لمواجهة فيروس كوفيد-19 أكثر فعالية للجميع، بما في ذلك النساء والفتيات.  ومن الجدير بالذكر أن قرارات الحكومة تضمنت ما يلي: الحزمة التمويلية التى تقدمها الحكومة المصرية والتي تشمل قدر أكبر من الحوافز لقطاعات  ذات نسبة تمثيل عالية من العاملات ، مثل قطاع السياحة والزراعة؛ زيادة  العائد الشهري للرائدات الريفيات؛ زيادة عدد الأسر المستفيدة من برنامج تكافل وكرامة للحماية الاجتماعية بإجمالي 000,100 أسرة إضافية (حيث تمثل النساء أكثر من 80% من المستفيدين/المستفيدات من البرنامج)؛ وإدراج عملاء قطاع التمويل متناهى الصغر في قرار البنك المركزي المصري بتأجيل أقساط القروض (حيث تشكل النساء أكثر من 70% من عملاء التمويل متناهى الصغر).

وفي شهر مارس، صدر قرار من رئيس مجلس الوزراء بخفض العمالة بالقطاع العام. تضمن القرار إجراءات حماية للنساء مثل منح أجازة استثنائية للعاملات الحوامل والأمهات العاملات اللاتي لديهن أطفال تحت سن 12 عاماً طوال فترة تنفيذ القرار. وتماشيا مع هذا القرار، أعلن الخط الساخن للمجلس القومي للمرأة إنه يستقبل شكاوى العاملات بالقطاع العام ممن تواجهن أية صعوبات فيما يخص تنفيذ قرار رئيس الوزراء.

وتقّدر هيئة الأمم المتحدة للمرأة النهج المراعي للنوع الاجتماعي الذى تتخذه الحكومة المصرية في مواجهتها لفيروس كوفيد-19 وستستمر في دعم الجهود الوطنية من أجل أتخاذ المزيد من التدابير، تماشيا مع مسؤولياتها، والتى تتضمن تعزيز حقوق النساء أثناء هذه الأوقات الصعبة.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/40268-un-women-commends-national-council-women-its-efforts-ensure-gender-perspective-adopted-egypt




Date: 06 April 2020
Title: The Secretary-General’s Statement On Gender-Based Violence And Covid19
Content: 06 April 2020
For many women and girls, the threat looms largest where they should be safest.
In their own homes.
The COVID-19 pandemic is causing untold human suffering and economic devastation around the world.
I recently called for an immediate global ceasefire to focus on our shared struggle to overcome the pandemic.
I appealed for an end to violence everywhere, now.
But violence is not confined to the battlefield.
For many women and girls, the threat looms largest where they should be safest.
In their own homes.
And so I make a new appeal today for peace at home — and in homes — around the world.

We know lockdowns and quarantines are essential to suppressing COVID-19. But they can trap women with abusive partners.
Over the past weeks as economic and social pressures and fear have grown, we have seen a horrifying global surge in domestic violence.
In some countries, the number of women calling support services has doubled.
Meanwhile, healthcare providers and police are overwhelmed and understaffed.
Local support groups are paralyzed or short of funds. Some domestic violence shelters are closed; others are full.
I urge all governments to make the prevention and redress of violence against women a key part of their national response plans for COVID-19.
That means increasing investment in online services and civil society organizations.
Making sure judicial systems continue to prosecute abusers.
Setting up emergency warning systems in pharmacies and groceries.
Declaring shelters as essential services.
And creating safe ways for women to seek support, without alerting their abusers.
Women’s rights and freedoms are essential to strong, resilient societies.
Together, we can and must prevent violence everywhere, from war zones to people’s homes, as we work to beat COVID-19.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/40125-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-statement-gender-based-violence-and-covid19




Date: 06 April 2020
Title: ESCWA & partners warn: violence against women has increased due to COVID-19
Content: 06 April 2020
Women will lose twice as much as men in terms of jobs
Beirut--While COVID-19 is affecting people indiscriminately, women and girls are among the most vulnerable to the impact of the pandemic. A new policy brief by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) and other United Nations entities (attached) emphasizes that existing domestic violence and social challenges faced by women and girls in the Arab region have worsened.

“Domestic violence has increased in the world and the Arab region with lockdowns, enforced coexistence due to quarantines, economic stress, perceived and real food insecurity, and fears about exposure to the virus,” ESCWA Executive Secretary Rola Dashti underscored. “Women survivors of violence will face increased difficulties in accessing help during the pandemic,” she added.

Increasing food insecurity will not only place women and girls at heightened risk of domestic violence with rising household tensions, it will also reduce their immunity to the virus. In addition, in times of crises, food and nutrition distribution within households is not always equitable. Women and girls are also more likely to reduce the quality and quantity of food consumption, and adopt negative coping strategies.

Another feature of the region is that the large majority of nurses, midwives and support staff at medical facilities are women, who thus face disproportionate exposure risks. Within households, women often assume the role of informal health-care providers and caretakers, which results in them being emotionally and physically exhausted, further increasing those risks.

“We call on Arab Governments to ensure that women have equal access to social protection and adopt policies aimed at protecting them from falling into poverty, especially those working in the informal sector, with measures such as emergency cash transfers and small-scale grants,” Dashti said.



As highlighted in a previous ESCWA brief, 1.7 million jobs will be lost in 2020 in the Arab region due to the corona virus pandemic, and ESCWA and partners estimate that nearly 700,000 of those will be lost by women. With women registering only about 20% of labour force participation in the Arab region, their job losses would amount to double the percentage of men’s job losses, which points to largely uneven exposure. Another ESCWA study tackling the pandemic’s impact on poverty had shown that workers in the informal sector would be the most affected. About 62% of active women work in the informal sector in the Arab region; the majority of working women will thus be affected by the expected poverty rise.

Meanwhile, refugee and internally displaced women and girls, as well as women migrant workers, will continue to struggle with poor access to water, sanitation and hygiene facilities, and limited access to health care, which will have critical repercussions during the pandemic.

The Secretary-General of the United Nations had also pointed to increased violence against women and girls due to the COVID-19 pandemic, renewing his appeal to end violence everywhere, immediately.

***
About ESCWA
One of five United Nations regional commissions, ESCWA supports inclusive and sustainable economic and social development in Arab States, and works on enhancing regional integration.

For more information:
- Ms. Maryam Sleiman, Public Information Assistant, +961-81-769-888; email: sleiman2@un.org
- Ms. Rania Harb, Public Information Assistant, +961-70-008-879; email: harb1@un.org

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/40150-escwa-partners-warn-violence-against-women-has-increased-due-covid-19




Date: 05 April 2020
Title: All hands on deck to fight a once-in-a-lifetime pandemic
Content: 05 April 2020
We must prepare for the worst and do everything to avoid it.


Only by coming together will the world be able to face down the COVID-19 pandemic and its shattering consequences. At an emergency virtual meeting last Thursday, G20 leaders took steps in the right direction.  But we are still far away from having a coordinated, articulated global response that meets the unprecedented magnitude of what we are facing.

Far from flattening the curve of infection, we are still well behind it.  The disease initially took 67 days to infect 100,000 people; soon, 100,000 people and more will be infected daily.  Without concerted and courageous action, the number of new cases will almost certainly escalate into the millions, pushing health systems to the breaking point, economies into a nosedive and people into despair, with the poorest hit hardest.

We must prepare for the worst and do everything to avoid it.  Here is a three-point call to action -- based on science, solidarity and smart policies -- for doing just that.

First, suppress transmission of the coronavirus.

That requires aggressive and early testing and contact tracing, complemented by quarantines, treatment, and measures to keep first responders safe, combined with measures to restrict movement and contact.  Such steps, despite the disruptions they cause, must be sustained until therapies and a vaccine emerge.

Crucially, this robust and cooperative effort should be guided by the World Health Organization, a member of the United Nations family; countries acting on their own – as they must for their people – will not get the job done for all.

Second, tackle the devastating social and economic dimensions of the crisis.

The virus is spreading like wildfire, and is likely to move swiftly into the Global South, where health systems face constraints, people are more vulnerable, and millions live in densely populated slums or crowded settlements for refugees and internally displaced persons.  Fuelled by such conditions, the virus could devastate the developing world and then re-emerge where it was previously suppressed.  In our interconnected world, we are only as strong as the weakest health systems.


Clearly, we must fight the virus for all of humanity, with a focus on people, especially the most affected: women, older persons, youth, low-wage workers, small and medium enterprises, the informal sector and vulnerable groups.

The United Nations has just issued reports documenting how the viral contagion has become an economic contagion, and setting out the financing needed to address the shocks.  The International Monetary Fund has declared that we have entered a recession as bad as or worse than in 2009.

We need a comprehensive multilateral response amounting to a double-digit percentage of global Gross Domestic Product.

Developed countries can do it by themselves, and some are indeed doing it.  But we must massively increase the resources available to the developing world by expanding the capacity of the IMF, namely through the issuance of special drawing rights, and of the other international financial institutions so that they can rapidly inject resources into the countries that need them.  I know this is difficult as nations find themselves increasing domestic spending by record amounts.  But that spending will be in vain if we don’t control the virus.

Coordinated swaps among central banks can also bring liquidity to emerging economies.  Debt alleviation must also be a priority – including immediate waivers on interest payments for 2020.

Third, recover better.

We simply cannot return to where we were before COVID-19 struck, with societies unnecessarily vulnerable to crisis.  The pandemic has reminded us, in the starkest way possible, of the price we pay for weaknesses in health systems, social protections and public services.  It has underscored and exacerbated inequalities, above all gender inequity, laying bare the way in which the formal economy has been sustained on the back of invisible and unpaid care labour.  It has highlighted ongoing human rights challenges, including stigma and violence against women.

Now is the time to redouble our efforts to build more inclusive and sustainable economies and societies that are more resilient in the face of pandemics, climate change and other global challenges.  The recovery must lead to a different economy.  Our roadmap remains the 2030 Agenda and Sustainable Development Goals.

The United Nations system is fully mobilized: supporting country responses, placing our supply chains at the world’s disposal, and advocating for a global cease-fire.

Ending the pandemic everywhere is both a moral imperative and a matter of enlightened self-interest.  At this unusual moment, we cannot resort to the usual tools.  Extraordinary times demand extraordinary measures.  We face a colossal test which demands decisive, coordinated and innovative action from all, for all.


António Guterres is Secretary-General of the United Nations

تضافر الجهود الدولية للقضاء على جائحة العمر

القضاء على جائحة كوفيد-19 ومواجهة آثارها المدمرة يتطلبان تضافراً للجهود الدولية. لذلك تعهّد قادة الدول الصناعية لمجموعة العشرين خلال قمة افتراضية طارئة عُقدت يوم الخميس الماضي، باتخاذ خطوات في الاتجاه الصحيح. لكننا لا نزال بعيدين كل البعد عن تهيئة استجابة عالمية منسقة وواضحة تلبّي الحجم غير المسبوق للأزمة التي نواجِهُها.

لا نزال بعيدين من تسطيح المنحنى الوبائي لفيروس كورونا. عندما بدأت العدوى بالتفشّي، أصيب حوالي 100.000 شخص خلال 67 يوماً. ومن المحتمل أن يُصاب في المستقبل القريب أكثر من 100.000 شخص بالفيروس بشكل يومي. إذاً لا بدّ من اتّخاذ إجراءات سريعة وشجاعة، لأنّه بات مؤكّداً أنّ عدد الإصابات الجديدة سوف يتصاعد ليبلغ الملايين، ممّا سيؤدّي إلى انهيار الأنظمة الصحية والاقتصادية ويدفع الناس إلى اليأس، خصوصاً الفقراء منهم.

يجب أن نستعد للأسوأ ونقوم بكل شيء لتجنّبه. أدعوكم للعمل على خطّة ترتكز إلى ثلاث نقاط أساسيّة: العلم والتضامن والسياسات الذكية.

أوّلاً، الحد من انتقال الفيروس التاجي.

يتطلب ذلك إجراء اختبار صحّي مبكّر وتتبّع الأشخاص الذين تمّت مخالطتهم، على أن تُستكمل الخطوات بالحجر الصحي والعلاج اللازم، مع اتّخاذ تدابير للحفاظ على سلامة المستجيبين الأوائل، بالإضافة إلى الالتزام بالتدابير التي تقيّد حركة التنقّل والاتصال المباشر. يجب أن تستمرّ هذه الخطوات، على الرغم من الاضطرابات التي تسبّبها، إلى حين ظهور علاجات ولقاحات فعّالة.

وفي هذا الإطار، يجب أن تكون جهود التعاون بتوجيه من منظمة الصحة العالمية، بصفتها عضواً في أسرة الأمم المتحدة، حيث أن عمل أي دولة بمفردها خدمةً لمواطنيها لن يجدي نفعاً.

ثانياً، معالجة الأبعاد الاجتماعية والاقتصادية المدمّرة للأزمة.

ينتشر الفيروس بشكلٍ سريع جدّاً مثل حرائق الغابات، ومن المرجّح أن يطال جنوب الكرة الأرضية التي تعاني من ضعف في أنظمتها الصحية، حيث أفرادها هم الأكثر عرضة للخطر بسبب انتشار الملايين إمّا بأحياءٍ فقيرة ومكتظّة بالسكان وإمّا بمستوطنات مليئة باللاجئين والنازحين. وفي ظل هذه الظروف، يمكن للفيروس أن يدمرّ الدول النامية ويعود للظهور مجدداً في أماكن تمَ قمعه فيها سابقاً. في هذا العالم المترابط ضعف الأنظمة الصحية ينعكس على مدى قوتنا.

من الواضح أنّنا مسؤولون عن مكافحة الفيروس من أجل مستقبل البشرية جمعاء، مع التركيز على الأشخاص الأكثر تأثّراً: النساء وكبار السن والشباب والعمال ذوي الأجور المتدنية والمؤسسات الصغيرة والمتوسطة الحجم والقطاعات غير الرسمية والفئات الضعيفة.

أصدرت الأمم المتحدة مؤخراً تقاريراً توثّق كيفيّة تحوّل العدوى من مجرّد “عدوى فيروس” إلى “عدوى اقتصادية”، وتضع آليات للتمويل اللّازم لمعالجة الصدمات. وقد أعلن صندوق النقد الدولي أننا دخلنا في حالة ركود مماثلة لعام 2009 أو ربما أسوأ منها.

نحن بحاجة إلى استجابة شاملة متعددة الأطراف تبلغ نسبتها ضعف الناتج المحلي الإجمالي العالمي.

تستطيع الدول المتقدمة القيام بتلك الخطوات بمفردها، وقد أثبتت بعضها ذلك على أرض الواقع. لكن يجب علينا زيادة الموارد المتاحة للدول النامية بشكل كبير من خلال زيادة قدرة صندوق النقد الدولي، وتحديداً عبر إصدار حقوق السحب الخاصة، وزيادة قدرة المؤسسات المالية الدولية الأخرى لكي تتمكّن من ضخّ الموارد بسرعة للدول التي تحتاج إليها. إنني على يقين من صعوبة هذا الأمر بما أنّ بعض الدول تزيد حالياً الإنفاق المحلي بمبالغ قياسية، الأمر الذي يمكن أن يصبح بلا جدوى إذا لم نتحكّم بالفيروس.

يمكن للمقايضات المنسقة بين البنوك المركزية أن تدرّ سيولة للاقتصادات الناشئة. يجب أن يكون تخفيف عبء الدين أولوية ايضاً، بما في ذلك الإعفاءات الفورية على مدفوعات الفائدة لعام 2020.

ثالثًا، التعافي بشكل أفضل.

لا يمكننا ببساطة العودة إلى ما كنا عليه قبل وقوع جائحة كورونا، بعدما أصبحت المجتمعات عرضة لأزمة كانت بغنى عنها. وبأقوى طريقة ممكنة، ذكّرنا الوباء بالثمن الذي ندفعه نتيجة نقاط الضعف في النظم الصحية والحماية الاجتماعية والخدمات العامة. كما عزز أوجه عدم المساواة بين الناس وخاصة بين الجنسين، كاشفاً بذلك كيف تم استدامة الاقتصاد الرسمي على حساب العمالة في مجال الرعاية غير المعلن عنها وغير المدفوعة. لقد سلّط هذا الفيروس الضوء على التحديات المستمرة في مجال حقوق الإنسان، بما في ذلك وصم الأشخاص الحاملين للفيروس والعنف ضد المرأة.

لقد حان الوقت لمضاعفة جهودنا في بناء اقتصادات ومجتمعات أكثر شمولاً واستدامة تكون أكثر مرونة في مواجهة الأوبئة وتغير المناخ وتحديات عالمية أخرى. يجب أن تؤدي مرحلة التعافي إلى اقتصاد جديد. وتبقى خارطة الطريق الوحيدة الخاصة بالأمم المتحدة هي أجندة 2030 وأهداف التنمية المستدامة.

تحشد منظومة الأمم المتحدة جهودها من أجل دعم استجابات البلدان، ووضع سلاسل التوريد لديها تحت تصرف العالم، والدعوة إلى وقف إطلاق نار عالمي.

إنهاء الجائحة في كل مكان هو ضرورة أخلاقية ومسألة ذات مصلحة ذاتية. في هذه اللحظة غير العادية، لا يمكننا اللجوء إلى الاجراءات المعتادة، فالأوقات الاستثنائية تتطلب إجراءات استثنائية. إننا نواجه اختباراً هائلاً يتطلب من الجميع اتخاذ خطوات حاسمة ومنسقة ومبتكرة من قبل جميع الناس ولأجلهم.


أنطونيو غوتيريش، الأمين العام للأمم المتحدة
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/40096-all-hands-deck-fight-once-lifetime-pandemic




Date: 02 April 2020
Title: Statement by WHO Regional Director Dr Ahmed Al-Mandhari on COVID-19
Content: 02 April 2020
I cannot stress enough the urgency of the situation. We have a window of opportunity to limit the spread of COVID-19 in our region, and we need to act quickly.
In just one week, the number of COVID-19 in the Eastern Mediterranean Region has almost doubled, from 32,442 cases on 26 March to 58,168 cases on 2 April. New cases have been reported in some of the most vulnerable countries with fragile health systems. Even in countries with stronger heath systems, we have seen a worrying spike in the numbers of cases and deaths reported.
I cannot stress enough the urgency of the situation. We have a window of opportunity to limit the spread of COVID-19 in our region, and we need to act quickly.  Government leadership is vital.  A whole-of-government and whole-of-society approach are absolutely necessary for an effective response.
The increasing numbers of cases show that transmission is rapidly occurring at local and community levels. There are two ways in which this transmission can be controlled.
First, countries need to be more aggressive in testing all suspected cases, tracing all contacts, and ensuring proper isolation measures. Isolation of confirmed cases is critical and requires scaling up in many countries. These actions are critical to controlling and reducing transmission of the disease and changing the course of this pandemic.
Suspected and confirmed cases must be removed from the community and placed in hospitals, temporary facilities or other appropriate settings with proper infection and control measures. Where needed, temporary isolation centres must be established.
There must be greater focus on identifying and isolating even mild cases that can silently advance the pandemic. Health workers must be properly protected as they can be most at risk of contracting the disease.
Second, people need to maintain stricter physical distancing practices and more stringent hygiene behaviors. It should be clear by now to every how important these measures are to protect themselves and their loved ones.
Stay home, stay safe is not just a slogan, it is a life-saving reminder. Anyone showing suspected symptoms of fever and cough must self-isolate, avoid all contact with others, and quickly seek medical care if they have trouble breathing.
I know that several contexts in our Region, such as camp settings, represent high-risk environments for transmission of the virus and can make physical distancing a challenge. We are working hard to ensure that people who are most vulnerable are protected, and able to get tested and treated without delay or interruption.
We still have a window of opportunity, but this window is slowly closing day by day. Our regional vision is based on safeguarding the health of all people by all people, so countries, communities, and individuals have an equally important role to play. COVID-19 can only be controlled using aggressive, appropriate measures, and an inclusive approach that is built around solidarity and action, protecting every individual’s rights to life and health. We cannot allow this virus to take hold of our Region.

بيان الدكتور أحمد بن سالم المنظري، المدير الإقليمي لمنظمة الصحة العالمية، بشأن مرض كوفيد-19

2 نيسان/أبريل 2020
في خلال أسبوع واحد فقط، تضاعف عدد حالات الإصابة بمرض كوفيد-19 في إقليم شرق المتوسط، من  32,442 حالة في 26 آذار/مارس إلى 58,168  حالة في 2 نيسان/أبريل. كما تم الإبلاغ عن حالات جديدة في بعض البلدان الأكثر عُرضة للخطر ذات النُظُم الصحية الهشة. وحتى في البلدان ذات النُظُم الصحية الأكثر رسوخاً، شهدنا ارتفاعاً مثيراً للقلق في عدد حالات الإصابة والوفيات المُبلَّغ عنها.
ولا أستطيع أن أؤكد بما فيه الكفاية على خطورة الوضع الراهن. ولا تزال الفرصة أمامنا سانحة للحدّ من انتشار مرض كوفيد-19 في إقليمنا، ونحتاج إلى اتخاذ إجراءات عاجلة. القيادات الحكومية لها دورٌ محوري. واتباع نهج يشمل الحكومة بأكملها والمجتمع بأسره ضروريٌ لتحقيق استجابة فعَّالة.
ويشير التزايد في عدد الحالات إلى سرعة انتقال المرض على الصعيدين المحلي والمجتمعي. وهناك طريقان لمكافحة انتقال المرض هذا.
أولاً، يجب على البلدان أن تكون أكثر صرامة في اختبار جميع الحالات المُشتبه في إصابتها، وتتبُّع جميع المُخالِطين، وتنفيذ التدابير المناسبة للعزل. وعزل حالات الإصابة المؤكدة أمرٌ بالغ الأهمية، ويجب توسيع نطاقه في الكثير من البلدان. وهذه الإجراءات ضرورية للغاية لمكافحة انتقال المرض والحدّ منه، وتساهم في تغيير اتجاه هذه الجائحة.
وينبغي عزل حالات الإصابة المؤكدة والمُشتبه فيها عن المجتمع، وإدخالهم إلى المستشفيات أو مرافق مؤقتة أو غيرها من الأماكن الملائمة حيث تُطبق تدابير الوقاية من العدوى ومكافحتها المناسبة. ويجب إنشاء مراكز مؤقتة للعزل، حسب الاقتضاء.
وينبغي التركيز أكثر على تحديد حالات الإصابة، حتى الخفيفة، وعزلها، لأنها تساهم في انتشار صامت للجائحة. ويجب تزويد العاملين الصحيين بالحماية المناسبة، لأنهم الأكثر عُرضة لخطر الإصابة بالمرض.
وثانياً، يجب على الناس الحفاظ على التباعد البدني وممارسات النظافة الشخصية على نحو أكثر صرامة. والآن، ينبغي أن يتضح للجميع مدى أهمية هذه التدابير في حماية أنفسهم وأحبائهم.
التزموا بالبقاء في المنزل، وحافظوا على سلامتكم، وهذا ليس مجرد شعار بل رسالة تذكيرية لإنقاذ الأرواح. ويجب على أي شخص تظهر عليه أعراض الحمى والسعال أن يعزل نفسه، ويتجنب مخالطة الآخرين تماماً، ويلتمس الرعاية الطبية على الفور إذا شعر بصعوبة في التنفس.
وأعلم أن سياقات عديدة في إقليمنا، مثل المخيمات، تُمثِّل بيئة شديدة الخطورة لانتقال الفيروس في ظل صعوبة التباعد البدني. ونعمل جاهدين على ضمان حماية الأشخاص الأكثر عُرضة للخطر واختبارهم وعلاجهم دون انقطاع أو تأخير.
الفرصة أمامنا، ولكنها آخذة في التلاشي يوماً بعد يوم. وتعتمد رؤيتنا الإقليمية على حماية صحة الجميع بمشاركة الجميع، ولكلٍ من البلدان والمجتمعات المحلية والأفراد دورٌ متساوٍ في الأهمية. ولا يمكن مكافحة مرض كوفيد-19 إلا بتطبيق التدابير الصارمة والمناسبة، واتباع نهج شامل يستند إلى التضامن والعمل، وحماية حق كل فرد في الحياة والتمتع بالصحة. ولن نسمح لهذا الفيروس بالاستفحال في إقليمنا.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/39881-statement-who-regional-director-dr-ahmed-al-mandhari-covid-19




Date: 02 April 2020
Title: the rights and health of refugees, migrants and stateless must be protected in COVID-19 response
Content: 02 April 2020
OHCHR, IOM, UNHCR and WHO joint press release
Joint News Release In the face of the COVID-19 crisis, we are all vulnerable. The virus has shown that it does not discriminate - but many refugees, those forcibly displaced, the stateless and migrants are at heightened risk.

Three-quarters of the world’s refugees and many migrants are hosted in developing regions where health systems are already overwhelmed and under-capacitated. Many live in overcrowded camps, settlements, makeshift shelters or reception centers, where they lack adequate access to health services, clean water and sanitation.

The situation for refugees and migrants held in formal and informal places of detention, in cramped and unsanitary conditions, is particularly worrying. Considering the lethal consequences a COVID-19 outbreak would have, they should be released without delay. Migrant children and their families and those detained without a sufficient legal basis should be immediately released.

This disease can be controlled only if there is an inclusive approach which protects every individual’s rights to life and health. Migrants and refugees are disproportionately vulnerable to exclusion, stigma and discrimination, particularly when undocumented. To avert a catastrophe, governments must do all they can to protect the rights and the health of everyone. Protecting the rights and the health of all people will in fact help control the spread of the virus.

It is vital that everyone, including all migrants and refugees, are ensured equal access to health services and are effectively included in national responses to COVID-19, including prevention, testing and treatment. Inclusion will help not only to protect the rights of refugees and migrants, but will also serve to protect public health and stem the global spread of COVID-19.

While many nations protect and host refugee and migrant populations, they are often not equipped to respond to crises such as Covid-19. To ensure refugees and migrants have adequate access to national health services, States may need additional financial support. This is where the world’s financial institutions can play a leading role in making funds available.

While countries are closing their borders and limiting cross-border movements, there are ways to manage border restrictions in a manner which respects international human rights and refugee protection standards, including the principle of non-refoulement, through quarantine and health checks. More than ever, as COVID-19 poses a global threat to our collective humanity, our primary focus should be on the preservation of life, regardless of status. This crisis demands a coherent, effective international approach that leaves no-one behind. At this crucial moment we all need to rally around a common objective, fighting this deadly virus. Many refugees, displaced, stateless people and migrants have skills and resources that can also be part of the solution. We cannot allow fear or intolerance to undermine rights or compromise the effectiveness of responses to the global pandemic. We are all in this together. We can only defeat this virus when each and every one of us is protected.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/39766-rights-and-health-refugees-migrants-and-stateless-must-be-protected-covid-19-response




Date: 02 April 2020
Title: The Secretary-General’s Message on World Autism Awareness Day 2 April 2020
Content: 02 April 2020
The rights of persons with autism must be taken into account in the formulation of all responses to the COVID-19 virus. On World Autism Awareness Day, let us stand together, support each other and show solidarity with persons with autism.
On World Autism Awareness Day, we recognize and celebrate the rights of persons with autism.  This year’s observance takes place in the midst of a public health crisis unlike any other in our lifetimes — a crisis that places persons with autism at disproportionate risk as a result of the coronavirus and its impact on society.

Persons with autism have the right to self-determination, independence and autonomy, as well as the right to education and employment on an equal basis with others.  But the breakdown of vital support systems and networks as a result of COVID-19 exacerbates the obstacles that persons with autism face in exercising these rights. We must ensure that a prolonged disruption caused by the emergency does not result in rollbacks of the rights that persons with autism and their representative organizations have worked so hard to advance.

Universal human rights, including the rights of persons with disabilities, must not be infringed upon in the time of a pandemic. Governments have a responsibility to ensure that their response includes persons with autism. Persons with autism should never face discrimination when seeking medical care.  They must continue to have access to the support systems required to remain in their homes and communities through times of crisis, instead of facing the prospect of forced institutionalization.

We all have a role to play in ensuring that the needs of people who are disproportionately impacted by COVID-19 are met during this difficult period. Information about precautionary measures must be provided in accessible formats. We must also recognize that when schools employ online teaching, students with non-standard ways of learning may be at a disadvantage. The same applies to the workplace and working remotely. Even in these unpredictable times, we must commit to consulting persons with disabilities and their representative organizations, and ensuring that our non-traditional ways of working, learning, and engaging with each other, as well as our global response to the coronavirus, are inclusive of and accessible to all people, including persons with autism.

The rights of persons with autism must be taken into account in the formulation of all responses to the COVID-19 virus. On World Autism Awareness Day, let us stand together, support each other and show solidarity with persons with autism.

رسالة الأمين العام بمناسبة اليوم العالمي للتوعية بمرض التوحد
2 نيسان/أبريل 2020

في اليوم العالمي للتوعية بمرض التوحد، نعترف بحقوق الأشخاص المصابين بمرض التوحد ونحتفل بها. ويقع احتفال هذا العام في خضم أزمة في الصحة العامة لم نشهد لها مثيلا طوال حياتنا - أزمة تعرض الأشخاص المصابين بالتوحد لخطر لا يتناسب مع وضعهم نتيجة لفيروس كورونا وتأثيره في المجتمع.
وللأشخاص المصابين بالتوحد الحق في تقرير المصير، والاستقلال وإدارة شؤونهم بأنفسهم، وكذلك الحق في التعليم والعمل على قدم المساواة مع الآخرين. ولكن انهيار نُظم وشبكات الدعم الحيوي نتيجة لمرض فيروس كورونا (كوفيد-19) يزيد من صعوبة العقبات التي يواجهها الأشخاص المصابون بالتوحد في سياق ممارسة هذه الحقوق. ويجب أن نضمن ألا يؤدي أي تعطيل مطول ناجم عن حالة الطوارئ إلى انتكاسات في الحقوق التي جَهِد الأشخاص المصابون بالتوحد والمنظمات الممثلة لهم للنهوض بها.
ويجب عدم انتهاك حقوق الإنسان العالمية، بما في ذلك حقوق الأشخاص ذوي الإعاقة، عندما تتفشى الأوبئة. وتقع على عاتق الحكومات مسؤولية ضمان أن تشمل استجابتها مراعاة الأشخاص المصابين بالتوحد. وينبغي ألا يواجه الأشخاص المصابون بالتوحد أبدا التمييز عند التماس الرعاية الطبية. ويجب الاستمرار بإتاحة إمكانية وصولهم إلى نظم الدعم اللازمة لبقائهم في بيوتهم ومجتمعاتهم المحلية طوال فترات الأزمات، بدلا من مواجهة احتمال الإيداع القسري في المؤسسات.
وعلينا جميعا أن نقوم بدور في كفالة تلبية احتياجات الأشخاص الذين يتأثرون أكثر من غيرهم بمرض فيروس كورونا (كوفيد-19) خلال هذه الفترة الصعبة. ويجب تقديم معلومات عن التدابير الوقائية في أشكال يسهل الوصول إليها. ويجب علينا أيضا أن نعترف بأنه عندما تستخدم المدارس التعليم عبر الإنترنت، فإن الطلاب الذين يستخدمون طرقا غير معيارية للتعلم يمكن أن يكونوا في وضع غير مؤات. وينطبق الأمر نفسه على مكان العمل وعلى العمل من بعد. وحتى في هذه الأوقات التي لا يمكن التنبؤ بها، يجب أن نلتزم بالتشاور مع الأشخاص ذوي الإعاقة والمنظمات التي تمثلهم، وضمان أن تكون أساليبنا غير التقليدية في العمل، والتعلم والتواصل بعضنا مع بعض، وكذلك استجابتنا العالمية لفيروس كورونا، شاملة للجميع وفي متناول الناس كافة، بمن فيهم الأشخاص المصابون بالتوحد.
ويجب أن تؤخذ حقوق الأشخاص المصابين بالتوحد في الاعتبار عند صياغة جميع الاستجابات لمرض فيروس كورونا (كوفيد-19). وفي اليوم العالمي للتوعية بمرض التوحد، دعونا نقف معا، وندعم بعضنا بعضا ونبدي تضامننا مع الأشخاص المصابين بالتوحد.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/39768-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-message-world-autism-awareness-day-2-april-2020




Date: 29 March 2020
Title: COVID-19: Women front and centre..Statement by Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, UN Under-Secretary-General and UN Women Executive Director
Content: 29 March 2020
We need mitigation strategies that specifically target both the health and economic impacts of the COVID-19 outbreak on women and that support and build women’s resilience
One thing is clear about the COVID-19 pandemic, as stock markets tumble, schools and universities close, people stockpile supplies and home becomes a different and crowded space: this is not just a health issue. It is a profound shock to our societies and economies, exposing the deficiencies of public and private arrangements that currently function only if women play multiple and underpaid roles.
We applaud the efforts of governments who are taking extraordinary measures to stop the spread of infections. And the strong leadership, from grassroots to head of state, providing well targeted response, from Chancellor Merkel and Prime Minister Solberg addressing national anxieties, to Prime Minister Ardern highlighting welfare in her economic measures.
With children out of school, mothers at home may still work, but many have also become teachers and caregivers, with consequences for those previously employed in those roles. For the 8.5 million women migrant domestic workers, often on insecure contracts, income loss also affects their dependents back at home. Professional women like South Korean mother-of-two Sung So-young are reporting the dilemma of needing to return to the office but are having to forgo that to enable their higher-earning partners’ continued work. As schools close in more countries, the number of mothers facing this across the world rises and the consequences accumulate.
By the middle of March there were 207,855 confirmed cases in 166 countries, areas or territories. Without data that is disaggregated by sex, however, these numbers give us only part of the story of the impact on women and men. We need far more sex-disaggregated data to tell us how the situation is evolving, including on differing rates of infection, differential economic impacts, differential care burden, and incidence of domestic violence and sexual abuse.
Even without this, experience from previous major epidemics points us to specific strengths and vulnerabilities that we can look out for and be proactive to safeguard. Where governments or businesses put income protection in place, this can ease these dilemmas, sustain incomes and avoid driving households into poverty. This response must also include those in the informal economy, where most women who work outside home make their livelihood. Such social protection is best directed specifically to women.
The 2014-16 Ebola outbreak in the West African countries of Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone, and the 2015-2016 Zika epidemic in Latin America provide essential, gendered public health and socioeconomic lessons. Women in those outbreaks were exposed to both health and economic risks, as they are again now, in ways intrinsically connected with their roles in the community and responsibilities as caregivers within the home and family.

For example, both Ebola and Zika infections are potentially catastrophic for pregnant women. Yet during both previous outbreaks, access to family planning services were very limited, and pregnant and lactating women were excluded from vaccination against the viruses.  This underlines the importance of sustained maternal health services to avoid a resurgence of birth-related deaths, and equal access for women to the development and use of all medical products including vaccines once produced.
In Liberia, 85 per cent of daily market traders are women. Their livelihoods and economic security suffered as Ebola-related travel restrictions limited trade and affected perishable goods. Back then, together with the Central Bank of Liberia, we were able to help thousands of women cross-border traders to save and expand their businesses through cash transfers via mobile technology. This highlights the importance of looking ahead to women’s roles in recovery measures, and to the innovative use of technology to problem-solve.
This is a moment for governments to recognize both the enormity of the contribution women make and the precarity of so many. This includes a focus on sectors where women are over-represented and underpaid, such as daily wage earners, small business owners, those working in cleaning, caring, cashiering and catering sectors and in the informal economy.
Globally, women make up 70 percent of frontline workers in the health and social sector, like nurses, midwives, cleaners and laundry workers. We need mitigation strategies that specifically target both the health and economic impacts of the COVID-19 outbreak on women and that support and build women’s resilience, as we saw in Liberia and elsewhere.  And to make those responses as well designed as possible, women should be fully engaged in their creation, be priority recipients of aid, and partners in building the longer-term solutions.
We are learning more every day from the arc of the pandemic in China. We have been working closely there with country leadership as part of the UN collective response. Joint campaigns have reached 1 billion people, with communications that raise awareness through public health information, combat stigma and discrimination, reflect women’s specific needs, promote women’s leadership and contributions and develop recovery plans that link equality, health and the economy.
I am proud that our UN Women team has been there every step of the way, making sure of access to gender responsive information and collaborating with sister agencies like UNFPA which has been mobilizing support for pregnant women and safe conditions for childbirth. We are also working with women’s organizations all over the world, for example with the Rohingya refugees in Cox’s Bazar (Bangladesh) where women, especially in highly segregated environments, can lack critical information. Here, women have organized themselves into a network that educates women and girls about keeping safe and avoiding infections.
All of us engaged in this effort, whether public or private sector, need to take a coordinated, people-centred approach to rapidly building health system capacity in both developed and developing countries, making a conscious effort to put women front and centre. For example, creating better access to appropriate personal protective equipment for home-based caregivers, and removing obstacles to their work, by promoting flexible working arrangements, and ensuring supplies of menstrual hygiene products.  These needs are even more important for areas under lockdown or quarantine. So too are considerations of gender-based violence that are exacerbated by these conditions, but may not receive the attention they need, in the drive to respond to the pandemic.
Violence against women is already an epidemic in all societies, without exception. Every day, on average, 137 women are killed by a member of their own family. We also know that levels of domestic violence and sexual exploitation spike when households are placed under the increased strains that come from security, health and money worries, and cramped and confined living conditions. We see this frequently among displaced populations in crowded refugee camps; and reported domestic violence has tripled recently in some countries practising social distancing.
Cyberviolence too has become a routine feature of the internet, and as movement restrictions increase online gaming and use of chat rooms, this is an area for vigilance to protect girls. Girls too can step up their own resistance work in this area, and lead with social media solutions. In China the hashtag #AntiDomesticViolenceDuringEpidemic has taken off, helping to expose violence as a risk during lockdown and linked to online resources.
COVID-19 provides us with an opportunity for radical, positive action to redress long-standing inequalities in multiple areas of women’s lives.  There is scope for not just endurance, but recovery and growth. I ask governments and all other service providers including the private sector to take this opportunity to plan their response to COVID-19 as they have never done before, and fully take a gender perspective into account, proactively building gender expertise into response teams and embedding gender dimensions within response plans. For example, include surge funding for women’s shelters so they can provide for women who need to escape violent relationships,  and aim economic support and bail outs specifically at retail sectors, hospitality and small businesses where women are predominantly employed on precarious contracts, if any, and are most vulnerable to forced cost-saving.
All of this needs funding; organizations responding to COVID-19 need budgeted resources for gender and social inclusion and I urge donors to include this in their support, viewing this as a constant, strongly positive element to include in development budgets and enhancing rather than cutting support to gender equality measures. Organizations serving women need assistance to bolster their response and to prepare for the recovery. This needs resources that many organizations lack.  We appeal to funders to enhance their support for women rather than take an austerity approach. A global, coordinated response of the magnitude that followed the financial crisis is needed, constructed with a gender lens, and fully inclusive.
This is a time of reckoning for our national and personal values and a recognition of the strength of solidarity for public services and society as a whole. This is an opportunity to build back better, stronger, resilient and equal societies. It is a time for bold prioritization. Taking the right steps now with an eye to a restored future could bring both relief and hope to the women of the world.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/39346-covid-19-women-front-and-centrestatement-phumzile-mlambo-ngcuka-un-under-secretary-general




Date: 27 March 2020
Title: WHO Health Alert launches in Arabic on WhatsApp
Content: 27 March 2020
The new service provides the latest news and information on coronavirus including details on symptoms and how people can protect themselves and others.


Geneva -- 27 March 2020

Today, WHO is launching dedicated messaging services in Arabic with partners WhatsApp and Facebook to keep people safe from coronavirus. This easy-to-use messaging service has the potential to reach 2 billion people and enables WHO to get information directly into the hands of the people that need it.

From government leaders to health workers and family and friends, this messaging service will provide the latest news and information on coronavirus including details on symptoms and how people can protect themselves and others. It also provides the latest situation reports and numbers in real-time to help government decision-makers protect the health of their populations.

The service can be accessed by a link that opens a conversation on WhatsApp. Users can simply type "مرحبا" to activate the conversation, prompting a menu of options that can help answer their questions about COVID-19.

Join WHO's Health Alert on WhatsApp:

Arabic: wa.me/41225017023?text=مرحبا



منظمة الصحة العالمية تطلق خدمة التنبيهات الصحية على الواتساب باللغة العربية

جنيف -
تطلق منظمة الصحة العالمية اليوم خدمة رسائلها المخصصة باللغة العربية، بالشراكة مع شركتي واتساب وفيسبوك، لإطلاع الجمهور على آخر المستجدات المتعلقة بفيروس كورونا. وتتميز خدمة الرسائل بسهولة الاستخدام والقدرة على الوصول إلى جمهور واسع لا يقل عن ملياري شخص، من أجل إيصال المعلومات الصادرة عن المنظمة مباشرة إلى الناس الذي هم في حاجة إليها.

وستتيح خدمة الرسائل هذه للجميع، من قادة الحكومات إلى العاملين الصحيين وصولاً إلى الأهل والأصدقاء، أحدث المستجدات والمعلومات عن فيروس كورونا، بما في ذلك التفاصيل المتعلقة بأعراض المرض وكيف يحمي الناس منه أنفسهم والآخرين. كما تتضمن الخدمة روابط إلى أحدث تقارير الحالات وتقدم آخر الأرقام الآنية لمساعدة مقرري السياسات في الحكومة على حماية صحة سكانهم.

wa.me/41225017023?text=مرحبا
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/39369-who-health-alert-launches-arabic-whatsapp




Date: 26 March 2020
Title: Women, girls, health workers must not be overlooked in global COVID-19 response
Content: 26 March 2020
Now is a time for solidarity, resolve and selflessness. We must not forget that there are people we may not immediately see, who are at great risk as a result of the consequences of the crisis.
New York, 26 March 2020 - With each passing day, the scale of the COVID-19 crisis and its consequences are becoming ever more apparent and alarming.

UNFPA, the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency, stands in solidarity with all those responding to the novel coronavirus: from the medical staff and volunteers bravely tending to the sick, to the bus drivers and care-workers who have been catapulted onto the front line of the response. And we grieve with the growing number of those who have lost loved ones in the greatest global health crisis in a century.

COVID-19 is testing the international community. Yet UNFPA’s work with governments, partners, UN agencies and donors is continuing, and ramping up. Business continuity plans are in place at all levels, and our commitment to serving the most vulnerable and hard to reach is stronger than ever.

As with most crises, this pandemic has severely disrupted access to life-saving sexual and reproductive health services and hampered authorities’ ability to respond to gender-based violence, at a time when women and girls need these services most. UNFPA is working with governments and partners to prioritize the particular needs of women and girls, in line with our goals to end unmet need for family planning, end preventable maternal deaths, and end gender-based violence and harmful practices by 2030.

We have appealed to donors to fund our COVID-19 response targeting countries with weak public health and social support systems, including countries in fragile and humanitarian situations, and are provisionally projecting a cost of US$187.5 million. UNFPA’s efforts will focus on strengthening health systems, procuring and delivering essential supplies to protect health workers, ensuring access to sexual and reproductive health and gender-based violence services, and promoting risk communication and community engagement.

Now is a time for solidarity, resolve and selflessness. We must not forget that there are people we may not immediately see, who are at great risk as a result of the consequences of the crisis:

The pregnant women, who need antenatal care, but are unsure whether it is safe to go to the clinic. The women in abusive relationships trapped at home for the foreseeable future and fearing for their safety. The tens of millions of people in refugee camps, who are counting down the days until the coronavirus arrives, and for whom social distancing is simply not an option. The older people, many of whom are trapped in isolation, starved of social interaction and who are particularly vulnerable to becoming seriously ill from the virus.

UNFPA is providing material support to affected health systems and protecting health workers and midwives. In China, Iran and the Philippines, for instance, we distributed essential hygiene and other items to the most vulnerable and personal protective equipment to health workers. And in Moldova we have launched an online dashboard for the health system that shows its current caseload, disaggregated by location, sex, age and pregnancy status.

But we need to do much more to ensure that the most intimate, yet essential, needs of the world’s women and girls are met while we battle COVID-19 during the challenging months ahead. UNFPA has outlined what we need to do in a number of guidance documents recently published on UNFPA.org on these topics.

This global scourge requires a global response. We urge the international community to come to the help of all those affected by the crisis: both those with COVID-19 and those who are trapped in isolation, denied the services they desperately need. Please join us in standing up for the dignity and health of women and girls when they need us most.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/39368-women-girls-health-workers-must-not-be-overlooked-global-covid-19-response




Date: 25 March 2020
Title: The Secretary-General's Remarks At Launch Of Global Humanitarian Response Plan For Covid-9
Content: 25 March 2020
Supporting this humanitarian response plan is a necessity for global health security.  It is a moral imperative and in everyone’s interests.
The world faces an unprecedented threat.
The COVID-19 pandemic has rapidly covered the globe. It has spread suffering, disrupted billions of lives and endangered the global economy.
COVID-19 is menacing the whole of humanity – and so the whole of humanity must fight back. Individual country responses are not going to be enough.
Wealthy countries with strong health systems are buckling under the pressure.

Now, the virus is arriving in countries already in the midst of humanitarian crises caused by conflicts, natural disasters and climate change.

These are places where people who have been forced to flee their homes because of bombs, violence or floods are living under plastic sheets in fields, or crammed into refugee camps or informal settlements.
They do not have homes in which to socially distance or self-isolate.
They lack clean water and soap with which to do that most basic act of self-protection against the virus – washing their hands.
And should they become critically ill, they have no way of accessing a healthcare system that can provide a hospital bed and a ventilator.
We must come to the aid of the ultra-vulnerable – millions upon millions of people who are least able to protect themselves.

This is a matter of basic human solidarity.
It is also crucial for combatting the virus.

The world is only as strong as our weakest health system. If we do not take decisive action now, I fear the virus will establish a foothold in the most fragile countries, leaving the whole world vulnerable as it continues to circle the planet, paying no mind to borders.
This is the moment to step up for the vulnerable.

Older persons, persons with chronic illness and persons with disabilities face particular, disproportionate risks, and require an all-out effort to save their lives and protect their future.

We are also aware of the heavy impact the crisis is having on the world’s women across many fronts, in particular losses of livelihood, increased burdens of unpaid care labour, and the heightened exposure to domestic violence.

Today we are launching a $2 billion global humanitarian response plan to fund the fight against COVID-19 in the world’s poorest countries.

Coordinated by the UN’s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, this interagency plan brings together existing appeals from the World Health Organization and other UN partners, and identifies new needs as well.

Properly funded, it will save many lives and arm humanitarian agencies and NGOs with laboratory supplies for testing, and with medical equipment to treat the sick while protecting health care workers.
The plan also includes additional measures to support host communities that continue to generously open their homes and towns to refugees and displaced persons.

We need to act now to stem the impact of COVID-19 in already vulnerable humanitarian contexts.
And we need to maintain support for existing humanitarian response plans on which 100 million people depend.

If such funding is diverted, the consequences could be catastrophic: the further spread of cholera, measles and meningitis; greater levels of child malnutrition; and a blow to the ability of these countries to combat the virus.

Let us do everything we can to prevent COVID-19 from wreaking havoc in places with limited healthcare capacity and resilience.
At the same time, we are doing our utmost to plan for and respond to early recovery in the countries around the globe that will need it most so that we achieve a new sustainable and inclusive economy that leaves no-one behind. I have asked United Nations Resident Coordinators and UN Country Teams to support countries around the world in addressing the socio-economic implications of this pandemic, which will require an adequate funding mechanism.

Supporting this humanitarian response plan is a necessity for global health security.

It is a moral imperative and in everyone’s interests.

And it is a crucial part of winning this fight.
I appeal to Governments to give it their full support.
Thank you.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/38977-secretary-generals-remarks-launch-global-humanitarian-response-plan-covid-9




Date: 24 March 2020
Title: Media Clarification from The World Health Organization
Content: 24 March 2020
WHO spokespersons or staff will never send official information in form of personal text/voice messages via WhatsApp or other digital platforms.



Dear colleagues,
It has come to our attention that a number of people have been talking to the media and disseminating information to the public under the guise of working for the World Health Organization (WHO), or being WHO consultants.
Please note that any spokespersons appearing in the media that have not been directly identified or nominated via WHO’s headquarters, regional or country offices cannot be considered as representing WHO, and what they say cannot be attributed to WHO.
Additionally, WHO spokespersons or staff will never send official information in form of personal text/voice messages via WhatsApp or other digital platforms. All official information to the public is shared via WHO’s official web sites, social media channels, and the new WHO official WhatsApp chatbot connected to the number +41 79 893 18 92 (the service is currently available in English but more languages will soon be added).
Media outlets and partners are kindly requested to alert us to any person (not identified/nominated by WHO) claiming to represent WHO, so we can confirm and clarify, in an effort to stop misinformation or wrong facts being shared.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/38842-media-clarification-world-health-organization




Date: 17 March 2020
Title: UNFPA sounds the alarm on dire situation facing women and girls in Syria,  As conflict enters its 10th year
Content: 17 March 2020
Women and girls in Syria have repeatedly stated that they seldom feel safe due to the risk of violence, emphasizing the need for prevention services and the necessity of delivering consistent, quality services to survivors.
NEW YORK, USA, 16 March 2020 - UNFPA, the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency, expresses increasing concern about the women and girls trapped in the escalating humanitarian situation in Syria, especially in the north-west, where hostilities have caused mass displacement, human suffering and damage to civilian facilities. Women and girls continue to bear the brunt of this crisis, struggling to survive and care for traumatized children, as the conflict enters its 10th year. Some 960,000 people are estimated to have been displaced since December, 80 per cent of whom are women and children, and approximately 25,000 of whom are currently pregnant.

Reproductive health services have been severely disrupted and the risk of gender-based violence is escalating, along with child marriage. Women and girls in Syria have repeatedly stated that they seldom feel safe due to the risk of violence, emphasizing the need for prevention services and the necessity of delivering consistent, quality services to survivors. UNFPA’s operations in north-west Syria have suffered as a result of the hostilities both directly and indirectly.

“The situation in Syria remains critical and we are deeply concerned about the dire conditions women and girls are having to face on a daily basis. Millions of women and girls continue to pay a high price for a conflict they had no role in creating,” said Dr. Natalia Kanem, Executive Director of UNFPA.  “They will continue to depend on UNFPA and our partners to provide life-saving support until this crisis is over. The sexual and reproductive health and rights, and the dignity and protection of women and girls are not negotiable”.

Since December 2019, UNFPA has had to close 7 service delivery points serving 13,000 people due to the escalated conflict and constrained humanitarian access. In the past couple of weeks alone, two health centres and two mobile clinics, serving around 6,000 people on a monthly basis, have had to cease operations, while three safe spaces that provide life-saving services to women and girls in the area have been suspended.

Midwives operating in Syria report that there has been a sharp increase in cases of early deliveries, miscarriages, and low-weight births. Pregnant women are asking for Caesarean deliveries out of fear of going into labour while on the move and without medical care. They have also noted that violence against women has become “routine.”

“When the guns fall silent, it does not mean the suffering of women and girls stops. The suffering and abuse that women and girls are exposed to is long-term,” said Luay Shabaneh, UNFPA’s Regional Director for the Arab States. “If a child at age 13 or 14 has been married, she will be exposed to suffering until the end of her life. Women’s issues should be a top priority in the immediate humanitarian response to the crisis to save lives, as well as in development work.”

As of December 2019, UNFPA and partners continued to support affected communities in Syria through 67 safe spaces where women and girls can find services, information and psychosocial support; 15 youth centers; 29 emergency obstetric care facilities; 98 primary healthcare facilities and 97 mobile clinics.

“During all crises, whether it is the COVID-19 or any other health crisis, women often sacrifice their own health for the health of others. They give support to older people, to children, to the economic situation of their household. In doing so, they forget to take care of their own health. Therefore, their health should be a priority at all times,” added Shabaneh.

Over the past three years, UNFPA has reached 7.6 million affected Syrian people region-wide with life-saving health services, and prevention and response to gender-based violence. An overstretched health system and the continued risk of attacks against health-care facilities challenge the delivery of sexual and reproductive health services, and the risk of gender-based violence remains acute.

UNFPA estimates that there is a funding gap of $57 million for its programmes in Syria and approximately 13 million people require assistance across the country, including 3.4 million women and girls of reproductive age.


Interviews and more information:

To request an interview with UNFPA’s Regional Director for the Arab States, Luay Shabaneh, please contact:
Samir Aldarabi: +201068484879; aldarabi@unfpa.org

For general enquiries, please contact:
Malene Arboe-Rasmussen:  +1 201 253 6679; arboe-rasmussen@unfpa.org
Eddie Wright: +1 917 831 2074; ewright@unfpa.org

مع دخول النزاع في سوريا عامه العاشر.. صندوق الأمم المتحدة للسكان يدق ناقوس الخطر على الوضع الصعب الذي يواجه النساء والفتيات في سوريا

يويورك، 16 آذار/مارس 2020- يعبر صندوق الأمم المتحدة للسكان، منظمة الأمم المتحدة المعنية بالصحة الجنسية والإنجابية ،عن قلقه المتزايد إزاء أوضاع النساء والفتيات المحاصرات بسبب التدهور المتزايد في الوضع الإنساني في سوريا ، وخاصة شمال غرب البلاد، حيث تسببت الأعمال العدائية في نزوح جماعي ومعاناة بشرية وأضرار بالمرافق المدنية. ومع دخول النزاع عامه العاشر، لا تزال النساء والفتيات يتحملن وطأة هذه الأزمة ويكافحن من أجل البقاء ورعاية الأطفال المصابين بصدمات حيث يقدر عدد النازحين بحوالي 960.000 شخص منذ ديسمبر ، 80٪ منهم من النساء والأطفال ، وحوالي 25.000 من النساء حوامل.
وبسبب تصاعد حدة النزاع تعطلت خدمات الصحة الإنجابية بشدة وتزايد خطر العنف القائم على النوع الاجتماعي وزواج الأطفال ، وقد أبلغت نساء وفتيات في سوريا مراراً أنهن نادراً ما يشعرن بالأمان بسبب خطر العنف وشددن على الحاجة إلى خدمات الوقاية وضرورة تقديم خدمات متسقة وذات جودة للناجيات. ولقد عانت عمليات صندوق الأمم المتحدة للسكان في شمال غرب سوريا نتيجة للأعمال العدائية بشكل مباشر وغير مباشر.

وقالت الدكتورة ناتاليا كانيم، المديرة التنفيذية لصندوق الأمم المتحدة للسكان إن الوضع في سوريا لا يزال حرجًا، ونحن قلقون للغاية بشأن الظروف الصعبة التي تواجهها النساء والفتيات بشكل يومي. وأضافت كانيم أن ملايين النساء والفتيات يواصلن دفع ثمن باهظ لصراع لم يكن لهن دور في نشوبه، "سيستمر اعتمادهن على صندوق الأمم المتحدة للسكان وشركائه لتقديم الدعم المنقذ للحياة حتى انتهاء هذه الأزمة. الصحة والحقوق الجنسية والإنجابية ، وكرامة وحماية النساء والفتيات غير قابلة للتفاوض": قالت كانيم.

ومنذ كانون أول / ديسمبر 2019 ، اضطر صندوق الأمم المتحدة للسكان إلى إغلاق 7 نقاط لتقديم الخدمات تخدم 13000 شخص بسبب النزاع المتصاعد وتقييد وصول المساعدات الإنسانية. وفي الأسبوعين الماضيين، اضطر مركزان صحيان وعيادتان متنقلتان، تخدمان حوالي 6000 شخص شهريا ، إلى التوقف عن العمل ، في حين تم تعليق العمل في ثلاثة أماكن آمنة توفر خدمات منقذة للحياة للنساء والفتيات في المنطقة.

وأبلغت القابلات العاملات في سوريا أن هناك زيادة حادة في حالات الولادات المبكرة والإجهاض والمواليد الجدد الذين يعانون من نقص الوزن. وتطلب الحوامل إجراء عمليات ولادة قيصرية خوفًا من دخول المخاض أثناء التنقل وبدون رعاية طبية. كما لاحظن أن العنف ضد المرأة أصبح "روتينيّا".
ويقول الدكتور لؤي شبانه، المدير الإقليمي لصندوق الأمم المتحدة للسكان لمنطقة الدول العربية، إنه حين تصمت المدافع ، فهذا لا يعني أن معاناة النساء والفتيات تتوقف، إن تداعيات وآثار المعاناة وسوء المعاملة التي تتعرض لها النساء والفتيات تستمر لأمد بعيد، فإذا تزوجت فتاة في سن 13 أو 14 سنة ستعاني من ذلك طوال حياتها. وأضاف شبانه أنه يجب أن تكون قضايا المرأة على رأس الأولويات في الاستجابة الإنسانية الفورية للأزمة لإنقاذ الأرواح وكذلك في جهود التعافي وتحقيق التنمية.
ومنذ ديسمبر 2019 ، واصل صندوق الأمم المتحدة للسكان وشركاؤه دعم المجتمعات المتضررة في سوريا من خلال 67 مساحة آمنة حيث يمكن للنساء والفتيات تلقي الخدمات والمعلومات والدعم النفسي والاجتماعي و 15 مركزا للشباب و 29 من مرافق رعاية التوليد في حالات الطوارئ و 98 من مرافق الرعاية الصحية الأولية و97 عيادة متنقلة.

ويضيف الدكتور لؤي شبانه أنه وخلال جميع الأزمات ، سواء كانت في وقت تفشي فيروس كورونا المستجد (COVID-19 ( أو أي أزمة صحية أخرى ، غالبًا ما تضحي المرأة بصحتها من أجل صحة الآخرين. فهن يقدمن الدعم لكبار السن والأطفال ويقع على عاتقهن التعامل مع تردي الوضع الاقتصادي لأسرهن. وبذلك يهملن العناية بصحتهن. وشدد شبانه أن صحة النساء والفتيات يجب أن تكون في الأولوية لذلك في جميع الأوقات.

وفي السنوات الثلاث الماضية، وصل صندوق الأمم المتحدة للسكان إلى 7.6 مليون شخص سوري متضرر في جميع أنحاء المنطقة من خلال الخدمات الصحية المنقذة للحياة، والوقاية من العنف القائم على النوع الاجتماعي والتصدي له. يشكل الضغط المتزايد الواقع على النظام الصحي والخطر المستمر للهجمات ضد مرافق الرعاية الصحية تحديا لتقديم خدمات الصحة الجنسية والإنجابية ، ولا يزال خطر العنف القائم على النوع الاجتماعي كبيرا.

يقدر صندوق الأمم المتحدة للسكان أن هناك فجوة تمويلية تبلغ 57 مليون دولار لبرامجه في سوريا وأن حوالي 13 مليون شخص يحتاجون إلى المساعدة في جميع أنحاء البلاد ، بما في ذلك 3.4 مليون امرأة وفتاة في سن الإنجاب.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/38247-unfpa-sounds-alarm-dire-situation-facing-women-and-girls-syria-conflict-enters-its-10th-year




Date: 15 March 2020
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL'S MESSAGE ON THE CORONAVIRUS (COVID 19)
Content: 15 March 2020
We can slow down transmissions, prevent infections and save lives.
But that will take unprecedented personal, national and international action.

We must declare war on this virus.

Dear friends,

The upheaval caused by the coronavirus – COVID 19 -- is all around us.

And I know many are anxious, worried and confused.

That’s absolutely natural.

We are facing a health threat unlike any other in our lifetimes.

Meanwhile, the virus is spreading … the danger is growing … and our health systems, economies and day-to-day lives are being severely tested.

The most vulnerable are the most affected -- particularly our elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions … those without access to reliable health care … and those in poverty or living on the edge.

The social and economic fallout from the combination of the pandemic and slowing economies will affect most of us for some months.

But the spread of the virus will peak.  Our economies will recover.

Until then, we must act together to slow the spread of the virus and look after each other.

This is a time for prudence, not panic. Science, not stigma.  Facts, not fear.

Even though the situation has been classified as a pandemic, it is one we can control.

We can slow down transmissions, prevent infections and save lives.
But that will take unprecedented personal, national and international action.

We must declare war on this virus.

That means countries have a responsibility to gear up, step up and scale up.

By implementing effective containment strategies.

By activating and enhancing emergency response systems.

By dramatically increasing testing capacity and care for patients.

By readying hospitals, ensuring they have the space, supplies and needed personnel.

And by developing life-saving medical interventions.

And all of us have a responsibility, too.

To follow medical advice and take simple, practical steps recommended by health authorities.

In addition to being a public health crisis, the virus is infecting the global economy.

Financial markets have been hard hit by the uncertainty.

Global supply chains have been disrupted.

Investment and consumer demand have plunged -- with a real and rising risk of a global recession.

United Nations economists estimate that the virus could cost the global economy at least $1 trillion this year – and perhaps more.

No country can do it alone.

More than ever, governments must cooperate to revitalize economies … expand public investment … boost trade … and ensure targeted support for the people and communities most affected by the disease or more vulnerable to the negative economic impacts – including women who often shoulder a disproportionate burden of care work.

Dear Friends,

A pandemic drives home the essential interconnectedness of our human family.

Preventing the further spread of COVID-19 is a shared responsibility for us all.

The United Nations – including the World Health Organization -- is fully mobilized.

As part of our human family, we are working 24/7 with governments, providing international guidance, helping the world take on this threat.

We stand in full solidarity with you.

We are in this together – and we will get through this, together.

Thank you.

رسالة الأمين العام بشأن فيروس كورونا (COVID 19)
صديقاتي العزيزات/أصدقائي الأعزاء،
إن حالة الاضطراب الناجمة عن فيروس كورونا تشيع في كل مكان حولنا.
وأعرف أن الكثيرين ينتابهم القلق والانزعاج والحيرة.
وهذا أمر طبيعي تماماً.
فنحن نواجه تهديدا صحيا لا مثيل له في حياتنا.
وفي الوقت نفسه، فإن الفيروس ينتشر... والخطر يتزايد... وباتت نظمنا الصحية واقتصاداتنا وحياتنا اليومية في موضع اختبار شديد القسوة.
وأكثر الفئات ضعفا هي الأشد تضررا - ولا سيما كبار السن وأولئك الذين يعانون من متاعب صحية موجودة من قبل... وأولئك الذين لا يحصلون على رعاية صحية يعوَّل عليها... وأولئك الذين يعيشون في فقر أو يعيشون مهمشين.
وسوف تؤثر التداعيات الاجتماعية والاقتصادية الناجمة عن الاقتران بين جائحة الفيروس وتباطؤ الاقتصادات على معظمنا لبضعة أشهر.
ولكن انتشار الفيروس سيصل إلى منتهاه. وسوف تتعافى اقتصاداتنا.
وحتى ذلك الحين، يجب أن نعمل معا لإبطاء انتشار الفيروس والاعتناء ببعضنا البعض.
فهذا هو وقت التعقل، لا الذعر. وقت العلم، لا الوصم. وقت الحقائق، لا الخوف.
ورغم أن الحالة قد صُنفت على أنها جائحة، فإنها حالة يمكننا السيطرة عليها.
ويمكننا إبطاء انتقال العدوى ومنع الإصابة وإنقاذ الأرواح.
لكن ذلك سيتطلب إجراءات شخصية ووطنية ودولية لم يسبق لها مثيل.
ويجب أن نعلن الحرب على هذا الفيروس.
وهذا يعني أن على البلدان أن تتحمل مسؤولية التأهب للعمل وتكثيفه والتوسع فيه.
من خلال تنفيذ استراتيجيات احتواء فعالة.
ومن خلال تفعيل وتعزيز نظم الاستجابة لحالات الطوارئ.
ومن خلال إحداث زيادة كبيرة في قدرات الفحص ورعاية المرضى.
ومن خلال تجهيز المستشفيات، وضمان أن يكون فيها الحيز الكافي والمستلزمات والعاملون اللازمون.
ومن خلال تطوير التدخلات الطبية المنقذة للحياة.
وعلينا جميعاً مسؤولية أيضاً.
وهي اتباع المشورة الطبية واتخاذ خطوات بسيطة وعملية أوصت بها السلطات الصحية.
وبالإضافة إلى كون الفيروس أزمة صحية عامة، فإن أذاه يصيب أيضا الاقتصاد العالمي.
فلقد تضررت الأسواق المالية بشدة من حالة انعدام اليقين.
وتعطلت سلاسل الإمداد العالمية.
وهوى الاستثمارُ وطلبُ المستهلكين - وأصبح هناك خطر حقيقي ومتزايد لحدوث ركود عالمي.
ويقدر خبراء الاقتصاد في الأمم المتحدة أن الفيروس يمكن أن يكلف الاقتصاد العالمي ما لا يقل عن تريليون دولار هذا العام - وربما أكثر من ذلك.
ولا يوجد بلد قادر على المواجهة بمفرده.
وبات لزاما على الحكومات، أكثر من أي وقت مضى، أن تتعاون من أجل تنشيط الاقتصادات... وتوسيع الاستثمار العام... وتعزيز التجارة... وضمان تقديم دعم محدد الوجهة بدقة للأشخاص والمجتمعات الأكثر تضرراً من المرض أو الأكثر عرضة للآثار الاقتصادية السلبية - بما في ذلك النساء اللواتي غالباً ما يتحملن عبئاً غير متناسب من أعمال الرعاية.

صديقاتي العزيزات/أصدقائي الأعزاء،
إن جائحة الفيروس تبرز الأهمية القصوى للترابط الأساسي بين أسرتنا البشرية.
ومنع انتشاره مسؤولية مشتركة على عاتقنا جميعا.
وقد استُنفرت تماما جهود الأمم المتحدة - بما في ذلك منظمة الصحة العالمية.
فنحن باعتبارنا جزءا من أسرتنا البشرية، نعمل على مدار الساعة وطيلة أيام الأسبوع مع الحكومات، موفرين الإرشادات الدولية، ومادين يد العون للعالم في مواجهة هذا التهديد.
إننا نتضامن معكم كلَّ التضامن.
فنحن في هذا معاً - وسوف نتجاوزه، معاً.
شكرا لكم.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/38133-secretary-generals-message-coronavirus-covid-19




Date: 27 February 2020
Title: Ministry of Social Solidarity, UNDP launch new Programme tackling social protection issues
Content: 27 February 2020
The “Waai” Programme for Community Development covers child marriage, FGM Abandonment, health and education issues, rights of the Persons with Disabilities (PwDs), and economic empowerment of the poorest marginalized families to transfer them from protection to production.
The Ministry of Social Solidarity (MoSS) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) launched the “Waai” Programme for Community Development in an official ceremony hosted by the Ministry and with the attendance of H.E. Minister of Social Solidarity Nivine El-Kabbag and UNDP Resident Representative, Ms. Randa Aboul-Hosn.
Through the “Waai” Programme for Community Development, a comprehensive and unified advocacy curriculum, addressing all social protection issues tackled by MoSS, has been developed, targeting families registered within the Takaful and Karama social protection programme. Waai covers child marriage, FGM Abandonment, health and education issues, rights of the Persons with Disabilities (PwDs), and economic empowerment of the poorest marginalized families to transfer them from protection to production.
A policy resource group will be established to issue policy and media briefs, to be sent to decision makers and the media based on comprehensive discussions and workshops with the most vulnerable groups in the society on the issues of social protection. Waai will also target members of the media, decision makers and influencers to raise awareness on the targeted issues.
H.E Minister of Social Solidarity Dr. Nivine El-Kabbag said: “The ministry adopts an integrated approach of social protection, which focuses on the integration between economic, social and cultural empowerment, through integrated economic, health and educational programmes targeting the poorest of the poor. The ministry also offers protection programmes to the most vulnerable groups such as persons with disabilities, women-headed households, homeless, elderly citizens...). In addition, the ministry integrates simplified messages in all of its social protection programmes to address the harmful practices, raises the awareness of families and targeted groups.” The Minister emphasized that the programme’s message is to build positive values and practices that advances human development and the country’s sustainable development efforts.
In her remarks, UNDP Resident Representative Ms. Randa Aboul- Hosn; “UNDP will continue supporting the Ministry of Social Solidarity to expand “Waai” Programme for Community Development to the 3 million families of the most vulnerable groups on harmful practices and misconceptions aiming to achieve the sustainable development goals 2030 at the local level.”
Information, education and communication materials will be disseminated to the Takaful and Karama beneficiaries through the ministries’ different outlets such as the post office units, social solidarity units at village and district levels, schools, health units, youth centers, MoSS shelters for protecting women subject to different forms of violence and  rehabilitation offices for PwDs.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/36195-ministry-social-solidarity-undp-launch-new-programme-tackling-social-protection-issues




Date: 19 February 2020
Title: Statement on the events taking place in Northwestern Syria
Content: 19 February 2020
Women and girls of Syria are bearing the brunt of this crisis, as there are disruptions in quality reproductive health care and an escalating risk of gender-based violence.
UNFPA is gravely alarmed about the current humanitarian situation unfolding in northwestern Syria, where hostilities have continued to cause mass displacements and damage to civilian facilities. To date, 900,000 people are estimated to have been displaced, 80 percent of whom are women and children.
UNFPA’s operations in northwest Syria have suffered a significant impact as a result of the hostilities. Since December 2019, UNFPA has had to close 7 service delivery points serving 13,000 people. In the last three weeks alone, two health centers and two mobile clinics, serving around 6,000 people on a monthly basis, have had to cease operations, while three women and girls’ safe spaces that provide life-saving services to women and girls in the area, have been suspended. Tragically, a student of a UNFPA-supported midwifery/nursery training course lost her life in these latest attacks.
Women and girls of Syria are bearing the brunt of this crisis, as there are disruptions in quality reproductive health care and an escalating risk of gender-based violence. Women and girls in Syria have repeatedly stated that they seldom feel safe due to the risk of gender based violence, emphasizing the necessity of delivering consistent, quality services to survivors.
As a result of these displacements, people in need are living in unsafe locations, whether in tents or in open spaces. In some instances, up to 20 to 30 people are living together in unfinished buildings, which is creating privacy and protection concerns for women and girls and has reportedly resulted in a number of rape incidents. There are reports of pregnant women being unable to receive essential medical care, including assisted deliveries and cesarean sections due to lack of access to medical facilities.
The mass displacement, coupled with the disruption in services due to the damage wrought on service delivery centers, places the lives of countless women and girls at risk, further disrupting the ability of the humanitarian community to deliver much-needed services. This suffering is not acceptable. The targeting of civilian populations must stop. All parties must respect, and ensure respect for, international humanitarian law. Civilians and civilian facilities must be protected against all forms of violence at all times and all parties must allow free and secure access to humanitarian aid and basic services.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/35476-statement-events-taking-place-northwestern-syria




Date: 04 February 2020
Title: Mr. Mahmoud Mohieldin of Egypt - Special Envoy on Financing the 2030 Agenda
Content: 04 February 2020
The Special Envoy will focus on global, regional and national issues related to public finance and support the implementation of the Secretary-General’s Strategy for Financing the 2030 Agenda across the United Nations system
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres announced today the appointment of Mahmoud Mohieldin of Egypt as the Special Envoy on Financing the 2030 Agenda.

The Secretary-General recognizes the critical role of the United Nations in providing the leadership and support to the member countries in facilitating and accelerating financing for sustainable development. The Secretary-General released his Strategy for Financing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in September 2018 with a clear vision for transforming the global financial systems and economic policies in line with the 2030 Agenda, enhancing sustainable financing strategies and investments at regional and country levels, and seizing the opportunities presented by financial innovations, new technologies and digitalization to provide equitable access to finance.

The Special Envoy will focus on global, regional and national issues related to public finance and support the implementation of the Secretary-General’s Strategy for Financing the 2030 Agenda across the United Nations system, in close collaboration with international financial institutions and the private sector. The Special Envoy will ensure that there is collective action by United Nations  agencies, development partners and the private sector to work with member countries in scaling up finance for 2030 Agenda in the Decade of Action to deliver the Sustainable Development Goals, and address barriers and challenges that constrain public finance for sustainable development. The Special Envoy will work closely with the Special Envoy for Climate Action and Climate Finance, the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, and other relevant United Nations agencies and departments.

Mr. Mohieldin, an economist, was the former Minister of Investment of Egypt from 2004-2010, and most recently, served as the World Bank Group Senior Vice President for the 2030 Development Agenda, United Nations Relations and Partnerships. His roles at the World Bank also included Managing Director, responsible for Human Development, Sustainable Development, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management, Finance and Private Sector Development, and the World Bank Institute; World Bank President's Special Envoy on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the Post-2015 Development Agenda (later, the Sustainable Development Goals), and Financing for Development; and Corporate Secretary and Executive Secretary to the Development Committee of the World Bank Group's Board of Governors. His professional experience extends into the academic arena as a Professor of Economics at Cairo University and as a Visiting Professor at several renowned Universities.

Mr. Mohieldin holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Warwick, United Kingdom; a Master’s in Economics and Social Policy Analysis from the University of York, United Kingdom; a Diploma of Development Economics from the University of Warwick; and a B.Sc. in Economics from Cairo University. He also participated in high-level certification programmes at Wharton Business School of the University of Pennsylvania and Georgetown University.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/33728-mr-mahmoud-mohieldin-egypt-special-envoy-financing-2030-agenda




Date: 31 January 2020
Title: UN in Egypt Statement on Nada, Victim of FGM in Assiut
Content: 31 January 2020
The United Nations is committed to accelerate efforts to eliminate FGM by 2030. We hope that Nada’s tragic death sheds light on the need to protect girls from t
The United Nations in Egypt is deeply saddened by the recent tragic death of 12-year-old Nada in Assiut Governorate while undergoing Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) at the hands of a doctor.
We are outraged that such senseless deaths still occur in 2020, despite progress made to eradicate this violent practice in terms of law reform, awareness raising, as well as direct engagement with local communities and religious leaders.
We welcome the statement by the National Committee for the Eradication of FGM denouncing the dreadful incident and, while respecting the ongoing investigation and independence of the judicial process, we echo its call for the maximum punishment for the perpetrators.
The crime was reported on Thursday through the National Child Helpline (16000), administered by the National Council for Childhood and Motherhood, and both the doctor and the victim’s father were reportedly arrested.
While there has been a decline in the practice’s prevalence in the age group 15-17 years old by more than 13 percent from 2008 to 2014 (Demographic Health Survey 2014), efforts to abandon FGM should be accelerated, as a matter of urgency.
According to the Demographic Health Survey 2014, medicalization of the FGM practice is most common in Egypt, where eight out of ten girls who are cut were cut by medical personnel. When comparing mothers and daughters, trends of medicalization appear to be increasing sharply, whereby 37.9 percent of mothers had the procedure performed by a medical professional, compared 81.9 percent of daughters.
The United Nations acknowledges the Government of Egypt’s commitment to eliminating FGM demonstrated in 2019, through the establishment of the National Committee for the Eradication of FGM, under the leadership of the National Council for Women and National Council for Childhood and Motherhood.
The United Nations is committed to supporting the National Committee for the Eradication of FGM in its efforts to eradicate the harmful practice.
It is also committed to working with Egyptian authorities and society to protect the rights of all girls and women against the practice of FGM.
FGM is a human rights violation and constitutes as a form of violence against women and girls. It is rooted in gender inequality, along with religious misinterpretation and cultural beliefs. It can have long lasting physical and psychological implications and lead to injury and, as we have seen, death. The desire for social acceptance and avoidance of social stigma remains the single largest factor influencing FGM.
A legislation was introduced criminalizing FGM in Egypt in 2008 through amendments to the Child Act (1996) and the Penal Code. In 2016, the law was further strengthened and penalties were harshened to stipulate a 5-7 year jail sentence for anyone who commits the crime. The article also punishes, with a penalty of imprisonment for between 1-3 years, any individuals who escort the victims of such crimes to
the perpetrators. Furthermore, the amendment punishes the crime with up to 15 years’ imprisonment if the act of FGM leads to the death of the victim or a “permanent deformity.”
The United Nations is committed to accelerate efforts to eliminate FGM by 2030. We hope that Nada’s tragic death sheds light on the need to protect girls from this harmful practice as a matter of urgency.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/33148-un-egypt-statement-nada-victim-fgm-assiut




Date: 26 November 2019
Title: UN-Habitat, ESCWA and Islamic Development Bank Conduct Workshop on Informal Settlements Challenges in Arab States
Content: 26 November 2019
Cairo, 26 November 2019 - UN-Habitat, the Islamic Development Bank (IsDB), and the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) are conducting a two-day regional consultation workshop on “The Informal Settlements Challenges and Prospects in the Arab States”.
UN-Habitat, ESCWA and Islamic Development Bank Conduct Workshop on Informal Settlements Challenges in Arab States
The workshop aims at discussing the emerging challenges and potentials of informal settlements across the various Arab countries. Through presenting and validating key findings from the first draft of the Regional Rapid Research on Informal Settlement, the workshop will feed into the formulation of a participatory informal settlement upgrading/urban regeneration programme to support the Arab States deliver effectively informal settlements upgrading projects, and build inter regional cooperation.
In the Arab region, the proportion of sub-standard housing varies from country to country. In some countries, informal settlements and slum dwellings form isolated, marginalized pockets, while in others from 67 to 94 per cent of urban residents live under one or more housing deprivations. In some Gulf countries, for instance, housing conditions of low-income migrant workers are often very poor compared to the rest of the urban population.
Affordable and decent housing remains a major challenge throughout the region, including in the Gulf States. In countries that have experienced continued conflict, high rates of poverty and pervasive political instability such as Libya, Syria, Sudan, Somalia, Comoros, Yemen, Lebanon and Iraq - these demographic trends have translated into pervasive slums, which comprise 50 to 95 per cent of total urbanization
During the opening session, Mr. Sami Farouki, Global Practice Manager, Social Infrastructure Division at Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) emphasized “sustainable cities are engines for economic development that is able to support people live in dignity and prosperity “.
Ms. Gisela Nauk, Chief of Inclusive Social Development Section, UNESCWA stated in her opening remarks that “Informal settlements are not just places where people live, they represent the socio-economic situation of the whole country, upgrading these areas needs to help people integrate into the society”.
Dr. Erfan Ali, Director of UN-Habitat Regional Office for Arab States stressed the importance of “Developing a regional approach for addressing the challenges of informal settlements in Arab States that builds upon lessons learned and common challenges, while recognizing diversity among Arab states, in order to achieve sustainable and inclusive urban development”
The workshop was attended by experts, urban practitioners, researchers, national and local authorities, as well as representatives from the ministry of Housing and ministry of Social Solidarity in Egypt.
Participants presented a selection of case studies and best practices from Iraq, Jordan, Libya, Tunisia, Palestine and Egypt on the different approaches to slum upgrading projects and harnessing the economic potential of slums. Participants were then divided into three detailed working groups on Innovative financing for housing and upgrading; Migration, post conflict and social considerations; and Innovative Housing and construction approaches.
In the closing session, priority areas of action were collectively identified and an assessment of how these interventions can be funded through innovative blended mechanisms where development banks can play a vital role.
UN-Habitat, IsDB, and ESCWA announced the launch of a Regional Network on Informal Settlements, which will be used for sharing best practices, providing resources and guidance, and facilitating interaction on joint informal settlement upgrading/urban regeneration initiatives among relevant stakeholders.


UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/26025-un-habitat-escwa-and-islamic-development-bank-conduct-workshop-informal-settlements




Date: 26 November 2019
Title: UN Women Egypt kicks off the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence
Content: 26 November 2019
On the Occasion of the International Day to Eliminate Violence against Women and in line with the 16 Days of Activism against Gender Based Violence, UN Women Egypt marked the launch of the 16 days of activism yesterday by organizing several activities in Cairo and Alexandria.
With the participation of Mr. Richard Dictus; United Nations Resident Coordinator, Ms. Gielan ElMessiri, UN Women Head of Office, a.i. and Ms. Radhia Achouri, United Nations Information Director, a press conference was organized yesterday to mark the launch of the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence and highlight the UN efforts to eliminate violence against women. The press conference provided an opportunity for various media channels to learn more about causes and consequences of violence against women, actions taken by the UN in Egypt in support of national efforts to address violence against women,  in addition to UN Women’s planned activities during this period.
Ms. Achouri emphasized in her opening remarks the importance of the role of the media in raising awareness on violence perpetrated against women and girls in all its forms, not only as a women/girls’ issue, but as a hindrance to building healthy and productive societies. “We count on media to spread the much-needed information that could save the lives of scores of girls, thus, saving whole families from breaking, and whole societies from the risk of being deprived of the contribution of half of their populations to national development, peace and progress”, Ms. Achouri said.
“I am speaking today not only as a professional but as a father, brother, uncle and member of the society, to say that women face all forms of violence on a daily basis that is inflected on them only and simply because they are women. This is something I find totally unacceptable and outrageous as a human being. Women themselves have to confront this violence which is the first step and the second step is that men have to change their behavior and counselling support has to be made available for survivors of violence,” stated Mr. Richard Dictus
“Gender inequality and discrimination are fueled by negative social and cultural norms which underscores the important role of families, educational institutions and public figures that youth look up to as role models in society. Violence against women is the cause and result of gender inequality across in various area” said Gielan El Messiri, UN Women, Head of Office, UN Women, Egypt country office.
In Alexandria, UN Women in partnership with the National Council for Women and Bibliotheca Alexandrina commemorated the 16 days of activism through an organized stand denouncing violence against women in Bibliotheca Alexandrina where library staff and guests stood on its steps under the title “Together for Her”, announcing their support to end violence against women. Following the stand, the premises of Bibliotheca Alexandrina were lit up in orange following “Orange the World” initiative, symbolizing a world free from violence against women and girls.
The 16 days of activism is an international campaign, linked with the UN Secretary General’s UNiTE campaign, which starts on 25 November (International Day to End Violence Against Women) till 10 December (International Human Rights Day). The 16 days campaign provides an opportunity to bring together the whole community to work to end violence against women, promoting a change in mindset and culture where violence is no longer accepted. This year in Egypt, a wide range of events will be held by different partners during the 16 days of activism. UN Women is gearing up for a number of activities for the 16 days across Egypt’s governorates, including Cairo, Giza, Alexandria, Minya, Beni Sueif, and Sohag. The activities range from community awareness events, family camps, art competitions, and high-level events.
T
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/28141-un-women-egypt-kicks-16-days-activism-against-gender-based-violence




Date: 03 October 2019
Title: Egypt and IFAD strengthen partnership to reduce rural poverty and promote resilience in desert environments
Content: 03 October 2019
The President of the United Nations' International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), Gilbert F. Houngbo, will meet with H.E. Abdel Fattah Khalil El-Sisi, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, during a four-day visit to the country from 6 to 9 October to discuss IFAD’s ongoing investments and to pave the way for a strengthened partnership towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
During the visit, Houngbo will also meet with high-level Government officials and representatives of other UN agencies based in Egypt, with the purpose of exploring further opportunities to reduce poverty and accelerate rural development by providing employment for rural youth, empowering women, improving food security and nutrition and building small farmers’ resilience to climate change.
Agriculture is a vital sector of Egypt’s economy, providing livelihoods for 55 per cent of the population and directly employing 29 per cent of the labour force. Farming is also a vibrant source of exports and foreign exchange. IFAD is supporting the Government of Egypt in achieving its national plans, especially in the agriculture sector. IFAD interventions have already covered some 65 per cent of reclaimed lands.
"Egypt is the largest recipient of our financial assistance in the Near East and North Africa with US$1.11 billion invested to date. It is also one of the first member countries to receive IFAD financing. Our partnership recorded more than four decades of successful human stories and achievements in rural development", said Khalida Bouzar, IFAD’s Regional Director for the Near East, North Africa, Central Asia and Europe Division.
She added, "IFAD has shown its comparative advantage in targeting vulnerable farmers and promoting resilience in desert environments. Long-term field presence equipped with unique expertise in rural development have improved the sustainability and impact of our projects.”
During his stay, Houngbo will visit two IFAD-supported projects in Upper and Lower Egypt and meet the projects’ participants to see first-hand how IFAD interventions have improved their lives. The Promotion of Rural Incomes through Market Enhancement Project covers seven governorates and is benefitting 50,000 rural households by integrating them into agricultural value chains. The On-farm Irrigation Development Project in Oldlands supports efficient use of water resources, which are threatened by climate change, industrialization, increasing pollution and poor water management. Project investments are generating seasonal and part-time work for more than 21,000 poor rural men and women.
IFAD began operations in Egypt in 1977 and so far has implemented 14 projects, investing nearly $520 million and directly benefitting approximately 1.2 million households. Currently, the ongoing portfolio comprises three projects for a total of about $300 million. An agreement for a fourth investment project worth $80 million has been recently signed.
Contact:
Mouhab Alawar
Arabic Communications Specialist,
Communications Division (Italy)
Tel : +39 3511920982
Email:m.alawar@ifad.org
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/20031-egypt-and-ifad-strengthen-partnership-reduce-rural-poverty-and-promote-resilience-desert




Date: 30 September 2019
Title: UN Agencies launch Multi-Country Joint Programme to improve Health, Wellbeing and Protection of People on the Move and Host Communities
Content: 30 September 2019
United Nations Agencies launched today a Multi-Country Joint Programme for “Improving Health, Wellbeing and Protection of People on the Move and Host Communities”.
The programme aims to help improve the health, well-being and protection of individuals and communities, in particular those of women and youth in nine countries of the MENA Region: Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Sudan. before and throughout the different phases of migration.
The programme duration is five years (2020 – 2024) and is structured in line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and with the comprehensive migration governance framework proposed by the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration (GCM) and its overarching principles and objectives.
It also builds on the momentum created by the landmark conference, which took place in Marrakech, Morocco, in December 2018. It also presents a comprehensive and integrated response to the challenges of mixed migration management and so puts into effect the agreed priorities of the Khartoum Process, the Valetta Action Plan, and the Malta Declaration.
The Programme will build a platform that can be utilized to initiate the ‘’whole of government approach’’ to migration, aiming to harmonize national migration governance through national coordination mechanisms.
In recent years, the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region experienced an unprecedented increase of mixed migration flows both as countries of transit and of destination.
Moreover, protracted humanitarian crises across the region have resulted in significant internal and cross-border displacement. Migrants who left their homes for reasons ranging from escaping hardship because of economic crises, protracted civil unrest, climate change, social marginalization and other reasons find themselves stranded in countries where their status and protection remain fragile.
Many have irregular status in transit or destination countries, and are faced with or exposed to harsh conditions. This has often exacerbated by lack of access to social, protection services, and intolerant attitudes, which often lead to socio-economic exclusion and increased risk of violence, exploitation and abuse.
The UN Multi-Country Joint Programme focuses on the challenges that mixed migration has on women and youth who are particularly vulnerable to these challenges, which include lack of migrant-sensitive health services in particular adequate sexual and reproductive health (SRH), mental health care and psycho-social support, non-existent or inadequate protection mechanisms and legal frameworks, gender-based violence (GBV), human trafficking and migrant smuggling
The initiative builds upon and collaborates with ongoing regional and national level initiatives to address mixed migration-related challenges in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) and builds upon the strategic partnerships and comparative advantages of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the International Organization for Migration (IOM), the United Nations Office On Drugs and Crime (UNODC), United Nations Education Science and Culture Organization (UNESCO) and the World Health Organization (WHO), both at the regional and the national levels, with multilateral and regional partners, national governments and CSOs.
The UN Agencies will coordinate their actions building on their specific expertise to implement multi-faceted and integrated actions and will establish strategic alliances with relevant actors in the MENA Region, such as the League of Arab States, the OECD, parliamentarian groups, academic institutions and the private sector.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/19184-un-agencies-launch-multi-country-joint-programme-improve-health-wellbeing-and-protection




Date: 29 September 2019
Title: The Launch of the Third Phase of “Awladna” National Campaign to End Violence Against Children
Content: 29 September 2019
Today, under the auspices of the National Council for Childhood and Motherhood (NCCM) the third phase of the National Campaign “Awladna” to protect children from violence was launched in partnership with the Ministry of Education and Technical Education in cooperation with UNICEF, and with funding from the European Union (EU).
The multimedia campaign aims to raise the awareness amongst parents and caregivers about positive discipline, with a focus on the adolescence stage addressing misconception of using violence, corporal and verbal punishment as a disciplinary tool for children.
Dr. Azza El Ashmawy, Secretary General of the National Council for Childhood and Motherhood (NCCM) stated “This campaign is the third phase of the national campaign “Awladna” to protect children from violence and it is led by the national council for childhood and motherhood in close cooperation with its partners to enforce positive discipline and to end violence and harmful practices against children.”
She added “The role of parents and caregivers in providing protection, stability and encouragement for our children is extremely important in the childhood and adolescence phase, considering the changes going on with the child as well as the realities and challenges that come with an ever-changing digital era. Laxity, negligence and violence in all its forms are unacceptable”.
Adolescent social & emotional development is impacted by physiological changes as well as gender and social norms shaped by parenting, peers as well as the surrounding community.
The adolescence brings major challenges in parents and caregivers’ relationships with their children, which may be manifested in both conflict and distance as adolescents seek more autonomy from caregiver authority. Caregiver capacities are important for managing these changes without creating risks on adolescent wellbeing and mental and psychological health.
“Our objective is that the current reform of the education system leads our school graduates to be more confident and skilled when facing daily challenges,” said Dr. Mohamed Omar , Deputy Minister of Education and Technical Education for Teachers’ affairs, “For that to happen parents and teachers need to be more aware of how to play a more positive role in guiding the adolescent student through, containing them and building their self-esteem, rather than trying to pressure them to be ‘model answer students’ regardless of their individual capabilities and interests, Dr Omar added.
From her side, Ms. Yousra Allam, the adviser to the Minister of Education and Technical Education for Marketing and Communication said, “the campaign aims to reinforce the ethical values of dealing with children in their various fields of interest, and to support their mental and psychological wellbeing. The Ministry of Education and Technical Education strongly believes in the necessity of building humans intellectually, socially, psychologically and physically. The ministry shoulders the responsibility of consolidating these values.”
In a study conducted by NCCM and UNICEF in 2015, parents were the main authors of violence, followed by peers then teachers. Indeed, half the children surveyed (ages 13-17) had been beaten in the year preceding the research, while around 70% had suffered some form of emotional abuse.  Similarly, the 2014 Egypt Demographic and Health Survey showed that 93% of children aged 1-14 have been exposed to violent disciplinary practices.
“Children are the future of nations. The European Union is keen to support constructive national efforts to end violence against children worldwide. In Egypt, we are very proud of our support to strengthening mechanisms and efforts to end violence against children through all endeavors such as this national campaign that addresses some of the root causes of violence and promote a positive and more gender balanced interactions between the children and their care givers,” said Ambassador Ivan Surkoš, Head of the European Union Delegation to Egypt.
“In a few weeks, the whole world will be celebrating the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child that pledges to protect the right of all children, everywhere, to be free from discrimination, as well as promoting treating children with dignity and respect; regardless of their differences and leaving no one behind. “”Creating a momentum for the international community to step up its efforts to make children and adolescents thrive, and renew their commitment to protect and promote all their human rights is our long-term objective,» Surkoš added.
Within the framework of this partnership between the European Union and the national partners, three phases of the national campaign “Awladna” were launched. to end Violence Against Children within the interventions of the EU-funded joint project “Expanding Access to Education and Protection for At Risk Children in Egypt”.
The first phase of the campaign focused on positive parenting under the slogan #Calm_not_harm and the second phase addressed violence among peers under the slogan #ImAgainstBullying and the third phase launched today tackles positive parenting with focus on adolescents building on the hashtag #Calm_not_harm.
“The Awladna campaigns focus on the forms of violence against children that have a familiar face, occurring within the home and school contexts maybe passing unnoticed, but affecting generations of children,” stated Mr. Bruno Maes, UNICEF Representative in Egypt.
The campaign kicks off today and runs for six weeks on broadcast channels, with three Public Service Announcements that include a call to action voiced by UNICEF Ambassador Actress Mona Zaki. Messages and practical tips to support parents and caregivers on guiding and protecting their adolescent children, will be disseminated through digital platforms in a social media campaign, as well as publications which will be disseminated in on-ground activations including youth centers, megastore Carrefour branches and Al Ahly Club, among other private sector partners who support the cause of the campaign.
END
For more information:
The National Council for Childhood and Motherhood (NCCM):
Coordinator of the Social Media Unit: Iman Muhammed Ali, iman.muhammed@outlook.com
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/NCCMEgypt/

The Ministry of Education and Technical Education (MOETE)
Advisor to the Minister for Marketing and Communication: Yousra Allam,
Yousra.allam@moe.edu.eg

European Union:
Press Officer, Spokesperson: Ayman Elsherbiny, Ayman.ELSHERBINY@eeas.europa.eu
Website: http://eeas.europa.eu/delegation/egypt
Twitter: @EUinEgypt
Facebook: http://ww.facebook.com/EUinEgypt

United Nations Children’s Fund in Egypt:
Chief of Communication: Jonathan Crickx, jcrickx@unicef.org
Communication Specialist: Hala Abu Khatwa, habukhatwa@unicef.org
Website: http://www.unicef.org/egypt
Twitter: UNICEF_Egypt
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/UNICEFEgypt
Instagram: unicef.egypt
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/19182-launch-third-phase-%E2%80%9Cawladna%E2%80%9D-national-campaign-end-violence-against-children




Date: 26 September 2019
Title: ITU-UNESCO and the AUC to join forces in promoting “Health, Education and Big Data for enhancing wellbeing” in Tech Talk Event on 24 September 2019
Content: 26 September 2019
The Digital Inclusion Tech-Talks is a TED-style event organized by ITU, UNESCO and AUC as part of the 2019 Digital Inclusion Week for the Arab States. The 2019 Health Exhibition and Tech-Talks will be held on 24 September at the Centennial Campus of the America University in Cairo’s Tahir Square campus. The event will highlight initiatives that are increasing awareness and behavior change through innovative uses of information and communication technologies (ICTs) and data to enhance health and educational outcomes.
The 2019 ITU-UNESCO Digital Inclusion Week will be held from 22-28 September 2019 under the theme “Health, Education and Big Data for enhancing wellbeing”. The Week contributes to enlarging the space for participation and enhancing individual and societal well-being. In particular, it supports understanding of the 2030 sustainable development goals (SDGs) and explores how digital inclusion and the use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) can enhance the well-being of individuals and societies. The Week promotes collaboration, the sharing of case studies and experiences to identify best practices and contribute to more effective actions and policies.
For those interested to attend, please register on the  Google Link: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1NuhZjkwAGt6H6MOtieap_sKse0OHQVfTZJIb6ikPZxg/edit
For more information, please visit our Facebook Event Page:
https://www.facebook.com/events/491148738331377/

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/18679-itu-unesco-and-auc-join-forces-promoting-%E2%80%9Chealth-education-and-big-data-enhancing-wellbeing%E2%80%9D




Date: 26 September 2019
Title: FAO and MALR work towards Sectoral Disaster Risk Reduction action planning for agriculture in Egypt
Content: 26 September 2019
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR) in Egypt conducted an inception and consultation workshop to initiate work towards the Sectoral Disaster Risk Reduction “DRR” action planning for agriculture in Egypt.
The main objectives of the three days’ workshop were to assess and discuss the need for and value added of mainstreaming DRR into agriculture, and identify key value added actions for DRR in agriculture with the roles and contributions required by different stakeholders to enhance DRR capacities in agriculture during the envisioned development period.  The workshop is also to agree on a process of mainstreaming DRR in agriculture.
Experts from FAO RNE and HQ facilitated the planning process to mainstream Disaster Risk Reduction in agriculture in Egypt that will be done through a participatory consultation process with key actors from agriculture, crisis and disaster management, water and irrigation, environment, local development, and other related sectors and will be guided by relevant global DRR framework and national development, DRR and sectoral strategies and priorities.
“Reducing the pressures of the agricultural sector on the surrounding environment is one of the corrective approaches to reducing the main risks associated with climate-induced disasters, in addition to increasing the resilience of the agricultural sector, especially in Upper Egypt” said Dr. Shereen Assem, deputy of the Agriculture Research Centre in her opening speech on behalf of H.E. the Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Ezz El Din Abu Steit.
“It is a sector that is identified as critical in promoting the National Strategy for DRR 2030 and in developing well-defined mechanisms in order to maximize the implementation of the Strategy, mentioning that the discussion was made early between ARC and FAO, and that it is agreed to formulate sectoral DRR action plan for the agriculture sector” she added.
“One of the most important factors behind the development of the Strategy for Sustainable Agriculture Development is to protect farmers’ incomes from the negative impact of natural hazards. In the Strategy, agriculture sector is highlighted as a key affected sector by natural disasters particularly in rural and semi-rural areas” said Mr. Mohamed El-Ansary, representing FAO Egypt office.
On average, the disaster risk reduction good practices yield benefits (including avoided damage and losses) under hazard conditions that were 2.2 times higher than benefits gained via the practices previously used by farmers under the same hazard conditions. The average benefit–cost ratio of the new practices was 3.7 in hazard scenarios. Under non-hazard conditions the average ratio rose to 4.5.
“The workshop is going to assess and discuss the need for mainstreaming DRR into agriculture and identify key value added actions for DRR in agriculture, and the roles and contributions required by different actors to enhance DRR capacities in agriculture” Ansary added.
The mainstreaming process will be coordinated by MALR with active participation from the directorates of MALR at the various levels.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/18681-fao-and-malr-work-towards-sectoral-disaster-risk-reduction-action-planning-agriculture-egypt




Date: 26 September 2019
Title: Ministry of Health and Population/EU/UNFPA delegation visits family planning units in Sohag
Content: 26 September 2019
A delegation from the European Union (EU), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and the Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP) is conducting a field visit in Sohag on September 26, 2019 to follow up on the progress of Egypt’s National Population Strategy project, supported by the EU.
The visit coincides with World Contraception Day, which aims to raise awareness on family planning (FP) and enable people of reproductive age to make informed choices on their reproductive health.
The delegation will be headed by Dr. Sahar al-Sonbaty, Head of Population and Family Planning Sector – MOHP, Jean-Marie Moreau, Head of the Human and Social Development at EU Delegation to Egypt, Raphaël Demouliere, EU Attaché – Social, Rural and Regional Development,  Nada Naja, Head of Unit, Reproductive Health and Harmful Practices Unit, UNFPA, Cairo office, and Maha Wanis, UNFPA Sexual and Reproductive Health Program Specialist UNFPA, Cairo office. They are scheduled to meet with H. E. the governor of Sohag, Dr. Ahmed El Ansary, as well as visit FP clinics, and attend the training of community health workers.
The delegation will also attend “Al-Wessam” award ceremony with H.E. the governor, whereby FP clinics will be recognized for their outstanding efforts in providing quality FP family planning services.
Al-Wessam is an accreditation system where FP clinics across Egypt are assessed based on a set of indicators and criteria set by the MOHP, and awarded based on their score.
The criteria include, among others:
Once awarded, the clinic keeps the award for one year as long as it continues to maintain the set standards. It is then nominated for monetary rewards should it keep it for a full year.
The visit will also include an exhibition at the Women’s Health Club, whereby women will display handmade products that were produced on the sidelines of the FP seminar.
The National Population Strategy project is funded by the EU, and aims at increasing the use of voluntary, rights-based FP though improved supply of FP services and commodities, increased demand for FP, and enhanced population governance. It will ultimately benefit Egyptians of reproductive age who will have more choices regarding the size of their families, as well as the timing and spacing children.
With the support of an EU-grant of 27 Million Euros, UNFPA, upon the request of the Government of Egypt, led the drafting process of the National Population Strategy, and now holds the pen to facilitate its actual implementation and inter-institutional coordination.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/18670-ministry-health-and-populationeuunfpa-delegation-visits-family-planning-units-sohag




Date: 19 September 2019
Title: FAO strengthens Egyptian institutions staff capacity to prepare and analyse rural investments using the RuralInvest toolkit
Content: 19 September 2019
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) launched in Cairo the first Training on RuralInvest, a free multilingual methodology and toolkit for preparing and analysing rural investment and business plans.
RuralInvest is one of FAO’s flagship capacity development tool which contributes to FAO’s Strategic Objective 4 “Enable inclusive and efficient agricultural food systems”.
Expected outcomes
This first RuralInvest training in Egypt, which will be concluded on September 19th, aims at building a community of RuralInvest users and initiate steps for identifying potential national trainers. It will tackle preparing and analyzing project profiles (a rapid step to analyze the feasibility of investment ideas) and full-fledged detailed project formulation and multiyear business plans analysis, as well as the database functions embedded in the software. The training is funded by the FAO Technical Cooperation Programme (TCP) Project “Investment Forum and Promoting Sustainable Investment in Egypt’s Food Security”.
About 30 participants are participating in the training. They come from a wide range of institutions:
As stated by Mr. Nasredin HagElamin, FAO Representative in Egypt in his welcoming speech: “investments are key for rural development, enhancing food security, and reducing poverty. It is well documented that the bulk of investments in the agricultural sector and rural areas are private and domestic, and made by the producers and value chains actors themselves. However these actors often lack practical and simple tools that allow them to study the feasibility and risks associated to various investment options, best use of their savings and to apply for loans and grants from various sources”.
“The RuralInvest toolkit was developed and implemented by FAO to fill that gap. For the diffusion of RuralInvest, FAO adopts a training of trainer (ToT) approach which encompasses certifying national RuralInvest trainers that will be in charge of progressively disseminating the use of the toolkit. It aims also to establish anchor units in charge of planning and running the RuralInvest training dissemination programme, quality control, and system administration. We are very glad that several national universities and financial institutions attend this first training as experience in other countries showed us that participation of academics and financial institutions is key for the sustainable adoption and use of RuralInvest” HagElamin added.
“By the end of the introductory training, participants will be able to understand key concepts around preparing and analysing project profiles and full-fledged business plans using the software; appreciate how they can apply RuralInvest on-the-job in their respective organizations, and whether their institution may adopt the toolkit and be willing to organize a full RuralInvest training and dissemination programme; provide information of the toolkit use benefits to the senior management of their respective institution and initiate colleagues to the use of the toolkit; and reflect on whether they are able and willing to potentially become RuralInvest national trainers” said Marc Fantinet, Senior Investment Support Officer, Investment Centre Division (DPI), FAO.
The way forward
The 5-day introductory training will be followed by a capitalization and knowledge exchange session before the end of 2019, after a few months of utilization of the toolkit by participants, in order to notably select potential national trainers. These would then co-train, together with FAO staff, other end users of the toolkit use in order to become certified RuralInvest trainers and be able to implement the RuralInvest dissemination programme on their own.
For more information about RuralInvest, including access to the e-learning material and software, please visit:
http://www.fao.org/in-action/rural-invest/en (in English)
http://www.fao.org/egypt/news/detail-events/en/c/1153652/
or
http://www.fao.org/in-action/rural-invest/ar/ (in Arabic).
http://www.fao.org/egypt/news/detail-events/ar/c/1153654/
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/18674-fao-strengthens-egyptian-institutions-staff-capacity-prepare-and-analyse-rural-investments




Date: 16 September 2019
Title: UNDP partners with adventurer Ali Abdo attempting Longest Journey by Electrical Motorcycle to promote Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 16 September 2019
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Egypt is partnering with Egyptian motorcyclist, adventurer, and World Records holder, Mr. Ali Abdo on his upcoming journey: World’s Longest Journey on Electric Motorcycle. The collaboration aims to raise awareness on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly environment protection as well as mitigation of and adaptation to climate change.
In his World Record attempt, Mr. Abdo will tour Egypt on a journey that will cover 25,000 km, visit 75 Egyptian cities, and capture 150 locations. The journey takes Mr. Abdo across all Egyptian governorates. In partnership with UNDP, he will promote the SDGs, raise awareness about environmental challenges in Egypt, reduce harmful air pollution and fuel consumption, and promote the use of electric vehicles across the country.
It is worth noting that among Ali’s partners feature the Egyptian ministries of Youth and Sports, Environment, Military Production, Immigration and ITIDA.

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/18676-undp-partners-adventurer-ali-abdo-attempting-longest-journey-electrical-motorcycle-promote




Date: 16 September 2019
Title: UNDP appoints Michael Haddad as regional goodwill ambassador for climate action
Content: 16 September 2019
The United Nations Development Programme’s (UNDP) Regional Bureau for Arab States (RBAS) today announced the appointment of Lebanese endurance athlete Michael Haddad as Goodwill Ambassador to advance and accelerate climate action across the Arab region and around the world.
“We cannot afford to be complacent in facing today’s climate threats. Our region is already the planet’s most water- insecure and food import-dependent, with temperatures rising faster than the global average,” said Mourad Wahba, UN Assistant Secretary-General, acting UNDP Associate Administrator, and Regional Director for Arab States.
“We need inspiring role models and dedicated advocates like Michael Haddad to ensure we achieve peace and prosperity for all as enshrined in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and address the climate challenge.”
A dedicated environmental advocate, Haddad has completed three record-setting feats in his native Lebanon—in extreme environments and despite his paralysis from the chest down. In 2013, he completed a 60,000-step “Cedar Walk” in Bsharre to mobilize action for reforestation of Lebanon’s cedar woods.
In 2014, he scaled Beirut’s iconic Raouche Rock to highlight the escalating problem of sea pollution and its threat to marine life.
In 2015, he snowshoed the Black Summit, the highest peak in Lebanon and the Levant area to draw attention to the adverse impacts of global warming. He served as UNDP Climate Change Champion in Lebanon in 2016-2017.
“Climate change must top our list of priority concerns that drive us all to action—in Lebanon, across the Arab region, and everywhere,” Haddad said.
“I am very excited to work closely with UNDP to help focus attention on the greatest threat to our common humanity today. We must all take concrete action to address this threat, as individuals, communities, and countries, and as a united global community. We have no place other than Earth to call home.”
At age six, Haddad survived an accident that left him paralyzed, with 75 per cent of his motor function lost. Told he would never walk again, he found ways to balance and stand. He later devised his own “step-to-gait” method of movement, using a high-tech exoskeleton to stabilize his chest and legs.
His performance is inspiring breakthrough medical and engineering research that may help countless others.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/23738-undp-appoints-michael-haddad-regional-goodwill-ambassador-climate-action




Date: 28 August 2019
Title: Egyptian agri-tech solution prepares to receive award at Climate Action Summit
Content: 28 August 2019
Following a passionately competitive weekend of programing, learning, and innovating, team ‘Coders for the Environment’ finished first-place in the Egyptian chapter of the global social coding competition, ‘Reboot the Earth’.
Their winning tech solution, ‘G-Beetle’, will receive its award alongside fellow finalist teams from the United Nations Technology Innovation Labs (UNTILs) in India, Malaysia, Germany, Finland and the USA at the Climate Action Summit in New York City on September 23, 2019.
‘G-Beetle’ is a mobile application that communicates essential information and recommendations to farmers based on data collected via sensors on the ‘beetle’, a tiny movable car designed to measure water consumption and crop temperature across a field.
Their first place prize includes sponsored travel by SAP for a selected team member, Karima Waly on behalf of her colleagues, Loay Khalid, Mohamed Mostafa, Mohamed Adel, and Aya El Sisy. Karima’s trip to New York marks the launch of their incubation programme at UNTIL through a dedicated agenda of meetings and sessions with specialists during their trip.
This team of young environmental activist will regroup in Cairo where they will balance their studies at Zewail University for Science and Technology and developing ‘G-Beetle’ further to apply to showcase it at the World Economic Forum in Davos in January 2020.
The shortlisted teams raced against time over the weekend to develop a proof of concept prototype using real data inputs on weather, soil temperature, wind speed, and other variables provided in collaboration with the Climate Change Information Center and Renewable Energy (CCICRE). Teams were also presented with an alternative challenge that seeks innovations towards the country’s circular economy strategy to propel the sustainable use of plastic resources.
The top 3 final solutions were also awarded acceleration support in from Technology Innovation Entrepreneurship Center (TIEC), each valued at 15,000 LE. Runner-up solution, ‘Revive’, is a mobile application that allows environmental specialists to leverage gamification techniques to influence behavior towards sustainable consumption. The third-place solution, ‘IOP’, utilizes internet of things (IoT) technology on plants with an integrated hardware and software system which provides ideal conditions for growth through an embedded smart irrigation system.
Engineer Hala El Gohary, CEO of the Information Technology Industry Development Agency (ITIDA), delivered the keynote speech during the closing ceremony. She commended the creativity the teams exhibited in their solutions and affirmed the importance of mobilizing to develop climate action solutions.
Specialized mentors in technology, entrepreneurship, climate change, and innovation were recruited to guide and assess the tech solutions. The mentors played an essential role in determining the twelve shortlisted teams that pitched the panel of esteemed judges from the leadership of TIEC, SAP, CCICRE, and Yomken. The teams also participated in professional workshops throughout the weekend including innovation and creativity activities, as well as sessions on business models and prototyping, user-experience and pitching best-practices.
Reboot the Earth is a global social coding competition under the auspices of the United Nations to create technology solutions that address the current climate crisis. In Egypt, the event was co-organized by UNTIL and TIEC on August 22-24, 2019 in Smart Village. The challenge is globally co-organized by the Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth and the UN Office of ICT, and sponsored by SAP and Deloitte.
–    END   –

UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/18680-egyptian-agri-tech-solution-prepares-receive-award-climate-action-summit




Date: 06 August 2019
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesman for the Secretary-General on Egypt
Content: 06 August 2019
The Secretary-General strongly condemns the terrorist attack in Cairo on 5 August. He extends his heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims, as well as to the people and Government of Egypt. He wishes a speedy recovery to those who were injured.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/11465-statement-attributable-spokesman-secretary-general-egypt




Date: 01 August 2019
Title: EU, UN launch a 15 million € project to dismantle human trafficking networks in North Africa
Content: 01 August 2019
The European Union  and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa are launching a three-year project aimed at supporting Egypt, Libya, Morocco, and Tunisia in dismantling migrant smuggling and human trafficking criminal networks operating in North Africa. The European Union has set a budget of 15 million Euros for the project, which will be implemented by the UNODC Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa under the framework of the North Africa Window of the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Africa.
Trafficking in persons is the acquisition of people by improper means such as force, fraud or deception, with the aim of exploiting them. Smuggling of migrants involves the procurement for financial or other material benefit of illegal entry of a person into a State of which that person is not a national or resident.
The project aims at supporting Member States in dismantling organized criminal networks involved in migrant smuggling and human trafficking.
UNODC will achieve this objective through supporting the North African Member States in:
1. Improving the detection and interception capacities of front-line officers and agencies;
2. Strengthening their capacities to identify and investigate migrant smuggling and human trafficking cases, while protecting victims;
3. Building the skills and knowledge of law enforcement agencies that will allow for the effective and rapid dismantling of criminal networks;
4. Strengthening the skills of criminal justice practitioners in cases of migrant smuggling and human trafficking, with an emphasis on regional and international cooperation.
In doing so, UNODC and the European Union, in close partnership with the governments of North Africa Member States, will help preventing and combating migrant smuggling and human trafficking in the region, thereby putting an end to the horrific exploitation and violation to which refugees and migrants are exposed.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/11305-eu-un-launch-15-million-%E2%82%AC-project-dismantle-human-trafficking-networks-north-africa




Date: 30 July 2019
Title: FAO is closing the Food Loss and Waste Reduction project with a call for sustained efforts to eradicate hunger
Content: 30 July 2019
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Egypt announced today that the project “Food loss and waste reduction and value chain development for food security in Egypt“, managed to train a number of 7 895 farmers, farm labourers and traders, along with a number of female teachers, students, rural pioneers and housewives, on loss and waste reduction mechanisms during the post-harvest phase.
This announcement came during the closing workshop of the project, which was financed by the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation and that started its implementation in October 2015 in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and Land reclamation. Representatives from all the actors and beneficiaries of the project have participated in the workshop.
“The Ministry has assumed the responsibility of developing the Egyptian agriculture, which requires a climate of security and stability, in addition to people’s support to the developmental efforts via working with the private sector and civil society organizations. The country has adopted the process of reducing food waste which is being estimated at 50 kg per person per year, and most of this amount is lost in farms,” said Mr. Saad Moussa, in his opening speech on behalf of H.E. the Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Ezz El Din Abu Steit
“Moreover, this project’s objectives are in line with the objectives and strategies of the Ministry of Agriculture to reduce food loss and waste, which is ultimately reflected in increasing farmers’ incomes and increasing the technical and managerial capacities of the value chain members from small farmers to traders and manufacturers to maintain the quality and reduce losses in the value chain activities,” he added.
“More sustained efforts are needed to reduce food loss and waste, which will have significant impacts and consequences in the future, especially at the environmental level, where food waste is considered as a waste of the resources used in the process of production, such as land, water, energy and other resources,” said Mr. Mohamed Yacoub, Assistant FAO Representative.
“I hope that this closing workshop will mark a new and successful beginning towards united efforts and close collaboration with all stakeholders along the value chain in order to reduce food loss and waste in all its forms. This will eventually contribute to achieving food security and to eradicate hunger, one of the most important goals of SDGs for 2030,” he continued.
It is worth mentioning that more than 25 per cent of Egypt’s labor force is engaged in agriculture. The actions taken to reduce loss and waste in agricultural products, such as improved technologies, improved post-harvest trading, manufacturing processes, and better marketing channels, can lead to value chain development, increased income and the development of the agricultural sector.
The achievements of the project ” Food loss and waste reduction and value chain development for food security in Egypt” can be summarized in the following points:
“Recent statistics indicate that the losses resulting from food loss and waste along value chains in the Near East and North Africa region are estimated at more than US$60 billion per year, and that the losses per capita quota is 250 kg per year. In Egypt, the amount of food loss and waste ranges between 15-45 per cent depending on the crop type which underlines the importance of having implemented this project, aiming at providing solutions to prevent or reduce food waste, “ said Mr. Ismail El Faramwy, Agriculture Consultant at the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation.
The project of “Food Loss and Waste Reduction and Value Chain Development for Food Security in Egypt and Tunisia” was implemented by FAO in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation, and funded by the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation. It took a value chain approach to reduce food waste and loss in order to improve the economic and environmental efficiency of agricultural food sectors through improved food value chains. In Egypt, the project has been working with the tomatoes and grapes value chains in Nubaria and tomatoes in Sharqia. It successfully provided technical, infrastructural and marketing support to farmers’ associations and stakeholders in these target value chains.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/11306-fao-closing-food-loss-and-waste-reduction-project-call-sustained-efforts-eradicate-hunger




Date: 22 July 2019
Title: Al Ahly Sporting Club and UNICEF Join Hands for Children’s Rights in Egypt
Content: 22 July 2019
At the premises of Al Ahly Sporting Club, UNICEF signed today a four-year agreement with Al Ahly Sporting Club, one of the region’s and Africa’s most popular football clubs, to advocate for the rights of disadvantaged children across Egypt.
Al Ahly and UNICEF strongly believe in the power of sports to bring a positive change to the lives of millions of children. This agreement comes on the occasion of 30 years since the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
“Al Ahly Sporting Club has a strong focus on children and young people. We have tens of millions of fans and followers who absolutely love football. Willing to play an active and positive social role in our society, we are confident that this cooperation will contribute to the well-being of children, especially the most vulnerable in Egypt,” said Mahmoud el Khatib, President of Al Ahly Sporting Club.
With this cooperation, UNICEF in Egypt and Al Ahly are aiming at jointly raising public awareness on key issues impacting children including in health, nutrition, early childhood development, girls’ empowerment and protection from all forms of violence. The agreement will leverage voice and influence to advocate for the realization of children’s rights and come up with solutions for  boys and girls to have a fair chance to fulfill their potential.
“With this partnership, we will be scoring goals with and for children. We will take every chance to promote child protection, social inclusion, learning, and ultimately harness the power of sports to help transforming children’s lives into the life they deserve,” said Bruno Maes, UNICEF representative in Egypt.
UN Resident Coordinator
Office in Egypt
World Trade Centre
1191 Nile Corniche, Boulaq
Cairo, Egypt
URL: https://egypt.un.org/en/11331-al-ahly-sporting-club-and-unicef-join-hands-children%E2%80%99s-rights-egypt




