Date: 14 March 2024
Title: UN Lauds Eswatini for Global Leadership in Women Representation in 2023 Elections
Content: 14 March 2024
Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) recognises Eswatini for highest progress in women representation in 2023 national elections.
The United Nations in Eswatini has applauded Eswatini’s recognition for increased women representation in parliament.  In its report, the International Parliamentary Union has recognized Eswatini as one of the top performers globally for increased women representation in the 2023 elections.
Eswatini recorded the highest progress in women’s representation among countries that held elections around the world in 2023, with a 20-percentage-point increase in its upper chamber, the Senate. Overall, Eswatini was ranked third at 14.4% for both upper and lower houses after Benin and Sierra Leone, with increases of 18.5 and 15.9 percentage points respectively.
UN Resident Coordinator in Eswatini, Mr. George Wachira, commended the country's leadership and its people for their concerted efforts towards achieving gender parity in Parliament. Mr. Wachira noted that His Majesty King Mswati III personally advocated for the election of more women to Parliament when he dissolved parliament in July 2023 ahead of the September elections. "Eswatini's performance in the 2023 elections is a testament to the power of strong leadership and the willingness of its citizens to embrace progress. His Majesty's direct appeal has been instrumental in achieving this milestone This achievement serves as a shining example to the world of what can be accomplished when leadership and citizens unite for a common cause,” stated Mr. Wachira.
However, the journey towards gender equality does not end here. Mr. Wachira emphasized the importance of sustaining this momentum and extending it beyond the parliamentary level. "The great progress is still relative compared to global standards and aspirations. It is crucial that we continue to strive for increased women representation across all levels of the electoral process, including the local government elections. This will ensure that we retain a strong base for women’s leadership and that women's voices are heard and their perspectives are integrated into the national development agenda from the ground up," he added, pointing out that the SADC 50-50 gender parity aspiration is within Eswatini’s reach.
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/263364-un-lauds-eswatini-global-leadership-women-representation-2023-elections




Date: 12 February 2024
Title: UN Eswatini applauds Speech From the Throne
Content: 12 February 2024
The United Nations Resident Coordinator in Eswatini, Mr. George Wachira, applauds His Majesty King Mswati III’s Speech from the Throne delivered at the official opening of the first session of the 12th Parliament on 9 February 2024.
His Majesty's speech spanned several critical issues which are key in improving the welfare of the people and progress of the Kingdom and demonstrate a resolve to address the concerns raised by citizens at Sibaya last year. His Majesty also reaffirmed Eswatini’s commitment to global agendas, including the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the African Union Agenda 2063.
The UN notes in particular His Majesty’s focus on the need to grow the economy; bolstering infrastructure development, particularly in ICT; improving the business environment especially for SMEs; resolving the challenges hindering access to quality healthcare; tackling youth unemployment through quality education, entrepreneurship and skills development; ensuring energy security; addressing climate change, environmental management and disaster preparedness; the establishment of the Agriculture Development Fund; and combatting corruption. Yet again, His Majesty spoke clearly and strongly about ending the scourge of gender-based violence.
As the Government takes up the task of translating into programmes and implementing the directives contained in His Majesty’s speech, the United Nations remains steadfast in its commitment to support Eswatini’s vision of a prosperous and sustainable future in line with the objectives of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for 2021-2025.
For media inquiries or further information, please contact:
Mr. Sibusiso Mngadi, RCO Communications Coordinator
Email: Sibusiso.mngadi@un.org | Tel: 2409 6615 | Mobile: 7806 9042

5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/260378-un-eswatini-applauds-speech-throne




Date: 08 February 2024
Title: UN Country Team Hosts Minister of Information and Communications Technology (ICT) at the UN House
Content: 08 February 2024
The United Nations Country Team (UNCT), led by the UN Resident Coordinator, H.E. Mr. George Wachira, hosted an interactive meeting with the Minister of Information and Communications Technology (ICT), Hon. Savannah Maziya at UN House. The meeting focused on the pivotal role of digital transformation in advancing Eswatini’s development vision including Agenda 2030 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The session delved into the multifaceted contributions of ICT towards revolutionizing the entire development and economic value chain. Attended by a cohort of heads of UN agencies and technical experts specializing in ICT-related programmes and mandates, the UN team included representatives of UNICEF, UNDP, UNESCO, UNFPA, and ITU.. The ITU Regional Director for Africa Ms. Anne-Rachel Inné, and UNESCO’s Regional Director and Representative, Ms. Nisha Arunatialke, participated virtually.
In his remarks, the UN Resident Coordinator underscored the cross-cutting significance of digital transformation across all the areas of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (2021-2025). This framework outlines a shared commitment between the Government and the UN in Eswatini towards fostering a prosperous, just, and resilient nation where inclusivity is paramount. He further indicated that digital connectivity provides a key investment pathway with positive knock-on effects on several other sectors and SDGs including employment creation and entrepreneurship.
Furthermore, ongoing initiatives supported by various UN agencies were highlighted, encompassing endeavours such as bolstering policy and regulatory frameworks for digital transformation, nurturing digital skills among youth, and enhancing public service delivery through robust ICT infrastructure.
Minister Maziya expressed gratitude for the UN's role in the country’s development journey, and for taking a special interest in technology and digital advancement. Emphasizing the necessity of forging collaborative partnerships to spearhead Eswatini's economic transformation via ICT, she championed the idea that the country's modest size should be leveraged as an advantage rather than a hindrance. "Attaining first-world status is within our grasp through digital transformation," she affirmed. "We must lead the change in the ICT sphere by fostering alliances with the private sector and development partners." The minister expressed optimism that Eswatini has what it takes to be a leader in the region with ICT as a driver for development. She highlighted the need to ensure that the education curriculum stays in step with technological advancements to avoid Eswatini being left behind in the age of algorithms and artificial intelligence.
The meeting underscored the imperative of coordinated efforts and partnerships to propel the nation towards meaningful digital transformation, enhancing the efficacy of diverse sectors including manufacturing, energy, and natural resource management. Minister Maziya stressed the importance of embracing automation in manufacturing while concurrently empowering individuals with requisite skills to ensure they remain integral to the evolving landscape.
Recognizing the dynamic nature of digital development, the meeting emphasized the need for periodic reassessment of educational models to ensure their continued relevance.
Moving forward, the Ministry of ICT is keen on continuing the engagement with the UN to sustain ongoing support initiatives and explore other avenues of collaboration.
For media inquiries, please contact:
Mr. Sibusiso Mngadi, RCO Communications Coordinator
Email: Sibusiso.mngadi@un.org | Tel: 2409 6615 | Mobile: 7806 9042
Ms. Gugu Nkambule, Ministry of ICT Communications Officer
Email: nkambuleg@gmail.com | Tel: 2405 4000 Mobile: 7625 2871
About United Nations Country Team (UNCT):
The UNCT in Eswatini is comprised of 17 UN agencies, including non-resident agencies, working in collaboration with the Government to support national development priorities, including the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/260042-un-country-team-hosts-minister-information-and-communications-technology-ict-un-house




Date: 04 December 2023
Title: Public Notice
Content: 04 December 2023
United Nations and Religious - World Organisation
The United Nations System in the Kingdom of Eswatini has received several public enquiries regarding an entity going by the name “United Nations and Religions World Organisation.”
The United Nations in Eswatini wishes to advise the public that the said entity is not a part of or affiliated with the United Nations, and the Office of the United Nations Resident Coordinator has advised the Eswatini authorities accordingly.
The United Nations in Eswatini further notes that the use of the United Nations name as part of the entity’s name and the use of the olive branches from the United Nations emblem as part of the entity’s logo have not been authorised.
The UN wishes to clarify that UN recruitments are always undertaken through official, publicly advertised processes, including UN websites, or known social media sites. The UN does not charge any fee at any stage of its recruitment processes and does not request any banking details from candidates.

For more information, contact:
Sibusiso Mngadi – Coordination Officer, Communications & Advocacy
Tel: 2409 6615 Mobile: 7806 9042 Email: sibusiso.mngadi@un.org
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/254713-public-notice




Date: 10 November 2023
Title: United Nations Statement on violence against women
Content: 10 November 2023
United Nations Eswatini reacts to recent escalating acts of violence against women in Eswatini.
The United Nations Family in Eswatini is appalled by the acts of gruesome violence against women which have resulted in the loss of lives and horrendous injuries in the recent past. On 28 October alone, five women were shot, with four dying on the spot, and one reported to be still fighting for her life in intensive care.
The UN Family in Eswatini conveys its deepest condolences to His Majesty’s Government and the families that have been affected by these unacceptable acts perpetrated by men.
The UN condemns violence of all forms and continues to stand with the women and girls who suffer it, often at the hands of those they consider as loved ones.
Violence against women and girls is one of the most prevalent human rights violations worldwide. It knows no social, economic or national boundaries and undermines the health, dignity, security of its survivors, yet remains shrouded in a culture of indifference.
Every year, 25 November commemorates the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and marks the start of the “16 Days of Activism” ending on International Human Rights Day on 10 December. This year’s campaign coincides with the 75th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the document which enshrines inalienable rights that every human being is entitled to at birth regardless of race, gender, identity or any other identifier. That includes women.
As we plan this year’s campaign, I urge that it does not become just another routine observance on our calendar. Rather, I call on all stakeholders to take time to reflect on our commitments to end the scourge of violence against women and girls. I urge all men to join the fight to end the scourge. I urge that we give meaning to this year’s campaign by pledging to be the change that we want, by reminding each other that women are human beings, not objects, and have rights that we all must speak out for and protect. Let us act now. Let us change the tide.

Statement Released on behalf of the United Nations by
H.E. George Wachira
UN Resident Coordinator
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/252485-united-nations-statement-violence-against-women




Date: 27 July 2023
Title: SDG Summit team concludes regional consultations
Content: 27 July 2023
Consultations with regional development teams in all four regions - Shiselweni, Lubombo, Hhohho and Manzini - concluded

A task team comprising officials from the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development (MEPD) and the Ministry of Tinkhundla Administration and Development (MTAD), with support from the United Nations in Eswatini, has concluded consultations with regional development teams in all four regions.
The last session of consultations, held in Manzini, was attended by close to 50 members of the regional development team which comprises representatives from Government departments, civil society, private sector and other stakeholders. Consultations were also conducted with the regional development teams of Shiselweni, Lubombo and Hhohho, respectively.
MEPD Senior Economist, Nonhlanhla Shongwe revealed that more consultations were underway with various sectors and stakeholders at the national level. “From here we will be meeting with other sectors to get more views as we consolidate the Government plan to accelerate the SDGs ahead of the Summit in September,” she said.
As part of the preparations of the SDG Summit, the Government of Eswatini, with support from the United Nations in Eswatini, is developing a national acceleration plan that will encapsulate a surge in commitment from all stakeholders to take implementation of the SDGs to the next level. The ‘Rescue Plan’ will articulate a set of ambitions for investments to secure maximum acceleration across the SDGs as well as the required policy adjustments and institutional reforms to support the achievement of SDGs by 2030.
The Rescue Plan is premised on the Eswatini National Development Plan 2023/24 - 2027/28. Based on preliminary analysis, supported by UNDP through artificial intelligence software, Eswatini’s plan is expected to focus on priorities aimed at addressing youth unemployment as well as strengthening public policies and institutions for improved service delivery. These targets were found to significantly impact the achievement of other SDGs and targets.
His Majesty King Mswati III is expected to present Eswatini’s renewed commitment towards the SDGs at the SDG Summit scheduled for 18-19 September 2023, on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly.
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/240378-sdg-summit-team-concludes-regional-consultations




Date: 21 February 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General calls for radical transformation of global financial system to tackle pressing global challenges, while achieving sustainable  development
Content: 21 February 2023
UN Chief reiterates call for G20 countries to agree on $500 billion annual stimulus for Sustainable Development Agenda

17 February 2023, New York - With the failure of the global financial system to effectively cushion the impacts of current global crises on the Global South — the COVID-19 pandemic, the war in Ukraine and the ongoing climate emergency — the UN today called for the urgent need for a significant increase of finance for sustainable development.
“Today’s poly-crises are compounding shocks on developing countries – in large part because of an unfair global financial system that is short-term, crisis-prone, and that further exacerbates inequalities,” warned UN Secretary-General António Guterres on the occasion of the launch of the SDG Stimulus released today.
“We need to massively scale up affordable long-term financing by aligning all financing flows to the SDGs and improving the terms of lending of multilateral development banks,” stressed the Secretary-General. “The high cost of debt and increasing risks of debt distress demand decisive action to make at least $500 billion dollars available annually to developing countries and convert short term lending into long term debt at lower interest rates.”
A financial system that works for all
Halfway to the 2030 Agenda deadline, progress on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – our roadmap out of crises – is not where it needs to be. To reverse course and make steady progress on the Goals, the SDG Stimulus outlines the need for the international community to come together to mobilize investments for the SDGs – but, in so doing, create a new international financial architecture that would ensure that finance is automatically invested to support just, inclusive and equitable transitions for all countries.
The current global financial system – originally created to provide a global safety net during shocks – is one in which most of the world’s poorest countries saw their debt service payments skyrocket by 35% in 2022.  The “great finance divide” continues to proliferate, leaving the Global South more susceptible to shocks. Developing countries don’t have the resources they urgently need to invest in recovery, climate action and the SDGs, making them poised to fall even further behind when the next crisis strikes – and even less likely to benefit from future transitions, including the green transition.
As of November 2022, 37 out of 69 of the world’s poorest countries were either at high risk or already in debt distress, while one in four middle-income countries, which host the majority of the extreme poor, were at high risk of fiscal crisis. Accordingly, the number of additional people falling into extreme poverty in countries in or at high risk of entering debt distress is estimated to be 175 million by 2030, including 89 million women and girls.
Even prior to the recent rise in interest rates, least developed countries that borrowed from international capital markets often paid rates of 5 to 8 per cent, compared to 1 per cent for many developed countries.

SDG Stimulus Offers
The SDG Stimulus aims to offset unfavorable market conditions faced by developing countries through investments in renewable energy, universal social protection, decent job creation, healthcare, quality education, sustainable food systems, urban infrastructure and the digital transformation.
Increasing financing by $500 billion per year is possible through a combination of concessional and non-concessional finance in a mutually reinforcing way.
Reforms to the international financial architecture are integral to the SDG Stimulus. As highlighted in the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, financing sustainable development is about more than the availability of financial resources. National and global policy frameworks influence risks, shape incentives, impact financing needs, and affect the cost of financing.
The SDG Stimulus outlines three areas for immediate action:
First, tackle the high cost of debt and rising risks of debt distress, including by converting short-term high interest borrowing into long-term (more than 30 year) debt at lower interest rates.
Second, massively scale up affordable long-term financing for development, especially through strengthening the multilateral development banks (MDB) capital base, improving the terms of their lending, and by aligning all financing flows with the SDGs.
Third, expand contingency financing to countries in need, including by integrating disaster and pandemic clauses into all sovereign lending, and more automatically issue SDRs in times of crisis.
Central role of International Financial Institutions
The international financial institutions remain at the heart of this agenda. Of immediate urgency, there are three important ways in which the Multilateral Development Banks can act.
First, the MDBs must massively expand the volume of lending, including concessional lending. This can be achieved through increasing their capital bases, better leveraging of existing capital and implementing recommendations of the G20 Capital Adequacy Framework Review, and re-channeling Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) through MDBs. As long as countries remain in need of urgent resources the SDG Stimulus will also call for a new round of SDRs.
Second, MDBs must improve the terms of their lending, including through longer-term lending, lower-interest rates, more lending in local currencies, and the inclusion of all vulnerable countries in lending programmes.
Third, MDBs – as well as all public and private actors – must explicitly incorporate the SDGs into their framing, their operations and all stages of the lending process and disaster and pandemic clauses must be integrated into all debt contracts to provide immediate relief in times of crisis.
This means adopting a transition approach, which aligns investments with the SDGs while also considering specific country and development contexts, and the trade-offs that may be involved on the path towards a more resilient, just, and inclusive global economy. At the national level, the UN also stands ready to support, including through supporting the development and application of SDG-aligned Integrated National Financing Frameworks (INFFs).
Member States – including the Group of Twenty (G-20) – must play their part. It is clear that the G20 Common Framework for Debt Treatment (CF) has failed. The SDG Stimulus calls for providing immediate relief to all countries in need, including through debt suspensions, re-profilings, exchanges and write-downs where necessary, as well as the creation of a permanent mechanism to address sovereign debt distress.
As underscored by the UN Secretary-General, the SDG Stimulus, while ambitious, is achievable: “Investing in the SDGs is both sensible and feasible: it is a win-win for the world, as the social and economic rates of return on sustainable development in developing countries is very high.”
But to make this happen, “urgent political will to take concerted and coordinated steps to implement this package of interconnected proposals in a timely manner is critical.”
A Bretton Woods 2.0 is sorely needed, both to fulfil the function for which it was originally designed for and to prepare the world, and its vulnerable people, as we head into uncertain terrain.
The link to the SDG Stimulus document is here.
MEDIA CONTACTS
Francyne Harrigan, UN Department of Global Communications, harriganf@un.org
Sharon Birch, UN Department of Global Communications, birchs@un.org
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/220130-un-secretary-general-calls-radical-transformation-global-financial-system-tackle-pressing




Date: 10 August 2022
Title: Minister hosts UN team during a tour of Lavumisa Town Board
Content: 10 August 2022
Lavumisa (10 August 2022) – Minister of Tinkhundla Administration & Development, Hon. David Ngcamphalala has today hosted the UN Resident Coordinator, Mr. George Wachira and UNDP Resident Representative, Ms. Rose Ssebatindira, on a guided tour of the Lavumisa Town Board.
The Lavumisa Town Board has donated their old offices to MTAD with a view to bring Government services to the small town, located in the south-eastern tip of Eswatini, approximately 175km from Mbabane city. The Town Board will be moving to new premises, the building of which is near completion.
During the tour, the Minister noted that Lavumisa residents travel long distances to access Government services such as immigration, birth registration, social services and others. “Although we do not have a budget yet, it is our dream to turn this structure into a service centre similar to the four improved Tinkhundla centres,” said the Minister. Hon. Ngcamphalala also thanked UNDP for on-going support towards development of the Decentralisation Bill which is now being considered in Parliament.
Lavumisa Chief Gasa waNgwane expressed hope that the Minister’s visit would result in the success of the planned project. “We want to transform this town to be a centre of development and help our people to get all the services they need,” he said.
Mr. Wachira explained that the role of the UN was to support the efforts of the Kingdom to improve the lives of the people in line with national aspirations in line with the 2030 Agenda of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). He noted that Eswatini was making good progress to achieve targets under SDG 11 on Sustainable Cities and Communities, especially in supporting positive economic, social and environmental links between urban, peri-urban and rural areas by strengthening national and regional development planning.
“In many countries, it has been demonstrated that decentralisation allows the people to have a greater say in their own development priorities; and for government to align its resource allocation and policies in ways that make development real and responsive to the needs of its people.  In particular, decentralisation spurs the acceleration, targeting and improvement of quality of services,” said Mr. Wachira.
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/194333-minister-hosts-un-team-during-tour-lavumisa-town-board




Date: 28 July 2022
Title: Minister of Economic Planning & Development, Dr. Tambo Gina hosts development partners, seeks feedback on draft  National Development Plan
Content: 28 July 2022
Development partners provide feedback to National Development Plan 2023-2027, currently being developed by the Government of Eswatini.
(28 July 2022: Mbabane) - Minister of Economic Planning & Development, Dr. Tambo Gina today convened a meeting for ambassadors, heads of missions and United Nations Heads of Agencies to obtain their feedback on the new National Development Plan for the period 2023 to 2027, currently being developed.
The meeting was held at the UN House in Mbabane with some participants joining virtually.
The NDP development process has so far benefitted from extensive consultations with the public sector, private sector, civil society and development partners. The document spells out Government’s plans to achieve economic recovery and sustainable livelihoods for all Emaswati in the next five years..
Minister Gina, who officially opened the meeting together with the UN Resident Coordinator, Mr. George Wachira, explained that the new Plan has been developed following the expiration in March 2022 of the previous NDP which covered the period 2018-2022.
He noted that the previous NDP faced a number of challenges during its implementation which had not been envisaged. “We did not envisage the outbreak of the COVID -19 pandemic in March 2020 and the political unrests in June and July 2021,” the Minister said. “Nonetheless, I wish to express Government’s appreciation of the quick response and support received from our Development Partners which mitigated the devastating impacts COVID 19 could have had on human lives. We appreciate the technical and financial support, the food parcels, the vaccines and others that our development partners extended to the nation. We also want to thank you for the contributions you have already made and are making towards resolution of the political situation in the country, including the contributions you made towards the recovery of businesses that were damaged during the June and July 2021 unrests.”
Mr. Wachira acknowledged the critical role of development partners and thanked UNDP and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa for supporting the NDP process and noted the need for alignment between the new and the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (202102025) signed jointly with the Government with a vision to see a prosperous, just and resilient Eswatini where no one is left behind. “As we review the document, we are keen to see ever strong links between the Plan and the Agenda 2030 national commitments,”  he said.
Mr. Wachira noted that planning for the next five years was difficult in light of the increasingly vulnerable, uncertain, complex and ambiguous environment, or “VUCA”. “We only need to think about the multiple crises that have buffeted and continue to disrupt our world today,” he said. “What does this mean for planning? In my mind, this world of today is increasingly challenging our traditional planning tools, and calling us to ensure our plans have inbuilt capacities for responsiveness ad adaptability.”
Mr. Wachira suggested that the planning process could be boosted through use of tools and thinking that challenge our imagination and help us to peer into the future, including horizon scanning, foresight for development, and scenario thinking.
The NDP has been drafted by a technical team led by Ms. Nomsa Dlamini, former chief economist in the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development. The team will consolidate the comments from development partners and other stakeholders to finalize the document for approval by Cabinet.

For more information, please contact:
Sibusiso Mngadi, Communications & Advocacy Officer
UN Resident Coordinator’s Office
5th Floor, UN House. Mbabane.
Tel: 7806 9042  Email: sibusiso.mngadi@un.org



5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/192312-minister-economic-planning-development-dr-tambo-gina-hosts-development-partners-seeks




Date: 05 June 2022
Title: Secretary-General's Message on World Environment Day
Content: 05 June 2022
Message of the UN Secretary-General, Mr. Antonio Guterres on World Environment Day
Theme: Only One Earth
The theme of this year’s World Environment Day, “Only One Earth”, is a simple statement of fact.  This planet is our only home.  It is vital we safeguard the health of its atmosphere, the richness and diversity of life on Earth, its ecosystems and its finite resources.  But we are failing to do so.  We are asking too much of our planet to maintain ways life that are unsustainable.  Earth’s natural systems cannot keep up with our demands.
This not only hurts the Earth, but us too.  A healthy environment is essential for all people and all 17 Sustainable Development Goals.  It provides food, clean water, medicines, climate regulation and protection from extreme weather events.  It is essential that we wisely manage nature and ensure equitable access to its services, especially for the most vulnerable people and communities.
More than 3 billion people are affected by degraded ecosystems.  Pollution is responsible for some 9 million premature deaths each year.  More than 1 million plant and animal species risk extinction, many within decades.
Close to half of humanity is already in the climate danger zone – 15 times more likely to die from climate impacts such as extreme heat, floods and drought.  There is a 50:50 chance that annual average global temperatures will breach the Paris Agreement limit of 1.5 degrees Celsius in the next five years.  More than 200 million people each year could be displaced by climate disruption by 2050.
Fifty years ago, the world’s leaders came together at the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment and committed to protecting the planet.  But we are far from succeeding.  We can no longer ignore the alarm bells that ring louder every day.
The recent Stockholm+50 environment meeting reiterated that all 17 Sustainable Development Goals rely on a healthy planet.  We must all take responsibility to avert the catastrophe being wrought by the triple crises of climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss.
Governments need urgently to prioritize climate action and environmental protection through policy decisions that promote sustainable progress.  To that end, I have proposed five concrete recommendations to dramatically speed up the deployment of renewable energy everywhere, including making renewable techologies and raw materials available to all, cutting red tape, shifting subsidies and tripling investment.
Businesses need to put sustainability at the heart of their decision-making for the sake of humanity and their own bottom line.  A healthy planet is the backbone of nearly every industry on Earth.
And as voters and consumers we must make our actions count: from the policies we support, to the food we eat, to the transport we choose, to the companies we support.  We can all make environmentally friendly choices that will add up to the change we need.
Women and girls, in particular, can be forceful agents of change.  They must be empowered and included in decision-making at all levels.  Likewise, indigenous and traditional knowledge must also be respected and harnessed to help protect our fragile ecosystems.
History has shown what can be achieved when we work together and put the planet first.  In the 1980s, when scientists warned about a deadly continent-sized hole in the ozone layer, every country committed to the Montreal Protocol to phase out ozone-depleting chemicals.
In the 1990s, the Basel Convention outlawed the dumping of toxic waste in developing countries.  And, last year, a multilateral effort ended the production of leaded petrol – a move that will promote better health and prevent more than 1.2 million premature deaths each year.
This year and the next will present more opportunities for the global community to demonstrate the power of multilateralism to tackle our intertwined environmental crises, from negotiations on a new global biodiversity framework to reverse nature loss by 2030 to the establishment of a treaty to tackle plastics pollution.
The United Nations is committed to leading these cooperative global efforts, because the only way forward is to work with nature, not against it.  Together we can ensure that our planet not only survives, but thrives, because we have Only One Earth.

5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/184986-secretary-generals-message-world-environment-day




Date: 04 May 2022
Title: George Wachira appointed as UN Resident Coordinator for Eswatini
Content: 04 May 2022
UN Secretary-General appoints new Resident Coordinator in the Kingdom of Eswatini.
The United Nations Secretary-General has appointed Mr. George Wachira of Kenya as the United Nations Resident Coordinator in the Kingdom of Eswatini.
Mr. Wachira, who replaces Ms. Nathalie Ndongo-Seh of Cameroon who served the Kingdom from 2019 to 2021, assumed his position in April 2022.
Mr. Wachira of Kenya brings more than 30 years of experience at the interface of development, governance, conflict prevention and peacebuilding. Since joining the UN in 2011, he served as the UN Peace and Development Advisor in Guyana, Lesotho and lately in Eritrea where he led UN conflict prevention, strategic political analysis, peacebuilding, electoral support, political dialogue, human rights, national reforms and capacity building programmes. He also served as Head of the Governance and Peacebuilding Unit of UNDP in Lesotho.
Prior to joining the UN System, he worked for 20 years in various capacities, including as executive director, for Nairobi Peace Initiative-Africa, a pioneering peacebuilding organisation from where he helped shape peacebuilding practice in eastern, central and western African countries.
Mr. Wachira obtained his master’s degree in international peace studies from the University of Notre Dame in the USA and a bachelor’s degree in government and anthropology from the University of Nairobi in Kenya.
Background information
A United Nations Resident Coordinator is the highest United Nations official and the chief of UN diplomatic mission in a country. It confers the same rank as an Ambassador of a foreign state. The resident coordinator is the designated representative of the UN secretary general and leader of United Nations Country Team of agencies.
There are 16 UN Agencies operating in Eswatini. The UN Development System in Eswatini and Government of Eswatini have signed the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for the period 2021-2025 with a vision of “a prosperous, just and resilient Eswatini where no one is left behind”.

For more information, please contact:
Mr Sibusiso Mngadi, Communications and Advocacy Officer,
UN Resident Coordinator’s Office (UNRCO)
Tel: 7806 9042
Email: sibusiso.mngadi@un.org
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/180387-george-wachira-appointed-un-resident-coordinator-eswatini




Date: 18 October 2021
Title: Statement Attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on the Situation in the Kingdom of Eswatini
Content: 18 October 2021
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 18 October 2021
The Secretary-General is following with concern the ongoing developments in Eswatini, including the recent deployment of armed security forces at various schools, reports of excessive use of force in response to student demonstrations, and the indefinite closure of schools. This affects adversely children and young people.
The Secretary-General reiterates the importance of enabling the people of Eswatini to exercise their civil and political rights peacefully. He urges the Government to ensure that security forces act in conformity with relevant international human rights standards, including the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.
The Secretary-General condemns all acts of violence and urges all parties and the media to refrain from disinformation, hate speech and incitement.
The United Nations remains committed to working with the Government and the people of Eswatini, and all partners, to achieve a peaceful resolution.
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/152174-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-situation-kingdom-eswatini




Date: 03 March 2021
Title: Next-Generation Regional Collaborative Platform Meeting Kicks Off for First Time with Regional UN Entities in Africa
Content: 03 March 2021
3 March 2021
BRAZZAVILLE – Africa’s regional know-how, assets and policy expertise will be more systematically channeled to the Resident Coordinators and United Nations Country Teams (UNCTs) across the continent as they help countries ensure an inclusive and sustainable transition out of the COVID-19 crisis, UN Deputy Secretary-General and Chair of the UN Sustainable Development Group Amina J. Mohammed stressed as she joined the first annual meeting of the new Regional Collaborative Platform on 2 March 2021.
“Today marks the start of the next-generation collaboration approach for the regional UN entities to support African countries to respond and recover better from the COVID-19 pandemic and reignite the Decade of Action for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which is aligned with the Africa Union Agenda 2063,” Ms. Mohammed said.
The United Nations has been making progress on its sweeping reforms to strengthen its support to countries, leveraging its capacities at all levels. The new Regional Collaborative Platform has responded to the growing need for enhanced UN coordination and regional collaboration in the face of the pandemic and implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. It brings together UN regional expertise, capacity and data to provide analytical, policy and operational support to countries.
Yesterday’s discussion, attended by regional representatives from the Africa UN development system, focused on high-priority issues for the African continent to recover better from the pandemic and move toward the Sustainable Development Goals. These included accelerating the implementation of the continental free trade agreement; investing in youth and women’s empowerment to help countries reap the benefit of their demographic dividends; advancing home-grown sustainable and scalable technologies and digital solutions; building climate and disaster resilience; and continuing to support the African Union’s “Silencing the Guns” initiative.
Across the continent, Resident Coordinators and UNCTs are supporting countries in their access to COVAX vaccines and their socioeconomic response plans. In addition to the pandemic recovery, UN entities will work together to support sustainable development efforts in the Sahel, the Lake Chad Basin and the Horn of Africa, and address the resurgence of Ebola, and climate crises with severe damage caused by deadly droughts, cyclones and locust outbreaks.
“We are still in a recovery phase for the continent. We need additional resources. Our low- and middle-income countries, as well as small island states, have lost a lot of their resources. They need more fiscal space. They need more revenues. They need additional liquidity to ensure we build forward better,” said Under-Secretary-General Vera Songwe, Executive Secretary of the UN Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA).
Although it was a transitional year, the regional UN entities demonstrated evidence of enhanced system-wide collaboration at the regional level. For example, last year, all of them joined forces to launch the Knowledge Management Hub on COVID-19 and shared a business continuity plan with governments to support their e-governance, e-justice and e-commerce for livelihoods, while the Africa e-education strategy was introduced to Resident Coordinators to provide emergency education to more than 100 million African children out of school.
“The African region is at a strategic juncture with COVID-19 recovery programmes and investments that we are making to enhance trade. All our efforts will yield desired results only if Africa’s people – our most important resource – feel productive, if they feel valued, if they feel safe, and if they feel secure,” said Assistant Secretary-General Ahunna Eziakonwa, Director of the Regional Bureau for Africa at the UN Development Programme (UNDP).
The new platform will engage with the African Union in April and accelerate its effort to deliver on its promise with an impact-oriented focus on implementations.
The Regional Collaborative Platform is chaired by the UN Deputy Secretary-General with two Vice-Chairs: Ms. Songwe and Ms. Eziakonwa. Its joint secretariat is comprised of UNECA, UNDP and the UN Development Coordination Office (DCO).

###
Notes for correspondents
Agenda 2063 is Africa’s blueprint and master plan for transforming Africa into the global powerhouse of the future. It is the continent’s strategic framework that aims to deliver on its goal for inclusive and sustainable development.
The UN Resident Coordinator system encompasses all organizations of the United Nations system dealing with operational activities for development, regardless of their formal presence in the country.
Screenshots of the meeting can be downloaded here (©UNDCO).

Media contacts
Hiroyuki Saito, Regional Communications Officer
Regional Office for Africa, UN Development Coordination Office
saitoh@un.org

Maleele Choongo
Regional Bureau for Africa, UN Development Programme
Maleele.choongo@undp.org
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/114521-next-generation-regional-collaborative-platform-meeting-kicks-first-time-regional-un




Date: 14 December 2020
Title: Statement of Condolences by the UN Resident Coordinator, Ms. Nathalie Ndongo-Seh, Following the Passing of His Excellency the Rt. Hon. Prime Minister, Ambrose Mandvulo Dlamini
Content: 14 December 2020
Following the untimely passing of the Right Honorable Prime Minister, Ambrose Mandvulo Dlamini; the United Nations Resident Coordinator, Ms Nathalie Ndongo-Seh, released a statement of condolences on behalf of the United Nations Development System in Eswatini.
It was with great sadness that the United Nations Family in the Kingdom of Eswatini has learned of the untimely passing of His Excellency The Right Honourable Prime Minister, Mr. Ambrose Mandvulo Dlamini.
His Excellency was a passionate, kind, inspirational and exceptional leader; a man of the people and a fierce fighter for a great and a greater Kingdom of Eswatini where no one is left behind. His Excellency was a very close partner, a crucial ally, a champion and a valued supporter of the work of the United Nations Development System in Eswatini, for which we will always be grateful. He will be remembered for his jovial personality, his many impressive achievements in his short lifetime and his great sacrifice.
On behalf of the United Nations family in the Kingdom of Eswatini, I would like to extend heartfelt condolences to the Dlamini family, Their Majesties, the Government and the people of Eswatini in this difficult time. We are all devastated by the passing of an exceptional son and a great leader of this beautiful nation and pray for God’s comfort and strength to carry on with his vision of a better Eswatini post-COVID-19.
The UN Family has sent diplomatic notes to the Government of Eswatini through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.
May his soul rest in peace.
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/105061-statement-condolences-un-resident-coordinator-ms-nathalie-ndongo-seh-following-passing-his




Date: 16 October 2020
Title: WFP News Release World Food Day 2020
Content: 16 October 2020
Urgent need to strengthen food systems as COVID-19 drives up numbers of hungry people worldwide.
Mbabane  - The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) today joins its sister agencies in calling for global action to improve the systems that produce and distribute the food we eat, so that they can better withstand shocks including the COVID-19 pandemic that can spark alarming surges in the level of hunger in the world.
In many countries, the socio-economic effects of the pandemic – particularly loss of earnings and remittances – are heightening existing threats linked to conflict and climate change. The number of acutely hungry people in the world could increase by more than 100 million this year, according to WFP estimates. For particularly fragile countries, a slide towards famine is a real risk.
“‘The world produces enough food for everyone so it’s a problem not of scarcity but of access to nutritious and affordable food,” said WFP Executive Director David Beasley,  “Smallholder farmers in developing nations need support so they can grow crops in a more sustainable way, then store and transport their produce to markets, and ultimately improve their own livelihoods. When food moves from the farm, along the supply chain and onto people’s plates in a fair and efficient way, then everyone benefits.”
WFP, which last week won the Nobel Peace Prize for its efforts to fight hunger, has unparalleled experience in buying and distributing food. Every year, WFP increases the amount of food it procures locally from smallholder farmers, providing training in post-harvest storage and in how to access markets. The aim is to build dynamic food systems which contribute to community-based agricultural growth and the strengthening of national economies.
The need for concerted action to improve agricultural production while enhancing global supply chains and ending food waste is reflected in this year’s World Food Day theme: “Grow, Nourish, Sustain. Together”.  The three Rome-based agencies - WFP, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the UN (FAO) and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) – are calling for sustainable investment in food systems to achieve healthy diets for all. Without massive improvements in the food supply chain, many fragile nations are set to become increasingly vulnerable to financial volatility and climate shocks.
No one government or organisation can achieve these goals alone. More than ever, there is a need for global solidarity to help all people, and especially the most vulnerable, to confront the crises facing the planet – multiple conflicts, climate change and COVID-19.
The World Food Programme in Eswatini has created an innovative approach to increase incomes of small holder farmers, boost local economies and dramatically improve the nutrition for households and school going children. A staggering 45 percent of Emaswati children are orphans and vulnerable children , largely due to the impact of HIV and AIDS.  Through the Home-Grown School Feeding Programme  local smallholder farmers are delivering diverse, nutritious and above all, locally produced food to primary and secondary schools. Also,  WFP is reaching 55,000 children, under eight years of age, in 1700 Neighbourhood Care Points (NCPs)  across the country, with a hot and healthy meal five days a week.
“There is a need to move to a more sustainable food system that will adopt Climate Smart Agricultural which  take into consideration the production of crops and animals with an advantage against  climatic shocks and challenges thereof.” said Cissy Byenkya, Eswatini WFP Head of Office. “Also, we need to reduce post-harvest food losses, as this exerts too much pressure on the environment and increases the overall cost of production for smallholder farmers.”
WFP’s #StopTheWaste 2020 campaign highlights simple steps which everyone can take to prevent the huge amounts of food which are wasted each day. This forms some of the key priorities for WFP moving towards achieving Zero Hunger. WFP, FAO and the Ministry of Agriculture are strengthening capacities of smallholder farmers on climate smart agriculture practices, crop diversity, post-harvest storage, aflatoxins, market access and public procurement processes.
Another vital element in improving food systems is stopping food waste.   WFP’s #StopTheWaste 2020 campaign highlights simple steps which everyone can take to prevent the huge amounts of food which are wasted each day.

#                           #                            #

The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @wfp_media @mobileVAM @WFPVAM  @WFP_media  or @WFP_Africa
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/95986-wfp-news-release-world-food-day-2020




Date: 15 October 2020
Title: UN DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM IN ESWATINI CELEBRATES WFP NOBEL PEACE PRIZE
Content: 15 October 2020
The United Nations Development System in the Kingdom of Eswatini joins the world in congratulating the World Food Programme (WFP) for the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize it was awarded on 9 October 2020 by the Norwegian Nobel Peace Committee in recognition of WFP’s efforts to combat hunger, fight the use of hunger as a weapon of war, and alleviate sufferings across the world.
Mbabane (15 October 2020) – The United Nations Development System in the Kingdom of Eswatini joins the world in congratulating the World Food Programme (WFP) for the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize it was awarded on 9 October 2020 by the Norwegian Nobel Peace Committee in recognition of WFP’s efforts to combat hunger, fight the use of hunger as a weapon of war, and alleviate sufferings across the world.
“It is with pride and pleasure that we congratulate WFP for this prestigious award, which is a recognition of WFP’s and our collective humanitarian efforts to end hunger, restore hope and dignity among the needy, and serve mankind with pride and humility at a time when the world is facing so many crises from fragile economies, health pandemics, climate change, growing inequalities and conflict, to name only a few,” says the UN Resident Coordinator in Eswatini, Ms. Nathalie Ndongo-Seh. “We believe that, in line with similar recognitions of the UN Organization by the Nobel Peace Committee over the past years, this prestigious award will give the UN Development System in Eswatini impetus to increase our efforts and support to Emaswati people, in particular as we prepare our programmes for the next cycle of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2021-2025.”
In Eswatini, WFP provides technical assistance, services and coordination support for national food and nutrition security policies and programmes through approaches that enable progress on gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls, and HIV-sensitive actions. WFP’s General Food Assistance programme is now targeting communities with a high prevalence of food insecurity and malnutrition as a result of poor food production, drought and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
WFP Eswatini provides social safety nets for 55,000 orphans and vulnerable children under 5 years at 1,700 Neighbourhood Care Points (NCPs) in Eswatini through access to food and basic social services. Additionally, WFP works with the Government in implementing a sustainable, nutrition-sensitive, shock-responsive national school meals programme. The pilot for a Home-Grown School Feeding (HGSF) project started in September 2019, targeting 50 schools and 24,392 students. WFP Eswatini also collaborates with the Ministry of Health (MoH), the Ministry of Tinkhundla and Administration (MTAD), the Swaziland Network of Young Positives (SYNP+) and UN agencies to conduct integrated treatment literacy activities to empower communities through better nutrition, uptake of and adherence to antiretroviral therapy (ART) and tuberculosis (TB) medication, and sexual and reproductive health services.
In response to the impact of COVID-19 and erratic drought conditions, WFP is implementing a crisis response through unconditional resource transfers (URT). The URT aims to provide humanitarian assistance to the COVID-19 and drought-affected populations for 11 months starting in June 2020 until March 2021 through food and cash transfers. “We are deeply humbled that the World Food Programme has been honoured with the Nobel Peace Prize, this honour is made possible due to support from our Partners ” says WFP Head of Office Cissy BYENKYA. “Many of the people we help are fleeing conflict. Hunger is both a cause and an effect of conflict. Without peace and stability, we will struggle to achieve our goal of Zero Hunger. It puts the struggle of the 690 million people who go to bed hungry at the centre of world attention and we welcome this.”
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/96276-un-development-system-eswatini-celebrates-wfp-nobel-peace-prize




Date: 21 September 2020
Title: UNDP Provides Health Supplies and Equipment to Ministry of Health
Content: 21 September 2020
In support to the national response to contain the impact of COVID-19, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has provided health supplies and equipment to the Ministry of Health, valued at US$124,836,06.
Mbabane, 21st September 2020 – In support to the national response to contain the impact of COVID-19, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has provided health supplies and equipment to the Ministry of Health. The support is valued at US$124 836,06 and comprises 2 ventilators, 400 pulse oximeters,10 000 examination gloves, 15 750 goggles and 2 000 biohazard bags.   It is one of the measures to help increase the ministry’s capacity as part of the strategy to mitigate the potentially devastating impact on vulnerable people and economies.
UNDP undertook the procurement of the health supplies and equipment through its global procurement framework for health and medical supplies. UNDP’s procurement architecture serves existing largescale health programmes and UNDP Country Offices can source medical equipment and supplies directly from suppliers. Globally, the demand for the personal protective equipment (PPE) has risen amidst a low supply.  UNDP’s capability to harness the global supply chains has been key in supporting national COVID-19 response strategies.
Handing over the personal protective equipment, UNDP Deputy Resident Representative, Shaima Hussein stated, “UNDP continues to support the COVID-19 national response based on the needs identified by Government under the National Response Plan.  This support we hope, assists in increasing the capacity of the Ministry of Health in the provision of health services.  We remain determined in our response to this crisis to continue to find solutions that are nationally comprehensive and inclusive so that no one is left behind”
As part of an integrated UN response, UNDP support to the national response to contain the impact of COVID-19 is structured around three key pillars. These are health systems support; inclusive and integrated crisis management response and addressing socio-economic impact.

For more information contact:
Sakhile Nsingwane
United Nations Development Programme
UN House | Somhlolo Road, Mbabane, ESWATINI
Tel +268 2409 6659
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/92437-undp-provides-health-supplies-and-equipment-ministry-health




Date: 21 September 2020
Title: UN75: The Future We Want, The UN We Need
Content: 21 September 2020
Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, the UN’s worldwide consultation reveals a strong call for action on inequalities and climate change, as well as more solidarity.
In January 2020, the United Nations launched the global consultation to mark its 75th anniversary. Through surveys and dialogues, it asked people about their hopes and fears for the future – representing the UN’s most ambitious effort to date to understand expectations of international cooperation and of the UN in particular. It is also the largest survey to date on priorities for recovering from the COVID-19 pandemic.
As of 21 September 2020, over a million people from all countries and all walks of life had taken part. Their answers provide unique insights into what the public wants at this challenging time for the world. They are released today to coincide with the UN General Assembly’s official commemoration of the 75th anniversary, held under the banner: the future we want, the UN we need. Key findings include:
Priorities for action
• Across regions, ages and social groups, respondents were broadly united in their priorities for the future.
• Amid the current COVID-19 crisis, the immediate priority for most respondents is improved access to basic services – healthcare, safe water, sanitation and education, followed by greater international solidarity and increased support to those hardest hit. This includes tackling inequalities and rebuilding a more inclusive economy.
• Looking to the future, the overwhelming concerns are the climate crisis and the destruction of our natural environment. Other priorities include: ensuring greater respect for human rights, settling conflicts, tackling poverty and reducing corruption. Perceptions of the UN
• Over 87% of respondents believe global cooperation is vital to deal with today’s challenges, and that the pandemic has made international cooperation more urgent.
• Seventy-five years after its founding, six in 10 respondents believe the UN has made the world a better place. Looking to the future, 74% see the UN as “essential” in tackling the challenges.
• However, respondents want the UN to change and innovate: to be more inclusive of the diversity of actors in the 21st century, and to become more transparent, accountable and effective.
“Across this anniversary year, we have engaged in a global conversation. And the results are striking. People are thinking big – they are also expressing an intense yearning for international cooperation and global solidarity. Now is the time to respond to these aspirations and realize these aims. In this 75th anniversary year, we face our own 1945 moment. We must meet that moment. We must show unity like never before to overcome today’s emergency, get the world moving and working and prospering again, and uphold the vision of the Charter.” - United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres
Full report and press kit: https://www.un.org/un75/presskit
Join the conversation: www.un75.online
Background
• In January 2020, the UN Secretary-General launched the UN75 initiative, not as a celebration, but as the world's largest conversation about current global challenges, and the gap between the future we want and where we are headed if current trends continue.
• The Secretary-General saw UN75 as an opportunity for the UN to listen to the people it serves and identify their priorities and suggestions for enhanced global cooperation. UN75 was initiated to better understand people’s hopes and fears for the future, inviting people everywhere to imagine the future they want and contribute ideas on how to make it a reality, building a better and more sustainable world, for all.
• Through formal and informal surveys, and dialogues held across the world, the exercise was intended to take stock of global concerns and gain views from across the world on what sort of global cooperation is required. It was also intended to re-imagine what role the United Nations might play in helping to address our global challenges.
• After the pandemic made in-person gatherings challenging in many parts of the world, the initiative increased its efforts to reach people online, expanding the one-minute survey and social media outreach to shift the dialogues to online settings, where possible. At the same time, it put more emphasis - and resources - on reaching those without internet access: working with UN offices and other partners on the ground, and through telephone and SMS communications.
• By adding questions on building back better from the pandemic, it was able to conduct the largest and most diverse global survey to date on post-COVID priorities.
• To date, over 1 million people have taken the one-minute survey in all UN Member and Observer States and more than 1,000 dialogues have been held in 82 countries across the world. In addition, 50,000 in 50 countries took part in independent polling by Edelman and the Pew Research Center, and artificial intelligence analysis of social and traditional media was conducted in 70 countries, along with academic and policy research mappings in all regions.
• Together, they represent the UN's most ambitious attempt to undertake a global reality check and hear from “we the peoples” on their priorities and suggested solutions to global challenges, providing unique insights into the future we want and the UN we need.
For further information and/or to request an interview, please contact Lisa Laskaridis (lisa.laskaridis@un.org)
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/91847-un75-future-we-want-un-we-need




Date: 18 September 2020
Title: Media Kit — UN General Assembly High-level events
Content: 18 September 2020
As of 17 September 2020
WHAT:
On its 75th anniversary, and amidst the global COVID-19 pandemic, the United Nations will for the first time convene world leaders in a virtual format to seek action and solutions for a world in crisis. Several major events, in addition to the General Debate, are expected to highlight action and solutions that will ignite the transformations needed to secure healthy, peaceful and prosperous lives for all.
The pillars of our world, already unsteady, have been shaken to the core by the coronavirus. Everything the United Nations stands for and works for – peace, progress and human rights – is in jeopardy. As we strive to respond and recover, international cooperation has never been more important.
Heads of State and Government, ministers, international organizations, representatives of the private sector and civil society.
17 September – 5 October 2020
All events will take place mostly virtually, broadcast live and on-demand on UN Web TV. A limited number of New York-based representatives of Member States may be physically present at United Nations Headquarters.



High-level events
17 September
High-level Meeting on Yemen
18 September
SDG Moment
21 September
High-level Meeting on UN75
22-29 September
General Debate
23 September
High-level Meeting on Lebanon
24 September
High-level Roundtable on Climate Action
29 September
High-level Event on Financing for Development
30 September
High-level Side Event: Accelerating the end of the COVID-19 pandemic
30 September
UN Summit on Biodiversity
1 October
High-level Meeting on Beijing+25
1 October
High-level Meeting on CAR
2 October
High-level Meeting to Commemorate and Promote the International Day for the Total Elimination of on Nuclear Weapons
5 October
High-level Meeting on Libya
Other spaces to watch
17-29 September
SDG Media Zone
19 September
Global SDG Broadcast
22-24 September
SDG Action Zone



The General Debate, held at the beginning of each session of the General Assembly, provides an opportunity for world leaders to deliver a statement on global issues. This year, amid the COVID-19 pandemic, UN Member and Observer States can submit a pre-recorded video statement by their respective Head of State or Head of Government, which will be played in the General Assembly Hall, after being introduced by the respective national representative who can be physically present in the Assembly Hall. The theme for this 75th General Debate is “The future we want, the United Nations we need: reaffirming our collective commitment to multilateralism – confronting COVID-19 through effective multilateral action.”

Website: https://gadebate.un.org

Against the backdrop of the multidimensional crisis triggered by COVID-19, this year’s high-level events are underpinned by the 75th anniversary of the United Nations and the enduring principles of the UN Charter, and guided by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by all world leaders in 2015. Along with the Paris agreement on climate change, the 17 interconnected Goals provide a vital framework for a long-term global response to COVID-19 that leads to greener, more inclusive economies, and stronger, more resilient societies.
The UN Secretary-General is for the first time convening the annual SDG Moment, as mandated by the outcome document of the 2019 SDG  Summit, to set out a vision for a Decade of Action and recovering better from COVID-19; provide a snapshot on SDG progress today; highlight plans and actions to tackle major implementation gaps; and demonstrate the power and impact of action and innovation by SDG stakeholders.
As the world grapples with the COVID-19 pandemic and uneven progress across the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, the SDG Moment will:
Website: www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sdg-moment
Hashtag: #GlobalGoals
Contact: donlon@un.org
Under the theme, “The future we want, the United Nations we need: reaffirming our collective commitment to multilateralism,” this General Assembly meeting to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the United Nations aims to present the outcomes of the UN75 initiative -- the world's largest conversation, launched in January 2020 to gather public opinion and crowdsource solutions to global challenges – and discuss how to take forward the findings for building a better world for all.
Under the theme, “The future we want, the United Nations we need: reaffirming our collective commitment to multilateralism,” the meeting aims to:
Websites: www.un.org/un75 / www.un75.online
Hashtags: #UN75 #ShapingOurFuture
Contact: lisa.laskaridis@un.org
This roundtable event convened by the UN Secretary-General will showcase high-impact solutions by governments and real economy leaders, in line with the Secretary-General’s six climate-positive actions to recover better together. The event will show the vast social and economic benefits of a sustainable recovery and of action to limit global warming to 1.5°C by achieving net zero carbon emissions by 2050 and ensure that people and planet are fully protected from climate change impacts. This Roundtable will also jump-start an ambition arc that will take us to the Fifth Anniversary of the Paris Agreement on 12 December, when governments are expected to present ambitious and quality climate plans (the Nationally Determined Contributions – NDCs – and Long-Term Strategies), all the way to COP26 in November 2021.
This event convened by the UN Secretary-General aims to:
Website: www.un.org/climatechange 
Hashtag: #ClimateAction
Contacts: shepard@un.org; matthew.coghlan@un.org
This high-level event convened by the UN Secretary-General and the Prime Ministers of Canada and Jamaica aims to articulate a coordinated and comprehensive multilateral response to the urgent financing for development crisis due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Heads of State and Government are expected to adopt an ambitious menu of policy options for countries to recover in the short term, mobilize the financial resources to achieve the 2030 Agenda and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals, review the global financial architecture to deliver the global standards and align with the SDGs, and strengthen the resilience and sustainability of countries over the medium to long term.
This high-level event aims to:
Website: www.un.org/en/coronavirus/financing-development
Hashtag: #Fin4Dev
Contact: shepard@un.org
The high-level side event hosted by the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Kingdom, South Africa, and  the UN Secretary-General, aims to build stronger political consensus for a coordinated global response to COVID-19 and champion the importance and urgency of equitable access to new tools, especially effective vaccines. It also seeks to catalyze a step-change in support for the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator (ACT-A), the most promising solution for global equitable access to the tools needed to accelerate the end of the pandemic.
This high-level side events aims to:
Website: www.who.int/initiatives/act-accelerator
Hashtag: #COVID19
Contacts: spragginsan@who.int, abadvergarad@who.int
The UN Summit on Biodiversity convened by the President of the UN General Assembly aims to provide political direction and momentum for the development of a post-2020 global biodiversity framework. The event will also demonstrate ambition and commitment to accelerate action on biodiversity for sustainable development, highlight the connections between biodiversity, societies and economies, and showcase biodiversity’s multiple and essential contributions to sustainable development.
The Summit convened by the President of the UN General Assembly aims to:
Website: www.un.org/pga/74/united-nations-summit-on-biodiversity
Hashtag: #ForNature
Contact: shepard@un.org, palanivelu@un.org
Under the theme, “Accelerating the realization of gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls", this high-level meeting of the General Assembly aims to demonstrate the political will and leadership that will bring about the transformative change needed to address root causes, structural barriers, discriminatory practices and social norms that underpin discrimination and inequality. The event will also showcase concrete actions, plans and commitments to accelerate the achievement of gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls by 2030, including in support of the role of civil society organizations and youth.
Under the theme, “Accelerating the realization of gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls,” the high-level meeting aims to:
Websites: www.unwomen.org/en/news/in-focus/general-assembly, www.un.org/pga/74/event/high-level-meeting-on-the-twenty-fifth-anniversary-of-the-fourth-world-conference-on-women
Hashtag: #GenerationEquality
Contact: birchs@un.org
This high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly to commemorate and promote the International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons aims to advocate for resuming dialogue and negotiations for nuclear arms control and disarmament and to consider how States can return to a common path to nuclear disarmament. The meeting also seeks to articulate solutions for the elimination of nuclear weapons and highlight the need for renewed engagement for building sustainable peace and security for all.
This high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly to commemorate and promote the International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons aims to:
Website: https://www.un.org/en/observances/nuclear-weapons-elimination-day
Contact: suzanne.oosterwijk@un.org
[Note: webcast of the meetings listed below will not be available as these events are closed.]
Yemen: 17 September | 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. EDT
This meeting aims to mobilize international support for a nationwide ceasefire in Yemen as well as economic and humanitarian measures.
Lebanon: 23 September | 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. EDT
The meeting is expected to reaffirm united international political support to Lebanon’s stability and state institutions and call for the swift formation of an effective and credible government able to meet the legitimate aspirations and needs expressed by the Lebanese people.
Central African Republic: 1 October | time TBD
Ahead of the general elections scheduled in the Central African Republic, this meeting offers an opportunity to convey to national stakeholders the international community’s expectations, while also rallying the support of regional and international partners, including for the essential development and humanitarian interventions required to sustain peace in the country.
Libya: 5 October | 8:30 a.m. – 9:50 a.m. EDT
The event will focus on the follow-up to the Berlin Conference held in January 2020, take stock of commitments made, identify gaps and encourage participants to make progress towards implementing outstanding commitments.


The all-virtual SDG Media Zone will feature UN and other expert voices providing timely, reliable information on key issues at UNGA75. The programme of interviews and discussions, conducted in collaboration with media partners around the world, will highlight solutions, science and solidarity, offering hopeful avenues for the audience to connect with global issues related to recovering from COVD-19 and rebuilding sustainably. The content will inspire audiences to take steps toward a more sustainable world and engage in priority campaigns such as UN75, Verified, and ActNow.
Website: www.un.org/sdgmediazone 
Hashtag: #SDGLive
Contacts: palanivelu@un.org, samaanm@un.org
On the 75th anniversary of the United Nations and the 5th anniversary of the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals – in the midst of a pandemic radically transforming our economies and societies – this 30-minute film tells the story of the world as it is, as it was, and as it could be. Directed by renowned film maker Richard Curtis and produced by the documentary film company 72 Films, “Nations United” will present the facts, data, and opportunities we have as a human family to reimagine and reshape the future. The film will be broadcast on numerous television channels, radio stations and streaming services around the world, premiering on the UN YouTube channel on 19 September.
Website: www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/nations-united
Hashtag: #GlobalGoals
YouTube.com/unitednations
Contact: nathalie.delorme@un.org
The all-virtual SDG Action Zone will provide a space for open, transparent, and inclusive multi-stakeholder engagement and global audience participation during the UN General Assembly’s high-level week. Conversations, talks and debates with leading thinkers, activists and creators from across regions, sectors and generations will highlight critical areas to accelerate action on the Sustainable Development Goals in a programme focused on inspiring the transformative change so needed for people and our planet.
Website: https://sdgactionzone.org 
Hashtag: #SDGActionZone
Contact: hello@sdgactioncampaign.org

Follow @UN on Twitter and @unitednations on Facebook and Instagram for special #UNGA activities. See un.org/social for UN accounts in languages.


Issued by the UN Department of Global Communications – Contact: Martina Donlon, donlon@un.org
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/91584-media-kit-%E2%80%94-un-general-assembly-high-level-events




Date: 15 September 2020
Title: UN Resident Coordinator presents draft UNSDCF 2021-2025 to Cabinet
Content: 15 September 2020
UN Eswatini Presents to Cabinet Final Draft of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025
Today, the United Nations Development System in Eswatini presented to the Cabinet the final draft of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) for the period 2021-2025.
UNSDCF 2021-2025 represents the collective offer of the United Nations to support the Kingdom of Eswatini in its achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),implementation of national priorities, as well as attainment of the 2030 Agenda.
The Resident Coordinator of the UN Development System in Eswatini, Ms. Nathalie Ndongo-Seh presented the Cooperation Framework virtually via a zoom session with the Cabinet presided over by the Right Honorable Prime Minister, His Excellency Mr. Ambrose Dlamini. The presentation follows a high-level meeting of the Joint National Steering Committee held on 3 September 2020, which reviewed the achievements and challenges of the previous framework ( UNDAF 2016-2020) as well as the strategic priorities and outcomes of the upcoming UNSDCF 2021-2025.
The Cooperation Framework has been developed through a highly participatory, inclusive and transparent process that includes consultations with the Government, development partners, civil society, the academia, non-governmental organizations, the private sector and community groups between April 2019 and August 2020.
UNSDCF 2021-2025  is substantively based on the 2020 UN Eswatini Common Country Analysis (CCA), which identifies strengths, vulnerabilities and needs of the country; and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, particularly its Prosperity, People, Planet (3 Ps out of 5 Ps) components.

The UN Resident Coordinator, Ms Nathalie Ndongo-Seh, stated: “The overall goal of the United Nations’ assistance to the people and the Government of Eswatini during the cycle 2021-2015 is to support ‘A prosperous, just and resilient Eswatini where no one is left behind’. Through its Prosperity, People and Planet priority areas, the UNSDCF presents the UN’s offer to the Government of Eswatini for 2021-2025 through key Outcomes that will advance the attainment of sustainable development goals in your majestic nation.”
The Cooperation Framework is evidence-based and guided by  six key principles, namely: (i) Leaving No One Behind; (ii) Human Rights Based Approach; (iii) Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment; (iv) Resilience; (v) Sustainability and (vi) Accountability.
In UNSDCF 2021-2025, special attention will be given – amongst others - to: private sector investment; small and medium sized enterprise development; sustainable and smart agriculture; promotion of decent work; food security; strengthening institutional capacities in the health and the education sectors; technical assistance in the health, nutrition, HIV and education programmes; improved access to and use of clean, reliable, and affordable energy for all citizens, especially vulnerable and marginalized communities; support to equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all citizens; integrated approaches targeting the most vulnerable and marginalized communities and groups.
The UNSDCF acts as a partnership and accountability framework between the United Nations Development System and the Government of Eswatini  andis expected to be signed in October 2020.
“The Cooperation Framework is our commitment to the people of Eswatini, particularly the most marginalized and vulnerable ones,” says Ndongo-Seh. “It commits the UN Development System to support the achievement of national development goals and targets with a focus on leaving no one behind and supporting the development of national development frameworks in line with the 2030 Agenda while including vulnerable populations in and across all processes and programmes.”
Today, the United Nations Development System in Eswatini presented to the Cabinet the final draft of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) for the period 2021-2025.
UNSDCF 2021-2025 represents the collective offer of the United Nations to support the Kingdom of Eswatini in its achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),implementation of national priorities, as well as attainment of the 2030 Agenda.
The Resident Coordinator of the UN Development System in Eswatini, Ms. Nathalie Ndongo-Seh presented the Cooperation Framework virtually via a zoom session with the Cabinet presided over by the Right Honorable Prime Minister, His Excellency Mr. Ambrose Dlamini. The presentation follows a high-level meeting of the Joint National Steering Committee held on 3 September 2020, which reviewed the achievements and challenges of the previous framework ( UNDAF 2016-2020) as well as the strategic priorities and outcomes of the upcoming UNSDCF 2021-2025.
The Cooperation Framework has been developed through a highly participatory, inclusive and transparent process that includes consultations with the Government, development partners, civil society, the academia, non-governmental organizations, the private sector and community groups between April 2019 and August 2020.
UNSDCF 2021-2025  is substantively based on the 2020 UN Eswatini Common Country Analysis (CCA), which identifies strengths, vulnerabilities and needs of the country; and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, particularly its Prosperity, People, Planet (3 Ps out of 5 Ps) components.

The UN Resident Coordinator, Ms Nathalie Ndongo-Seh, stated: “The overall goal of the United Nations’ assistance to the people and the Government of Eswatini during the cycle 2021-2015 is to support ‘A prosperous, just and resilient Eswatini where no one is left behind’. Through its Prosperity, People and Planet priority areas, the UNSDCF presents the UN’s offer to the Government of Eswatini for 2021-2025 through key Outcomes that will advance the attainment of sustainable development goals in your majestic nation.”
The Cooperation Framework is evidence-based and guided by  six key principles, namely: (i) Leaving No One Behind; (ii) Human Rights Based Approach; (iii) Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment; (iv) Resilience; (v) Sustainability and (vi) Accountability.
In UNSDCF 2021-2025, special attention will be given – amongst others - to: private sector investment; small and medium sized enterprise development; sustainable and smart agriculture; promotion of decent work; food security; strengthening institutional capacities in the health and the education sectors; technical assistance in the health, nutrition, HIV and education programmes; improved access to and use of clean, reliable, and affordable energy for all citizens, especially vulnerable and marginalized communities; support to equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all citizens; integrated approaches targeting the most vulnerable and marginalized communities and groups.
The UNSDCF acts as a partnership and accountability framework between the United Nations Development System and the Government of Eswatini  andis expected to be signed in October 2020.
“The Cooperation Framework is our commitment to the people of Eswatini, particularly the most marginalized and vulnerable ones,” says Ndongo-Seh. “It commits the UN Development System to support the achievement of national development goals and targets with a focus on leaving no one behind and supporting the development of national development frameworks in line with the 2030 Agenda while including vulnerable populations in and across all processes and programmes.”
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/91817-un-resident-coordinator-presents-draft-unsdcf-2021-2025-cabinet




Date: 24 June 2020
Title: UN Eswatini starts consultative meetings to develop the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF 2021-2025)
Content: 24 June 2020
[FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE] 24 June 2020 – The United Nations Development System in Eswatini is holding consultative meetings with various sectors as part of an inclusive process to develop a cooperation framework for the period 2021-2025.
The United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF 2016-2020) is coming to an end in December 2020 and has since been renamed the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (‘Cooperation Framework’) to accurately reflect the nature of the contemporary relationship between Governments and the UN Development System.
The consultative meetings are being held at the Royal Villas at Ezulwini on 22-26 June 2020. UN Eswatini is consulting with civil society, research and academic institutions, foundations and philanthropic organizations, business community, development partners and the Government.
UNSDCF 2021-2025 is designed to be the primary instrument for planning and implementation of UN development activities in Eswatini in support of the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The development of the Cooperation Framework follows the completion of an independent Common Country Analysis (CCA), which is framed around the SDGs and national priorities..
As such, the framework will capture the strengths, vulnerabilities and needs of the country and tailor the response of the UN Development System (represented by individual agencies, funds and programmes) while improving existing levels of coordination, efficiency and transparency.
“The Cooperation Framework is not just a document but the most important planning and implementation instrument for all UN development activities at the country level” says Ms. Nathalie Ndongo-Seh, UN Resident Coordinator in Eswatini.
She adds: “The Cooperation Framework begins and ends with an analysis of the full national development landscape and SDG priorities and gaps, including through the imperative to leave no one behind.”
The Cooperation Framework is designed in line with 6 key principles, namely: (i) leaving No One Behind; (ii) human Rights Based Approach; (iii) gender equality and women’s empowerment; (iv) resilience; (v) sustainability and (vi) accountability.
The Cooperation Framework, which is essentially a partnership and accountability framework between the UN Development System and the Government to advance Eswatini development agenda, is expected to be signed by both parties in August 2020.
“The cooperation Framework is also our commitment to the people of Eswatini, particularly the most marginalized and vulnerable” says Ndongo-Seh. “It commits the UN development system to support the achievement of national development goals and targets with a focus on leaving no one behind and supporting the development of national development frameworks in line with the 2030 Agenda while including vulnerable populations in and across all processes and programmes.”
###
For more information, please contact:
Mr. Sibusiso Mngadi, Coordination Officer – Programme Communications and Advocacy, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office (UNRCO)
Tel: 7683 8729 Email: Sibusiso.mngadi@one.un.org
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/50902-un-eswatini-starts-consultative-meetings-develop-united-nations-sustainable-development




Date: 08 April 2020
Title: Statement by the UN Secretary-General on COVID-19
Content: 08 April 2020
UN Secretary-General, Mr António Guterres, calls for unity and solidarity in the world's fight against COVID-19.
The Covid-19 pandemic is one of the most dangerous challenges this world has faced in our lifetime. It is above all a human crisis with severe health and socio-economic consequences.
The World Health Organization, with thousands of its staff, is on the front lines, supporting Member States and their societies, especially the most vulnerable among them, with guidance, training, equipment and concrete life-saving services as they fight the virus.
I witnessed first-hand the courage and determination of WHO staff when I visited the Democratic Republic of the Congo last year, where WHO staff are working in precarious conditions and very dangerous remote locations as they fight the deadly Ebola virus. It has been a remarkable success for WHO that no new cases of Ebola have been registered in months.
It is my belief that the World Health Organization must be supported, as it is absolutely critical to the world’s efforts to win the war against Covid-19.
This virus is unprecedented in our lifetime and requires an unprecedented response. Obviously, in such conditions, it is possible that the same facts have had different readings by different entities. Once we have finally turned the page on this epidemic, there must be a time to look back fully to understand how such a disease emerged and spread its devastation so quickly across the globe, and how all those involved reacted to the crisis. The lessons learned will be essential to effectively address similar challenges, as they may arise in the future.
But now is not that time. Now is the time for unity, for the international community to work together in solidarity to stop this virus and its shattering consequences.

New York, 8th April 2020
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/40517-statement-un-secretary-general%C2%A0-covid-19%C2%A0




Date: 07 April 2020
Title: ‘We Stand with You’: UN Secretary-General's Message on World Health Day 2020
Content: 07 April 2020
This World Health Day, the UN Secretary-General, Mr António Guterres, hails care-workers around the globe for their tireless commitment and expertise during this traumatic time.
World Health Day this year comes at a very difficult time for all of us.  My message today is to our health‑care workers — the nurses, midwives, technicians, paramedics, pharmacists, doctors, drivers, cleaners, administrators and many others — who work, day and night to keep us safe.
Today, we are more deeply grateful than ever to all of you, as you work, around the clock, putting yourselves at risk, to fight the ravages of this pandemic.  2020 is the International Year of the Nurse and the Midwife, and I want to recognize their specific expertise and commitment.
We have all had reason to give thanks for the care and professionalism of nurses and midwives.  I know I do.  Nurses shoulder some of the biggest health‑care burdens.  They perform difficult work and endure long hours, while risking injury, infection and the mental health burden that accompanies such traumatic work.  They often provide comfort at the end of life.
Midwives provide comfort at the beginning of life.  During a pandemic, their work is even more challenging, as you bring our newborns safely into this world.
To the nurses and midwives of the world:  thank you for your work.
In these traumatic times, I say to all health care workers:  We stand with you and we count on you.  You make us proud; you inspire us.  We are indebted to you.  Thank you for the difference you are making, every day and everywhere.
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/40260-%E2%80%98we-stand-you%E2%80%99-un-secretary-generals-message-world-health-day-2020




Date: 23 March 2020
Title: UN Eswatini staff to work from home as part of COVID-19 measures
Content: 23 March 2020
The United Nations in Eswatini has decided to undertake teleworking on a temporary basis as a main mode of operation to avoid risks exposure in line with the measures for preventing the spread of coronavirus.
The United Nations Development System in the Kingdom of Eswatini wishes to inform all partners that, with effect from Monday 23 March 2020, UN personnel will be working from home as part of UN Eswatini COVID-19 measures.
The United Nations in Eswatini has decided to undertake teleworking on a temporary basis as a main mode of operation to avoid risks exposure in line with the measures imposed by the Government of Eswatini and the guidelines for UN personnel received from the World Health Organisations (WHO) as well as the United Nations Headquarters.
As the UN in Eswatini moves to a new phase of its activation plan and in order to enhance the quality of its services under the prevailing circumstances, all UN personnel in Eswatini will continue to work remotely from home. Arrangements are being made to facilitate, as and where feasible, virtual meetings including with development partners, national counterparts from the Government, civil society and communities. Our main priorities, including continuity of UN operations and support to national authorities, remain unchanged.
We praise the Government, all partners, communities and individuals for their tireless efforts to protect and save lives, and put in place robust mechanisms to respond to the challenges and demands incurred as a result of COVID-19. All UN agencies, funds and programs will continue to work closely with the Government and partners in the National Emergency Management Task Force set up by the Prime Minister and through other existing mechanisms in which efforts towards COVID-19 prevention, preparedness, response and support to communities are deployed. We call upon everyone to take responsibility in preventing the spread of the disease.
We urge everybody to protect themselves as well as others, especially the most vulnerable ones such as the elderly and those with compromised immune systems by practising daily hygiene (e.g. washing hands, using sanitizers and soaps) and avoiding contagion (e.g. social distancing).
The United Nations Development System in the Kingdom of Eswatini remains committed to be a strong, reliable and strategic development partner to the Government and the people of Eswatini.
Statement issued by: UN Resident Coordinator and Designated Official for Security, Ms. Nathalie Ndongo-Seh
For more information, please contact: Mr. Sibusiso Mngadi, Communications Officer, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office. Mobile: 7683 8729 / 7983 8729 Email: sibusiso.mngadi@one.un.org Web: eswatini.un.org Twitter : @UEswatini Facebook : @UNEswatini
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/38824-un-eswatini-staff-work-home-part-covid-19-measures




Date: 03 December 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: Eswatini women to dialogue on the future they want
Content: 03 December 2019
A Women's Empowerment Forum will be held at the Royal Swazi Sun Convention Centre on Thursday, 5 December 2019, from 08:00AM to 03:30PM.
Mbabane (3 December 2019) - The Deputy Prime Minister’s Office, with support from the United Nations Development System in Eswatini, is organizing a National Women Empowerment Forum as part of the UN75 global dialogues aimed at amplifying the voices of different groups and ensuring that no one is left behind in shaping the future of the world.
UN Secretary General, Mr. Antonio Guterres launched the UN75 global dialogues to tackle issues affecting the world such as the climate crisis, inequality, new patterns of violence, population changes and technology in order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
In Eswatini, the first dialogue will be held at the Royal Swazi Sun Convention Centre on Thursday, 5 December 2019, from 08:00a.m. to 03:30p.m. will bring women from different sectors across the country to discuss a wide range of issues, including economic empowerment, gender-based violence, technology, education, climate change, political representation and power.
Deputy Prime Minister, Senator Themba Masuku is expected to deliver a keynote address the forum which will seek to reach out to a representation of women from vast backgrounds and experiences, particularly those most in need/marginalised from rural, informal settlements, urban and civil society organisations.
The forum, themed “the strength within,” will also seek to establish bottlenecks towards access to opportunities for women and girls.
It will discuss and propose an ideal future for Eswatini in 25 years when the UN turns 100 years.
The women will then propose the actions that need to be taken to make a better Eswatini for future generations, focusing on what they can do as individuals, groups, institutions, communities and governments.
Entrance is free and there will be exhibition stalls to display, promote and sell products and wares made by Eswatini women.

For more information, please contact:
Ms. Antoinette Phiwa Manana, Programme Analyst Gender, UNFPA
Tel: 2409 6627 Cell: 7802 6943

5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/26844-press-release-eswatini-women-dialogue-future-they-want




Date: 08 August 2019
Title: Eswatini Prime Minister launches strategic framework and action plan on human trafficking
Content: 08 August 2019
Kingdom of Eswatini commemorates the World Day Against TIP by launching the National Strategic Framework and Action Plan to Combat People Trafficking for 2019 -2023

Prime Minister in the Kingdom of Eswatini, His Excellency Ambrose Mandvulo Dlamini, today launched the National Strategic Framework and Action Plan to Combat People Trafficking 2019-2023.
The launch of the Strategic Framework and Action Plan coincided with the Commemoration of the World Day Against Trafficking in Persons with the theme, ‘Human Trafficking: Call your Government to action.”The action plan, supported by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), aims to upscale prevention measures, effectively empower law enforcement agencies and facilitate prosecution of criminals.
The plan addresses amongst other priorities, the current gaps in the victim protection measures, by advocating for a victim-centred approach as one of the guiding principles. Mr Dlamini highlighted that the framework will guide stakeholders on their respective roles and responsibilities in fighting human trafficking. “I implore all role players to honour their obligations, take collective responsibility and deliver in accordance with their specific intuitional mandates,” stated the Prime Minister.
UNODC Regional Director, Ms. Zhuldyz Akisheva, commended the Government of Eswatini for making significant strides in combating human trafficking. “We believe the commemoration theme resonates very well with the actions of the Government of the Kingdom of Eswatini who have shown tremendous efforts in the response to Trafficking in Persons,” she stated. “This is evidenced amongst other things, by the trafficking in Persons Judgements that are beginning to emanate from the kingdom of Eswatini which show that the government has taken a serious stance against the perpetrators of TIP.”
In her remarks, UN Eswatini Resident Coordinator, Ms. Nathalie Ndongo-Seh reiterated the commitment of the UN in supporting government in a range of strategic areas as guided by the needs of the country and the 2030 Agenda of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “We remain committed to preventing and suppressing trafficking in persons as well as assisting Eswatini in bring traffickers to justice and providing adequate support to the victims,” she stated.  She added that the theme highlights the urgent need to step up responses to the trafficking of children and young people across the world. “The call to action is primarily addressed to Governments; however, we do encourage every individual, every group, every organization to take action to prevent and combat prevent this heinous crime,” she said.
The United States Embassy Political/Economic Chief, Mr. Mich Coker congratulated Eswatini for upgrading to Tier 2 on the U.S. Government 2019 TIP Report. He recognized that Eswatini had demonstrated measurable improvements in anti-trafficking efforts through interventions such as the enactment of the Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Act and expediting prosecutions of perpetrators of sex trafficking.
5th Floor, UN House, Somhlolo Street, Mbabane.
URL: https://eswatini.un.org/en/12134-eswatini-prime-minister-launches-strategic-framework-and-action-plan-human-trafficking




