Date: 04 April 2024
Title: International Day for Mine Awareness & Assistance in Mine Action in Ethiopia
Content: 04 April 2024
Protecting Lives, Building Peace
On 4 April 2024, the Government of Ethiopia and the International Community commemorate with a ceremony at the Elily hotel in Kazanchis the International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action under the theme ‘Protecting Lives, Building Peace’, stressing the need to enhance support to victims affected by Explosive Ordnance.
Mines, explosive remnants of war, and improvised explosive devices continue to cause death and injury, especially in situations of armed conflict. On average, one person is killed or injured by such an explosive device every hour. Many children are among the victims.
On 8 December 2005, the General Assembly declared that 4 April of each year shall be observed as the International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action. This year’s theme, “Protecting lives, building peace”, as referred to by the Secretary General of the United Nations in his speech, is an invitation to highlight “the need to safeguard those at particular risk, including people living with disabilities”.
The United Nations has called for greater responsiveness to the needs and rights of people with disabilities in conflict and peacebuilding settings. This year is the fifth anniversary of Security Council resolution 2475, which calls upon Member States, and specifically Security Council members, to consider and protect persons with disabilities, to ensure they have access to assistance, and to include them in conflict prevention and peacebuilding.
In Ethiopia, a series of internal and international armed conflicts throughout the years have left behind a legacy of landmines and explosive remnants of war (ERW) scattered throughout the country. According to the latest transparency report that Ethiopia submitted under the Mine Ban Convention, the remaining unaddressed contamination totals 726 square kilometers. The outbreak of conflict in November 2020 between the central government and the regional authorities of the Tigray region, which has spilled over into the neighbouring Afar and Amhara regions in 2021, has added new explosive ordnance contamination that poses an immediate threat to life and livelihoods.
According to data collected in 2023, 1,500 (1,014 male and 486 female) victims of Explosive Ordnance have been reported in Northern Ethiopia, although not all cases have been verified. It is believed that many other accidents go unreported. Initial analysis shows that children make more than 25% of all casualties known.
The mine action sector in Ethiopia remains committed to supporting the Ethiopia Mine Action Office and national partners in building up mine action capacities to mitigate the threat posed by explosive ordnance, protect lives and build lasting peace.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/265260-international-day-mine-awareness-assistance-mine-action-ethiopia




Date: 28 March 2024
Title: National Conference sets the course for sustainable infrastructure in Ethiopia
Content: 28 March 2024
UNOPS and Ethiopian Civil Engineers Association (EACE) organised a National Conference on Climate Resilient Sustainable Infrastructure.
The systemic approach to the sustainable and climate-resilient infrastructure is one of the key preconditions for the continuous and equitable growth of Ethiopia. The priorities in the development of water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH), road and transport, housing, and energy infrastructure should be financially supported by national and external resources, while inclusive planning and design are important not to leave any vulnerable groups behind.
These are the key messages of the National Conference on Climate Resilient Sustainable Infrastructure organized by UNOPS in collaboration with the Ethiopian Civil Engineers Association (EACE) in Addis Ababa on 26 and 27 March 2024. The two-day workshop had the objective of facilitating policy-making in the area of sustainable infrastructure, sharing best practices among different stakeholders, and providing the opportunity to discuss some of the cutting-edge technologies in infrastructure.
Speaking at the event, H.E. Mr. Wondemu Seta, State Minister of Urban and Infrastructure, said, “As we embark on these crucial deliberations today, I urge everyone of you to approach the discussions with a spirit of collaboration, innovation, and determination.”
“The decisions we make here will have far-reaching implications for generations to come, shaping the future landscape of our nation and our planet".
He also stressed that the participants need to leverage their collective expertise, experiences, and insights to identify actionable solutions and best practices in sustainable infrastructure development. “Actions that will drive progress and transformation in our communities are vital,” the State Minister said.
During the last two-day workshop, infrastructure and project management experts were actively participating in the presentations and plenary sessions about WASH, irrigation, sustainable road and transport, sustainable housing and energy, and financing and project delivery. Their main focus were policy briefings for climate-resilient sustainable infrastructure, integrating planning that encompasses social, environmental, and economic sustainability as well as national policy innovations.
Eng. Yonas Ayalew, CEO of Ethiopian Construction Works Corporation and President of the Ethiopian Association of Civil Engineers at the event said, “Sustainability begins with engineering design, ensuring that infrastructure materials and designs are inherently sustainable, fostering the creation of resilient homes and the development of smart cities”.
UNOPS, within its mandate to implement infrastructure, is committed to helping countries gain a better understanding of how their infrastructure planning, delivery, and management practices compared to recognized global best practices, and how they could improve.
“I am very proud of our joint results with the Government of Ethiopia and donors, as a partner of choice, in the area of infrastructure development in different regions from the reconstruction of primary schools and health centers in Tigray, the installation of medical incinerators in eight different regions, and the design and rehabilitation of the one-stop shop centers for refugees, to the construction of latrines and water points in the Somali region,” said UNOPS Ethiopia Multi-County Office Director and Representative to the African Union, Ms. Worknesh Mekonnen Gonet. “We at UNOPS anticipate the future with the infrastructure designed and built to suit the needs of all users, including women, children, persons with disabilities, older or marginalized people. We are dedicated to the sustainable infrastructure which is resilient to climate change and climate-compatible.”
Infrastructure is significantly impacting 92% of targets within all 17 Sustainable Development Goals and can stir the development positively or negatively. When developed in a sustainable, climate-resilient, and inclusive manner, it can create efficient transportation and green energy, contribute to new employment opportunities and quality housing, and improve access to fresh water and sanitation
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/264610-national-conference-sets-course-sustainable-infrastructure-ethiopia




Date: 06 March 2024
Title: UN Ethiopia, AFLEX express commitment to collaborate towards achieving the SDGs in Ethiopia
Content: 06 March 2024
The United Nations and the African Leadership Excellence Academy (AFLEX) today signed a Letter of Intent to collaborate in advancing academic and thought leadership and the production and exchange of ideas to drive progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Ethiopia and the wider African context.
Dr. Ramiz Alakbarov, United Nations Assistant Secretary-General and UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, and Mr. Zadig Abreha, Chief of the African Leadership Excellence Academy, were signatories to the Letter of Intent.
The collaboration will focus on six transformative entry points with the potential for catalytic and multiplier effects on the SDGs, significantly contributing to their achievement. These entry points encompass: (1) food systems; (2) energy access and affordability; (3) digital connectivity; (4) education; (5) jobs and social protection; and (6) climate change, biodiversity loss, and pollution. The collaboration will also involve close cooperation with the Ministry of Planning and Development and sectoral ministries.
A key aspect of the collaboration involves jointly enhancing the capacity and skills of civil servants and other stakeholders in social policies. This effort will concentrate on areas such as planning, communication, idea generation, and fostering a culture of dialogue. The ultimate aim is to nurture a new generation of transformative leaders who will champion the achievement of the SDGs in Ethiopia and Africa.
Addressing the significance of the collaboration, Dr. Ramiz Alakbarov stated, "This partnership will serve as a framework for identifying and nurturing the next generation of leaders who must lead Ethiopia's development narrative, particularly with a focus on young people and marginalized groups. Leadership grounded in the African context and aspirations is indispensable for realizing the SDGs in Africa."
AFLEX Chief Mr. Zadig Abreha said, “AFLEX aspires to become a place where academic rigor meets worldliness. Also, here in AFLeX we aspire to become bridge builders amongst the academia, civil society, the public and private sector, the leaders of African countries, generation of African leaders and Africa and the globe. With this view in mind, together with institutions like the UN systems we will work towards generating world class leaders for both Ethiopia and the continent at large. And with this effort, we can safely say that we can achieve agenda 2064 and SDGs. In doing so, Africa shall make 22nd century a truly African century!”
“We are grateful for the kind assistance and unparalleled commitment exhibited by Dr. Ramiz for the inking of this pioneering letter of intent which I would rather name it as a memorandum of action.”
"I would like to express my deep gratitude for the invaluable support and unwavering dedication displayed by Dr. Ramiz in the process of formalizing this groundbreaking letter of intent, which I believe is more fittingly referred to as a memorandum of action," said Mr. Zadig Abraha.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/262509-un-ethiopia-aflex-express-commitment-collaborate-towards-achieving-sdgs-ethiopia




Date: 23 February 2024
Title: Bringing back more schools, health facilities to life in Tigray
Content: 23 February 2024
The reconstruction of 14 health centers, 11 primary schools and 33 communal and institutional water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) facilities in Tigray was successfully completed, leading to improved education and health services for the people affected by the conflict. This was made possible through the Government of Ethiopia's Response-Recovery-Resilience for Conflict Affected Communities in Ethiopia (3R4CACE) Project, which is financed by the World Bank and implemented by UNOPS.
Due to the conflict and lack of maintenance, the rapid response works carried out from March 2023 until January 2024 focused on refurbishment of the facilities to improve the access to health care, education and water and sanitation for 365,000 people in five woredas in Tigray. Many primary schools and health centers suffered from damaged roofs, walls, floors, windows and doors, inadequate external drainage and access paths, so the comprehensive reconstruction was covered by the project activities.
Some of the facilities got for the first time new toilet blocks and running water, significantly improving sanitary conditions for their beneficiaries from the local communities. In several locations, new ramps were constructed to make it easier for people with disabilities to access the buildings.
"Our school was completely devastated due to the conflict, resulting in the loss of classrooms, desks, and blackboards. Before the rehabilitation, our school was non-functional, and teaching had come to a halt. We lacked proper desks and blackboards, and our students were forced to write on the walls,” Gebremikael Khishen, Director and Teacher at Koraro Primary School in Hawzen Woreda, explains. “The collaboration between the Ethiopian Government and UNOPS has yielded remarkable results. UNOPS has supported us in maintaining our infrastructure, WASH facilities, and electricity, which are now providing essential services. In addition to the rehabilitation efforts, UNOPS has generously provided us with 200 desks and 16 blackboards. As a result of this support, our students are now happy to come to school and are motivated to learn.”
The rapid response activities were implemented in Hintalo, Abergele, Hawzen, Asgede and Endemahoni. The project has moved to its recovery phase, which will enable (re)construction of additional health, education and WASH facilities.
“During the peak of the conflict, approximately 80% of our health centre was non-functional. Despite the extensive damage, we continued to provide services. All rooms of the health center including the delivery room were either destroyed or extensively damaged due to the conflict, so we were forced to combine the delivery room to another ward,” says Ms. Merhawit Gebrehiwot, the Director of Koraro Health Center. “However, I am pleased to see all the rooms of the health center have now been completely restored. We used to combine wards due to a shortage of rooms, but now we allocate individual rooms for each ward, ensuring a dedicated space for medical consultations and treatments.”
“After a successful recovery, the community has resumed visiting our health center for their healthcare needs, as they feel content and assured of the center's excellent condition to provide services,” she adds.
The Response-Recovery-Resilience for Conflict Affected Communities in Ethiopia (3R4CACE) Project of the Government of Ethiopia financed by the World Bank with USD 300 million aims to: (i)rebuild and improve access to basic services and climate-resilient community infrastructure and (ii) improve access to multi-sectoral response services for Gender-Based Violence (GBV) survivors; in selected conflict-affected communities in Ethiopia.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/261479-bringing-back-more-schools-health-facilities-life-tigray




Date: 16 February 2024
Title: Launch of the “Multi-Sectoral interventions aimed at improving health conditions in Afar” Project
Content: 16 February 2024
UNOPS Ethiopia, Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS), and Afar Region launched a project to  improve e uptake and quality of healthcare service delivery for more than 36,000 beneficiaries in Afar region.
Launch of the “Multi-Sectoral interventions aimed at improving health conditions in Afar” Project

Today, UNOPS Ethiopia, Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS), and Afar regional office representatives launched the project “Multi-Sectoral interventions aimed at improving health conditions in Afar”. The project Launch workshop took place at Semera, Hotel Ardi, Afar marking the official start of field-level activities to be implemented in collaboration with the regional bureaus, which includes the rehabilitation and expansion of Wa’ama Primary School and Health Centre.

The government of Italy and UNOPS signed a €7.6 million project to support the Government of Ethiopia to strengthen the health systems and alleviate the suffering of the most vulnerable population through access to quality healthcare services and nutrition for school-going children. The multi-sectoral intervention project will be implemented in the woredas of Chifra and Hamer in the Afar and South Ethiopia regions.
The project intervention will significantly contribute to enhancing access to education, health, water, and energy. Access to quality health services will also address the health challenges the communities are facing directly reaching the communities living in Wa’ama. The project will ensure that all infrastructure constructed/rehabilitated are gender sensitive and disability friendly to cater to the needs of PLWDs and the target population.
Speaking at the launch Ms. Isabella Lucaferri said “The project confirms the Italian commitment to improve the life condition of the most vulnerable communities with quality health, educational services and improved WASH facilities and a specific attention to the environment in line with attaining the SDG goals of Agenda 2030 and with the sectoral Governmental Plans”.
Ms. Worknesh Mekonnen, Multi-Country Office (Ethiopia, Sudan, South Sudan, and Djibouti) Director and Representative to the AU on her part said “We are happy to work with the Italian government to improve the fundamental social services provided in the Afar regions woredas of Chifra. Inadequate access to basic services negatively affects the quality of life for millions of Ethiopians, contributing to poverty, marginalization, and inequality.  Our mission is to assist individuals in living better lives and countries in establishing enduring peace and development”.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/260845-launch-%E2%80%9Cmulti-sectoral-interventions-aimed-improving-health-conditions-afar%E2%80%9D-project




Date: 01 February 2024
Title: Joint Statement by Commissioner of the Ethiopian Disaster Risk Management Commission and UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Ethiopia on urgent funding needs for the ongoing response to food insecurity across the northern highlands of Ethiopia
Content: 01 February 2024
Joint Statement by Ambassador Shiferaw Teklemariam, Commissioner of the Ethiopian Disaster Risk Management Commission and Dr. Ramiz Alakbarov, United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Ethiopia on urgent funding needs for the ongoing response to food insecurity across the northern highlands of Ethiopia

The impact of an El Niño-driven drought is ravaging communities in the highlands of Ethiopia. This global climatic event impacted Ethiopia’s summer rains, leading to severe water shortages, dried pastures, and reduced harvest. Millions of lives and livestock are affected, with reports of alarming food insecurity and rising malnutrition.
The drought footprint is being felt across Afar, Amhara, Tigray, Oromia as well as Southern and South West Ethiopia Peoples' Region. Most affected, however, are vulnerable communities in northern Ethiopia that have yet to recover from the 2020-2022 conflict, particularly in localized areas of Amhara, Tigray and Afar where the recent harvest was severely disrupted leaving households with no or limited food stock.
Whilst the situation in many of these areas is already alarming, there is an opportunity to avert a serious humanitarian catastrophe. The Government of Ethiopia and humanitarian partners have undertaken a coordinated multi-sector assessment and analysis of the situation, which concluded that the number of critically food insecure people will continue to grow over the next few months reaching a peak of 10.8 million during the July-September lean season. Malnutrition rates in parts of Afar, Amhara and Tigray and other regions have already surpassed globally recognized crisis thresholds, although the situation is currently not reflective of famine-like conditions.
Thanks to the efforts of Government and generous donor support, some 6.6 million people are already being assisted with food and cash in a prioritized manner across affected areas, including through dynamic vulnerability-based targeting of households, with multisectoral response efforts being scaled up to many others.
In order to seize the opportunity to avert a further worsening of the drought impact, additional resources are urgently required to rapidly scale up and sustain response efforts, including in areas where national systems and public infrastructure have been disrupted by conflict.
There is a short window of opportunity to prevent further deterioration, urgent action is required now to allow a redoubling of response efforts.
For more information, please contact:
• Muluneh Woldemariam, Ethiopian Disaster Risk Management Commission (EDRMC), +251-910-318-103, muluneh.woldemariam@gmail.com
• Malda Nadew, UN office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, +251-953-852-223, nadew@un.org
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/259490-joint-statement-commissioner-ethiopian-disaster-risk-management-commission-and-un-resident




Date: 18 December 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General António Guterres Message on International Migrants Day
Content: 18 December 2023
Migration is a fact of life and a force for good. It promotes the exchange of knowledge and ideas and contributes to economic growth. It enables millions of people to pursue opportunities and improve their lives.
At the same time, poorly governed migration is a cause of great suffering. It forces people into the cruel realm of traffickers, where they face exploitation, abuse, and even death. It undermines trust in governance and institutions, inflames social tensions, and corrodes our common humanity.
On International Migrants Day, we highlight the urgent need for safe migration governance rooted in solidarity, partnership, and respect for human rights.
Five years ago, the international community adopted the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly, and Regular Migration. This has become an important reference point and resource for Member States to assess actions, enhance cooperation, and expand rights-based pathways for migration.
Yet such measures remain the exception, not the norm. Today and every day, we must work towards a more humane and orderly management of migration for the benefit of all, including communities of origin, transit, and destination.
Together, let us secure a safer and more prosperous future for all.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/256147-un-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres-message-international-migrants-day




Date: 12 December 2023
Title: UNOPS, Japan Gov’t provide water supply and sanitation facilities serving 80,000 IDPs in Qoloji Camp
Content: 12 December 2023
UNOPS and the Government of Japan have handed over constructed water supply and sanitation facilities in the Qoloji camp to the Somali Regional Government.
The facilities will benefit more than 80,000 internally displaced persons (IDPs), mainly women and children in the Qoloji Camp, in Somali Region of Ethiopia.
The handover ceremony took place at the Qoloji IDP camp on 12 December 2023 in the presence of H.E. Mustafa Mohamed, Somali Regional President of Ethiopia, Ms. Worknesh Mekonnen, UNOPS Multi Country Office Director and Representative to the AU, and Ms. Satsuki Fukai, Representative of the Government of Japan.
The Government of Japan has provided more than USD 1 million to improve access to water supplies and sanitation facilities for IDPs in the Qoloji IDP Camp in the Somali National Regional State. The project also assists the Ethiopian Government in its efforts to resettle internally displaced persons in an environmentally friendly manner.
The Qoloji Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) Camp in the Somali Regional State of Ethiopia faces ongoing public health risks due to the spread of cholera and other epidemics. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has severely weakened the already precarious healthcare system due to the crowded living conditions and limited access to necessary medicines. UNOPS, using funding from the Government of Japan, has enhanced the water supply infrastructure and sanitary facilities to address the spread of waterborne diseases in the region.
Through the project, UNOPS, has constructed two boreholes, put in place four water reservoirs, each with a 96m3 capacity, install 16 water points and constructed 10 new improvised pit latrines benefiting 80,000 Internally Displaced Persons, mainly women and children.
Ms. Worknesh Mekonnen, Multi-Country Office (Ethiopia, Sudan, South Sudan, and Djibouti) Director and Representative to the AU said “Over the past few years, UNOPS has had the great honor of working continuously with the governments of Ethiopia and Japan to deliver different successful projects that add value for our partners and improve lives. Following the construction of the water supplies and sanitation facilities, UNOPS, today, is happy to hand over fully functioning and equipped facilities that will contribute to meeting the needs of IDPS in the Qoloji camp.”
Ms. Satsuki Fukai Representative of the Government of Japan also commented, “Providing WASH facilities will help women by giving them time to take care of their children and engage in other social activities. It will relieve the women from the physical stress associated with fetching water and looking after their own health, safety and security, which will boost their self-reliance.“
“I strongly believe these WASH facilities should be well-maintained and used for a long time by the community.”
The project contributes to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals: SDG 3: Good health and well-being for people, and SDG 6: Ensuring Clean Water and Sanitation for all by 2030.

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/255743-unops-japan-gov%E2%80%99t-provide-water-supply-and-sanitation-facilities-serving-80000-idps-qoloji




Date: 11 December 2023
Title: UNOPS, partners support Bella Multi-Sport Field Renovation
Content: 11 December 2023
UNOPS and partners supported the renovation of Bella Multi-Sport Field in Addis Ababa.
The launch of the renovated multi-sport field located in the Bella neighbourhood in Yeka Sub-City, Addis Ababa, took place in the presence of H.E. Mayor of Addis Ababa, Ms. Adanech Abebie, Ambassador of Italy to Ethiopia Agostino Palese, UNOPS Multi-Country Office Director Ms. Worknesh Mekonnen, Head of the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS) Ms. Isabella Lucaferri as well as district officials and members of the community in Addis Ababa on 10 December 2023.
The renovation of the multi-sport field, funded by the Italian Development Cooperation, has a significant social value, as the area serves as a place of aggregation and recreation for the Bella community, which was partially served with minimum basic services. Furthermore, the limited availability of sitting stands around the court limited the participation of the community in organized sports events, which negatively affected social cohesion.
The neighbouring communities use this multi-sport field on a daily basis. It is estimated that over 350 people participate/attend sports events every week. This includes players and spectators from different age groups (children and adults) who participate in different sports events (mini football, Basketball, and volleyball).
The multi-sport field is expected to contribute towards the creation of a healthy community in the Bella area. Moreover, the court provides the chance for the community to come together, discuss various social, economic, and environmental issues, and address them in a consultative and participatory manner.
Ambassador of Italy to Ethiopia Agostino Palese said “I am particularly delighted to have been the driving force behind the restoration and beautification of the multi-sport field in Bela, the neighborhood where the Embassy of Italy is located. Thanks to this intervention, we are crucially contributing to the development of a better and healthier environment for all the users of the multi-sport field, producing an immediate positive impact on the quality of life of Bela’s residents. Furthermore, I strongly believe that sport is a great tool to bind people together, thus enhancing social cohesion and representing the possibility of social redemption, in Ethiopia as well as in Italy”.
Ms. Worknesh Mekonnen, Multi-Country Office (Ethiopia, Sudan, South Sudan, and Djibouti) Director and Representative to the AU said, “Sports bring people together as a way to not only encourage physical activities but also contribute to attaining specific development and peace objectives,”
“The Italian Agency for Development Cooperation for is proud of this structure, which will also support the inclusion through sport in the neighborhood. Sport, for example, has the ability to include women and girls in teamwork experiences and at the same time to build resilience and confidence, to defy gender stereotypes,” said Isabella Lucaferri, Head of the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation in Addis Ababa.
“The renovation of the multi-sport field combines our projects on urban sanitation and urban development and our priorities in the WaSH sector in the area,” added Lucaferri.
The multi-sport field is renovated to meet the required standards, with consideration of gender sensitivity and disability-friendly latrines with hand wash facilities. The project is aligned with and contributes to the realization of SDG 11.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/255485-unops-partners-support-bella-multi-sport-field-renovation




Date: 30 November 2023
Title: Joint Statement by Ambassador Shiferaw Teklemariam, Commissioner of the Ethiopian Disaster Risk Management Commission and Dr. Ramiz Alakbarov, United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Ethiopia on unprecedented floods
Content: 30 November 2023
Joint Statement on unprecedented floods.
In recent weeks, an estimated 1.5 million people in Ethiopia have been affected by ongoing floods and 600,000 displaced, intensifying the suffering of communities yet to recover from five consecutive seasons of severe drought in the Horn of Africa.
A delegation led by the Commissioner of the Ethiopian Disaster Risk Management Commission, and the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, in which key UN and NGO representatives participated, conducted field visits to affected areas between November 24 and 26 to assess the situation and explore options to scale up relief efforts.
Currently, the Government of Ethiopia and humanitarian partners are providing multi-sector lifesaving assistance to affected communities; however, the assistance remains sporadic and insufficient due to limited resources and response capacity in some areas. In Somali region out of more than 1 million affected, and around 500,000 newly displaced, only 10 per cent have been assisted. It is crucial to note that partners were already dealing with limited funds to respond to the previous drought and its lingering impact. As a result, vulnerable communities, still grappling with the aftermath of drought, face exacerbated challenges with subsequent flooding, worsening the ongoing climate crisis, and making recovery an uphill battle.
The impact of the flooding spans across 23 zones, affecting 85 districts in seven of the country's twelve regions. In some areas, communities report this as the worst flooding witnessed in years.
The most affected regions, including Somali, South East, Gambela, Oromia, Afar and Sidama underscore the severity of the situation. Somali region alone accounts for 80 per cent of those affected, with Shabelle, Afder, Liban, and Dawa zones experiencing the most substantial impact.
The floods have caused extensive damage, affecting lives, displacing populations, and devastating crops, livestock, and vital infrastructure. Houses, shops, schools, and agricultural lands are submerged. Additionally, health risks have surged, leading to increased cases of cholera, malaria, and dengue fever due to damaged water and sanitation facilities and a surge in mosquito populations.
In addition to the ongoing lifesaving operations the Government has deployed its national defense force helicopters and boats for rescue operations, but also to support transportation of relief aid to hard-to-reach areas.
Urgent action is needed to swiftly bolster the response by mobilizing additional resources and logistical capacity, both locally and globally. Accessing affected areas for humanitarian supply delivery poses the most significant challenge and while the government has mobilized land and air assets, significant gaps remain. Due to inaccessible roads, entire villages have been cut off rendering markets non-functional. Consequently, communities heavily rely on humanitarian deliveries.
It is also imperative to address funding needs beyond the immediate humanitarian response to ensure that predictable, multi-year funding can expedite life-saving assistance, while addressing root causes and supporting communities to adapt to climate change and become more resilient to future shocks.
For more information, please contact:
• Muluneh Woldemariam, Ethiopian Disaster Risk Management Commission (EDRMC), +251-910318103, muluneh.woldemariam@gmail.com;
• Hayat Abu-Saleh, UN office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, +251-911218934, abusaleh@un.org .
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/254231-joint-statement-ambassador-shiferaw-teklemariam-commissioner-ethiopian-disaster-risk




Date: 09 November 2023
Title: UNOPS, partners building better lives and supporting peace and sustainable development
Content: 09 November 2023
UNOPS Country Office organized a Partner’s Day Workshop with the theme ‘Fostering Collaborations to Advance the SDG Agenda: A Celebration of Success’. The workshop was held on November 8 at Hyatt Regency Hotel-Addis Ababa and attended by representatives of Government, Embassies, multilateral organizations, international non-governmental organizations and UN agencies in Ethiopia.
Providing a wide range of project management, procurement, and infrastructure services in Ethiopia, Sudan, South Sudan, and Djibouti, UNOPS Multi-Country Office was opened in 2014. It has successfully provided more than $1 billion in services for its partners over the past six years.
At the workshop, strong statements of support for UNOPS were made both by the government of Ethiopia and representatives of international organizations.
UN Assistant Secretary-General and UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Ethiopia, Dr. Ramiz Alakbarov, in his remarks, called on all stakeholders to revitalize and sustain partnerships towards achieving the SDGs.
“We are halfway to the 2030 deadline, the SDGs are in deep trouble. Progress stalled in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the climate crisis is deepening, and goals related to hunger, health, biodiversity, strong institutions, pollution, and peaceful societies are all off track.”
“It is essential to enhance our partnerships that will also pave the way for mobilizing more resources and ensuring better coordination and efficient delivery,” Dr. Alakbarov. He also called on all actors to put the humanitarian-development-peace nexus at the core of their work to support Ethiopia in addressing its multiple challenges.
Ms. Isabella Lucaferri, Head of the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation Office, Addis Ababa, underscored the need to put sustainability at the center when partners deliver projects.
“As a development partner for Ethiopia, we take sustainability as an essential component of a project. We appreciate our collaboration with UNOPS because of the quality of the interventions they provide.”
She also emphasized infrastructures as vital interventions to achieve sustainable development.
Speaking at the event, Ms. Worknesh Mekonnen, Multi-Country Office (Ethiopia, Sudan, South Sudan, and Djibouti) Director and Representative to the AU said, “UNOPS helps foster sustainable development through bolstering collaboration.”
“We are fully committed to supporting the country's efforts to achieve its national development priorities and the Sustainable Development Goals. Through our collaboration, as part of the United Nations Country Team in Ethiopia, Sudan, South Sudan, and Djibouti, we look forward to delivering impact for better health, education and lives over the coming years,” she added.
UNOPS, as an operational arm of the United Nations, focuses on creating a more resilient, inclusive, and sustainable world despite ever-growing obstacles - helping a range of partners implement $2.2 billion worth of aid and development projects every year. Firmly grounded in UN values, UNOPS ensures its partners maximize the positive impact of their peace and security, humanitarian and development projects. Equality, inclusiveness, sustainability and resilience form the foundations of UNOPS work.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/252272-unops-partners-building-better-lives-and-supporting-peace-and-sustainable-development




Date: 02 November 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Message on the International Day to End Impunity for Crimes Against Journalists
Content: 02 November 2023
Journalists and the media fulfill a vital role in society, upholding and enabling democracy and holding power to account. They are essential to strong and accountable institutions and to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
Journalists and the media fulfill a vital role in society, upholding and enabling democracy and holding power to account. They are essential to strong and accountable institutions and to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
But this important position puts journalists at risk. Their commitment to investigating and revealing the truth means they are often targeted for attack, illegal detention, and even death.
In 2022, according to UNESCO, at least 88 journalists were killed for doing their jobs – a sharp increase on the preceding years. The current conflict in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territory is taking a horrific toll on journalists.
But the majority of journalists who are killed are not war reporters; they are working in countries that are at peace, investigating corruption, trafficking, human rights violations, and environmental issues.
I am deeply alarmed by these figures, and by the rise in threats of all kinds against journalists. Detention of journalists is at an all-time high. Online harassment of journalists, particularly women, is being used as a tool to silence them.
We need better safeguards to defend the journalists who are keeping us informed.
On the International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists, we call on all States to prevent violence against journalists, to provide a safe environment for them to go about their jobs, to bring to justice those who commit crimes against journalists and media workers, and to ensure support for victims and survivors.
Today and every day, we are grateful to the journalists and all media professionals who risk their health and lives to keep us informed, and to keep the truth alive.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/251521-un-secretary-general-message-international-day-end-impunity-crimes-against-journalists




Date: 31 October 2023
Title: UNOPS, Ministry of Health launch project to support Health Sector Transformation Plan implementation
Content: 31 October 2023
UNOPS and Ethiopia's Ministry of Health have partnered to support the implementation of the Health Sector Transformation Plan (HSTP) II plan.
The United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) and the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) had their first official kick-off meeting for a project known as “Strengthening the Capacity of MOH for the Realization of Health Sector Transformation Plan (HSTP)II Selected Priorities.’’
The three-year project, with a targeted budget of $10.2M, aims to contribute towards the realization of selected strategic priorities of the HSTP-II through the establishment of a project management unit that will put in place systems, processes, tools and technical resources for the realization of the identified activities. The project will also establish the procedures, methods, tools, and necessary instructions and manuals for its successful execution.
The workshop organized by the Ministry of Health was attended by Dr. Ruth Nigatu, Chief of Staff for the Ministry of Health, Worknesh Mekonnen UNOPS Multi-Country Office Director, as well as technical personnel from both organizations. Also in attendance were representatives of the development partners supporting the project: the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office.
In her opening remarks, Dr. Ruth emphasized the significance of the project and its contribution towards the achievement of the HSTP-II strategic priorities.
UNOPS Multi-Country Office Director also noted the contribution of the project towards meeting SDG 3 which aims at ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all at all ages, including reducing premature mortality from non-communicable diseases, increasing access to sexual and reproductive health care and services, and reducing the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water, and soil pollution.
The project is designed with extensive consultation with the technical teams of FMoH and UNOPS.

Press contact details:
Meron Aberra, Communication Officer, UNOPS, Tel:+251911221060
Email: merons@unops.org
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/251229-unops-ministry-health-launch-project-support-health-sector-transformation-plan




Date: 20 October 2023
Title: Project improves health and education facilities serving 18,000 people in Tigray
Content: 20 October 2023
The Megab Primary School and Health Centre in Hawzen, Tigray, have been successfully reconstructed after suffering extensive damage due to conflict.
Both institutions were reconstructed through the Government of Ethiopia's Response-Recovery-Resilience for Conflict Affected Communities in Ethiopia (3R4CACE) Project, which is financed by the World Bank and implemented by UNOPS. The facilities can now provide better educational and health services to 18,450 people in this community.
The Megab Primary School with 912 students and 33 staff has 14 building blocks which were impacted due to the conflict and lack of maintenance. Within the 3R4CACE Project, the rapid response works were done by UNOPS to restore and improve the conditions for quality education. The works included the repair of the roof, walls, floors, replacement of windows and doors, installation of new electrical wiring system and firefighting equipment, with improvements done on the sanitary conditions and access to water. The value of this reconstruction including the labour, construction materials and logistics was USD 127,000.
Another conflict-affected facility, the Megab Health Centre with five blocks, has been also reconstructed as part of the rapid response activities of the 3R4CACE Project. The works included repairs on the roofs, floors and walls. The facility now has improved sanitary conditions to serve 18,450 people in this community and 26 health centre staff. The total cost of this reconstruction, including labor, construction materials, and logistics, amounted to approximately USD 180,000.
The Response-Recovery-Resilience for Conflict Affected Communities in Ethiopia (3R4CACE) Project aims to rebuild and improve access to basic services and climate-resilient community infrastructure and as well as improve access to multi-sectoral response services for Gender-Based Violence (GBV) survivors in selected conflict-affected communities in Ethiopia.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/256819-project-improves-health-and-education-facilities-serving-18000-people-tigray




Date: 18 October 2023
Title: Reconstruction of Primary School, Health Post in Tigray Enhances Services for 25,000 people
Content: 18 October 2023
The May Hayde Primary School and Ara Asegede Health Post in Hintalo, Tigray, underwent successful reconstruction after suffering extensive damage as a consequence of conflict.
This reconstruction was made possible through the Government of Ethiopia's Response-Recovery-Resilience for Conflict Affected Communities in Ethiopia (3R4CACE) Project, which is financed by the World Bank and implemented by UNOPS. The primary objective of this intervention on the school and health post is to enhance healthcare and education services for the 25,000 citizens residing in this community.
Due to the conflict and lack of maintenance, the primary school and health post suffered from damaged roofs, walls, floors, and joinery. UNOPS, as part of the 3R4CACE Project, carried out the necessary rehabilitation to enhance education and health services delivery. The Ara Asegede Health Post serves 25,000 citizens, with over 80 outpatients per day. The reconstruction covered installation of doors and windows, roofing, painting and rehabilitation of floors and drainage. For the first time, a water supply system was installed in this Health Post, which previously relied on rainwater. Furthermore, a new toilet block was built, significantly improving sanitation within the facility 100,000. The total value of this reconstruction including labour, construction material and logistics amount to USD 100,000.
Similarly, the May Hayde Primary School, which was also affected as a consequence of conflict in Tigray, underwent reconstruction. Five classroom blocks and the administration building were reconstructed as part of the rapid response activities of the 3R4CACE Project. The school, which had not been maintained for decades, lacked toilet blocks after the conflict. The rehabilitation of the May Hayde Primary School included the installation of new roofing sheets, new floors, and the construction of new drainage systems. Additionally, new windows and doors were installed to improve the learning environment. The school underwent a comprehensive reconstruction, which included repainting the entire facility and equipping it with 200 new desks and 16 blackboards. Additionally, a new standard flush toilet facility was constructed to enhance sanitary conditions for the 675 students and 21 school staff members. The total cost of this reconstruction, including labor, construction materials, and logistics, amounted to approximately USD 80,000.
The Response-Recovery-Resilience for Conflict Affected Communities in Ethiopia (3R4CACE) Project of the Government of Ethiopia financed by the World Bank with USD 300 million, aims to (i) rebuild and improve access to basic services and climate-resilient community infrastructure and (ii) improve access to multi-sectoral response services for Gender-Based Violence (GBV) survivors; in selected conflict-affected communities in Ethiopia.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/250320-reconstruction-primary-school-health-post-tigray-enhances-services-25000-people




Date: 09 October 2023
Title: UNOPS and UN Women claim rural areas with equal opportunities for all
Content: 09 October 2023
UNOPS and UN Women will launch a campaign to call for action to empower women in rural areas.
To mark International Rural Women’s Day, UNOPS and UN Women will launch a campaign to call for action to empower women in rural areas so they are better equipped to contribute to food security and climate change adaptation in their communities.
Addis Ababa, 08 October 2023― In Ethiopia, UNOPS is marking International Rural Women’s Day by launching the campaign to underline the contribution of rural women to development in Africa and highlight the importance of investing in gender-sensitive infrastructure that will allow women to have equal access to infrastructure as well as benefit from public expenditure. Moreover, women to have an increased role in decision-making processes in local development prioritization for an effective and sustainable contribution to food security and climate adaptation.
The objective of the campaign is to call on micro and macro-level policymakers and decision-makers, members of societies, and international partners to action to support gender-responsive infrastructure in Africa that can empower rural women to access productive resources and opportunities, accelerate their socio-economic participation, and boost gender contribution to climate adaptation and food security.
The campaign will include joint activities in several African countries such as the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Sudan and Zimbabwe, among others. These events will be supported by a social media campaign in UNOPS and UN Women regional and national channels in Africa.
On 13 October, UN Women Africa and UNOPS Africa will be hosting a live conversation, where stakeholders ―including a woman from an African rural area and a specialized journalist― will highlight the importance of addressing persistent gender gaps in the response to climate change and food insecurity.
UNOPS Director a.i. for Africa Region, Dalila Gonçalves, said: “Gender-blind infrastructure limits women’s access to financial resources, land, education, health, and other rights and opportunities. Also, it limits their capacity for coping with and adapting to climate change impacts. Women can play an active role as change-makers and educators in embedding sustainability within different infrastructure sectors. Supporting the empowerment of rural women through gender-responsive infrastructure, UNOPS helps low and middle-income countries across Africa in their journey toward the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals.”
N Women Regional Director for East and Southern Africa and Regional Director a.i for West and Central Africa, Maxime Houinato, said: “Rural African women's pivotal role in bolstering regional economies and combating poverty is irrefutable. Yet, they grapple with pronounced challenges in securing vital agricultural resources, restricting their agricultural productivity and impacting their adaptability to climate change. UN Women studies reveal that gender disparities in agriculture have a direct impact on the economic growth of countries ranging from 13 to 28 per cent of GDP, equivalent to annually elevating 80,000 to 238,000 individuals above the poverty line per country. It's imperative that we advance programmes and policies that increase financing for rural women’s access to labour and time-saving equipment and services, fostering gender equality and improving rural women’s economic security."
According to UN Women, women make up more than 50 percent of Africa’s population and 80 percent of them reside in rural areas. The International Labour Organization states that giving women the same opportunities as men could raise agricultural production by 2.5 to 4 percent in the poorest regions and reduce the number of malnourished people by 12 to 17 percent.
The UNOPS Report, ‘Infrastructure for gender equality and the empowerment of women’, stated that in rural areas inadequate infrastructure services disproportionately affect women’s time use because they bear the burden of household tasks, like collecting water and firewood, cooking, cleaning, and providing childcare. This limits the time available for pursuing educational, economic, or social activities.
Women also face disadvantages when it comes to land and livestock ownership or equal pay which hamper their productivity and growth, resulting in weak rural economies, and impacting the local and global food systems and climate adaptation capacity.

Press contact details:
Hilaria Espin, UNOPS Africa Communication Specialist,
anahilariae@unops.org, +45 30 17 75 42
James Ochweri, UN Women East and Southern Africa Communication Associate, james.ochweri@unwomen.org, +254 723 880 877
Kadiatou Boiro, UN Women West and Central Africa Communications Analyst
kadiatour.boiro@unwomen.org +221 77 402 00 52
About UNOPS
UNOPS mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. We help the United Nations, governments and other partners to manage projects, and deliver sustainable infrastructure and procurement in an efficient way. Read more: www.unops.org
About UN Women
UN Women is the UN organization dedicated to gender equality and the empowerment of women. A global champion for women and girls, UN Women was established to accelerate progress on meeting their needs worldwide. www.unwomen.org


United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/248910-unops-and-un-women-claim-rural-areas-equal-opportunities-all




Date: 20 September 2023
Title: Dongolat Elementary School and Health Centre Reconstructed with Support from the Government of Ethiopia and World Bank, Now Ready to Serve the Community
Content: 20 September 2023
The Dongolat Elementary School and Dongolat Health Centre in Amdi Wayane, Hintalo, Tigray, were successfully reconstructed.
The Dongolat Elementary School and Dongolat Health Centre in Amdi Wayane, Hintalo, Tigray, were successfully reconstructed within Ethiopia’s Response-Recovery-Resilience for Conflict Affected Communities in Ethiopia (3R4CACE) Project of the the Government of Ethiopia, financed by the World Bank, and implemented by UNOPS.
The Elementary School and Health Centre were officially handed over today in the presence of the Head of the Regional Health Bureau Dr. Amanuel Haile, Head of the Regional Education Bureau Dr. Kiros Guesh, and UNOPS Ethiopia Multi-Country Office Director Worknesh Gonet.
As a consequence of the conflict and no maintenance, both facilities suffered damage on the roofs, walls, floors, windows, doors, which required rehabilitation in order to restore its services. Within the rapid response activities of the 3R4CACE Project, UNOPS carried out six-months long reconstruction of the Dongolat Health Centre which included installation of new roofing sheets, floors, windows and doors, while the electrical installations were repaired. One new flush toilet block facility was constructed, which improved sanitary conditions, and the new ramps for the people with disabilities were built to enable access. In addition to this, stationeries, hygiene items and mattresses, pillows, bed sheets and other support material were provided to the Health Centre.
The total value of the Dongolat Health Centre reconstruction including labour, construction material and logistics was USD 125,000, which improved conditions for work and medical care of 15,619 people (7,950 female and 7,669 male) and 24 employees (14 health professionals and ten supporting staff).
The Dongolat Primary School was significantly affected as a consequence of the conflict in Tigray, as four out of eight classroom blocks were structurally damaged together with the desks and blackboards. The school built decades ago was not previously maintained, and had no toilet blocks after the conflict. Within the rapid response activities of the 3R4CACE Project implemented by UNOPS, the rehabilitation of the Dongolat Primary School lasted for six months and the works envisaged installation of new roofing sheets and new floors, together with the construction of the new drainage. New windows and doors were produced and installed, while the school has been completely repainted and equipped with 200 new desks and 16 blackboards. Two new standard flush toilet facilities were constructed, which improved sanitary conditions. The classrooms became accessible for the students and teachers with disabilities, as the new ramp access was constructed. In addition to this, the 3R4CACE project paid USD 9,817 to cover four months of stipends to teachers so that they could return to work and children could get taught.
The project efforts will improve access to education for 662 pupils and work for 24 teachers providing them with better conditions to study and teach. The total value of this reconstruction including labour, construction material and logistics was USD 180,000.
The reconstruction process of both facilities provided employment opportunities for over 100 local workers. Additionally, the construction materials were sourced from the same area, which helped to support the economy of the local community. Additionally, the community water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) rapid response intervention in Amdi Wayane included the rehabilitation of the water supply pumping station (some 300 metres from the Dongolat Primary School), which improved the access to water to the local population. The recovery phase of the project will include the institutional WASH in Dongolat Primary School and Health Centre, which should start in the next several months.
The Response-Recovery-Resilience for Conflict Affected Communities in Ethiopia (3R4CACE) Project of the Government of Ethiopia financed by the World Bank with USD 300 million, aims to (i)rebuild and improve access to basic services and climate-resilient community infrastructure and (ii) improve access to multi-sectoral response services for Gender-Based Violence (GBV) survivors; in selected conflict-affected communities in Ethiopia.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/246628-dongolat-elementary-school-and-health-centre-reconstructed-support-government-ethiopia-and




Date: 05 July 2023
Title: EU+ commit support for Ethiopia's National Dialogue
Content: 05 July 2023
The European Union together with several EU  Member  States  bilaterally  (Austria,  Denmark,  Germany, Luxembourg, Spain, Sweden, and The Netherlands), as well as Norway, have today jointly provided 7 million Euros (385 million ETH Birr) to support the work of the Ethiopian National Dialogue Commission (ENDC). More EU countries are expected to join in this effort in the near future.
The funds are channeled and will be managed through a UNDP multi- partner fund. The fund was established in response to a request from the Government of Ethiopia (GoE), conveyed through the Ministry of Finance to the UN.
The ENDC is a nationally-owned initiative established by the House of People’s Representatives 2022 with a three-year mandate to lead an independent, inclusive, and transparent national dialogue in Ethiopia.
According  to  the  proclamation  passed  by  the  parliament,  the Commission’s mandate includes the establishment of “a system of deliberations that will improve the relationship among the different segments of the population as well as between the public and the Government so as to enable the creation of new political dispensation that is marked by mutual trust”.
Speaking at the signing ceremony, EU Ambassador Roland Kobia stressed that “Ethiopia has the potential to address its challenges through an inclusive national dialogue. The European Union is therefore keen to support Ethiopia's National Dialogue Commission in its crucial task combining inclusivity and timeliness, in order to bring lasting peace and reconciliation to Ethiopia. In this regard, the EU has expressed its new policy roadmap for relations with Ethiopia in the Council Conclusions adopted unanimously by all EU Member States and EU institutions in April 2023.”
UNDP Resident Representative Turhan Saleh added that the Dialogue ‘provides a key opportunity to peacefully debate and discuss key issues of national importance and help build a new political culture in Ethiopia, one that embeds the normal, non-violent, give-and-take of a democratic society.’
The ENDC is currently undertaking initial consultations to identify dialogue participants and key national level agenda issues. This work has taken place in Benishangul-Gumuz, Gambella, Harari, Sidaama, South-West Ethiopia regional states, and Dire-Dawa city administration in recent weeks. The ENDC plans to continue this preparatory work in the remaining regions, as well as with the diaspora, in the coming months, and conclude this process by mid-September. Subsequently, the next phase of the dialogue process may commence.

For more information, please contact:
European Union
Solomon.kebede@eeas.europa.eu https://www.eeas.europa.eu/ethiopia/

UNDP
Communication.et@undp.org
https://www.undp.org/ethiopia
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/238986-eu-commit-support-ethiopias-national-dialogue




Date: 29 May 2023
Title: The UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety arrives in Ethiopia for a two-day visit in support of new mobility initiatives
Content: 29 May 2023
UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety, Mr. Jean Todt, has arrived in Ethiopia as part of his visit to East and Southern Africa to advocate for the effective implementation of the Global Plan for the Decade of Action for Road Safety 2021-2030, which aims to halve the number of victims on the road by 2030.

The Special Envoy Kenya will also visit Kenya (June 1-5) and Zimbabwe (June 6-8). The purpose of the mission is also to assess progress after the United Nations Road Safety Performance Reviews (RSPR) of Ethiopia (2020) and Zimbabwe (2022).

These reviews, which are strongly supported by the Special Envoy are an initiative of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) to assist governments in identifying the most fundamental road safety priority needs and to offer recommendations to strengthen road safety management capacities.

This visit of the Special Envoy will be also an opportunity to look at the results of UN Road Safety Fund (UNRSF) projects in the region.  The UNRSF-funded project, 'Safer Streets for Road Users in Africa', is improving road safety for pedestrians and cyclists in Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Mozambique and Guinea led by UN-HABITAT, UNEP, UNECA and UNICEF. To date, in Ethiopia, bike share trainings were held for transport authorities, and the Mayor of Hawassa requested local authorities to research car-free days and zones. Meanwhile in Kenya, a Minecraft workshop – digital lego for urban design – was conducted, followed by tactical urbanism interventions to test the designs developed by vulnerable road users, and showcased at last year’s Africities Summit in Kisumu.

“The majority of road traffic deaths occur in Africa and the first victims are young people. As  projections say that by 2050, at least one in every three births will be in Africa, accelerated and strategic action by stakeholders and governments is essential," highlights the Special Envoy.

Road crashes affect principally the most vulnerable

Road traffic crashes are the leading cause of youth mortality in Africa. Globally, Africa accounts for about 25% of the number of road crash victims, while the continent has barely 2% of the world's vehicle fleet. Sub-Saharan Africa is the region most affected, with a fatality rate of 27/100,000 inhabitants, three times higher than the European average of 9/100,000. The world average is 18/100,000.

According to the World Bank, the mortality rate in Ethiopia is 28 per 100,000 inhabitants. Car occupants are the most vulnerable road users in the country and accounted for nearly 52% of road deaths in 2018.  Pedestrians constituted the second most vulnerable road user group in the country, with up to 33 percent of fatalities, and with the largest share of road traffic deaths occurring in towns and cities.  Buses and commercial vehicles (trucks) were involved in a disproportionately high number of road traffic deaths, representing nearly 65% of fatal crashes in the country in 2018.

According to the World Bank, the mortality rate in Kenya is 28 per 100,000 inhabitants. Monthly fatalities in the country increased by 26% from January 2015 to January 2020, while injuries increased by 46.5% over the same period. Pedestrians make up the majority of road deaths (37%). The other vulnerable road users are pillion passengers and motorcyclists (boda-boda).

Address the whole system and rethink mobility

Drunk driving, speeding, drowsiness, negligence, non-use of seat belts and helmets, negligence and non-compliance with traffic regulations are the main cause of road crashes in Africa. The ageing of the vehicle fleet and public transport, false licenses, lack of enforcement of penalties and the lack of seriousness of technical inspections are also major causes of road crashes.

The core solutions to address road safety at the country level fall under the safe systems approach, which considers improved management, safer roads, vehicles and road users, as well as better post-crash response. With African cities undergoing rapid population growth, urban transport infrastructure services are essential to improve mobility and enhance access to opportunities. The management of road safety data is also key to better design mobility policies.

Among the solutions to be implemented include the need to strengthen health services for the injured, adherence to the African Road Safety Charter, the United Nations Basic Conventions on Road Safety, and the need to strengthen public awareness campaigns.

It is also necessary to protect the most vulnerable road users, namely pedestrians and cyclists, who are often also the poorest and youngest. Africa has the highest proportion of cyclist and pedestrian fatalities, accounting for 44% of the total number of road deaths. Walking remains the dominant mode of transport in Ethiopia, including Addis Ababa where walking accounts for 54% of all travel. But like many African countries, many streets lack continuous walkways and safe facilities for cycling. As we have just come out of the UN Global Road Safety Week, with the theme - #RethinkMobility, it is time for Africa to seize the opportunity to invest in safe and sustainable mobility solutions for all.

In addition to the human tragedy, road crashes trap countries into a vicious circle of poverty. According to the World Bank, the cost of road crashes represents 8,8% of Ethiopia's annual GDP , 9,1% of Kenya's and 13,3% of Zimbabwe’s.  Another reason to rethink mobility and to invest in road safety.

One recommendation of the RSPR in Ethiopia was for the Government to prioritize efforts to address capacity deficiencies of the institutions involved in road safety in the country, including greater sustainable financing for road safety. It also recommended strengthening road traffic legislation and other related regulations, such as the driving licensing directives. The establishment of a crash data management system was also targeted as critical to introducing evidence-based interventions in the country.

New mobility initiatives in Ethiopia

The government of Ethiopia has demonstrated commitment to adopting a more equitable approach that addresses the mobility needs of all citizens. In June 2020, the Ministry of Transport, with the support of UNEP, UN Habitat, UNRSF and ITDP, launched the Non-Motorized Transport Strategy 2020-2029, a national policy designed to promote walking and cycling as a key mode of transport. Ethiopian communities, with government support, have also started an Open Streets Movement called Menged Le Sew, meaning, “Streets for the People.”  This is a monthly initiative that aims to tackle some of the consequences of rapid urbanization by focusing on the importance of healthy active living, sustainable mobility, social cohesion and safe streets. Car-free days play an important role in shifting the mindsets of citizens and policy makers.

The obsolescence of the vehicle fleet requires special attention.

Used cars constitute over 85% of the vehicle fleet in Ethiopia, many of which are not equipped with basic safety features.  According to Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) and the central vehicle registry (CVR), between 2011 and 2019 the number of imported second-hand public and private vehicles increased from 800,000 to 1,500,000.

The United Nations Road Safety Fund is investing in a project for importing safer and environmentally friendly vehicles in Africa.  In partnership with government ministries, the private sector, and civil society, the initiative supports the regulation of the export and import of used vehicles in Africa, particularly vehicle regulations and technical inspections or anti-lock braking systems. In 2021, the project contributed to the European Commission's proposal, adopted in 2023, to improve regulations on waste shipments.


---------------------
Media Contact:
Secretariat of the UN Secretary-General's Special Envoy for Road Safety:
Priti Gautam priti.gautam@un.org
Stephanie Schumacher stephanie.schumacher@un.org
-----------------
Notes to Editors:

The United Nations has invested significantly in tackling the problem of road safety globally. Following the “Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011-2020”, the UN General Assembly in August 2020 adopted a resolution on “Improving Road Safety”, that reconfirmed its commitment to halving the number of global traffic deaths and injuries and to providing access to safe, affordable, accessible, and sustainable transport systems for all by 2030. In July 2022, the road safety community met in New York City for the first ever High-Level Meeting on Improving Global Road Safety at the United Nations General Assembly, unanimously adopting a text titled: “Political declaration of the high-level meeting on improving global road safety”.

To galvanize intersectoral actions and raise the visibility of road safety, the UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, appointed in 2015 Jean Todt as his Special Envoy for Road Safety. He was reconfirmed in this role by the new UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, in 2017 and in 2021. In 2018, together with 14 UN organizations, the Special Envoy launched the UN Road Safety Fund (UNRSF). In his role as UN Special Envoy, Mr. Todt contributes, among other things, to mobilize sustained political commitment to make road safety a priority; to advocate and raise awareness of UN legal instruments on road safety; to share established good practices in this area; to striving to generate adequate funding through strategic partnerships between the public, private and non-governmental sectors.


Special Envoy brochure and Twitter account.

UNECE acts as the secretariat for the Special Envoy for Road Safety. UNECE is the custodian of the United Nations road safety legal instruments applicable worldwide, such as the Convention on Road Traffic, the Convention on Road Signs and Signals, and the 1958, 1997 and 1998 Vehicle Regulations Agreements.  UNECE services the ECOSOC Committee of Experts on Transport of Dangerous Goods, as well as the only permanent United Nations intergovernmental forum on road safety (Working Party on Road Traffic Safety) and the World Forum for Harmonization of Vehicle Regulations, both in the framework of the Inland Transport Committee, which is the only permanent UN forum specialized in inland modes of transport.

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/233805-un-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-special-envoy-road-safety-arrives-ethiopia-two-day-visit-support-new




Date: 26 May 2023
Title: UN Headquarters Observes International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers
Content: 26 May 2023
Two Ethiopian peacekeepers honoured posthumously at UN ceremony.
UN Headquarters observed the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers and marked the 75th anniversary of UN Peacekeeping on Thursday, 25 May.
In 1948, the historic decision was made to deploy military observers to the Middle East to supervise the implementation of Israel-Arab Armistice Agreements, in what became the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization.
Since that time, more than two million peacekeepers from 125 countries have since served in 71 operations around the world. Today, 87,000 women and men are serving in 12 conflict zones across Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East.
Ethiopia is currently the 13th largest contributor to UN Peacekeeping with 1,470 military and police personnel serving in the UN Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS).
During formal ceremonies at United Nations Headquarters, Secretary-General, António Guterres, laid a wreath to honour the more than 4,200 UN peacekeepers who have lost their lives since 1948. He also presided over a ceremony in the General Assembly Hall at which Dag Hammarskjöld Medals were awarded posthumously to 103 military, police, and civilian peacekeepers, who lost their lives serving under the UN flag last year.
Among the peacekeepers honoured posthumously with the Dag Hammarskjold medal were two from Ethiopia:  Major Adnew Eshetu HABTESILASSE who served with the UN Interim Security Force for Abyei (UNISFA); and Mr. Yonathan Lucas EMBAYE who served in a civilian capacity with the UN Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO).
The Secretary-General also presented the 2022 Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award to Captain Cecilia Erzuah, a military officer from Ghana who served with the UN Interim Security Force for Abyei (UNISFA).
Created in 2016, the Award “recognizes the dedication and effort of an individual peacekeeper in promoting the principles of UN Security Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security”.
In his message, the Secretary-General said: “United Nations peacekeepers are the beating heart of our commitment to a more peaceful world. For 75 years, they have supported people and communities rocked by conflict and upheaval across the globe. Today, on the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers, we honour their extraordinary contributions to international peace and security.”
The theme for this year’s observance, “Peace Begins with Me”, recognizes the contribution and efforts of UN peacekeepers alongside many partners including the communities that we serve to secure peace and progress.
Jean-Pierre Lacroix, Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations, said: “Peacekeeping is a powerful example of how strong partnerships and collective political will can result in meaningful change. Working together with local communities and other partners, our personnel protect civilians, advance political solutions, and help end conflicts in the pursuit of sustainable peace. We appreciate the support of all stakeholders to ensure that UN Peacekeeping can continue to work as an effective multilateral tool for global peace and security.”
The International Day of UN Peacekeepers was established by the UN General Assembly in 2002, to pay tribute to all men and women serving in peacekeeping, and to honour the memory of those who have lost their lives in the cause of peace.
Media Contacts:  Douglas Coffman, Department of Global Communications -+1 (917) 361-9923,
E-mail: coffmand@un.org; or
Oana Raluca Topala, Department of Peace Operations
E-mail: topala@un.org
For more information, please visit the Peacekeepers Day websites here: https://www.un.org/en/observances/peacekeepers-day; or
https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/international-day-of-peacekeepers-2023
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/233399-un-headquarters-observes-international-day-united-nations-peacekeepers




Date: 08 May 2023
Title: Ethiopian farmers set to benefit from climate-smart initiatives
Content: 08 May 2023
Addis Ababa - Against a backdrop of multiple shocks, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, today, signed the Participatory Agriculture and Climate Transformation Programme (PACT) grant agreement for US$ 106.54 million. The programme will support rural households to sustainably improve their incomes and food and nutrition security and help them build their resilience.
Poverty levels in Ethiopia reduced from 45.5 per cent in 1994 to 19 per cent in 2020. Despite the positive trend and the economic progress achieved over the years, poverty and food insecurity, as well as decent employment remain a challenge due to multiple crises affecting the country.
The agriculture sector in Ethiopia accounts for about 45 per cent of the country’s GDP and 90 per cent of its exports. Agriculture provides employment to approximately 80 per cent of the population, the majority of whom live in rural areas.
The country’s vulnerability to food insecurity is strongly linked to climate change.
Small-scale farmers, who produce the bulk of the country’s food, depend on rainfall to grow their crops. Unfortunately, due to increasingly unreliable rainfall and the escalating cost of inputs, their production capacity has been reduced significantly. The situation is made worse by their low coping capacities.
“The grant comes at a critical time for the country, to build the resilience of smallholder farmers to multiple shocks and safeguard food and nutrition security. This grant offers us the opportunity to build on IFAD’s previous work in the country to facilitate farmers’ access to rural finance, technologies and markets, and to scale up these interventions that have a multiplier effect on building resilience of food systems in Ethiopia,” said Sara Mbago-Bhunu, IFAD Regional Director, East and Southern Africa Division.
PACT will be implemented over a seven-year period and aims to benefit 750,000 rural people in 6 regional states – Amhara; Oromia; Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples’ Region; Sidama; Somali; and South western Ethiopia – with a focus on women (50 per cent of project participants), youth (40 per cent) and people with disabilities (5 per cent). Additional financing, to expand the geographic area to the rest of the country, is being negotiated with other financiers.
To achieve its goal, the grant will support community-led, climate-smart initiatives that aim to improve productivity through equitable and sustainable access to natural resources and market-led production. The project will also promote agribusiness development to strengthen farmers’ and pastoralists’ capacity to access remunerative markets and rural finance.
The PACT grant is funded by IFAD (US$ 78.2 million), the European Union (US$ 17.84 million) and ASAP (US$ 10.5 million).
Since 1980, IFAD has invested US$829.83 million in 21 rural development programmes and projects in Ethiopia worth a total of US$2.3 billion. These have directly benefited around 11.5 million rural households.
Note to editors
IFAD is an international financial institution and a United Nations specialized agency. Based in Rome – the United Nations food and agriculture hub – IFAD invests in rural people, empowering them to reduce poverty, increase food security, improve nutrition and strengthen resilience. Since 1978, we have provided more than US$24 billion in grants and low-interest loans to fund projects in developing countries. A wide range of photographs and broadcast-quality video content of IFAD’s work in rural communities are available for download from our Image Bank.
Press release No.: IFAD/XX/2023
………………………………..
Contact:
Linda Odhiambo
Communications Analyst
IFAD Communications Division
Mob: +254 780320073
E-mail: l.odhiambo@ifad.org
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/230613-ethiopian-farmers-set-benefit-climate-smart-initiatives




Date: 13 April 2023
Title: The Humanitarian Community in Ethiopia condemns the killing of two humanitarian workers
Content: 13 April 2023
Addis Ababa - The humanitarian community in Ethiopia strongly condemns the killing of two humanitarian colleagues in the Amhara Region earlier this week.
On 09 April, two staff members working for the Catholic Relief Service were killed while driving in a vehicle belonging to the organisation in the Amhara Region. The humanitarian community in Ethiopia extends its deepest condolences and thoughts to the families of the victims during these tragic times.
Humanitarian workers just like civilians and medical missions are not a target and must be protected at all times from acts of violence and hostilities.
Humanitarian staff members have been working for decades in Ethiopia putting their lives at risk. To date, thirty-six (36) aid workers have been killed on duty in Ethiopia since 2019. In 2023, more than 20 million people in the country are targeted for food assistance and 4.4 million people for multisectoral non-food assistance including protection services.
ENDS
Contact information:
Hayat Abu-Saleh, UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, abusaleh@un.org



United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/227554-humanitarian-community-ethiopia-condemns-killing-two-humanitarian-workers




Date: 19 August 2022
Title: Message from UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Ethiopia on World Humanitarian Day
Content: 19 August 2022
Dear colleagues, partners, and friends,
We mark World Humanitarian Day every year on 19 August to express solidarity with the millions of people affected by humanitarian crises around the world and pay tribute to the humanitarian workers who help them. Today is a day we reflect on our accomplishments and commit to redouble our efforts to respond and reach the millions in need.
2022 continues to be a challenging year with multiple and simultaneous crises demanding our attention. Conflict and violence in several pockets of the country, drought in eastern and southern Ethiopia and floods in parts of the country are causing loss, displacement and suffering to millions of Ethiopians. Today, Ethiopia hosts one of the largest number of people requiring humanitarian assistance.
In the face of this enormous challenge, we remain committed to reaching all people in need and to carry our work upholding the principles we so cherish, the principle of impartiality, the principle of neutrality and the principle of operational independence.
At the center of it all are aid workers and front-line responders who selflessly put their lives at risk and sacrifice their comfort and their time with family to help those in need. Thank you for your passion, your selflessness and your sacrifice!
I would also like to thank our government and donor partners for their generous support to the people in need in Ethiopia given the ever-limited resources available. I count on your continued support to ensure that the people in need in Ethiopia receive the critical assistance they require, the dignity they deserve and the resilience to withstand future shocks.
This year’s World Humanitarian Day theme is: It Takes a Village. Let us be that village to bring the assistance and hope to the millions of people in need in the country. Together, we can.
Dr. Catherine Sozi, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Ethiopia
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/195642-message-un-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-ethiopia-world-humanitarian-day




Date: 02 June 2022
Title: United Nations Report launched in Ethiopia, urges cooperation between Volunteers and States in Africa
Content: 02 June 2022
The fourth State of the World’s Volunteerism Report (SWVR 2022) ‘Building Equal and Inclusive Societies’ was launched today in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
Despite the socio-economic impacts of the pandemic, interest in volunteering has not waned in Africa and across the world. Volunteering in communities has endured despite limited mobility and resources. While Covid-19 restrictions have prevented many people from volunteering in person, many have switched to volunteering online.
The fourth State of the World’s Volunteerism Report (SWVR 2022) ‘Building Equal and Inclusive Societies’ was launched today in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia by H.E Dr. Ergoge Tesfaye, Minister, Ministry of Women and Social Affairs for Ethiopia at the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa. The launch was also attended by His Excellency Ambassador Mohamed Lamine Thiaw, Permanent Representative of Senegal to Ethiopia and the African Union, His Excellency Ambassador Hans Lundquist, Ambassador of Sweden to Ethiopia, Mr. Cleophas Torori, UNDP Deputy Resident Representative among other representatives from UN Member States, United Nations (UN) entities, the African Union Commission (AUC), diplomatic community, volunteer community and the private sector.
The SWVR 2022 Report findings provide an interesting and timely opportunity to analyze the strategic role of volunteering for peace and development in the African continent. The SWVR 2022 Africa regional launch provided key stakeholders with an opportunity to shine the spotlight on transformative volunteering models that have emerged across different countries in Africa around service delivery, policymaking and participation, governance, decision-making and social innovation. The launch took the global discussions on the Report to the regional level to initiate and generate momentum for a sustained regional conversation on SWVR 2022 findings and raise awareness among stakeholders, policymakers, and institutions in Africa.
Speaking during the launch, H.E Ergoge Tesfaye noted that through volunteerism, more people participate in development at all levels of society empowering them to fully engage in their development priorities.
“Volunteering represents essential capacities for communities and nations to pursue social, economic and environmental goals,” - H.E Ergoge Tesfaye, Minister, Ministry of Women and Social Affairs of Ethiopia said while launching the Report.
The Report draws on case study research in Africa, Arab States, Asia and the Pacific, Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States, and Latin America and the Caribbean. Among the five regions, Africa demonstrated the highest volunteer rates – the share of the total working-age population (15 years and over) who volunteer. While other regions display monthly volunteer rates of 9 to 10.6 percent, Africa far exceeds this with monthly volunteer rates of 17.5 percent.  Additionally, two African countries - Senegal and Kenya – were selected for a 2021 global multi-country survey by UNV and Gallup that informed the SWVR 2022 findings on the contribution of volunteers to COVID-19 response in the global south. The survey found relatively high levels of volunteer participation in COVID-19 response in Senegal and Kenya, with volunteer action rates of 98% and 92% respectively –the highest among eight other countries that participated in the survey.
Speaking during the launch of the Report, Mr. Cleophas Torori, Deputy Resident Representative for UNDP Ethiopia noted that volunteerism provides an important opportunity for everybody, including marginalized groups, to have their voices heard and their actions recognized.
“Engaging and integrating volunteers will help us move forward together, allowing us to mitigate future challenges and sustain our resilience as a human collective,” he said.
“The findings of the report provide critical information for policy makers to ensure we ‘leave no one behind’ in our quest for development, particularly following the devastating impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and the inequalities in the region and the world,” said Ms. Lucy Ndungu, Regional Manager for UNV East and Southern Africa Regional Office also said during the launch event.
The SWVR 2022 comes at a crucial moment as countries start to build forward from the pandemic and institutions need to engage volunteers as key partners. “To build forward better, it will be very important for volunteers to be regarded as essential partners in development,” said Mr. Benjamin Mirichi, an International UN Volunteer from Kenya serving with UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC).
The Report identifies three models to highlight volunteer-state relationships – the deliberative governance, the co-production of services and the social innovation – and offers policy recommendations. Decision makers are encouraged to:
As part of the SWVR preparation, UNV and Gallup conducted research to study the patterns of volunteerism during COVID-19. The multi-country primary data collection was conducted in March-April 2021, including a survey of eight thousand people in eight countries – Bolivia, India, Kenya, Lebanon, Senegal, Thailand, Turkey and Uzbekistan.
--------------------------------------------------
Notes to Editors:
For more information and to schedule interviews please contact:
Kevin Ochieng kevin.ochieng@unv.org
Getachew Dibaba Ayanee getachew.dibaba@un.org

For the full Report and other resources go to:

About the United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme:
The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme is the UN organization that contributes to peace and development through volunteerism worldwide. Volunteerism is a powerful means of engaging people in tacking development challenges, and it can transform the pace and nature of development. UNV is administered by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/185228-united-nations-report-launched-ethiopia-urges-cooperation-between-volunteers-and-states




Date: 26 May 2022
Title: UN Headquarters Observes International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers on 26 May
Content: 26 May 2022
Three peacekeepers from Ethiopia to be honoured posthumously at United Nations ceremony.
UN Headquarters will observe the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers on Thursday, 26 May 2022. Secretary-General António Guterres will lay a wreath to honour the nearly 4,200 UN peacekeepers who have lost their lives since 1948 and will preside over a ceremony at which the Dag Hammarskjöld Medal will be awarded posthumously to 117 military, police, and civilian peacekeepers, who lost their life serving under the UN flag last year.
Among the peacekeepers to be honooured posthumously are three Ethiopian peacekeepers who served with United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei (UNISFA):  Cpl Solomon Ayalew Gared, Sgt Abebe Tesfaye Masiresha, and Sgt Tekelargay Tinikshu Haile.
During a special ceremony, the Secretary-General will award the “Captain Mbaye Diagne Medal for Exceptional Courage” posthumously to Captain Abdelrazakh Hamit Bahar of Chad, who served with the United Nations Integrated Multidimensional Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA). The medal is named for a Senegalese peacekeeper who was killed in Rwanda in 1994 after saving countless civilian lives. This is the second time the medal has been awarded since the inaugural medal was presented to Captain Diagne's family in his honour in 2016.
The Secretary-General will also award the ‘2021 Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award’ to Major Winnet Zharare, a Zimbabwean military observer, who served with the UN Mission in South Sudan. Created in 2016, the Award “recognises the dedication and effort of an individual peacekeeper in promoting the principles of UN Security Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security.”
In his message, the Secretary-General said: “Today, we honour the more than one million women and men who have served as UN peacekeepers since 1948.  We pay tribute to the nearly 4,200 heroes and heroines who sacrificed their lives in the cause of peace. And we are reminded an age-old truth: peace can never be taken for granted. Peace is the prize. We are deeply grateful to the 87,000 civilian, police and military personnel now serving under the UN flag who are helping to realize the prize of peace worldwide.”
The theme for this year’s observance is “People. Peace. Progress. The Power of Partnerships.”  According to the Secretary-General, “Around the globe, UN peacekeepers work with Member States, civil society, humanitarians, the media, the communities they serve and many others, to foster peace, protect civilians, promote human rights and the rule of law and improve the lives of millions of people.”
Jean-Pierre Lacroix, Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations, said: “Every day, UN peacekeepers work to protect vulnerable people in the world’s most fragile political and security situations. The dangers they face are greater than ever, with increasing global tensions, ever-more complex threats from terrorist attacks to organized crime and the use of Improvised Explosive Devices as well as a surge in mis and disinformation targeting our missions and the communities we serve. Despite these challenges, peacekeepers persevere alongside our many partners in the collective pursuit of peace. Today, we thank them for their tremendous contribution and remember with great sorrow our colleagues who have made the ultimate sacrifice while serving the cause of peace.”
The International Day of UN Peacekeepers was established by the General Assembly in 2002, to pay tribute to all men and women serving in peacekeeping, and to honour the memory of those who have lost their lives in the cause of peace. The General Assembly designated 29 May as the International Day of UN Peacekeepers in commemoration of the day in 1948 when the UN’s first peacekeeping mission, the UN Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), began operations in Palestine. Since then, more than 1 million women and men have served in 72 UN peacekeeping operations.
Schedule of Events at Headquarters on 26 May
09:30 a.m.:  The Secretary-General will lay a wreath in honour of fallen peacekeepers at the Peacekeepers Memorial Site on the North Lawn. (If inclement weather, the ceremony will be held near the Chagall window in the Visitors’ Lobby).  Only UN Photo and UN TV will cover the ceremony.  It will not be webcast live, but will be available on demand soon after the event: https://media.un.org/
10:00 a.m.:  The Dag Hammarskjöld Medal, Military Gender Advocate of the Year, and Captain Mbaye Diagne Medal for Exceptional Courage ceremonies will be held in the Trusteeship Council and shown live on UN Webcast:   https://media.un.org/
12:00 p.m.: Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations, Jean-Pierre Lacroix will be the guest at the noon briefing.  It will be webcast live at  https://media.un.org/
# # # # #
Media Contacts:
Douglas Coffman, Department of Global Communications -+1 (917) 361-9923,  e-mail: coffmand@un.org; or Hector Calderon, Department of Peace Operations +1 (917) 226 5219 e-mail: hector.calderon@un.org
For more information, please visit the Peacekeepers Day websites here: https://www.un.org/en/observances/peacekeepers-day; or
https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/international-day-of-peacekeepers-2022
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/183601-un-headquarters-observes-international-day-united-nations-peacekeepers-26-may




Date: 25 March 2022
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General on Ethiopia
Content: 25 March 2022
The Secretary-General welcomes the declaration by the Government of Ethiopia of an indefinite humanitarian truce, effective immediately and the commitment by Tigrayan authorities to a cessation of hostilities effective immediately.
The conflict in Ethiopia has caused terrible suffering for millions of people across Afar, Amhara, Tigray, Benishangul Gumz and Oromia. These positive developments must now translate into immediate improvements on the ground.
The Secretary-General therefore reiterates his call for the restoration of public services in Tigray, including banking, electricity and telecommunications, and calls for all sides to proactively enable and facilitate the delivery of desperately needed humanitarian assistance across all affected areas. The Secretary-General urges all parties in this conflict to build on this encouraging development to take the necessary steps towards a long-term ceasefire.

Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 25 March 2022
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/175945-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-ethiopia%C2%A0%C2%A0




Date: 04 March 2022
Title: UNHCR seeks US$205 million to deliver life-saving assistance to over 1.6 million people affected by the northern Ethiopia conflict
Content: 04 March 2022
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is appealing for US$205 million to deliver life-saving assistance and protection to over 1.6 million people displaced due to the conflict in northern Ethiopia.
Sixteen months of conflict in northern Ethiopia has created a humanitarian crisis. Civilians, including refugees and internally displaced people (IDPs) have been displaced, amid widespread reports of gender-based violence, human rights abuses, loss of shelter and access to basic services, and critical levels of food insecurity.

More than 2 million Ethiopians have fled in search of safety within the country, and almost 60,000 across the border into Sudan. Several camps and settlements hosting Eritrean refugees have been attacked or destroyed, further displacing tens of thousands within Ethiopia.

Funds raised will help us to provide essential protection and humanitarian assistance to those impacted by the violence. At least 60,000 IDP households will be assisted with shelter and emergency relief items. We will establish additional protection desks –adding to the more than 60 already set up – to identify people with specific needs and to refer survivors of gender-based violence to services, and we will support the reintegration of 75,000 IDP families, who wish to return to their homes.

We welcome the quick response of the Ethiopian government to identify new sites to settle the displaced refugees, which requires resources. UNHCR will support the government’s Refugees and Returnees Service (RRS) and partners to complete the Alemwach site, in the Amhara region, so that Eritrean refugees can be relocated as soon as it is possible to do so, and to ensure essential services. A new temporary site for Eritrean refugees caught up in the fighting in Afar region is similarly in need of urgent investment. Together with RRS and partners, we are aiming to get 20,000 refugee children back into school.

In eastern Sudan, UNHCR will provide critical protection and assistance to Ethiopian refugees, including by building shelters that are more durable, and strengthening health care and education. Activities to prevent and respond to gender-based violence and to provide psychosocial and mental health support will be scaled up.

UNHCR will also boost preparedness for flooding and extreme weather ahead of the upcoming rainy season. Opportunities to earn an income will be enhanced both for refugees and the communities that host them.

Of the US$205 million, US$117 million will support the needs of Ethiopian IDPs and Eritrean refugees in the Afar, Amhara, and Tigray regions of Ethiopia, while US$72 million will help us support Ethiopian refugees in Sudan. Some US$16 million will be used for preparedness as part of contingency measures for any potential influx into neighbouring countries (Djibouti, Kenya, Somalia and South Sudan).

While UNHCR continues to reinforce its protection and humanitarian assistance, we reiterate our call to all parties of the conflict to protect civilians in line with their obligations under international humanitarian law and to provide safe and unhindered access to all those in need.

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/177466-unhcr-seeks-us205-million-deliver-life-saving-assistance-over-16-million-people-affected




Date: 09 February 2022
Title: Peace needed for effective implementation of humanitarian and development agenda, says Deputy Secretary-General in Ethiopia
Content: 09 February 2022
United Nations Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, today concluded a five-day visit to Ethiopia where, on 5 February, she represented Secretary-General António Guterres at the thirty-fifth ordinary session of the Assembly of the African Union (AU) in Addis Ababa.
She later visited four regions around Ethiopia – Amhara, Tigray, Afar and Somali -- where she underscored the determination of the United Nations to remain an impartial and engaged partner in its delivery of humanitarian assistance and provision of development support to the Government and all Ethiopians.

“The biggest call for the United Nations in Ethiopia is to urgently deliver humanitarian assistance to the people who need it most. This urgency is particularly important for women and children,” stated the Deputy Secretary-General at the conclusion of her visit.
Following the AU Summit, the Deputy Secretary-General stressed the remarks of the Secretary-General at the event that implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the AU’s Agenda 2063 was “the cornerstone of the relationship between the two organizations”.
She said, “Opportunities to address Africa’s challenges are huge,” adding that, “It is important to align the United Nations 2030 Agenda and the AU’s Agenda 2063 for its diverse people to enjoy peace and security, and sustainable livelihoods.”
In her meeting with Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, the Deputy Secretary-General emphasized the commitment of the United Nations to continue to support the Government in its progress towards delivering the 2030 Agenda and for it to achieve its ambition to become a beacon of prosperity in this Decade of Action. The United Nations would do so with impartiality for all Ethiopians, she stated.
Further, from Sunday 6 to Wednesday 9 February, Deputy Secretary-General Mohammed met with Federal Government leaders and officials, regional authorities, clan leaders and other stakeholders to discuss the support of the United Nations to both Government and development partners to tackle challenges they faced in meeting humanitarian needs of families in their areas and to get on track to keep the promise of the Sustainable Development Goals.
“When we find peace, we can begin the journey back to economic recovery, and the restoration of dignity and livelihoods,” the Deputy Secretary-General outlined. She pledged to the President of Afar region that, “The United Nations will accompany you through the conflict to peace and development. We will continue to provide humanitarian aid to all regions so that no Ethiopian will suffer.”
Moreover, Ms. Mohammed met with local populations, including youth and women, impacted by the conflict as well as by the ongoing drought.
Expressing sadness at the impact of the conflict on civilians as she was able to view firsthand, the Deputy Secretary-General, in all of her meetings, reiterated the Secretary-General’s appeal to all parties in Ethiopia for an immediate cessation of hostilities so effective humanitarian access could reach all those who are affected. Cessation of hostilities would also “pave the way to a much-needed inclusive national dialogue involving all Ethiopians”.
Additionally, she referred to the grave effects of the conflict experienced by women and children. She called for the immediate end to sexual and gender-based violence, among other atrocities, and cited the need for comprehensive physical and mental health support for all who experienced physical and psychological violence. She urged the authorities to involve women in their recovery and reconstruction efforts.
On the prolonged drought in Somali, highlighting the negative impact of climate change, the Deputy Secretary-General pointed out that climate action remained a pivotal part of the Sustainable Development Goals. She commended the Prime Minister’s plan to build more dams and develop water projects in Ethiopia as well as the initiative of the President of Somali region to undertake investment and development to improve the lives of his constituents. She also thanked the host communities for the strong support they were giving to pastoralists and others who were displaced from their homes to find watering points for their families and livestock.
Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator of the United Nations in Ethiopia, Ms. Catherine Sozi, who was part of the Deputy Secretary-General’s delegation, noted that, in 2021, the Organization was able to provide more than US$ 18 million in aid to those most in need in Somali. She disclosed that an additional US$ 20 million was about to be allocated to the region.
To emphasize the role of women and girls in sustainable development, the Deputy Secretary-General met, in Addis Ababa, with a group of young women entrepreneurs, who are part of a United Nations supported project. They shared concerns and tangibly highlighted the importance of their contribution to Ethiopia’s progress.
She was hopeful, she said, to see the “rich spirit of Ethiopian women” represented in the group. Further, she stated, “Young people have to care about the possibilities and opportunities available throughout the African continent.”
Deputy Secretary-General Mohammed was accompanied on her mission to Somali and Afar by Ethiopian President, Mrs. Sahle-Work Zewde.
Ms. Mohammed was appointed the fifth Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations by Secretary-General António Guterres in December 2016 and currently holds responsibility for the implementation of Agenda 2030 as Chair of the UN Sustainable Development Group.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/171572-peace-needed-effective-implementation-humanitarian-and-development-agenda-says-deputy




Date: 06 October 2021
Title: Secretary-General's remarks to the Security Council on Ethiopia
Content: 06 October 2021
In August, I warned the Council that a humanitarian catastrophe was unfolding before our eyes in Ethiopia.  Since then, the crisis has worsened.

Mr. President, excellencies,
I welcome this opportunity to brief you concerning the situation in Ethiopia.
In August, I warned the Council that a humanitarian catastrophe was unfolding before our eyes in Ethiopia.  Since then, the crisis has worsened.
Up to 7 million people in Tigray, Amhara and Afar are now in need of food assistance and other emergency support.  This includes more than 5 million people in Tigray where an estimated 400,000 are living in famine-like conditions.
Humanitarian aid is still not reaching the area at anywhere close to the levels needed.
The only option for road transportation into Tigray is along the Afar corridor where movements are being severely restricted by official and unofficial checkpoints, insecurity and other obstacles and challenges.
Some minor improvements – that are welcome – did not change the fundamental nature of the problem.
Vital fuel supplies continue to be blocked, as are essential medicines and equipment.
Humanitarian organizations continue to lack the cash they need to operate and to pay their staff.
Access to electricity remains precarious.  Millions of people are cut off from communications networks and vital services such as health care.
Fighting in Amhara is another serious impediment to humanitarian access.
As a result of all these facts, life-saving humanitarian operations are being crippled.
Our colleagues on the ground are sharing increasingly alarming eye-witness testimony of the suffering – including growing accounts of hunger-related deaths.
And in locations where screening has been possible, we are seeing acute malnutrition rates that remind us of the onset of the 2011 Somalia famine.
We are also seeing deeply worrying reports of violations of human rights abuses perpetrated by all sides.
I am particularly concerned about chilling accounts of violence against women and children, including sexual and gender-based violence.
Mr. President,
The UN is also actively engaged in humanitarian support to other regions of Ethiopia with pressing needs.
The country is facing an immense humanitarian crisis that demands immediate attention.
All efforts should be squarely focused on saving lives and avoiding a massive human tragedy.
This makes last Thursday’s announcement by the Government of Ethiopia to expel seven senior UN officials – most of them humanitarian staff – particularly disturbing.
This unprecedented expulsion should be a matter of deep concern for us all as it relates to the core of relations between the UN and Member States.
As expressed in the Note Verbale to the Mission of Ethiopia from the Office of Legal Affairs and shared with the Council a few days ago – and I quote: “A Declaration by a State that an official of the United Nations is persona non grata accompanied by a request or demand that the Secretary-General consequently relocate that official out of its territory is not consistent with [the] Charter obligation and is inconsistent with the fundamental principles of the international civil service enshrined in the Charter.”
The procedure on such matters is clear.
As the Note Verbale states: “…if the Government has any specific issues concerning any…individuals…the relevant information should be brought to the attention of the United Nations to enable the Secretary-General to make a decision as to whether any appropriate actions should be taken.”
In other words, there is a proper, formal procedure – and that procedure was not followed.
The United Nations will continue to play its mandated role and work with the Government of Ethiopia and with local and international partners to support millions of people in need of humanitarian assistance in Tigray, Amhara and Afar, and across the country, in full accordance with the UN Charter and General Assembly resolution 46/182.
I now call on Ethiopian authorities to allow us to do this without hindrance and to facilitate and enable our work with the urgency that this situation demands.
This means ensuring that visas for incoming personnel – from UN entities and from our partners – are issued quickly so that we can augment our capacity.
The delays we have witnessed in the recent past are another obstacle to effective humanitarian aid.
It also means that personnel inside the country are treated with dignity and respect as they carry out their vital work.
Our focus remains on ensuring humanitarian assistance to every Ethiopian who needs it.
We must save lives and restore livelihoods.
I urge the Government to allow the unrestricted movement of desperately needed fuel, cash, communications equipment, and humanitarian supplies into all the regions in need.
I appeal to all members of the Security Council to do all they can to support these calls and to unify behind the efforts of the United Nations and its partners in Ethiopia.
Last August, in this Council, I called for action on several fronts.
As I said then, and I quote: “All parties must immediately end hostilities without preconditions and seize that opportunity to negotiate a lasting ceasefire.  Foreign forces should leave the country. Unrestricted humanitarian access to all areas in need must be guaranteed and humanitarian workers must be respected.  Public services must be re-established.”
This appeal is even more pressing today.  Any further escalation of the conflict would only make the situation more tragic.
Mr. President,
Important political events have taken place in Ethiopia since my last Security Council briefing in August.
Just two days ago, a new Government of Ethiopia, led by Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, was inaugurated.
The mandate conferred by the election carries a responsibility – a responsibility to unite all Ethiopians.
To focus on the future.  To return Ethiopia to its place as a strong, unified, stable leader among the nations of the world.
I encourage the newly inaugurated Government to use this mandate and work with renewed determination to be a Government for all.
I welcome the Prime Minister’s inauguration remarks prioritizing an inclusive political dialogue involving all segments of the community to resolve the ongoing challenges facing the country.
I also note the many messages from African Heads of State emphasizing the need for harmony, national unity, development and peace.
I urge all sides to grasp the peace initiative from the AU and its High Representative for the Horn of Africa, H.E. Olusegun Obasanjo.
Without peace, the challenges facing Ethiopia will intensify and further destabilize the broader Horn of Africa region and beyond.
We have an obligation to avoid such a dire outcome at all costs.
Mr. President,
Dialogue is the foundation for peace.
Peace is the foundation for a stable and prosperous future.
Let us all work to help secure that future for all Ethiopians and for the peoples of the region.
I thank you.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/150847-secretary-generals-remarks-security-council-ethiopia




Date: 06 October 2021
Title: Secretary-General's Right of Reply at the Security Council meeting on Ethiopia
Content: 06 October 2021
"We want to cooperate with the Government of Ethiopia, because we have only one agenda in Ethiopia, and that agenda is the people of Ethiopia – Tigrayans, Amharans, Afaris, Somalis, the people of Ethiopia."
 
"The people of Ethiopia are suffering. We have no other interest but to help stop that suffering."
UN Secretary-General, António Guterres

If there is anything I have cherished over this period, it is to maintain a very effective and operational relationship with the government of Ethiopia and its Prime Minister, to the effect that there has been criticism in the global media about that, accusing me of being biased in favour of the Ethiopian Government.  
 
So, it is with total, I would say, in a spirit of complete easiness that I would like to ask you one thing, Mr. Ambassador. 
 
If there is any written document, provided by the Ethiopian Government to any UN institution, about any of the [seven] members of the UN that were expelled, I would like to receive a copy of that document, because I have not had any knowledge of any of them. And it would be very useful for me to detect, if documents are given to the UN and not given to my knowledge, then I have to investigate what has happened in my organization. 
  
So, I ask you please, Mr. Ambassador, to provide me with a copy of any of the written documents, written by the Government of Ethiopia about any of the [seven] that were expelled by the Ethiopians in this regard.  
 
And I would recall that twice, I told the Prime Minister that if there were concerns about lack of, how to say, lack of impartiality of UN staff, that I asked him, please, send me those situations for me to be able to investigate.  
 
Twice, I asked the Prime Minister and until now I have no response to these requests.  
 
And so, for us, the question is very simple.  
 
We believe that Ethiopia has not the right to expel these [seven] members of the UN.  
 
We believe Ethiopia is violating international law in doing so and we are ready to cooperate with the Government of Ethiopia in relation to any situation in which the Government of Ethiopia feels that any member of the UN is not behaving in total impartiality, in total independence, as humanitarian law prescribes and humanitarian principles establish.  
 
I want to tell you, Mr. Ambassador, we want to cooperate with the Government of Ethiopia, because we have only one agenda in Ethiopia, and that agenda is the people of Ethiopia – Tigrayans, Amharans, Afaris, Somalis, the people of Ethiopia.  
 
The people of Ethiopia are suffering. We have no other interest but to help stop that suffering.  
 
Thank you very much.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/150848-secretary-generals-right-reply-security-council-meeting-ethiopia%C2%A0%C2%A0




Date: 30 September 2021
Title: Statement by the Secretary-General on Ethiopia
Content: 30 September 2021
I was shocked by the information that the Government of Ethiopia has declared seven UN officials, including senior UN humanitarian officials, as persona non grata.
All UN humanitarian operations are guided by the core principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality, and independence.  In Ethiopia, the UN is delivering lifesaving aid - including food, medicine, water, and sanitation supplies – to people in desperate need. I have full confidence in the UN staff who are in Ethiopia doing this work.
The UN is committed to helping Ethiopian people who rely on humanitarian assistance. We are now engaging with the Government of Ethiopia in the expectation that the concerned UN staff will be allowed to continue their important work.
New York, 30 September 2021
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/146875-statement-secretary-general-ethiopia%C2%A0




Date: 16 August 2021
Title: UN statement on impartial engagement in support of Ethiopia
Content: 16 August 2021
The United Nations in Ethiopia is very concerned about recent statements appearing on social and mainstream media claiming that UN agencies and humanitarian partners are operating in Ethiopia in support of partisan political agendas.
Humanitarian assistance provided by the UN and its partners is guided by the four humanitarian principles: humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence.
Adhering to these principles and in close coordination with the Government of Ethiopia, the UN and partners are providing critical assistance to populations in need in all of Ethiopia’s regions and city administrations in an objective, impartial, neutral and independent manner, putting affected populations at the centre of its operations.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/140267-un-statement-impartial-engagement-support-ethiopia




Date: 04 August 2021
Title: UN Humanitarian Chief makes official visit to Ethiopia
Content: 04 August 2021
UN Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, Martin Griffiths, concluded his six-day visit to Ethiopia.
(Addis Ababa, 4 August 2021): The Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, Martin Griffiths, concluded his six-day visit to Ethiopia yesterday evening, his first official mission since he assumed office in mid-July.

While in Ethiopia, the humanitarian chief held constructive meetings with the Federal Government, the Amhara regional president, the African Union, and the humanitarian and diplomatic community. During his meetings with the Prime Minister and other key interlocutors, including the Deputy Prime Minister/Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Peace, Mr. Griffiths had the opportunity to discuss the humanitarian situation in the country and the challenges aid organizations face in getting assistance to Ethiopians.

Mr. Griffiths also spent two days in the Tigray region, where he saw first-hand the dire humanitarian situation, meeting with civilians whose lives had been upended by the conflict. “I met with people in Tigray who lost everything they had after they had to flee their villages or towns, leaving behind their houses and farms. In Hawzen, I visited a family whose house was burned and crops were looted. It was heart-breaking to see the scale of devastation and families who, to this day, do not have a place to live or food to put on their table,” said the humanitarian chief.

During his visit to Tigray, Mr. Griffiths also met with civilians who had suffered horrific violence and saw first-hand the systematic destruction of civilian infrastructure, including schools, hospitals and water systems. In Mekelle and Freweyni, the humanitarian chief engaged with women who had endured unimaginable violence, including some who said they had been raped for weeks. These women need access to comprehensive and holistic services, and yet “this is happening at a moment where most health centres are not functional, like the hospital I visited in Hawzen, where almost nothing but the walls were left untouched; all equipment and medicines have to be replaced,” Mr. Griffiths said. The disruption of essential services, including access to communication, fuel and the banking system is compounding the dire situation.

More than 5.2 million people across Tigray—more than 90 per cent of the region's population—require life-saving assistance, including nearly 400,000 people already facing famine-like conditions. Humanitarian needs are also increasing in neighbouring Amhara and Afar, as the conflict spills over into these regions. In the face of increasing conflict and increasing difficulty getting aid into northern Ethiopia, the Under-Secretary-General said that “we need to change the circumstances that have led to the slow movement of aid – we need the conflict to stop.”

Beyond Tigray, humanitarian organizations are assisting millions of people in Ethiopia facing conflict, displacement, and drought, and are now scaling up response efforts in Amhara and Afar, in light of significant conflict-related displacement. The humanitarian chief said: “It is my highest priority that every Ethiopian in humanitarian need – be they in Tigray, in Amhara, in Afar, or indeed in every region of this country – receive assistance.”
***
For further information, please contact:
Saviano Abreu, OCHA Nairobi, +254 780 530 141 (WhatsApp), deabreuisidoro@un.org
Anna Bliss Jefferys, OCHA New York, +1 347 707 3734, jefferysa@un.org
Jens Laerke, OCHA Geneva, +41 79 472 9750, laerke@un.org
OCHA press releases are available at www.unocha.org/south-sudan or www.reliefweb.int.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/138607-un-humanitarian-chief-makes-official-visit-ethiopia




Date: 29 July 2021
Title: UN humanitarian chief makes official visit to Ethiopia
Content: 29 July 2021
The United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, Martin Griffiths, today started a six-day mission to the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.
“It was important to me that I carry out my first official mission as the UN’s humanitarian chief to Ethiopia,” said Mr. Griffiths. “Humanitarian needs in the country have increased this year as a result of the armed conflicts in Tigray and Benishangul-Gumuz, intercommunal violence in parts of Afar, Somali and SNNP regions, and drought in Somali, Oromia and Afar regions.
“These shocks came on top of existing challenges associated with floods, the desert locust infestation, chronic food insecurity and the COVID-19 pandemic. Millions of vulnerable people are now struggling and in need of help.”
During the visit, Mr. Griffiths is expected to meet with high-level Government officials and representatives of the humanitarian and donor communities.
He plans to travel to the Tigray region to hear from civilians affected by the conflict and to witness first-hand the challenges humanitarian workers face. An estimated 5.2 million people (about 90 per cent of the population) need humanitarian assistance in the Tigray region.
Mr. Griffiths also plans to meet with Amhara regional authorities in Bahir Dar city.
“The humanitarian community is committed to working with the Government and the people of Ethiopia to respond to this crisis,” said Mr. Griffiths. “This visit is an opportunity to discuss with the Government of Ethiopia’s officials and partners how the United Nations and its humanitarian partners can best serve the people of Ethiopia. I look forward to constructive discussions on scaling up the humanitarian response across the country.”
More than 9 UN agencies, along with international and national non-governmental organizations and Government agencies, are responding to the humanitarian needs in Ethiopia
For further information, please contact:
Zoe Paxton, OCHA New York, + 1 917 297 1542, paxton@un.org
Jens Laerke, OCHA Geneva, +41 79 472 9750, laerke@un.org
OCHA press releases are available at www.unocha.org or www.reliefweb.int.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/137862-un-humanitarian-chief-makes-official-visit-ethiopia




Date: 14 July 2021
Title: UN statement on the current situation in Ethiopia
Content: 14 July 2021
The UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Ethiopia is extremely concerned on the escalating military tensions between the forces in Amhara and Tigray regions.
The UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Ethiopia is extremely concerned on the escalating military tensions between the forces in Amhara and Tigray regions. The UN continues to call on all armed groups to end the hostilities and meet their obligations to protect civilians, particularly children, women and refugees. The rights of children must be protected at ALL times, for ALL children. International humanitarian laws must be observed by all.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/136019-un-statement-current-situation-ethiopia




Date: 10 July 2021
Title: UN Remarks at the Announcement of the 2021 Ethiopian Election Results
Content: 10 July 2021
Statement delivered by Ms. Maureen Achieng, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator a.i.

Statement delivered by RC/HC a.i. Ms. Maureen Achieng
All Protocols Observed
It gives me great pleasure to join you this afternoon. At the outset, I would like to thank our partner, the National Elections Board of Ethiopia (NEBE) for inviting the United Nations to participate in this event, marking the completion of the first round of elections with the announcement of the final certified electoral results.
It may be recalled that the United Nations established a multiagency electoral assistance project led by UNDP in June 2019. UN Women and IOM are key partners in the project that seeks to “Support Elections for Ethiopia’s Democracy Strengthening,” -- popularly called from its acronym “SEEDS”. The project was established following a request by the Government of Ethiopia in late 2018 and subsequent approval for technical assistance by the UN focal point for elections. The project is supported by 16 international partners as well as the Government of Ethiopia and managed by UNDP.
The SEEDS project was mandated to provide technical and operational support to NEBE in key areas, including but not limited to: operations, logistics, procedures, voter education and ICT. The technical support is provided through international advisors and national experts.
The operational support provided included the procurement of goods and services in a number of areas including: procurement of candidate registration equipment and material, voter registration, polling and counting and tabulation of results materials. SEEDS also helped procure logistics services and warehouse space to support NEBE logistic operations.
While the mandate of the UN in Ethiopia is to provide electoral assistance, and not the  assessment on the electoral process itself, I would like to express the gratitude of the United Nations to NEBE for the constructive partnership throughout the past two years that has enable the SEEDS project to provide assistance to strengthening the capacity of NEBE to implement a transparent and credible electoral process.
I would also like to take this opportunity to express our thanks and appreciation to the European Union and USAID’s technical assistance projects, ECES and IFES, for the constructive partnership and effective coordination throughout this journey. I also wish to thank the many donors who have been very generous in providing the support needed to make the elections a success.
In conclusion we know that while we have concluded the June elections, the electoral process is not yet complete as a number of constituencies are expected to hold elections in September. The United Nations remains committed to support NEBE to ensure the successful completion of the 6th general elections.
The UN also seeks to draw on the lessons learned exercises that will follow to continue to support Ethiopia in its march toward in ensuring a peaceful and inclusive country, and resilient democracy.
I thank you.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/135473-un-remarks-announcement-2021-ethiopian-election-results




Date: 26 June 2021
Title: Statement on the killing of three MSF aid workers in the Tigray Region
Content: 26 June 2021
UN condemns killing of three MSF aid workers in the Tigray region in the strongest terms





The United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Ethiopia, Dr. Catherine Sozi, condemns in the strongest term the killing of three Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) staff members nearby Abi Adi in the Tigray region. The three staff members were murdered while  implementing their humanitarian mission to alleviate the suffering of the local population affected by the conflict.
“I am appalled and outraged by this horrific attack, which must be fully investigated, signalling that there is no impunity for such atrocious crimes”, Dr Sozi emphasised.
“Aid workers are not a target. Like all civilians, they must be respected and protected, as required under international humanitarian law”, Dr. Sozi stressed. “Our hearts and thoughts are with the families and loved ones of our deceased colleagues. The United Nations stands with them and with the humanitarian community as we mourn the shocking and dreadful loss of three outstanding individuals”.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/133273-statement-killing-three-msf-aid-workers-tigray-region




Date: 19 June 2021
Title: Statement on use of a UN plate number
Content: 19 June 2021
Statement on use of a UN plate number
"The United Nations plays a major role in providing international assistance to electoral processes at the request of Member States. The UN is carrying out its assistance in an objective, impartial, neutral and independent manner, with due respect for sovereignty and is not involved in any partisan political actions, including election campaigning in Ethiopia.
We are aware of the images circulating on social media of a vehicle used by Government officials with a UN plate number. We are currently investigating this issue internally."
UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in Ethiopia
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/132219-statement-use-un-plate-number




Date: 31 May 2021
Title: UN Ethiopia kicks off World No Tobacco Day campaign
Content: 31 May 2021
Today, the United Nations in Ethiopia kicked off activities to mark the 34th World-No-Tobacco Day with a call to tobacco users to commit to quit.– Today, the United Nations in Ethiopia kicked off activities to mark the 34th World-No-Tobacco Day with a call to tobacco users to commit to quit.
Marked every year on May 31, the World No Tobacco Day is an opportunity to raise awareness on the harmful and deadly effects of tobacco use, second-hand smoke exposure, and to discourage the use of tobacco in any form.
During the year-long campaign, under the global theme of “Commit to Quit”, UN Ethiopia will conduct various activities to raise awareness on the negative impact of tobacco on people’s health and wellbeing. The campaign will also serve as a call to action, advocating for effective policies to reduce tobacco consumption and engaging stakeholders across multiple sectors in the fight for tobacco control.
As the world continues to reel under the impact of COVID-19, the fear of contracting the disease is motivating more smokers to quit.  Tobacco smokers have a higher risk of developing severe form of COVID-19 infection, and of dying from the disease. Worldwide, around 780 million people have the motivation to quit, but only 30% of them have access to the tools that can help them to do so. This has underlined the urgent need to provide people with the tools and resources they need to make a successful attempt at quitting.
The goal of the global campaign is to create an environment conducive to quitting tobacco through advocating for strong tobacco cessation policies; promoting increased access to cessation services; raising awareness of tobacco industry tactics; and empowering tobacco users to successfully quit through “quit & win” initiatives. The UN agencies in Ethiopia have joined hands to collectively achieve this goal and contribute towards the achievement of the sustainable development goals (SDGs).
“All forms of tobacco use are harmful and there is no safe level of exposure to second-hand smoke,” said Dr Indrajit Hazarika, OIC WHO Ethiopia. “Together as the UN family we commit to keep our community smoke-free.”
Dr. Hazarika said the agencies have agreed on a number of activities targeting staff and the people living in Ethiopia through a social media campaign and other activities. He added that the objective is to raise awareness regarding the risks of tobacco use and its impacts on health and socioeconomic wellbeing.
Every year, more than 8 million people die worldwide because of tobacco use. More than 7 million of those deaths are the result of direct tobacco use while around 1.2 million are the result of non-smokers being exposed to second-hand smoke.
The World No Tobacco Day was launched in 1987 by Member States of the World Health Organization to ''draw global attention to the tobacco epidemic and the preventable death and disease it causes.''
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/129296-un-ethiopia-kicks-world-no-tobacco-day-campaign




Date: 27 May 2021
Title: UN condemns the arbitrary and brutal arrest of at least 200 IDPs in military-led raids in Shire town (Tigray Region)
Content: 27 May 2021
The Humanitarian Coordinator in Ethiopia, Dr. Catherine Sozi, condemns the arbitrary arrest, beatings and other forms of ill-treatment of more than 200 people by soldiers, which occurred during military raids of IDP settings – Tsehaye (hosting some 8,000 IDPs) and Adi Wonfito (hosting some 4,000 IDPs) – in Shire town in the Tigray region during the night of 24 May 2021.
“International humanitarian and human rights law strictly prohibit the arbitrary arrest and ill-treatment of any person”, Dr. Sozi said, calling on the immediate release of all those who have been arbitrarily arrested. “Serious violations of international humanitarian and human rights law must be promptly investigated, and the perpetrators brought to justice”, she underlined. “In addition, anyone who is arrested on criminal charges must be afforded judicial guarantees in line with international law.”
“We reiterate our calls on all parties to the conflict to adhere to human rights and humanitarian law principles, including those relating to IDPs", Dr. Sozi emphasised.
She added that the United Nations and its humanitarian partners urge enhanced efforts to protect the civilian population. “We are ready to engage with military commanders on ensuring the protection of civilians through regular dialogue and implementation of good practice.”
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/128792-un-condemns-arbitrary-and-brutal-arrest-least-200-idps-military-led-raids-shire-town-tigray




Date: 20 May 2021
Title: Humanitarian Coordinator condemns killing of nine aid workers in Ethiopia over the past six months
Content: 20 May 2021
The United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator in Ethiopia, Dr. Catherine Sozi, strongly condemns the attacks that led to the death of nine aid workers in Ethiopia over the past six months in the Tigray Region and in Benishangul Gumuz Region.
The United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator in Ethiopia, Dr. Catherine Sozi, strongly condemns the attacks that led to the death of nine aid workers in Ethiopia over the past six months in the Tigray Region and in Benishangul Gumuz Region.
“I am appalled by these events, and I send my deepest condolences to the family and colleagues of the deceased. Aid workers do their utmost possible to alleviate human suffering and deliver critical relief aid despite challenging conditions, including in areas where hostilities are ongoing. As provided by international and national law and policies, humanitarian actors must be respected, protected, and fully assisted in carrying out their mission”, Dr. Sozi said.
The Humanitarian Coordinator asks the Government of Ethiopia to ensure that an official, independent and impartial investigation into these nine killings is conducted, and that the authorities hold the perpetrators of attacks against humanitarian personnel accountable. Dr. Sozi further added that she calls for the Government “to put in place every possible measure to safeguard the protection of humanitarian aid workers in Ethiopia, thereby preventing that these incidents do not happen again”.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/127242-humanitarian-coordinator-condemns-killing-nine-aid-workers-ethiopia-over-past-six-months




Date: 20 April 2021
Title: WHO Regional Director for Africa wraps up visit to Ethiopia
Content: 20 April 2021
Dr Matshidiso Moeti just concluded a week-long visit to Ethiopia to acknowledge the country’s efforts to sustain essential health services alongside the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, learn about the progress and challenges in the health response to the humanitarian situation in northern Ethiopia, and reaffirm WHO’s commitment to support these efforts.

Dr Moeti met with H.E. President Sahle-Work Zewde and discussed collaboration on promoting universal health coverage. She applauded the government’s early proactive efforts against COVID-19, which helped keep the pandemic under control during much of last year. However, she stressed the need for a whole of government approach in the current upsurge, as well as a recommitment to key public health measures such as physical distancing, limiting mass gatherings and wearing masks.
Please follow the link below to read the full story: https://www.afro.who.int/news/who-regional-director-africa-wraps-visit-ethiopia
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/125540-who-regional-director-africa-wraps-visit-ethiopia




Date: 14 April 2021
Title: UNFPA signs USD 3.3 million funding agreement with Embassy of Sweden
Content: 14 April 2021
UNFPA, the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency, and the Embassy of Sweden signed an agreement amounting to approximately USD 3.3 million.
UNFPA, the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency, and the Embassy of Sweden signed an agreement amounting to approximately USD 3.3 million. The fund channelled from the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) is made in support of UNFPA’s 9th Country Programme (2020-2025). The UNFPA Country Programme, which commenced in July 2020, is being implemented in 9 Regions of Ethiopia responding to national priorities as articulated by the Government of Ethiopia.
Speaking at the event, H.E. Hans Henric Lundqvist - Ambassador of Sweden to Ethiopia, said Sweden is a committed partner to UNFPA and its mandate advancing the rights of women and youth and promoting gender equality and sexual and reproductive health. He added that the Country Programme funding modality enabled UNFPA “to flexibly respond to the evolving needs of the people in Ethiopia, including the humanitarian response in Tigray Region.”
Ms. Dennia Gayle, UNFPA Country Representative, appreciated the contribution of the people and Government of Sweden saying that the support will allow UNFPA to accelerate the delivery of life-saving sexual and reproductive health services for women, girls and young people in Ethiopia including actions in the areas Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment. She noted that Sweden’s support will be “pivotal in realizing the UNFPA’s transformative results of ending preventable maternal death, ending unmet need for family planning, ending gender-based violence and harmful practices against women and girls and ending HIV transmission for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.”
The un-earmarked funding signed today will be pivotal in accelerating action towards the realization of the goals outlined in the recently signed Government of Ethiopia-UNFPA Country Programme cooperation. The programme is addressing increased access to and use of health services focusing on maternal and new-born health; increased capacity of national institutions for evidence-based planning and management of development programmes; increased participation and decision-making by women and youth and protection and rehabilitation of women and youth in areas of gender based violence.
The un-earmarked funding modality was introduced by Embassy of Sweden in 2017 during UNFPA’s last Country Programme to enable increased flexibility in the use of funds for better programme responsiveness and impact.
Sweden remains among the top 10 donors contributing to UNFPA’s core and non-core programme resources globally.
For additional information, please contact:
Abraham Gelaw, Communication Officer, UNFPA; Tel. +251-11-5444079; +251-911-488627; E-mail: gelaw@unfpa.org

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/125536-unfpa-signs-usd-33-million-funding-agreement-embassy-sweden




Date: 13 March 2021
Title: Ethiopia introduces COVID-19 vaccine in a national launching ceremony
Content: 13 March 2021
The Ministry of Health of Ethiopia launched COVID-19 vaccine introduction at Eka Kotebe COVID-19 Hospital to mark the beginning of the vaccination campaign.
The Ministry of Health of Ethiopia launched COVID-19 vaccine introduction in a high-level national event held at Eka Kotebe COVID-19 Hospital where frontline health workers were vaccinated to mark the beginning of the vaccination campaign.  Present at the event were the Guest of Honor Excellency Dr Getahun Mekuria, Minister of Education, Excellency Dr Dereje Duguma, State Minister of Health, Dr Boureima Hama Sambo, Representative of the World Health Organization (WHO) in Ethiopia, Athlete Commander Derartu Tulu, Kesis Tagay Tadele, Secretary General of Inter-Religious Council of Ethiopia, representatives from the UN, CDC, non-governmental organizations and health workers.
Education Minister Excellency Dr Getahun Mekuria appreciated the contribution of the global community, WHO and others for their role in providing vaccines to Ethiopia through COVAX initiative. He further expressed his appreciation to the Ethiopian health professionals for their service in fighting the pandemic over the last one year, and reiterated the notable investment that government, health institutes and universities have made towards making the country self-sufficient in COVID testing and treatment. The Minister further underscored, “With the introduction of vaccines, we are now at a landmark stage in the response to COVID-19, but vaccines will be of sideline use if face masks, keeping distance and hand hygiene are not maintained,” expressing his concern that the continued reluctance in implementing those precautions would be a threat to the country's health system, and economic and social fabrics.
Speaking at the event, WHO Representative Dr Boureima Hama Sambo said, “The arrival of the first batch of COVID-19 vaccines through COVAX provides an effective tool to end the acute phase of the pandemic,” adding, “To maximise the public health benefit of the vaccine, the National Vaccine Deployment Plan prioritizes the first doses for health and essential workers, and other at-risk groups.” He also urged that everyone must continue to adhere to public health measures to stop the spread of the pandemic alongside vaccine administration to achieve the best possible outcome from the vaccine introduction.
Doctors, nurses and support staff of Eka Kotebe Hospital were vaccinated, marking the national launch of the vaccination campaign. Dr Tenaye Desalegn, who was the first person to receive the vaccine at the national launch commented, “I have been working at Eka Kotebe Hospital for 10 months now caring for COVID-19 patients, always anxious, always worrying that I might myself one day contract the disease.” She added, “I am grateful for the opportunity to get vaccinated. I can now treat my patients with better assurance of my own safety as I continue to employ all prevention measures.”
The first shipment of the AstraZeneca vaccines produced by Serum Institute of India (SII) arrived in Ethiopia on 6 March 2021 through COVAX, which facilitated the procurement and shipment of the vaccines. Subsequent shipments of 5.4 million doses as part of the current global deployment plan are expected to arrive in Ethiopia by May 2021.
Excellency State Minister of Health Dr Dereje Duguma acknowledged the support of the COVAX Facility and all partners that contributed to making this day possible, bringing the whole world closer to beating the pandemic. “With the availability of vaccines, beating the pandemic can be a possibility, but that is only possible if we also implement all other COVID-19 prevention measures,” he said. “We need an all of government, all of society approach if we are to win this battle.”
Speakers at the launching ceremony all echoed the resonating message that as this milestone is celebrated, everyone must remain vigilant and strictly observe all public health measures – wearing masks, maintaining physical distance from others, keeping our hands clean and ventilating closed spaces – to prevent the spread of the disease.
The vaccination campaign was launched nationally as well as in all regions in simultaneous high-level events. As per the National Deployment and Vaccination Plan (NDVP) developed following the WHO Prioritizing Roadmap, frontline health workers and support staff, the elderly with underlying conditions and other high-risk groups will be prioritized for vaccination.  This prioritized approach is necessary to make optimum use of the limited vaccine supplies.
The first shipment of 2.2 million vaccine doses out of the total 7.62 doses planned to be deployed to Ethiopia by May 2021 are being administered in the national launch of the vaccine introduction.  Ethiopia aims to vaccinate 20% of the population by the end of 2021.
WHO, UNICEF, GAVI and CEPI are actively collaborating through the COVAX Facility and work with countries and development partners to ensure the required doses arrive in time and are administered on prioritized groups.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/125538-ethiopia-introduces-covid-19-vaccine-national-launching-ceremony




Date: 08 December 2020
Title: UN Secretary-General statement on current situation in Tigray region of Ethiopia
Content: 08 December 2020
UN Secretary-General António Guterres is very concerned about the current situation in the Tigray province in Ethiopia and calls for quickly restoring the rule of law and guaranteeing unfettered humanitarian access.
Mr. Guterres feels that it is essential to quickly restore the rule of law, in full respect for human rights, promote social cohesion, an inclusive reconciliation, as well as to re-establish the delivery of public services and guarantee unfettered humanitarian access.
The United Nations remains totally committed to supporting the African Union initiative. We also remain fully committed to mobilizing the full capacity of the United Nations to provide humanitarian support to refugees, displaced people and all populations in distress.
The Secretary-General has also been conveying these messages in the numerous conversations he has had with United Nations representatives on the ground and regional leaders, as well as Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed of Ethiopia with whom he spoke today.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/104078-un-secretary-general-statement-current-situation-tigray-region-ethiopia




Date: 13 November 2020
Title: Ethiopia – Bachelet expresses alarm as Tigray conflict “risks spiralling out of control”
Content: 13 November 2020

GENEVA (13 November 2020) – Amid emerging reports of mass killings in the town of Mai-Kadra, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet on Friday expressed increasing alarm at the rapidly deteriorating situation in the Ethiopian region of Tigray.
She warned that if the Tigray regional forces and Ethiopian Government forces continue down the path they are on “there is a risk this situation will spiral totally out of control, leading to heavy casualties and destruction, as well as mass displacement within Ethiopia itself and across borders.”
While the details of the alleged mass killings reported by Amnesty International in Mai-Kadra in south-west Tigray have not yet been fully verified, Bachelet called for a full inquiry.
“If confirmed as having been deliberately carried out by a party to the current fighting, these killings of civilians would of course amount to war crimes, and there must be an independent investigation and full accountability for what has happened,” she said. “However, the first priority right now must be to stop the fighting and prevent any further atrocities from taking place.”
The UN Human Rights Chief said that despite the severing of communications with Tigray making it difficult to verify the extent of the damage so far, she had received reports from a variety of sources suggesting increased airstrikes by Government forces as well as fierce ground fighting between the opposing forces.
“I am also extremely alarmed at reports of cuts to essential water and electricity supplies, in addition to the communications blackout and blocking of access by road and air,” she said. “This means there is already a dramatic impact on the civilian population, in addition to the risk of death or injury as a result of hostilities.”
The UN Human Rights Chief repeated her 6 November appeal to both sides to begin talks with the aim of an immediate cessation of hostilities.
“I strongly urge both sides to realize that there will be no winner in such a situation and begin a serious dialogue to resolve their differences without delay,” Bachelet said. “A protracted internal conflict will inflict devastating damage on both Tigray and Ethiopia as a whole, undoing years of vital development progress. It could, in addition, all too easily spill across borders, potentially destabilizing the whole sub-region.”
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/100577-ethiopia-%E2%80%93-bachelet-expresses-alarm-tigray-conflict-%E2%80%9Crisks-spiralling-out-control%E2%80%9D




Date: 07 November 2020
Title: Ethiopia: Bachelet calls for de-escalation amid alarming developments in Tigray and Oromia regions
Content: 07 November 2020
UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet called on all relevant actors to de-escalate the volatile situation in the Ethiopian region of Tigray and and to engage in an inclusive dialogue aimed at resolving grievances without resorting to violence.



GENEVA (6 November 2020) – UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet on Friday called on all relevant actors to de-escalate the volatile situation in the Ethiopian region of Tigray and to engage in an inclusive dialogue aimed at resolving grievances without resorting to violence.
“Over the past week, we have seen alarming violence erupt in the Oromia region as well as in Tigray. I urge all sides to halt the violence, to avoid additional loss of life, mass displacement and further destabilization,” Bachelet said.
“I call on all actors to engage in a genuine, inclusive and credible dialogue to solve any differences through peaceful means.”
Heavy clashes reportedly broke out on Wednesday in the northern region of Tigray between federal and regional troops, and the Federal Council declared a six-month state of emergency. The Government announced that this was in response to an alleged attack by the Tigray People’s Liberation Front on a military base. This came after months of tensions between the federal Government and the Tigray Regional State’s authorities.
The High Commissioner expressed concern about the restrictions imposed on people of Tigray, including on the rights to freedom of movement and freedom of expression. Internet connections and telephone lines have been cut since 3 November, hampering the local population’s ability to communicate and receive vital information, including about the fast-unfolding situation in their region.
“Cutting off communication has severely hampered the ability to monitor the situation on the ground, particularly the impact of the clashes in the local population,” Bachelet said. “I call on the national authorities to re-establish all basic services, including Internet and telephone connections. The right of all people to be informed and to access information is particularly vital in a crisis situation.”
Bachelet also expressed concern at reports indicating that a group of armed assailants assaulted members of the Amhara ethnic group in Wollega zone, Oromia region, on Sunday, 1 November. According to the Government, the attack resulted in the killing of 32 people. Other sources have reported that the number of casualties could be much higher.
“Unaddressed, such violence only leaves desolation, feeds revenge and leads to further intercommunal clashes and to more casualties and displacement in the country,” she said.
“I call for prompt, thorough, independent and impartial investigations into all of these incidents and for the Government to ensure those responsible are held accountable. I also call on the federal and regional authorities to ensure protection of the population and to establish across the country the necessary social, economic, security and political measures to break the cycle of violence and foster trust among communities,” the UN High Commissioner said.
“I am confident that Ethiopians can succeed on the path to social inclusion and economic and social development with full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. They can count on the support of my Office.”
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/99700-ethiopia-bachelet-calls-de-escalation-amid-alarming-developments-tigray-and-oromia-regions




Date: 04 November 2020
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on the situation in Ethiopia
Content: 04 November 2020
The Secretary-General expresses his grave concern over reports of recent inter-communal violence and attacks targeting civilians in Ethiopia.
The Secretary-General expresses his grave concern over reports of recent inter-communal violence and attacks targeting civilians in Ethiopia.  These attacks have reportedly killed many civilians and injured several others.  He expresses his deep condolences to the families of the victims and wishes speedy recovery to the injured.
The Secretary-General calls for the perpetrators to be brought to justice.  He appeals to all stakeholders to take urgent steps to calm tensions in the country and to resolve challenges through an inclusive and peaceful dialogue.
The Secretary-General reiterates the commitment of the United Nations to supporting the Government in its efforts towards ensuring a stable and prosperous Ethiopia, which will contribute to further strengthening peace and sustainable development in the Horn of Africa.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/98943-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-situation-ethiopia%C2%A0




Date: 04 November 2020
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on the situation in Ethiopia
Content: 04 November 2020
The Secretary-General expresses his alarm over the reported armed clashes in the Tigray region of Ethiopia and calls for immediate measures to de-escalate tensions and ensure a peaceful resolution to the dispute.
The Secretary-General expresses his alarm over the reported armed clashes in the Tigray region of Ethiopia and calls for immediate measures to de-escalate tensions and ensure a peaceful resolution to the dispute. He underlines the importance of the stability of Ethiopia for the Horn of Africa region.
The Secretary-General renews the commitment of the United Nations, with its partners in the region, to support the Government of Ethiopia in its reform efforts aimed at building a peaceful and secure future for all its peoples.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/99055-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-situation-ethiopia




Date: 09 September 2020
Title: Ethiopian Government and UN in Ethiopia signed UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (2020-2025)
Content: 09 September 2020
Ethiopian Government and the United Nations in Ethiopia signed the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (2020-2025).
The Government of Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia and the United Nations in Ethiopia today signed a strategic framework document, the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (2020-2025) that describes the collective response of the UN System in Ethiopia to national development priorities and helps achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The UNSDCF, which seeks a total estimated budget of USD 7.1 billion, mostly to be mobilized during the implementation period through the UN Agencies, guides the entire planning and implementation of all UN development interventions in Ethiopia in support of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. It is anchored in Ethiopia’s development priorities as outlined in the 10-Year Perspective Plan and the Home Grown Economic Reform agenda.
The UN development system in Ethiopia has identified four critical priorities structured around the “4Ps” of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development: People, Peace, Prosperity and Planet, helping to address the four big structural transformations of the country over the coming five years: demographic; governance; economic; and environmental.
The four identified areas of change for Ethiopia to make progress on these transformations and progress towards the SDGs, includes the need to: improve human development and enhance the resilience of the people living in Ethiopia; strengthen social cohesion, peace and security and human rights; accelerate the economic transformation and create employment opportunities; and enhance the country’s resilience against natural disasters.
“The cooperation framework represents the renewed commitment of the UN development system to support Ethiopia’s development priorities and contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals in the country in an integrated manner, with a commitment to leave no one behind, human rights and other international standards and obligations,” said Dr. Catherine Sozi, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Ethiopia.
H.E. Mr. Ahmed Shide, Minister of Finance, said, “the Cooperation Framework is the planned support of the UN Agencies to the national development priorities of Ethiopia as shown in the Ten Years Perspective Plan and the Home Grown Economic Reform.”
The framework is signed at a time when the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19 being felt across Ethiopia.
“As Ethiopia’s sustained growth and improved social indicators could severely be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, the United Nations is committed to continue supporting the people and Government of Ethiopia in the response (management of immediate health and economic shocks) and recovery based on the assessment of the impact of COVID-19 in Ethiopia,” said Dr. Sozi. “There is a need to not only build back, but build back better, by improving on systems that already exist and support new approaches that allow Ethiopia to enter the digital age.”
Mr. Shide also said, “the signing of this Cooperation Framework took place at a critical time for Ethiopia, where Ethiopia undergoes a major strategic shift to embark on a transformational growth while fighting against the COVID-19 pandemic.

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/90257-ethiopian-government-and-un-ethiopia-signed-un-sustainable-development-cooperation-framework




Date: 01 September 2020
Title: The 2020 Ethiopia Humanitarian Response Plan Mid-Year Review Released
Content: 01 September 2020
The mid-year review of the 2020 Humanitarian Response Plan seeks US$1.44 billion to assist 15.2 million people in the year 2020.
Ato Damene Darota, Deputy Commissioner of the National Disaster Risk Management Commission (NDRMC), and Dr. Catherine Sozi, the United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Ethiopia officially released the mid-year review (MYR) of the joint Government and humanitarian partners’ 2020 Ethiopia Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) today.
The document lays out prioritized multi-sector humanitarian needs targeting 15.2 million people with emergency food and non-food assistance at a cost of US$ 1.44 billion. The revision was based on assessments of the impact of spring (mid-February-May) rains on the seasonal harvest, as well as on water and pasture in pastoralist and agro-pastoralist communities in lowland areas. The revision also took into account the humanitarian impact of the ongoing desert locust infestation on food insecurity and livelihood loss, displacements due to flooding and localized instabilities, as well as disease outbreaks such as cholera. The focus on COVID-19 did not and should not overshadow the dire consequence of these crisis and the need to respond to them.
According to the NDRMC Deputy Commissioner, Ato Damene Darota, “COVID-19 is the immediate focus of the Government of Ethiopia. However, we will not lose sight of the multi-faceted and simultaneous humanitarian challenges across the country. All these are further compounded by the pandemic.”
Funding analysis done in July revealed that the unmet requirements have never been so high before in Ethiopia at mid-year. Particularly, the non-food clusters are severely underfunded, and the funding level has not been this low since 2012. The July food funding level was also the lowest it has been in the last 5 years. Without urgent additional funding, multi-sector vulnerabilities will further deepen, mostly impacting women, children, the elderly, and the disabled, amongst others.
The United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Ethiopia, Dr. Catherine Sozi, stressed that “today, more than ever, the Government and people of Ethiopia need the steadfast support from international partners. The country needs urgent additional financing to not only control the various co-pandemics before they further spread across the country, but to also mitigate the adverse long-term impact on the already dire humanitarian context.” Dr. Sozi called on friends and partners of Ethiopia to avail additional funding to address these needs, prevent human suffering and avoid deaths.
Given the $83.1 million Government allocation towards the 2020 HRP and donor contribution of $425.1 million, the revised requirement of $1.44 billion currently has a funding gap of $929.6 million.

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/89323-2020-ethiopia-humanitarian-response-plan-mid-year-review-released




Date: 13 August 2020
Title: Ethiopia: COVID-19 Humanitarian Impact, Situation Update No. 10
Content: 13 August 2020
As of 8 August, Ethiopia reported 22,253 confirmed COVID-19 cases compared to 13,248 on 25 July. The cumulative number of recoveries has reached 9,707, while the number of deaths has increased to 390.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/87713-ethiopia-covid-19-humanitarian-impact-situation-update-no-10




Date: 11 August 2020
Title: Stronger Together in Crises’ – Education Cannot Wait Reaches 3.5 Million Children and Youth In Humanitarian Crises Worldwide
Content: 11 August 2020
Amid the worst education crisis of our time caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, ECW’s new Results Report provides evidence on progress made in delivering inclusive, equitable quality education in emergencies and protracted crises.
New York/Addis Ababa - Education Cannot Wait launched its ‘Stronger Together in Crises - Annual Results Report 2019’ today, reaffirming itself as the global fund for education in emergencies and protracted crises. Since the Fund’s inception in 2016, its investments have reached nearly 3.5 million children and youth in many of the world’s worst humanitarian crises.
“Education Cannot Wait works to serve the 75 million children and youth - 39 million of whom are girls - whose education has been disrupted by armed conflicts, forced displacement, climate-change induced disasters and protracted crises,” said the Rt. Hon. Gordon Brown, UN Special Envoy for Global Education and Chair of the ECW High-Level Steering Group. “This new Annual Results Report shows ECW advancing from strength to strength, just three years into its operations. As an innovative fund, Education Cannot Wait is breaking new ground, but more needs to be done. Financing is absolutely essential.”
The report provides evidence that ECW’s partnership model is spurring progress in delivering inclusive, equitable quality education for children and youth caught in emergencies and protracted crises. It shows growing political commitment for the emergency education sector and increased prioritization of education in humanitarian appeals: humanitarian funding for education grew five-fold from 2015 to 2019, with more than US$700 million committed in 2019. The share of funding dedicated to the education sector as part of the total sector-specific humanitarian aid globally also continued to rise, reaching 5.1 per cent in 2019.
“In Ethiopia, The ECW programme provides educational opportunities to an estimated 1.4 million displaced, returnee, and refugee children, mostly resulting from conflicts and natural disasters,” said Adele Khodr, UNICEF Representative in Ethiopia. “As we work together with the Government and other partners on the re-opening of schools, closed due to COVID-19, ECW’s support enables us to provide protective learning environments and inclusive quality education to girls and boys living in very difficult circumstances.”
ECW COVID19 response grant to Ethiopia supported the strengthening and capacity building of 4 Regional Education Bureaus across the country to develop and deliver distance education learning during school closure, expand the reach and the quality of distance education programmes delivered through radio and television ensuring that children do not lose out on learning. With ECW financial contribution, and in partnership with Save the Children, over 4 million primary school children (1.9 million girls) were reached with distance learning through Television and Radio broadcasts including refugees, IDPs and other most vulnerable groups.
To date, ECW has mobilized $662.3 million, including $252.8 million from both public and private donors in 2019. The Fund substantially increased its operations in 2019, disbursing $130.7 million to 75 grantees to support education in emergencies and protracted crises responses in 29 countries. The report shows that ECW is providing the impetus for quicker education responses in the face of sudden onset crises and is strengthening coherence between humanitarian and development aid interventions. It also captures encouraging trends in terms of strengthening national and local capacities to respond, as well as improving data, evidence and accountability for the sector.
ECW-financed education in emergency activities reached 2.6 million crisis-affected children and youth in 2019 alone. The Fund’s focus on the most vulnerable and marginalized children and youth is translating into real results: while girls often face additional barriers to access education in crises settings, nearly half of ECW’s beneficiaries (48 per cent) are girls. In all, 30 per cent of the Fund’s beneficiaries are refugees, 15 per cent are internally displaced children and youth, and 55 per cent are other crises-affected children and youth, including those from host communities.
“ECW champions the inherent human right to an education for children and youth left furthest behind in humanitarian emergencies and protracted crises,” said Yasmine Sherif, Director of Education Cannot Wait. “Our undivided focus is on the realities on the ground and the more than 75 million children and youth whose education is disrupted by crises. They demand our attention and action. Where there is commitment, progress has been made. The primary enrolment ratio for refugee children improved from 53 per cent to 75 per cent in Uganda in just two years; and, in Afghanistan, where 60 percent in our investments are girls, out-of-school girls now have the opportunity to return to the safety and protection of an education thanks to the government’s community-based education approaches and the partnership with civil society and UN agencies. Yet, to further scale up what works requires significant, urgent funding.”
Indeed, more remains to be done. Funding appeals for education in emergencies and protracted crises remained significantly underfunded in 2019, with only 43.5 per cent of the required funding secured; and, the gap risks widening further with the compounding effect of the COVID-19 pandemic and the stress it is exercising onto education and aid budgets worldwide.
“To answer the UN Secretary General’s recent call to avoid a generational catastrophe that could waste untold human potential, undermine decades of progress, and exacerbate entrenched inequalities, ECW and its partners are working to urgently mobilize an additional US$310 million to support the emergency education response to the COVID-19 pandemic and other ongoing crises. Together with in-country resource mobilization, this will allow us to reach close to 9 million children annually,” Sherif said.
In just the past four months of 2020, ECW’s total First Emergency Response investments span 33 countries and crisis-affected contexts, with a record amount of US$60.1 million rapidly allocated by ECW for vulnerable children and youth, who are now doubly impacted by COVID-19.
Highlights of Key ECW 2019 Results in Ethiopia:
Following an initial investment of US$15 made by ECW in 2018 and implemented through UNICEF, the primary gross enrolment ratio for refugee children rose from 62 to 67 per cent.
The initial investment has benefited over 142,840 (54,168 girls) children in Preprimary (12,318), Primary (118,828), Lower (6,904) and upper secondary (4,790) through the construction of 84 new primary school classrooms, 3 new model refugee inclusive secondary schools and further additional 41 secondary school classrooms expansions in 8 host and refugee community schools in Gambella and Benishangul Gumuz Regions
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/87712-stronger-together-crises%E2%80%99-%E2%80%93-education-cannot-wait-reaches-35-million-children-and-youth




Date: 31 July 2020
Title: Ethiopia: COVID-19 Humanitarian Impact, Situation Update No. 09
Content: 31 July 2020
As of 25 July, Ethiopia reported 13,248 confirmed COVID-19 cases compared to 7,969 on 13 July. The cumulative number of recoveries has reached 5,966, while the number of deaths has increased to 209.
The first progress report of the Global Humanitarian Response Plan (GHRP) for COVID-19 was released on 1 July with a requirement of $7.32 billion. As of 16 July, the funding requirements for COVID-19 response have risen to $10.26 billion out of which $506 million is allotted to Ethiopia. As of 25 July, $1.87 billion (18 per cent) has been funded. For further updates: https://fts.unocha.org/appeals/952/summary and for GHRP July update https://www.unocha.org/sites/unocha/files/GHRP-COVID19_July_update.pdf
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/87714-ethiopia-covid-19-humanitarian-impact-situation-update-no-09




Date: 25 June 2020
Title: UNICEF and WFP launch UNICEF and WFP launch partnership to help fight malnutrition in Ethiopia to help fight malnutrition in Ethiopia
Content: 25 June 2020
Three-year initiative aims to support the Government of Ethiopia in preventing acute malnutrition among children and mothers in 100 woredas and promoting health and nutrition in 600 schools.
ADDIS ABABA, 25 June 2020 – The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and World Food Programme (WFP) have launched a three-year partnership in Ethiopia to support the Government in preventing acute malnutrition in children and mothers and provide school-based nutrition and health services.
The first-of-its-kind partnership underlines the urgency of preventing acute malnutrition in Ethiopia, which has seen insufficient progress over the past two decades, and where malnutrition levels are likely to be exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, the ongoing desert locust infestation, and persistent climate-related crises such as floods and droughts.
This year, 4.4 million people in the country will require treatment for severe and moderate malnutrition – 2.7 million children and 1.7 million pregnant and breastfeeding women.
Both agencies believe that sustained and intensive action is required, combining school and community-based prevention activities with expanded access to treatment for children and mothers with acute malnutrition in selected hotspot woredas (districts). This approach would help Ethiopia move towards the goal of decreasing acute malnutrition in children from nearly 10 percent to less than three percent by 2030.
The UNICEF-WFP initiative targets 100 of the most vulnerable woredas in Afar, Amhara, Oromia, Southern Nations Nationalities and Peoples, Somali and Tigray regions. The two agencies aim to:
“We are concerned that millions of children remain susceptible to malnutrition, and we are already seeing worrying signs of increased malnutrition due to COVID-19 and the desert locust infestation,” says UNICEF Representative Adele Khodr. “We are, however, convinced that in working together smartly and differently, we can support the Government of Ethiopia to drastically prevent the root causes of malnutrition and reach every child and mother who requires treatment for malnutrition.”
“The Government is investing heavily in the nutrition, health and education of current and future generations of Ethiopians,” said Steven Were Omamo, WFP Representative and Country Director. “We are confident that this new partnership will add importantly to those efforts and thereby contribute to the Government’s vision of social and economic transformation in Ethiopia.”
For Ethiopia to meet the Sustainable Development Goal of eradicating hunger and malnutrition, the annual rate of reduction in acute malnutrition needs to increase tenfold. Stepping up investments in preventing hunger and malnutrition is seen as a key part of this effort and it will greatly reduce current costs related to treating malnutrition.
With this partnership, it is envisaged that UNICEF and WFP will support the Government of Ethiopia to significantly reduce malnutrition by leveraging Ethiopian food systems to increase consumption of diets rich in nutrients among children and mothers, reducing inequities in access to food, improving targeting of vulnerable households, enhancing awareness and adoption of optimal feeding practices, and innovating with local solutions.
#                           #                            #
For more information, contact:
Victor Chinyama, UNICEF, Tel: +251 911 255 109; vchinyama@unicef.org
Wossen Mulatu, UNICEF, Tel: +251 911 308483; wmulatu@unicef.org
Edward Johnson, WFP, Tel: +251 935 998 863; edward.johnson@wfp.org
Peter Smerdon, WFP/Nairobi, Mob. +254 707 722 104; peter.smerdon@wfp.org
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org.
Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook
About WFP
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies, building prosperity and supporting a sustainable future for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @wfp_Africa and wfp_ethiopia

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/50836-unicef-and-wfp-launch-unicef-and-wfp-launch-partnership-help-fight-malnutrition-ethiopia-help




Date: 20 June 2020
Title: ARRA, UNHCR and humanitarian partners commemorate World Refugee Day against backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 20 June 2020
World Refugee Day
Addis Ababa/Ethiopia 19 June 2020: -The Agency for Refugees and Returnees Affairs, (ARRA) and UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, pay homage to refugees, their hosts and frontline humanitarian workers as they commemorate the World Refugee Day on 20 June 2020 against a backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic. The principals of the two agencies seized the opportunity to extend their gratitude and appreciation to the Government of Ethiopia, donors and partners for their continued support and solidarity during these uncertain times.
“The virus has stopped us from organizing physical events to commemorate World Refugee Day together with refugees, partners, donors and others. But it cannot prevent us from holding ‘virtual’ events to celebrate the indomitable spirits of refugees and humanitarian workers who are fighting the pandemic on the frontlines”, said Addisu Kebenessa, Deputy Director General of ARRA.
Ato Addisu appreciated the support the Government is receiving from donors and close partners like UNHCR to mitigate the scourge of COVID-19 and to sustain the regular programmes. But he said resources are falling far short and appealed for more financial support to overcome the dire health and economic impacts of the virus.
Refugees and IDPs often live in overcrowded conditions where physical distancing is practically impossible. While there has been no large-scale outbreak amongst the refugee settings in Ethiopia so far, ARRA, UNHCR, the Regional Health Bureaus and partners are making concerted efforts to mitigate the transmission of the virus in the country’s 26 refugee camps and surrounding host community locations.
“As we mark World Refugee Day 2020, not only is the world grappling with the devastation of the COVID-19 pandemic, but it has also seen record numbers of people who have fled their homes to find safety”, said Ann Encontre, the UNHCR Representative in Ethiopia. “Everyone of us can play our roles and make a difference in turning the tide of the devastation we are seeing now. Because every action counts”
UNHCR’s Global Trends Report released on 18 June shows that an unprecedented 79.5 million people were displaced as of the end of 2019. This is more than the populations of the United Kingdom and Belgium combined.
Ms. Encontre echoed Ato Addisu in appealing for more support and solidarity, saying, “What started as a health crisis has expanded, and today refugees and other forcibly displaced people face serious economic challenges”.
Refugees are included in the national COVID-19 response plan which UNHCR highly appreciates. This is an extension of Ethiopia’s progressive refugee policy, promoting inclusion of refugees in national development plans.
ARRA and UNHCR have planned several online activities including releasing World Refugee Day greetings from refugees all over Ethiopia and statements by the leadership of the two agencies on their social media platforms, as well as a special performance by UNHCR Goodwill Ambassador Betty G on her and UNHCR’s social media channels. (FB: @UNHCREthio, Twitter: @UNHCREthiopia, FB: @Arra Addis Ababa, twitter: @ItsBettyG).
Ethiopia currently hosts over 763,000 registered and many more unregistered refugees and asylum seekers.
END
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/50121-arra-unhcr-and-humanitarian-partners-commemorate-world-refugee-day-against-backdrop-covid-19




Date: 28 May 2020
Title: Governments and international organizations come together to address economic challenges and sustainability
Content: 28 May 2020
High-level event on financing solutions related to COVID-19
NEW YORK, 28 May 2020— United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres, the Prime Minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau and the Prime Minister of Jamaica, Andrew Holness, will convene world leaders and international organizations today in a joint initiative to sharpen and accelerate our global response to the significant economic and human impacts of COVID-19, and advance concrete solutions to the development emergency.
This pandemic requires a large-scale, coordinated, comprehensive multilateral response to support countries in need, enabling them to recover better for more prosperous and resilient and inclusive economies and societies.
With more than 50 Heads of State and Government participating, the High-Level Event on Financing for Development in the Era of COVID-19 and Beyond is the most inclusive gathering of countries to focus on the socio-economic recovery and financing needs from the pandemic. We must continue to coordinate these efforts to avoid a devastating impact on people’s lives and livelihoods.
We all face economic strain in responding to this pandemic, particularly low- and middle-income countries, many of which are seeing their efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set back.
The High-Level Event looks at six urgent areas of action to mobilize the financing needed for the response and recovery. These include expanding liquidity across the global economy; addressing debt vulnerabilities; stemming illicit financial flows; increasing external finance for inclusive growth and job creation; and strategies for countries to recover better, achieve the SDGs, address climate change and restore the balance between the economy and nature.
“The pandemic has demonstrated our fragility,” said UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. “We are in an unprecedented human crisis, because of a microscopic virus. We need to respond with unity and solidarity, and a key aspect of solidarity is financial support.”
Jamaica’s Prime Minister Andrew Holness said “the COVID-19 pandemic demands that we take immediate action to address its impacts on the economies of all countries, in every region of the world and at every stage of development.” He added that he welcomes the six thematic areas of focus, including the “necessity to address the urgent need for increased liquidity, particularly for low- and middle-income countries.”
Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said that “all countries are being tested by the COVID-19 pandemic, and it threatens to undermine our hard-won development gains. We know the best way to help all our people and economies rebound is to work together as a global community. We want to support collective and individual actions to enable a recovery that leads to more inclusive, sustainable and resilient economies, where no one is left behind.”
The cost of the pandemic
World Health Organization (WHO) figures show that the COVID-19 pandemic has already claimed more than 340,000 lives, with more than 5.4 million cases globally. Unless we act now, UN projections indicate that the pandemic could slash nearly $US8.5 trillion from the global economy over the next two years, forcing 34.3 million people into extreme poverty this year, and potentially, an additional 130 million people during this decade.
Failing businesses are already causing a surge in unemployment. The International Labour Organization (ILO) expects that global working hours in the second quarter of 2020 will be 10.5 per cent lower than before the crisis, equivalent to 305 million full-time jobs. Women are particularly affected, as they are overrepresented in sectors that have been the most affected with initial job losses. They are also the majority of those employed in the informal sector globally and on the whole tend to hold less secure jobs with fewer protections, less savings, and are more likely to live in, or close to, poverty.
The pandemic is causing economic distress even in countries that have not yet experienced the health impact in large numbers. Falling exports and growth are rapidly undermining the debt sustainability of many developing countries, particularly those that are heavily dependent on commodities, tourism revenues or remittances. Growing debt distress poses an enormous challenge to these countries, further constraining their ability to implement stimulus measures.
Even prior to the outbreak of the pandemic, almost half of all least developed and other low-income countries were in, or close to, debt distress. Debt servicing costs for these countries more than doubled between 2000 and 2019, to 13 per cent of government revenue, and reached more than 40 per cent in a quarter of all Small Island Developing States (SIDS).
Effective domestic resource mobilization will be crucial for rebuilding economies. Yet trillions of dollars are thought to be held in undeclared offshore financial holdings. The cost of money laundering has been estimated at around $US1.6 trillion a year.
Meeting the challenges
In the face of this unprecedented health, social and economic crisis, many governments across the world have rolled out large fiscal stimulus measures equivalent to an estimated 10 per cent of national gross domestic product (GDP). But most developing economies are finding it difficult or impossible to implement sufficiently large fiscal packages, which have so far averaged less than 1 per cent of their GDP.
In April 2020, the G-20 agreed to suspend debt service on bilateral official debt to 76 low-income developing countries to help increase liquidity to deal with the impacts of the crisis. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) offered further debt service relief to 25 of the poorest countries, and the World Bank has been coordinating with regional banks to discuss COVID-19 support, joint initiatives, co-financing, and ways to maximize net flows to the poorest and most vulnerable countries.
But far more is needed, and quickly.
The High-Level Event will discuss a wide range of inclusive solutions, seeking input from the countries feeling the most impacted.
Rebuilding sustainably
In the initial containment and crisis phase of the pandemic, nations have prioritized the health of people before turning to the economic and labour market consequences. As each nation charts its own course to recovery, countries are seeking to limit the economic fallout by taking steps to protect enterprises, jobs and incomes, and to stimulate the economy, and to do so in a way that protects women and families, young people, and the most vulnerable in our societies.
We must raise our ambitions in order to recover better, by building more prosperous, inclusive, resilient and sustainable economies and societies. Countries cannot afford to leave unattended the underlying fragilities at the core of our current economic and social systems. We cannot wish away systemic risks, from the climate crisis to high and persistent inequality. Everyone will benefit if we address these risks by investing up front.
The Event will include a High-Level Segment in which Heads of State and Government will express their commitment to finding multilateral solutions to the global economic crisis and its effects on the most vulnerable. In addition, a High-Level Panel of leaders from international institutions will discuss the challenges and opportunities for urgent, decisive action. Following the Panel, the High-Level Segment among Heads of State and Government, and partners will continue.
Six critical areas of focus
The Event will also launch a collaborative effort to enable discussions on concrete proposals to overcome challenges in six areas, and progress will be reported back at the margins of the High Level Political Forum in July, the General Assembly in September, and at the end of the year that include:
1. The need to expand liquidity in the global economy and maintain financial stability to safeguard development gains.
2. The need to address debt vulnerabilities for all developing countries to save lives and livelihoods for billions of people around the world.
3. The need to create a space in which private sector creditors can proactively engage in effective and timely solutions.
4. Prerequisites for enhancing external finance and remittances for inclusive growth and creating jobs.
5. Measures to expand fiscal space and foster domestic resource mobilization by preventing illicit financial flows.
6. Ensuring a sustainable and inclusive recovery by aligning recovery policies with the Sustainable Development Goals.
The outcomes of the High-Level Event include the formation of six discussions groups, a collaborative effort that aims at providing concrete proposals by mid-July.
There is no time to lose. Solutions cannot wait, and decisive action is required.
[END]
The Event will be webcast at: http://webtv.un.org/
The full list of speakers will be posted on the High-Level Event website, which can be found at: https://www.un.org/en/coronavirus/financing-development
Media contacts:
United Nations: Dan Shepard, UN Department of Global Communications, email: shepard@un.org, tel: +1 646 675 3286
Canada: Office of the Prime Minister, PMO Media Relations, email: media@pmo-cpm.gc.ca
Jamaica: Kimberley McLeod and Naomi Francis, Office of the Prime Minister of Jamaica, email: Kimberley.mcleod@opm.gov.jm and naomi.francis@opm.gov.jm
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/47589-governments-and-international-organizations-come-together-address-economic-challenges-and




Date: 28 May 2020
Title: Periods don’t pause for a pandemic
Content: 28 May 2020
Today, Ethiopia joins the rest of the world in commemorating the Menstrual Hygiene Day under the theme, “Periods in Pandemic – it is time to take action!”
The objective this year is to emphasize the importance of continuing menstrual hygiene awareness and support for women and girls during COVID-19, especially for those living in poverty, the internally displaced, refugees, and those in quarantine and transit centers.
A pandemic such as COVID-19 doesn’t stop activities to support the basic menstrual hygiene needs of women and girls, including those who are on the frontlines of the pandemic.
It is imperative that girls and women living in poverty, the internally displaced, refugees, and those in quarantine and transit centers are provided with menstrual hygiene kits. This is part of preserving their dignity amidst the difficult conditions they are living in.
“Given the multiple challenges that women and adolescent girls face, it is evident that promoting menstrual hygiene management is not only a health and sanitation matter, it is also a crucial step towards safeguarding the dignity, integrity and overall life opportunities for women and girls,” says Minister of Health Dr. Lia Tadesse.
Since 2016, the Federal Ministry of Health, together with government and civil society partners, has been implementing a comprehensive menstrual hygiene and health programme in the country. The programme includes raising awareness in schools and surrounding communities to reduce stigma around menstruation, providing appropriate water, sanitation and hygiene facilities, increasing access to sanitary products, and making available safe spaces in schools to reduce absenteeism for girls during menstruation.
Following the award of the 2019 CNN Hero of the Year to Freweini Mebrahtu for her work on reducing the cultural stigma attached to menstruation in parts of rural Ethiopia, a Menstrual Hygiene and Health taskforce was formed under the leadership of Her Excellency the President Sahle-Work Zewde to spearhead the menstrual hygiene programme.
While many people still doubt the seriousness of the issue, for countless girls and women, sanitary pads are an unaffordable ‘luxury’. Among the thousands of girls with whom UNICEF has worked, most explained that they were forced to resort to unsanitary and sometimes unsafe methods to meet their needs.
A 2020 UNICEF survey shows that 18 per cent of young girls miss school during menstruation. Nearly half cited pain as the reason and a quarter cited fear of leaking. The report also shows that girls have difficulties talking to their teachers about menstruation challenges at school. Cultural taboos that forbid girls from certain activities when menstruating – such as fetching water, engaging in religious activities, cooking – need to be addressed.
“UNICEF is working with the government and other partners to ensure that women and girls are not disadvantaged by something as natural as their periods,” says UNICEF Representative Adele Khodr. “We are advocating with partners in the OneWASH national programme to mainstream menstrual hygiene, particularly in schools and health centers.”
UNICEF has supported the Ministry of Health to establish national standards for reusable and disposable pads and inclusion of menstrual hygiene and health in the health extension programme. Menstrual hygiene and disability are now included in the design and construction of water, sanitation, and hygiene facilities in schools and health centers.
With funding from the governments of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Canada, awareness campaigns have reached 106,500 school children and 13 million people.
The Government and UNICEF are calling for an end to stigma and shame and for more support for vulnerable women and girls in the form of menstrual pads, especially during COVID-19. This is our duty to ensure the dignity of those caught up in difficult conditions.
# #
About Menstrual Hygiene Day
Menstrual Hygiene Day is a global platform bringing together non-profits, government agencies, the private sector, the media and individuals to promote Menstrual Hygiene Management.
Menstrual Hygiene Day raises awareness of the challenges women and girls worldwide face due to their menstruation and highlights solutions that address these challenges, including through media work.
It catalyses a growing, global movement for Menstrual Hygiene Management and supports partnerships at global, regional, national and local level. Menstrual Hygiene Day also creates opportunities to advocate for the integration of Menstrual Hygiene Day in global, national and local policies, programmes and projects.
For more information on Menstrual Hygiene Day, visit http://menstrualhygieneday.org/
Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook
For more information, please contact:
Ministry of Health Public Relations Directorate, Tel +251 115518031
Website: http://www.moh.gov.et/ejcc/
Facebook: Ministry of Health Ethiopia
Twitter: MOH ETHIOPIA @FMOHealth

UNICEF, Wossen Mulatu, Communication Officer, Tel.: +251 115 184028, Mobile: +251 911 308483, email: wmulatu@unicef.org
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/47571-periods-don%E2%80%99t-pause-pandemic




Date: 21 May 2020
Title: United Nations Launches Global Initiative to Combat Misinformation
Content: 21 May 2020
NEW YORK, 21 MAY 2020—Today the United Nations is launching ‘Verified’, an initiative to combat the growing
scourge of COVID-19 misinformation by increasing the volume and reach of trusted, accurate information.
“We cannot cede our virtual spaces to those who traffic in lies, fear and hate,” said UN Secretary-General,
António Guterres, who announced the initiative. “Misinformation spreads online, in messaging apps and person
to person. Its creators use savvy production and distribution methods. To counter it, scientists and institutions
like the United Nations need to reach people with accurate information they can trust.”
Verified, led by the UN Department for Global Communications (DGC), will provide information around three
themes: science – to save lives; solidarity – to promote local and global cooperation; and solutions – to advocate
for support to impacted populations. It will also promote recovery packages that tackle the climate crisis and
address the root causes of poverty, inequality and hunger.
The initiative is calling on people around the world to sign up to become “information volunteers” to share trusted
content to keep their families and communities safe and connected. Described as digital first responders, the
volunteers will receive a daily feed of verified content optimized for social sharing with simple, compelling messaging
that either directly counters misinformation or fills an information void.
DGC will partner with UN agencies and UN country teams, influencers, civil society, business and media organizations
to distribute trusted, accurate content and work with social media platforms to root out hate and harmful
assertions about COVID-19.
“In many countries the misinformation surging across digital channels is impeding the public health response
and stirring unrest. There are disturbing efforts to exploit the crisis to advance nativism or to target minority
groups, which could worsen as the strain on societies grows and the economic and social fallout kicks in,”
Melissa Fleming, UN Under-Secretary-General for Global Communications, said. “The Verified initiative will also
work to address this trend with hopeful content that celebrates local acts of humanity, the contributions of refugees
and migrants, and makes the case for global cooperation.”
The initiative is a collaboration with Purpose, one of the world’s leading social mobilization organizations. It is
supported by the IKEA Foundation and Luminate.
Patricia Atkinson, the IKEA Foundation’s Chief Programmes Officer, said: “The COVID-19 pandemic is an unprecedented
global health crisis. The IKEA Foundation is proud to be supporting Verified -- an initiative aiming to
make sure everyone has access to the trusted science and advice they need to keep their family and loved ones
safe.”
Nishant Lalwani, Managing Director of Luminate, added: “COVID-19 has provided a stark reminder that access to
accurate, trusted information can be the difference between fear and resilience, division and unity, and even life
and death. We are proud to be supporting Verified and its work to tackle the coronavirus ‘infodemic’ by rapidly
spreading reliable, science-based information to protect people and communities around the world.”

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/46808-united-nations-launches-global-initiative-combat-misinformation




Date: 13 May 2020
Title: COVID-19 to slash global economic output by $8.5 trillion  over next two years
Content: 13 May 2020
Pandemic to push more than 34 million people into extreme poverty in 2020.
New York, 13 May— Against the backdrop of a devastating pandemic, the global economy is projected to contract sharply by 3.2 per cent this year, according to the United Nations World Economic Situation and Prospects (WESP) mid-2020 report, released today.
The global economy is expected to lose nearly $8.5 trillion in output over the next two years due to the COVID-19 pandemic, wiping out nearly all gains of the previous four years.  The sharp economic contraction, which marks the sharpest contraction since the Great Depression in the 1930s, comes on top of anaemic economic forecasts of only 2.1 percent at the start of the year.
The report estimates that GDP growth in developed economies is expected to plunge to -5.0% in 2020. A modest, 3.4% growth – barely enough to make up for the lost output – is expected in 2021. World trade is forecast to contract by nearly 15 per cent in 2020 amid sharply reduced global demand and disruptions in global supply chains.
Nearly 90 per cent of the world economy has been under some form of lockdown, disrupting supply chains, depressing consumer demand and putting millions out of work. Under the baseline scenario, the developed economies are expected to contract by 5.0 per cent in 2020, while the output of developing countries will shrink by 0.7 per cent.
The pandemic is exacerbating poverty and inequality
The pandemic will likely cause an estimated 34.3 million people to fall below the extreme poverty line in 2020, with 56% of this increase occurring in African countries.  An additional 130 million people may join to the ranks of people living in extreme poverty by 2030, dealing a huge blow to global efforts for eradicating extreme poverty and hunger. The pandemic, which is disproportionately hurting low-skilled, low-wage jobs, while leaving higher-skilled jobs less affected – will further widen income inequality within and between countries.
Facing an unprecedented health, social and economic crisis, governments across the world have rolled out large fiscal stimulus measures - equivalent to an estimated 10 per cent of GDP - to combat the pandemic and minimize its livelihood impacts. However, the depth and severity of the crisis foreshadows a slow and painful recovery.
Elliott Harris, UN Chief Economist and Assistant Secretary-General for Economic Development stated that “The pace and strength of the recovery from the crisis not only hinges on the efficacy of public health measures in slowing the spread of the virus, but also on the ability of countries to protect jobs and incomes, particularly of the most vulnerable members of our societies.”
Crisis will likely accelerate shift towards digitalization
The report highlights the pandemic could foster a new normal, fundamentally reshaping human interactions, inter-dependence, trade and globalization, while accelerating digitalization and automation. A rapid surge in economic activities online will likely eliminate many existing jobs, while creating new jobs in the digital economy. The net wage and employment effects could be negative, further aggravating income inequality.
Many developing countries face severe fiscal constraints
Most developing economies – saddled with chronic fiscal deficits and already high levels of public debt – are finding it very hard to implement sufficiently large fiscal packages, which have thus far averaged less than 1% of their GDP. Falling exports and growth are rapidly undermining the debt sustainability of many developing countries, particularly those that are heavily dependent on commodities, tourism revenues or remittances. Growing debt distress poses an enormous challenge to these countries, further constraining their ability to implement much-needed stimulus measures.
Stimulus measures must boost productive investments
The report cautions against the risk of large fiscal and monetary stimulus measures – with trillions of dollars of new liquidity injected into the financial system – contributing to the quick recovery of equity and bond prices, while ignoring productive investments. Global liquidity per capita surged since the Global Financial Crisis in 2008, while productive investment per capita stagnated, the report noted.
Hamid Rashid, Chief of the Global Economic Monitoring Branch and lead author of the report, said “The lesson we learnt from the last crisis is that fiscal and monetary stimulus measures do not necessarily boost productive investments. Governments must encourage businesses receiving its financial assistance to invest in productive capacities. This is a must for protecting decent jobs and preventing further rise in income inequality.”
Stronger international cooperation an imperative
Stronger global cooperation is critical, especially to contain the pandemic and extend financial assistance to countries hardest hit by the crisis. In the immediate term, the increased availability and rapid deployment of international funds to address liquidity shortages and free up fiscal space is paramount. In addition to these short-term measures, many developing countries – particularly commodity- and tourism- dependent economies – will still need comprehensive debt restructuring to have the fiscal space to stimulate growth and accelerate recovery.  The report underscores a window of opportunity for “recovering better”, with renewed global solidarity enhancing public health systems, building resilience to withstand economic shocks, improving social protection systems worldwide, greening of economies and addressing climate change.
~~~
About the World Economic Situation and Prospects as of mid-2020
The report is a mid-year update of the World Economic Situation and Prospects 2020 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.20.II.C.1), released in January 2020.
For more information, please visit: www.bit.ly/wespmidyear
Media contacts:
Dan Shepard, UN Department of Global Communications, shepard@un.org
Helen Rosengren, UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, rosengrenh@un.org
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/45578-covid-19-slash-global-economic-output-85-trillion-over-next-two-years




Date: 12 May 2020
Title: UN agencies launch Tech Access Partnership in joint effort to scale up local production of life-saving health technologies for COVID-19
Content: 12 May 2020
12 May 2020, New York - The United Nations Technology Bank, together with the UN Development Programme (UNDP), UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the World Health Organization (WHO), launched the Tech Access Partnership (TAP), as part of a coordinated approach to strengthen developing countries’ responses to COVID-19 and increase access to lifesaving health technologies.
As demand for personal protective equipment, medical devices and diagnostics increases exponentially amid the global pandemic, countries with limited resources are often unable to purchase or produce the tools they need to mount effective responses to COVID-19. Lack of access to technical expertise, training and regulatory frameworks also limit local production of essential equipment in these regions, particularly for more complex products like ventilators.
TAP aims to address critical shortages of essential health technologies and equipment by connecting manufacturers with critical expertise and emerging manufacturers in developing countries to share the information, technical expertise and resources necessary to scale up production of these tools. The Partnership will also support countries to develop affordable technologies and equipment that meet quality and safety standards.
“Now, more than ever, the global community needs to unite to save lives and secure sustainable futures.  Inequalities are exacerbating the technology and digital divide when it comes to opportunities for youth, creating a divide that threatens to leave them behind,” says Amina J. Mohammed, Deputy Secretary-General of the UN. “Increasing access to necessary technologies through partnerships, is a crucial component of the United Nations’ COVID-19 health, humanitarian and socio-economic response.”
TAP will be led by the UN Technology Bank for Least Developed Countries, established in 2016 to assist governments with the development and adaptation of new technologies. The initiative, which is open to all developing countries, will also be supported by its core partners, UNDP, UNCTAD and WHO.
“Without access to lifesaving technologies, many developing countries are unprepared for the potentially devastating impact of COVID-19,” says Joshua Setipa, Managing Director, UN Technology Bank. “By enabling developing countries to produce these technologies themselves, we can help set them on the path to recovery.”
TAP’s key functions will include:
The initiative is guided by the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the UN’s call for shared responsibility and solidarity during the COVID-19 crisis.
“TAP’s role in advancing more equitable access to critical health technologies is fundamental to help developing countries in responding to the immediate and devastating effects of COVID-19,” says Achim Steiner, UNDP Administrator. “Moreover, the partnership’s efforts to increase access to critical knowledge, technical tools and guidance will boost the resilience of countries and societies to future shocks – while helping to drive their socio-economic recovery at the same time.”
“COVID-19 has shown us that a disease outbreak anywhere is a threat everywhere. We must stand together to support all countries and ensure equitable access to lifesaving technologies,” says Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director-General of the WHO. “Scaling up access to medicines and health technologies in these countries is essential to slow new infections and avoid unnecessary deaths.”
TAP will also collaborate with other relevant initiatives to ensure COVID-19 response efforts are coordinated and complementary. The partnership is centered in the UN Development System’s overall approach to counter the socio-economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which includes scaling up global capacity for testing and treatment, providing social protections for the most vulnerable and making countries resilient to future pandemics.
“The Technology Access Partnership can be an important part of the effort to help developing countries recover from this crisis,” says Dr. Mukhisa Kituyi, Secretary-General of UNCTAD. “By expanding the skills and capacity of local manufacturers, the initiative can boost innovation and contribute to inclusive economic growth.”
As an initial pilot, TAP will begin working with manufacturers in several developing countries around the world.
“There’s an urgent need to start filling gaps in technology and equipment to meet the health needs of our population,” says Cham Prasidh, Senior Minister and Minister of Industry, Science, Technology and Innovation of Cambodia. “Our country faces similar challenges as other developing countries: lack of special-purpose spare parts, specific technical know-how, experience with different technologies, and funding for research and development. Greater access to these tools offered under TAP will save lives, boost our country’s responses to COVID-19 and help us prepare for future crises.”
###
About the UN Technology Bank
The UN Technology Bank is a global organisation dedicated to enhancing the contribution of science, technology and innovation for sustainable development in the world’s 47 least developed countries. Least developed countries are low-income countries confronting severe structural impediments to sustainable development. They are highly vulnerable to economic and environmental shocks and have low levels of human assets.
The UN Technology Bank supports national and regional technological efforts in least developed countries, reinforcing partnerships across sectors and helping nations identify and use appropriate technologies to transform their economies and improve livelihoods.
About UN Development Programme (UNDP)
UNDP partners with people at all levels of society to help build nations that can withstand crisis, and drive and sustain the kind of growth that improves the quality of life for everyone. On the ground in some 170 countries and territories, we offer global perspective and local insight to help empower lives and build resilient nations.
About UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)
UNCTAD supports developing countries to access the benefits of a globalized economy more fairly and effectively, helping equip them to deal with the potential drawbacks of greater economic integration. To do this, UNCTAD provides analysis, facilitates consensus-building, and offers technical assistance. This helps countries to use trade, investment, finance, and technology as vehicles for inclusive and sustainable development.
About the World Health Organization (WHO)
WHO is the United Nations’ specialized agency for health. It is an intergovernmental organization and works in collaboration with its Member States usually through the Ministries of Health. The World Health Organization is responsible for providing leadership on global health matters, shaping the health research agenda, setting norms and standards, articulating evidence-based policy options, providing technical support to countries and monitoring and assessing health trends. Learn more at www.who.int.
Media Contacts:
Toby Simon
tsimon@globalhealthstrategies.org
+1 (301) 648 0962
Louise Stoddard
UNTB@un.org
+33 (0) 6 31 61 71 72
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/45507-un-agencies-launch-tech-access-partnership-joint-effort-scale-local-production-life-saving




Date: 08 May 2020
Title: UN Secretary-General on Global Appeal to Address and Counter  COVID-19-Related Hate Speech
Content: 08 May 2020
COVID-19 does not care who we are, where we live, what we believe or about any other distinction.  We need every ounce of solidarity to tackle it together.  Yet the pandemic continues to unleash a tsunami of hate and xenophobia, scapegoating and scare-mongering.
Anti-foreigner sentiment has surged online and in the streets. Anti-Semitic conspiracy theories have spread, and COVID-19-related anti-Muslim attacks have occurred.  Migrants and refugees have been vilified as a source of the virus -- and then denied access to medical treatment.  With older persons among the most vulnerable, contemptible memes have emerged suggesting they are also the most expendable.  And journalists, whistleblowers, health professionals, aid workers and human rights defenders are being targeted simply for doing their jobs.
We must act now to strengthen the immunity of our societies against the virus of hate.  That’s why I’m appealing today for an all-out effort to end hate speech globally.
I call on political leaders to show solidarity with all members of their societies and build and reinforce social cohesion.
I call on educational institutions to focus on digital literacy at a time when billions of young people are online – and when extremists are seeking to prey on captive and potentially despairing audiences.
I call on the media, especially social media companies, to do much more to flag and, in line with international human rights law, remove racist, misogynist and other harmful content.
I call on civil society to strengthen outreach to vulnerable people, and religious actors to serve as models of mutual respect.
And I ask everyone, everywhere, to stand up against hate, treat each other with dignity and take every opportunity to spread kindness.
Last year, I launched the United Nations Strategy and Plan of Action on Hate Speech to enhance United Nations efforts against this scourge.   As we combat this pandemic, we have a duty to protect people, end stigma and prevent violence.
Let’s defeat hate speech – and COVID-19 - together.

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/45105-un-secretary-general-global-appeal-address-and-counter-covid-19-related-hate-speech




Date: 27 April 2020
Title: Women leaders rise in solidarity to save lives and protect livelihoods
Content: 27 April 2020
“Rise for All” calls on all leaders to meet the human crisis of the COVID-19 pandemic and fully fund the UN Response and Recovery Trust Fund
New York, 27 April 2020 – Supporting the UN Secretary-General’s call for solidarity and urgent action in response to the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19, an initial group of prominent women today joined a global advocacy effort to save lives and protect livelihoods, urging leaders in all countries, across all sectors, to address the human crisis of the pandemic.
Convened by UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed, Rise for All brings together women leaders to mobilize support for the UN roadmap to tackle the development emergency, as laid out in the United Nations Framework for the immediate socio-economic response to COVID-19: Shared responsibility, global solidarity and urgent action for people in need, issued today.
“Like no other time in recent history, women are on the frontlines of COVID-19 and bearing the brunt of this human crisis,” said the UN Deputy Secretary-General. “It is time for us to rise as women leaders, taking action to conquer the pandemic and come out stronger so as to keep the world on track to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.”
The first to join this cohort today are the President of Ethiopia, Sahle-Work Zewde, the Prime Minister of Norway and Sustainable Development Goals Advocate of the Secretary-General, Erna Solberg, Sustainable Development Goals Advocate of the Secretary-General Her Highness Sheikha Moza bint Nasser, the Prime Minister of Barbados, Mia Mottley, Sustainable Development Goals Advocate of the Secretary-General Dia Mirza, UN Women Goodwill Ambassador of Pakistan Muniba Mazari, along with the Executive Directors of UNICEF, Henrietta Fore, of UN Women, Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, and of UNFPA, Natalia Kanem.
Together, the women are supporting the United Nations’ call for an extraordinary scale-up of international support and political commitment to “build back better” and ensure that people everywhere have access to essential services and social protection. This includes support for the UN COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund, an inter-agency mechanism designed to help those countries and people most exposed to the economic hardship and social disruption the pandemic has caused.
The Fund aims to mobilize US$1 billion over the first nine months, and US$2 billion over two years, to support low- and middle-income countries, including Small Island Developing States and vulnerable groups such as women and children who are disproportionately bearing the socio-economic impacts of the pandemic.
The Netherlands today announced an initial contribution 15 million Euros (US$16.6 million) to the Fund, following in the footsteps of Norway and Denmark, who have thus far pledged 150 million Norwegian Krone (US$14.1 million) and 50 million Danish Krone (US$7.3 million), respectively.
Over the coming weeks, more women leaders, including from the political, multilateral and business sectors, are expected to join Rise for All, adding their voices in support of the United Nations roadmap for social and economic recovery, and to advocate a fully funded COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund.

NOTE TO EDITORS:
The Rise for All video, featuring the women leaders listed above, will be published at 12:15pm on 27 April. It will be available on the UN YouTube channel at www.youtube.com/unitednations and on UN WebTV at http://webtv.un.org/watch/rise-for-all/6151978398001
The video can be used for news, editorial as well as non-commercial purposes with credit to the United Nations. All rights belong to the United Nations. For questions, please contact the United Nations AV library at avlibrary@un.org.
Video embed code:
<div style='display: block; position: relative; max-width: 480px; max-height: 270px'><div style='padding-top: 56.25%;'><iframe style='width: 100%; height: 100%; position: absolute; top: 0px; bottom: 0px; right: 0px; left: 0px;' src='//www.un.org/webcast/1362235914001/B1J3DDQJf_default/index.html?videoId=6…' allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen frameborder='0'></iframe></div></div>
For more information: www.un.org/riseforall

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/43290-women-leaders-rise-solidarity-save-lives-and-protect-livelihoods




Date: 24 April 2020
Title: UN Secretary-General, António Guterres,  message on the beginning of Ramadan
Content: 24 April 2020
I extend my warmest wishes as millions of Muslims around the world begin observing the holy month of Ramadan.
This will, of course, be a very different Ramadan.  Many community activities will naturally be affected by measures to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.  Meanwhile, many people in conflict zones will once again be tragically marking this month with war and insecurity all around.
I recently called for an immediate global ceasefire to focus on our common enemy — the virus.  I repeat that appeal today, recalling the words of the Holy Quran “and if they incline to peace, then incline to it”.
Ramadan is also about supporting the most vulnerable.  I thank governments and people throughout the Muslim world who live by their faith, supporting those fleeing conflict in the best Islamic tradition of hospitality and generosity — a remarkable lesson in this world where so many doors have been closed to those in need of protection, even before COVID-19.
Once again, my best wishes to all for mercy, solidarity and compassion in these trying times.
Ramadan Kareem.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/43031-un-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres-message-beginning-ramadan




Date: 14 April 2020
Title: WFP launches Ethiopian government-supported Air Hub for COVID-19 response
Content: 14 April 2020
The first World Health Organization cargo flight arrived in Ethiopia loaded with aprons, face shields, gloves, goggles, gowns, masks and thermometers for distribution to 32 African countries.
The Government of Ethiopia and United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) opened a new hub inside Addis Ababa’s Bole International Airport from which COVID-19 supplies, equipment and humanitarian workers will be transported by air across Ethiopia and Africa.
The Addis Ababa Humanitarian Air Hub is part of a United Nations initiative move to scale up procurement and distribution of protective equipment and medical supplies for the COVID-19 response. With guidance and support from the Government of Ethiopia, WFP set up the hub in Addis Ababa and began operations this week.
“The Government is proud to host this hub in Ethiopia on behalf of the global community, said H. E. Ato Admasu Nebebe, State Minister in the Federal Ministry of Finance. “We are honoured to be contributing this way to the global endeavour to tackle the coronavirus disease.”
The first cargo flight arrived in Ethiopia on 13 April from the United Arab Emirates loaded with aprons, face shields, gloves, goggles, gowns, masks and thermometers procured by the United Nations World Health Organization (WHO) for distribution to 32 African countries.
“Thanks to the Government of Ethiopia, WFP worked with airport and customs authorities to establish this air hub in days,” said WFP Ethiopia Country Director and Representative Steven Were Omamo. “Ethiopia has proven its willingness and agility to act as a regional caregiver in this time of crisis.”
A team of 25 WFP aviation and logistics staff are based at Bole International Airport in Addis Ababa, managing the 24-hour operation.
They organize warehouse space for dry bulk, temperature-controlled and cold storage cargo and its onward flights. WFP also provides dedicated cargo tracking, warehouse management and customer service to countries across Africa in collaboration with the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention.
“This partnership between the Government of Ethiopia, WFP and WHO is aligned with the vision of the United Nations in Ethiopia and highlights the value of collaboration in responding to the needs of millions of people,” said United Nations Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator in Ethiopia Catherine Sozi.
Following further discussions with the Government of Ethiopia, WFP is planning to organize and process flights for humanitarian personnel through the Addis Ababa hub as well as medical evacuations.
As part of a global appeal to raise US$2 billion for the COVID-19 response, launched by the United Nations Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs on 25 March, WFP is calling for US$350 million to support vital common aviation, shipping, storage and transport and engineering services in areas affected by the pandemic.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/41049-wfp-launches-ethiopian-government-supported-air-hub-covid-19-response




Date: 11 April 2020
Title: United Nations Secretary-General Special Appeal to Religious Leaders
Content: 11 April 2020
Today, I want to make a special appeal to religious leaders of all faiths to join forces to work for peace around the world and focus on our common battle to defeat COVID-19.
I do so at a special time on the spiritual calendar.
For Christians, it is the celebration of Easter.  Jews are marking Passover.  And soon, Muslims will begin the holy month of Ramadan.
I extend my warmest wishes to all those observing these important MOMENTS.
We have always known these occasions to be moments of community.  Of families coming together. Of hugs and handshakes and the gathering of humanity.
But this is a time like no other.
We are all seeking to navigate a strange, surreal world.
A world of silent streets. Shuttered storefronts. Empty places of worship.
And a world of worry.
We are worried about our loved ones who are equally worried about us.
How do we celebrate at a time like this?
Let us all take inspiration from the essence of these holy occasions as moments for reflection, remembrance and renewal.
As we reflect, let us spare a special thought for heroic health workers on the frontlines battling this awful virus – and for all those working to keep our cities and towns going.
Let us remember the most vulnerable of the vulnerable around the world. Those in war zones and refugee camps and slums and all those places least equipped to fight the virus.
And let us renew our faith in one another and draw strength from the good that is gathering in troubled times as communities of diverse faiths and ethical traditions unite to care for one another.
Together, we can and will defeat this virus – with cooperation, solidarity, and faith in our common humanity.

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/40756-united-nations-secretary-general-special-appeal-religious-leaders




Date: 28 February 2020
Title: Member States briefing on the humanitarian situation in Ethiopia held in Geneva
Content: 28 February 2020
7 million people require urgent food and non-food assistance
Ethiopia’s National Disaster Risk Management Commission Commissioner, Mitiku Kassa and the Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Ethiopia, Dr. Catherine Sozi, provided an overview of the humanitarian situation in Ethiopia to the Permanent and Observer Missions to the United Nations Office and other international organizations in Geneva, today.
Speaking on behalf of the international humanitarian community in Ethiopia, Dr. Sozi highlighted the complex humanitarian landscape in the country, as well as possible future threats that risk to further aggravate the humanitarian situation if not soon controlled, including the unprecedented desert locust infestation and possible pre-and post-election tensions.
“7 million Ethiopians are in acute need and are targeted for life-saving multi-sector assistance in 2020 at a cost of $1 billion. 81 percent are women and children. At least 81 implementing partners in Ethiopia stand ready to scale up operations if backed by adequate and timely funding,” Dr. Sozi stated.
Every year, the Government of Ethiopia, with the support of its international partners, strives to address the food and non-food needs of millions of Ethiopians affected by disasters. Chronic climate-related disasters such as droughts and food insecurity, conflict displacements and related protection and access challenges, as well as disease outbreaks such as cholera and measles remain the main drivers of humanitarian needs.
“Ethiopia has for decades been grappling with recurrent drought and seasonal flooding, the frequency and intensity of which have been gradually increasing. Since late 2017, we have also been dealing with the unfortunate consequences of inter-community conflict,” Commissioner Mitiku noted.
While the immediate focus of the Government of Ethiopia is to provide life-saving multi-sector humanitarian support to people in need, Commissioner Mitiku highlighted his Government’s commitment to reduce the vulnerability of Ethiopians and to turn them into resilient communities able to withstand shocks.
“The vast majority of displaced people who have either returned to their homestead or resettled elsewhere require recovery and rehabilitation support, conflict-affected areas require grassroot peace building initiatives, and recurrently drought-affected communities require sustainable water solution and livelihood support. These communities are unlikely to achieve food self-sufficiency in the immediate future without sustained recovery and resilience building investment,” he added.
The Commissioner and the Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator called on the continued generosity of international partners to support the ongoing humanitarian response as well as to scale up durable solutions programs.
*****
For further information, please contact
NDRMC 
 
Debebe Zewde, National Disaster Risk Management Commission, Public Relations Department, Tel. (+251) 915734920
UNOCHA
Choice Ufuoma Okoro, Head, Strategic Communications, okoroc@un.org, Tel. (+251) 9125 02695
Mengistu Dargie, National Public Information and Reporting Officer, dargie@un.org, Tel. (+251) 911742381
Malda Nadew, Strategic Communication Analyst, nadew@un.org, Tel. (+251) 953852223
Alfred Nabeta, OCHA Operations and Advocacy Division, New York, nabeta@un.org
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/36327-member-states-briefing-humanitarian-situation-ethiopia-held-geneva




Date: 26 February 2020
Title: Locust in East Africa: A race against time
Content: 26 February 2020
Joint statement by Qu Dongyu, Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO); Mark Lowcock, United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator; and David Beasley, Executive Director of the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP)
East Africa is a region beset by climate- and conflict-related shocks. Millions of people are already acutely food insecure. Now they face another major hunger threat in the form of desert locusts.
The locust upsurge affecting East Africa is a graphic and shocking reminder of this region’s vulnerability. This is a scourge of biblical proportions. Yet as ancient as this scourge is, its scale today is unprecedented in modern times.
On 20 January, FAO called for $76 million to help combat this pest crisis. But the resources to control the outbreak have been too slow in coming.
Since FAO launched its first appeal to help what was then three affected countries, the locust swarms have moved rapidly across vast distances and the full extent of their massive scale has become clear. Since our last op-ed pleading for action on 12 February, swarms have been sighted in Djibouti, Eritrea, South Sudan, Uganda and Tanzania.
Each day, more countries are affected. Last week, a swarm crossed into one of Africa’s most food-insecure and fragile countries, South Sudan. Just this week, it was confirmed that one swarm reached the eastern boundaries of the Democratic Republic of the Congo – a country that has not seen a locust incursion since 1944. Needless to say, the potential impact of locusts on a country still grappling with complex conflict, Ebola and measles outbreaks, high levels of displacement, and chronic food insecurity would be devastating.
As the locusts continue their invasion throughout eastern Africa, and more details emerge about the scale of need in affected areas, the cost of action has already doubled, to $138 million. FAO urgently needs this money to help Governments control these devastating pests, especially in the next four months.
This funding will ensure that activities to control the locusts can take place before new swarms emerge. It will also provide help for people whose crops or pastures are already affected, to protect their families and their livelihoods.
Desert locusts have a reproduction cycle of three months. Today, mature swarms are laying eggs within vast areas of Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia, many of which are already hatching. In just a few weeks, the next generation of the pests will transition from their juvenile stage and take wing in a renewed frenzy of destructive swarm activity. This will be just as farmers’ crops begin to sprout. The next wave of locusts could devastate East Africa’s most important crop of the year, right when it is at its most vulnerable.
But that doesn’t have to happen. The window of opportunity is still open. The time to act is now.
Anticipatory action to control and contain the locusts before the new swarms take flight and farmers crops first break soil is critical. At the same time, FAO needs more resources to immediately begin boosting the resilience of affected communities so they can better withstand some inevitable shocks. Acting now to avert a food crisis is a more humane, effective and cost-efficient approach than responding to the aftermath of disaster.
We welcome the response so far from many international donors. To date, $33 million has been received or committed. But the funding gaps are clear, and needs are growing too rapidly. We need to do more. WFP has estimated the cost of responding to the impact of locusts on food security alone to be at least 15 times higher than the cost of preventing the spread now.
It is time for the international community to act more decisively. The math is clear, as is our moral obligation. Pay a little now, or pay a lot more later.
ENDS
For further information, please contact:
In New York, Zoe Paxton, zoe.paxton@un.org, + 1 917 297 1542
In Geneva, Jens Laerke, laerke@un.org, +41 79 472 9750
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/36046-locust-east-africa-race-against-time




Date: 16 January 2020
Title: UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Dr. Catherine Sozi presents credentials to Ethiopian Government
Content: 16 January 2020
UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Dr. Catherine Sozi presented her credentials to Ethiopian State Minister of Foreign Affairs H.E Ms. Hirut Zemene today.
Addis Ababa:  UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Dr. Catherine Sozi presented her credentials to Ethiopian State Minister of Foreign Affairs H.E Ms. Hirut Zemene today.
Dr. Sozi is appointed by the UN Secretary-General and is the highest-ranking representative of the UN development system at the country level. On behalf of the United Nations system she is responsible for the coordination of operational activities to support Ethiopia in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
“I am pleased to have the opportunity to represent the United Nations in Ethiopia at this momentous period when its people and the government are taking a new path to achieve lasting peace and sustainable development while laying down the foundation for stronger democracy,” said Dr. Sozi.
She reiterated the commitment of the UN Country Team to fully align all its development activities to the priorities of the Government to ensure Ethiopia’s continuous progress towards the 2030 Agenda.
Dr. Sozi has devoted more than 30 years to public service. She previously served as the Regional Director for Eastern and Southern Africa at the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), working for 18 years as the UNAIDS Country Director for Republics of Zambia and South Africa and the People’s Republic of China.
Prior to joining the UN System in 2000, she worked with governments, the private sector and non-government organizations in the United Kingdom, Uganda and South Africa focusing on planning and delivering services to people.
A medical doctor, she has Membership of the Royal College of General Practitioners in the United Kingdom and holds a post-graduate Diploma of the Royal College of Obstetrics and Gynaecology. She obtained her Bachelor of Medicine degree (MBBS) from Saint Mary’s Hospital Medical School, University of London.
For further information, please contact Getachew Dibaba Getachew.Dibaba@one.un.org
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/31251-un-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-dr-catherine-sozi-presents-credentials-ethiopian




Date: 09 December 2019
Title: End-of-mission statement from the Special Rapporteur on freedom of expression to Ethiopia
Content: 09 December 2019
United Nations Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression
David Kaye
Visit to Ethiopia, 2-9 December 2019
End of mission statement
From 2 to 9 December, at the invitation of the Government, I conducted the first mission to Ethiopia by a mandate-holder of the United Nations (UN) Special Procedures since 2006. Throughout the mission, in which I evaluated the situation of freedom of opinion and expression in the country today, I met with Government officials, members of Parliament and the Judiciary, human rights defenders and academics in civil society, journalists, students and other participants in the rapid legal, institutional and political change taking place in Ethiopia today. At the end of a productive and illuminating visit, for which the Government offered considerable support and facilitation, and for which I offer my gratitude, I express my hope that this is the first of a long list of such visits, by my mandate and other UN experts reporting to the Human Rights Council. I supply further details and background at the conclusion of this statement.
Ethiopia is a vast and diverse country marked by the excitement, uncertainty and, in some quarters, fear of what one close observer called “tectonic” shifts in the institutional, legal and political environments. Beginning in April 2018, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed ended the state of emergency, released journalists, activists and opposition figures from prison, legalized civil society organizations, and halted rampant government censorship. His Government continued with the launch of a formal process of legal and institutional reform, introducing a public participatory process of legislative drafting and advice that should be a model for democratic processes worldwide. Applying this model, Ethiopia has adopted a progressive law on civil society organizations and is in the process of considering other laws related to media and access to information, counter-terrorism, and computer crime. In May, Addis Ababa played host to World Press Freedom Day, unthinkable just a year earlier.
Nothing should take away from the progress, promise, and boldness of this transformation, as long as the Government invests in it the commitment and momentum of its early days. The world community should support it where it can and, where appropriate, with robust diplomatic and financial contributions. While everyone involved should recognize that there may be bumps along the road to reform, there can be no turning back to the era of repression that ruled Ethiopia for over a quarter century.
And yet the oft-noted fragility of the current moment threatens violence and discord. In October, political unrest led to the killing of a reported eighty-six people in violent conflict across ethnic lines and amidst allegations of social media’s role in allowing or exacerbating it. Such outbreaks threaten public confidence in governance and reform. Meanwhile, the Government continues to deploy the much-despised Anti-Terrorism Proclamation (ATP) even as its effort to repeal and replace it seems stalled in Parliament. The Government has shut down the Internet a reported eight times this year. The media remains under-developed, still suffering from the trauma of the previous regime. All of these issues will become increasingly salient in advance of national elections scheduled for May 2020.
Ethiopia’s leaders can begin to address some of these concerns with national dialogue and legal, policy and educational initiatives. This is also true of inter-ethnic tension. Addressing intolerance must involve a commitment to Ethiopia’s obligations under international human rights law. The draft “Hate Speech and Disinformation Proclamation”, however, would threaten freedom of expression. As constructed presently, it could reinforce rather than ease ethnic and political tensions.
I come away from this Mission with hope and concern. My hope derives from the fact that the Government has initiated an ambitious process supported by the democratic tools of public participation. My concern, however, is that the momentum of and commitment to that process face barriers much larger than those that legal reform alone can resolve. Inter-ethnic conflict spurred on by hate speech and disinformation demand not just legal solutions but political ones in which the Government and its opposition pursue reform at each state and district level. Law can support that process, but ultimately political will must exist to allow it to survive and thrive.
These preliminary observations highlight -- but do not extensively document and analyze -- the opportunities and threats for freedom of expression in the current moment in Ethiopia. My evaluation is founded principally on the human right to freedom of expression guaranteed by Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights -- which Ethiopia ratified and, by virtue of its Constitution, is a part of Ethiopia’s domestic and international obligations. At the 44th session of the Human Rights Council in June, I will present a detailed report on this mission and my findings. In preparing that report, I look forward to working with the Government and the people of Ethiopia at this critical moment for their emergent democracy.
Ethiopia, for nearly three decades, was a place that jailed and tortured journalists and human rights defenders, redefining them as terrorists. The Government repressed civil society organizations through restrictions intent on limiting their independence and efficacy. The authorities controlled the media with constant propaganda, limited access to information, and conducted surveillance of its perceived adversaries at home and abroad. This baseline should be kept in mind as observers examine its efforts to transform its human rights compliance.
Within days of his elevation into leadership in April 2018, Prime Minister Abyi promised an end to repression and the beginning of democratic legal and institutional change. Freedom of expression was near the top of that agenda, with proposals to open up civil society and the rule of law, develop media freedom and independence, end repression by the ATP, and guarantee access to information. Ethiopia is at the early stages of what may be a fragile and possibly contested process of building the essential institutions of democratic life in Ethiopia, and these comments should be taken with that perspective in mind.
The Government launched its reform agenda with an unusually inclusive process. On 30 June 2018, the Attorney General’s office established the Advisory Council for Legal & Justice Affairs, supported by a set of working groups that research subjects and prepare draft legislation for the Council to review and transmit to the Government’s Council of Ministers for approval. I understand that approximately 160 lawyers, journalists, and academics participate on a voluntary basis in the working groups, led by a professional secretariat committed, as they and others told me, to an effort aimed at preparing drafts consistent with Ethiopia’s Constitutional and international obligations. Following Council approval, the Government presents the legislation to Parliament, where legislators will typically subject the draft to analysis, public hearings, and ultimately debate and adoption or rejection.
The first major piece of relevant legislation that went through this process and was approved by Parliament was, appropriately enough, the Organization of Civil Society Proclamation. The new law serves to support and promote the independence of civil society organizations (CSOs). For instance, it established the Civil Society Organization Agency (CSOA), opened the door to foreign funding and registration, and ensured tax and duties privileges for CSOs. The CSOA Board includes government, academic, and CSO representation. In discussions with its leadership, I detected a genuine - and I hope sustainable - commitment to ensuring the success and growth of independent civil society in Ethiopia.
Throughout the mission, individuals in Government and civil society repeatedly expressed an important point: laws are not enough. Many stakeholders emphasized the importance of careful implementation with sustained attention and oversight. This is certainly true with respect to the CSOA; it requires major resources to develop the kind of promotion and protection for civil society that the law envisions. Given the transformations promised, the Government will need to set in motion a range of resource-intensive trainings, administrative regulations, and other policies. As the Government moves from legal change and institutional establishment to implementation, leaders in ministries I visited seem to understand the importance of continuing and deepening the process of genuine civil society participation.
I also wish to note here the critical importance of expanding gender equity within Government and other areas of public life. While Prime Minister Abiy admirably appointed a cabinet with gender balance, nearly all of my meetings in Government offices -- apart from the Ministry of Peace -- involved almost entirely male interlocutors. I would urge all public authorities, but perhaps especially the CSOA, to devote resources to expanding opportunities for women to participate in all levels of governance and professions.
The democratic process cannot survive without the watchdog role of a free and independent press -- and many of the officials with whom I met, from the leadership of the Ethiopian Broadcast Authority (EBA) to the Office of the Federal Attorney General and many others, embraced this axiom. And yet, informed observers offered similar diagnoses of the situation for the media today, such as the decimation of media during the period of repression and the consequent limited experience in professional and ethical standards of journalism; extremely limited resources to conduct their work or receive remuneration for it; extensive presence of mis- and dis-information, particularly on the rapidly growing social media platforms; the difficulty in accessing government-held information; and a regulatory machinery that is only now converted to ally, rather than adversary, of the media.
When it comes to the treatment of journalists, Ethiopia is certainly not yet out of the woods. While the Prime Minister released all journalists from prison in 2018, the Committee to Protect Journalists has found that, as of 1 December, Fekadu Mahtemework, managing editor of the privately-owned weekly publication Ghion, is in prison on pretextual tax charges filed by the previous regime in 2014. I urge the Government to reconsider the case. Others reported cases of even short-term detention of journalists which, while credible, I could not verify in the short time of this visit. Harassment common elsewhere occurs in Ethiopia as well; some journalists reported that their personal information had been posted online by non-governmental actors to intimidate them not to report. I recognize the Government’s concern about the spread of disinformation and believe the promotion of a diverse and pluralistic media landscape is an effective way to address this problem. In this context, I particularly welcome that under the new Electoral and Political Parties Proclamation from 24 August 2019, political parties are under the obligation to cooperate with the media and refrain from obstructing the work of journalists.
The future of the country’s democratic process is tied directly to its ability to develop a free, independent, self-regulating, professional media -- broadcast, print, electronic. The media is now a place seen by many as a source of disinformation and incitement, particularly when connected to the perceived disinformation factory of social media. I cannot assess the level of disinformation and incitement on media sources, but I can report that most, if not all, interlocutors raised concerns about these issues. There is no scenario that I can see in which the reform process continues without an independent media reporting, criticizing, supporting, and analyzing it.
Many officials seem to recognize this reality. At the institutional level, the EBA aims to help open up media space and ensure the increasing development and professionalism of the media. No longer reporting to the Government, the EBA is under Parliamentary supervision, a welcomed break from the political control that stunted its development for decades. It has begun the process of monitoring broadcast and electronic media which, while concerning if undertaken for controlling purposes, instead aims to provide confidential feedback to media outlets to help them improve their attention to professional ethics. The law should protect against abuse. The EBA leadership articulated strong support for media self-regulation, explaining a plan to support the development of a media council, publishers association, editors guild, journalists association, and a variety of trainings. These reflect the steps of an institution whose leadership seems genuinely committed to developing the media space as a tool for democracy.
In tandem with the development of the EBA, the Advisory Council has also approved a draft Media Proclamation. I received a draft of the legislation during the mission and anticipate providing the Government with more considered comments following the visit. Among the key elements of the draft, I am happy to see that it evidently would, if adopted in its present form, decriminalize defamation (Art. 84); establish the Ethiopian Media Authority as an autonomous agency accountable to the House of People’s Representatives (Art. 5); and establish safeguards to ensure board members of the Ethiopian Media Authority are free from political influence (Art. 12). The draft contains fines of up to 300,000 ETB for civil defamation. I would encourage the Government to ensure that public figures cannot abuse civil defamation to silence legitimate expression such as public debate and criticism.
Despite strong Constitutional and statutory legal protections, the right to access information is impeded by hurdles stemming from a lack of initiative and capacity. These difficulties were reported on a number of fronts: government ministries failing to respond to media queries, a lack of electronic information databases, journalists inadequately informed about press briefings, and an absence of a grievance mechanism to remedy human rights violations and abuses. While I appreciate the role of the Ombudsman to provide information to the public, I heard throughout the week reports that the Government could do more to communicate its actions to the public. The law should promote access to information held by public authorities, and Government should develop a public advocacy campaign, while building capacity, to inform the public of how to exercise this basic right.
It is not clear that the Government sees access to information as a priority. The most alarming example of this position is frequent resort to shutting down the internet in times of public protest and even school exams. In fact, during the visit, the Information Network Security Agency confirmed that the internet was shut down in order to address a cyber-attack on government and private banks. No Government official could articulate for me a legal basis for such actions, but some continued to justify it. Internet shutdowns have been widely condemned as disproportionate measures under international human rights law, and I am particularly concerned that such actions are undertaken without constraint under law or policy. I strongly urge the Government to discontinue the use of this tool.
Internet access in Ethiopia, a vital tool to expand access to information, is relatively strong in urban areas but limited beyond. The country’s 15% internet penetration and 44% mobile penetration rates, according to the most recently available information, are comparatively low. Deepening internet penetration will be essential both for freedom of expression and economic development. The Ministry of Information and Technology described a strong, multi-sectoral approach to empower the country’s technological advancement and connectivity, including increasing mobile penetration to 90% and household internet access to over 80% within five years. The Ministry’s leadership described a well-developed vision for extending internet access across the country, a vision that deserves broad donor support and Government prioritization.
I am glad to note the Government’s effort to repeal the ATP. Earlier this year, several mandate-holders and I submitted comments to the Government on its draft ATP reform package (see OL ETH 3/2019). But here I would note considerable concern within civil society about the place of the currently in-force ATP, which the new administration has committed to repeal. The broad interception and surveillance power afforded to the Security Service and National Intelligence can create a chilling effect on the work of these groups. The Government confirmed its continued use, including against activists and journalists in the past months’ outbreaks of violence. Although I understand the journalists who had been charged under the Proclamation were subsequently released, the use of this particularly restrictive legislation may erode public trust in the ongoing reform process. I would strongly encourage the Government to promptly repeal the Proclamation and replace it with a new law that clearly and narrowly defines the crime of terrorism.
The existing ATP also provides the Government with broad, unaccountable powers of surveillance. The previous Government conducted targeted hacking against individuals in and outside of Ethiopia without any evident judicial authorization or oversight. In order to meet the standards of human rights law, surveillance must be constrained by law and subjected to independent, preferably judicial, oversight. Moreover, given the opacity of past use of surveillance technologies, I would urge the Government to investigate and publish findings concerning the use of surveillance tools, including identifying the private companies from which it acquired such tools and service.
III. The near-term threat of inter-ethnic politics and advocacy of hatred
The situation for freedom of expression in Ethiopia at this moment requires noting what is obvious to those familiar with the contemporary political situation: the reform process may be at risk from the near-term threat of inter-ethnic politics and the emergence -- or at the very least the perceived emergence -- of hatred and disinformation as tools of politics. The basket of problems I am describing is deeply political and beyond the scope of my mandate to review fully. I will highlight here the connection to freedom of expression and note my strong belief that solving all of these requires a national commitment to reconciliation and to the democratic reform process -- and a set of legal and policy responses built upon the foundation of human rights law.
The tensions between the diverse ethnic groups in Ethiopia are deeply connected to a federal structure that defines its constituent states by ethnic identification -- even though assimilation and inter-marriage rates are so high as to render many people reluctant to identify by ethnicity. As part of the reform process, the Government established a Ministry of Peace, described by its Minister as involving a bottom-up approach that involves CSOs, law enforcement, and other tools to engage a national process down to the district (“woreda”) level. It may be that this Ministry could serve a critical function in drawing together some of the disparate elements of Ethiopian politics that are now competing for influence and power.
My interlocutors expressed a range of views about the origins of the kind of violence that erupted in October. I would leave that evaluation to country experts and analysts. But I would note two key elements that are essential to ensuring protection of members of the public and the reform process, from the perspective of my mandate. First, political and community leaders must play a leading role in tamping down advocacy that can lead to violence. One activist showed me an inspiring video in which, in the face of an impending “mob attack” on an ethnically-identified bank, community elders and some youths stood between the attackers and the bank and prevented violence. Leaders across Ethiopia should take major steps to develop a diverse culture of tolerance and respect. I recognize that this is difficult in a system in which ethnicity defines regional states and political parties. Nonetheless, and in this connection, I would urge the Government to consider the lessons of Human Rights Council Resolution 16/18 (2011), which calls for tolerance and concrete steps to address hatred.
Second, the Government must develop strong human rights-oriented protections of public protest and peaceful assembly. Two previous Special Rapporteurs developed ten principles for the management of peaceful protests (A/HRC/31/66). A meeting with the Federal Police Commission demonstrated its officials’ commitment to ensuring the implementation of practices that are consistent with human rights standards such as these. Implementation of these principles may involve legislation, but in any event it should involve regular law enforcement authorities and prosecutors, armed with regular and focused training, to ensure protections of human life and rights to expression and protest.
Across public authorities and civil society, I heard often grave concern about the rise of hate speech and disinformation, particularly on social media but also in other media outlets, broadcast and print. In Bahir Dar, one interlocutor noted that the region enjoyed few media outlets and that its only print outlet was government media, which underlines the importance of the EBA’s vision of a pluralistic media. In the state media-dominated environment, it was noted, “the thing posing a huge problem is social media.” Some version of this comment was replicated throughout the mission. Some recognized the variation in hate speech’s salience; in some regions, it is not in evidence, while in others, it is alleged that “elites” use hate speech and disinformation to demonstrate, seek or reinforce their power. Whatever the reality, there was a seeming consensus among interlocutors that social and broadcast media are fueling disinformation and hatred.
I appreciate the Government’s commitment to stabilizing Ethiopia’s democracy and recognize that its democracy can be threatened by hate speech that incites violence. In fact, the Government is obligated under Article 20(2) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights to prohibit by law “advocacy of national, racial and religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility and violence.” In that sense, part of the approach to the problem of hatred in the media should involve legal steps. But that is only part of the approach, for hate is very much a function of politics and, as such, it requires first and foremost a political, national solution.
That said, the Government’s draft Hate Speech and Disinformation Proclamation, which it recently presented to Parliament, goes far beyond the command of Article 20(2) and the limitations on restrictions required by Article 19(3) of the ICCPR. (See my comments in the attached document.) Unlike other draft legislation proceeding through the Advisory Council, this proclamation was developed outside that process. I am concerned that the draft Proclamation will exacerbate ethnic tension, which in turn may fuel further violence.
While the attached comments note my concerns as a matter of human rights law, I would note a few other points that arose during the course of the mission. First, because of the failure to limit the offense by principles of intent, context, and other factors found in the Rabat Plan of Action, by its terms the draft could lead to the criminalization of people who merely re-post or otherwise share content deemed “hate speech” or “disinformation”. The scope of such an approach could be enormous, in particular because the problem of hate speech is often not merely the content but its virality, the ease by which it may be shared by hundreds or thousands of people. Second, in this context, the draft’s excessive vagueness means that officials at the federal and regional level would have practically unbounded discretion to determine whom to investigate and prosecute, leading to an almost certain inconsistency in approach and a potential wave of arbitrary arrests and prosecutions. The Government committed to adopting administrative guidelines to govern use of the Proclamation, but there is no substitute for law that itself is consistent with human rights standards. Third, several interlocutors expressed the fear that the law could be used to silence critics. This is not fantasy. Because of the ethnic definition of politics and governance at the national and regional level, it is possible that robust political debate could be penalized under the Proclamation. The draft Proclamation would also criminalize the dissemination of disinformation.
According to information I have received, the Ethiopian Criminal Code troublingly penalizes such actions as spreading “alarm among the public” or “deliberately spreading false rumours” (Art. 485), “inciting the public through false rumours” (Art. 486), and spreading “false, exaggerated, or biased news” (Art. 813). Such prohibitions have been understood to protect public officials from criticism and, as such, are in stark contrast to Ethiopia’s obligations under international human rights law. In this context, I understand that the Government may seek to repeal some or all of these provisions, which I support. With this in mind, I encourage the Government, with the support of civil society, to review the entirety of the Criminal Code with a view to repealing those provisions so manifestly at odds with the right to freedom of expression (under the Constitution and international law).
There are numerous steps, especially those related to media literacy, professional training and self-regulation, and implementation of existing criminal provisions on incitement to violence, that Ethiopia could take to confront these problems. Combating hate speech is a delicate endeavour, which requires an in-depth knowledge of the local context, proficiency in local languages, and understanding of social and cultural habits, among so many others. Social media should be part of the solution. I would strongly encourage social media companies to engage in regular contact with Ethiopian authorities and civil society to better understand the local context and specific issues faced in the country. At a minimum, social media companies should establish regular and rapid-reaction mechanisms to enable civil society to report the most concerning kinds of content on their platforms.
As public hearings on the draft Proclamation are foreseen over the coming weeks, I would like to urge relevant decision-makers to dedicate sufficient time to consult with regional law enforcement authorities, the National Human Rights Commission, the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, civil society organizations and other members of the public, and national and international experts.
In summary, Ethiopian and foreign observers, official and in civil society, repeatedly shared concerns that it is not hate speech alone that could result in harming individuals and undermine the reform process. Hate speech, however defined, is a widely-condemned problem in Ethiopia, but it is also a function and symptom of politics, a tool used to mobilize supporters in a country whose organizational structures center on ethnic identity. As such, no law alone can address the potential of hatred, or even disinformation, to be used to rally one’s supporters. What is needed is not necessarily more law but more speech -- that is, more professional sources of verifiable information -- and a broad and deep national dialogue aimed at creating an agreed process for addressing grievances and building democratic institutions.
IV. Background to the visit
In addition to the Government’s cooperation before and during the Mission,  I would also like to thank the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator and the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights – East Africa Regional Office for their valuable support.
During my visit, I met with various Government officials, including the Federal Minister of Peace, the Federal Minister of Innovation and Technology, as well as representatives from the Attorney General Office, the Federal Police Commission, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I also met with representatives of the legislative branch and the judiciary, including the Chairman and members of the Parliament’s Standing Committee on Legal and Justice Affairs, as well as with the President and Vice-Presidents of the Federal High Court. Further, I met with the Chief Commissioner of the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission, members of the National Electoral Board, the director of the Broadcasting Authority, the director and deputy director of the Agency for Civil Society Organizations, as well as members of the Legal and Justice Affairs Advisory Council whose working methods are a model for the region and beyond.
In the past week, I also had the opportunity to discuss with numerous civil society organizations representatives, journalists, lawyers, academics, among others. Although most of my meetings were in Addis Ababa, I enjoyed the opportunity to travel to Bahir Dar, where I met with representatives from the regional Attorney General Office, civil society, students, and experts on freedom of expression issues. I would like to warmly thank every individual I met for their hospitality and openness in sharing their experiences with me. I am particularly grateful to those who approached me for their testimonies, recommendations and insights.

9 December 2019
Addis Ababa
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/27708-end-mission-statement-special-rapporteur-freedom-expression-ethiopia




Date: 27 November 2019
Title: UN expert on freedom of opinion and expression to visit Ethiopia
Content: 27 November 2019
GENEVA (27 November 2019) - The United Nations Special Rapporteur on freedom of opinion and expression, David Kaye, will undertake an official visit to Ethiopia from 2 to 9 December 2019.
“The new administration that took office last year undertook major political reforms that have been praised by many. On the other hand, some have voiced concerns that more needs to be done to fulfil human rights law and standards related to freedom of opinion and expression,” Kaye said.
“I will focus particularly on the measures taken by the Government to fulfil its human rights obligations relating to freedom of expression, including the protection of journalists, with a view to formulating recommendations.
“As the House of Peoples’ Representatives is discussing a law to combat hate speech, my visit is particularly timely. I look forward to fruitful discussions on the draft bill with representatives from all branches of the State.”
Kaye will be the first UN human rights special rapporteur to visit Ethiopia in a decade. He will meet Government officials, representatives from the judiciary, journalists and representatives from civil society in Addis Ababa and Bahir Dar.
The Special Rapporteur will present his preliminary findings to journalists during a press conference on the last day of the mission, on Monday 9 December, at 11:30 at the Small Briefing Room (SBR) located at United Nations Conference Center (UNCC). Access to the press conference will be limited to the media.
The Special Rapporteur will present a comprehensive report of his visit, which will include recommendations, to the UN Human Rights Council in June 2020.

ENDS
Mr David Kaye, Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression. The Independent Experts are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms of the Human Rights Council that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
For inquiries and media requests, please contact Thibaut Guillet (+ 41 22 9179158 / + 41 79 444 5401 /  tguillet@ohchr.org )
For media inquiries related to other UN independent experts: Jeremy Laurence, UN Human Rights – Media Unit (+ 41 22 917 9383 / jlaurence@ohchr.org)
For attending the press briefing at the UN Conference Centre, please contact Getachew Dibaba, Getachew.Dibaba@one.un.org by 11:00 am Friday 6 December 2019
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.
#Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/27654-un-expert-freedom-opinion-and-expression-visit-ethiopia




Date: 21 October 2019
Title: Progress for children and women in Ethiopia, with continuing challenges in human capital development
Content: 21 October 2019
A Situation Analysis of Children and Women 2019 reveals that Ethiopia has made progress in improving the wellbeing of children and women in the last five years, with key indicators in health, nutrition, education, child protection, showing marked improvements.
The study was supported by UNICEF and was launched today by the State Minister in the Ministry of Finance His Excellency Mr. Admasu Nebebe and UNICEF Re presentative Adele Khodr.
“Ethiopia has demonstrated remarkable progress over the last decade. Even though significant achievements have been registered in the country, a lot remains to be done with the support of all developing partners,’’ said H.E. Mr. Admasu Nebebe, State Minister, Ministry of Finance.
“These findings show that when governments invest in children, as Ethiopia has done in the last two decades, the wellbeing of children improves, and they have better opportunities to fulfil their full potential,” said UNICEF Representative Adele Khodr. “However, as the study shows, there is still more work to be done to end newborn deaths, improve immunization coverage, reduce chronic malnutrition, end child marriage, enroll every child in school, expand access to safe water and sanitation, and reduce child poverty.”
Some of the key findings are:
For Ethiopia to reach middle-income status by 2025 and achieve the SDGs by 2030, the study calls for investments in high impact actions in areas where the burden is high: reducing neonatal mortality, scaling up safe drinking water, ending open defecation, increasing birth registration, expanding social protection and improving access to quality education, including for pre-primary.

For more information, please contact:
Ato Haji Ibsa, Director, Public Relations and Information Directorate, MoF
Tel: +251 11 552015, Mobile: +251 911 212768,
email: hibsa@mofed.gov.et or haji.ibsa@yahoo.com

Wossen Mulatu, Communication Officer, UNICEF Ethiopia
Tel: +251 115 184028, Mobile: +251 911 308483,
email: wmulatu@unicef.org

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/21883-progress-children-and-women-ethiopia-continuing-challenges-human-capital-development




Date: 20 September 2019
Title: Protecting Unaccompanied and Separated Children in Ethiopia
Content: 20 September 2019
Addis Ababa:- The number of children who return in Ethiopia has been on the increase in recent years. Since the start of 2019, over 2,100 cases have been assisted by IOM. This is nearly double the over 1,000 cases recorded in the whole of 201
As part of efforts to deal with a spike in such cases, this week an interagency task force on Unaccompanied and Separated Children (IATF UASC) of the Alliance for Child Protection in Humanitarian Action, organized a Training of Trainers (ToT) workshop for child protection practitioners.
“Minimum standards for child protection are assured when practitioners understand and implement the guidelines, basic modalities and principles, and such trainings are essential for sharing best practices compiled by major actors working on child protection in humanitarian settings. That is why we are providing such trainings,” Nadia Akmoun, Protection Officer at IOM Geneva and current lead of the UASC IATF of the Alliance CPHA, said.
Participants included representatives of ICRC, IRC, Save the Children, UNICEF, UNHCR, World Vision International and Terre des Hommes and the International Organization for Migration (IOM), which directed the training.
The training, supported by IOM Ethiopia in coordination with the Child Protection Area of Responsibility (CPAoR) and the national Child Protection Sub Cluster in Ethiopia, took place over five days in Bishoftu City, with instruction based on the inter-agency taskforce on UASC’s two reference publications – the Field Handbook, and its accompanying Toolkit on Unaccompanied and Separated Children.
“The training has provided us with a good opportunity to understand the basic modalities on child protection and other practical aspects,” Sumeya Mohammed, UNHCR Child Protection Associate from the Addis Ababa Office said.
According to this attendee, the meeting also gave her an opportunity to learn from the other partners working on child protection, adding, “It has broadened my views on the other context of dealing with unaccompanied and separated children, besides the Internally Displaced Persons and refugees context that I am aware of.”
The first roll-out of the ToT, which is being conducted in Ethiopia this month, is funded by the US State Department’s Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration (PRM) as part of the project Regional Migrant Response Plan for Horn of Africa and Yemen (RMRP), with support of the CPAoR.
For more information, please contact Alemayehu Seifeselassie, IOM Ethiopia. Tel: +251-116-611117 (Ext. 1455), Mobile: +251-911-639082, Email: salemayehu@iom.int
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/18156-protecting-unaccompanied-and-separated-children-ethiopia




Date: 19 September 2019
Title: Emergency Relief Coordinator calls for additional funding to address Ethiopia’s humanitarian needs and promote durable solutions
Content: 19 September 2019
Emergency Relief Coordinator calls for additional funding to address Ethiopia’s humanitarian needs and promote durable solutions.
(Addis Ababa, 10 September 2019) Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Mark Lowcock called today for additional funding to support the Government-led response to Ethiopia’s displacement crisis and wider humanitarian needs. More than 8 million people in Ethiopia need food, shelter, medicine or other emergency assistance.
Mr. Lowcock was speaking at the end of a two-day mission in Ethiopia with the Assistant Secretary-General for Peacebuilding Support, Oscar Fernandez-Taranco, and the UN’s Special Rapporteur on the Human Rights of Internally Displaced Persons, Cecilia Jimenez-Damary.
“Ethiopia has to cope with persistent and multi-faceted humanitarian problems, including drought and flooding, disease outbreaks and inter-ethnic violence that has in recent years forced millions of people to flee their homes,” said Mr. Lowcock.
The delegation met recently returned families and other conflict-affected displaced people in Chitu Kebele in the Yirgachefe district in Gedeo, which is one of the zones most affected by intercommunal violence that has caused displacement and loss of livelihoods since 2018.
“I support the Government’s desire to find durable solutions to displacement problems, and am under no illusion as to how difficult that is. While many people have now been able to return to their home areas, some remain in limbo, living close to their destroyed or damaged homes and worried they will not have the opportunity to restart farming and other livelihoods they lost when they fled last year. The Government is trying to deal with this, many people in host communities are displaying enormous generosity and humanitarian agencies are supporting them, but more international support is needed too.”
Humanitarian organizations are working with the local authorities and development partners to ensure internally displaced people have access to emergency assistance and basic services.
During the mission, the UN principals reaffirmed their commitment to supporting the Government to ensure all displaced people are able to voluntarily return home in a safe and sustainable way, or integrate into new settlement areas, including accessing housing, land, livelihood opportunities and schools.
Prior to the Government’s efforts to return people to their areas of origin, which started in May 2019, there were 3.2 million internally displaced people in Ethiopia, including 2.6 million who fled conflict and 500,000 who were displaced because of climate-related causes.
The 2019 Ethiopia Humanitarian Response Plan, which requires US$1.3 billion to help 8 million people, is only 51 per cent funded. The biggest contribution currently comes from the Government of Ethiopia, which has provided $288 million for the food sector on top of contributions from international donors. More funding is urgently required for nutrition, health, shelter, protection, education and other needs.
While aid is a critical lifeline for millions of Ethiopians, most humanitarian needs in Ethiopia are recurrent and predictable. Long-term solutions are required to reduce needs and build resilience.
For more information, please contact:
Addis Ababa: Choice Okoro, +251 912502691, okoroc@un.org
New York: Russell Geekie, geekie@un.org +1 917 331 0393 or Hayat Abu-Saleh, abusaleh@un.org +1 917 224 9751
Geneva: Jens Laerke, OCHA Geneva, laerke@un.org +41 79 472 9750

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/17781-emergency-relief-coordinator-calls-additional-funding-address-ethiopia%E2%80%99s-humanitarian-needs




Date: 09 August 2019
Title: UN Relief Chief and Assistant Secretary-General for Peacebuilding Support on a joint mission in Ethiopia
Content: 09 August 2019
WHO: Mark Lowcock, Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator and Assistant Secretary-General for Peacebuilding Support Oscar Fernandez-Taranco
WHAT: Joint mission to Ethiopia
WHEN: 8-11 September 2019
WHERE: Addis Ababa, Chitu
Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Mark Lowcock and Assistant Secretary-General for Peacebuilding Support Oscar Fernandez-Taranco will be on a joint mission to Ethiopia from 8 to 11 September to see firsthand the response to the displacement crisis in Ethiopia and the Government’s initiatives to find durable solutions for millions of internally displaced persons (IDPs).
Mr. Lowcock and Mr. Fernandez-Taranco will be joined by the Special Rapporteur on the Human Rights of Internally Displaced Persons, Cecilia Jimenez-Damary, during a visit to Chitu kebele of Yirgachefe district, located in the Gedeo zone of the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People’s Region (SNNPR).
They will meet with people that have been returned to their home areas who need urgent food assistance and other aid. Many of their homes were destroyed and some have regained a livelihood. The delegation will meet other people displaced by conflict and host communities, and discuss with authorities and partners how to further enhance support for those most in need of humanitarian assistance and recovery.
Gedeo is one of the zones most affected by inter-communal conflicts that caused massive displacement and loss of livelihoods since 2018.
Prior to Government efforts of returning people to their areas of origin, which started in May 2019, there were 3.2 million IDPs in Ethiopia. Of these, some 2.6 million fled conflict, 500,000 from the impact of climate related causes, and 72,000 from other reasons.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/16660-un-relief-chief-and-assistant-secretary-general-peacebuilding-support-joint-mission-ethiopia




Date: 01 August 2019
Title: United Nations Secretary-General Shares New Data:  Hottest July on record
Content: 01 August 2019
“According to the very latest data from the World Meteorological Organization and its climate centre—the month of July at least equaled if not surpassed the hottest month in recorded history. This follows the hottest June ever,” said the Secretary-General.
“If we do not take action on climate change now, these extreme weather events are just the tip of the iceberg. And that iceberg is also rapidly melting. […] The world’s leading scientists tell us we must limit temperature increases to 1.5°C if we are to avoid the worst impacts of climate change. We need to cut greenhouse emissions by 45% by 2030. We need carbon neutrality by 2050. And we need to mainstream climate change risks across all decisions to drive resilient growth, reduce vulnerability and avoid investments that could cause greater damage,” the Secretary-General added.
Today’s announcement comes in advance of the upcoming 2019 Climate Action Summit. The Secretary-General has called upon leaders from government, business, and civil society to come to the Summit with concrete plans—clear steps to enhance nationally determined contributions by 2020—and strategies for carbon neutrality by 2050.
Already, bold strides forward have been made:

For further information, visit the Summit website at www.un.org/en/climatechange/index.shtml
Follow @ladealba on Twitter for the latest news on the Climate Action Summit.
For general media inquiries, please contact:
Esra Sergi at sergie@un.org
Deb Greenspan on +1 203 824 4327
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/11570-united-nations-secretary-general-shares-new-data-hottest-july-record




Date: 25 June 2019
Title: Music for Sustainable Development
Content: 25 June 2019
ADDIS ABABA.- The partnership on music for social good is financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) as part of its partnership with the Government of Kazakhstan aimed at promoting South-South cooperation. The video was filmed by Pappa Film Studio and directed by Yidnekachew Shumete.
The engagement on the new single is couched within the UN’s efforts to roll out the promotion of the 17 goals of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the country. The new single specifically highlighting Goal 5, which focuses on gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls at all levels.
The music video will be launched in the vicinity of the historic Africa Hall in the UN ECA Compound on Friday 29th June 2018.
Ethiopia is one of the 193 countries that adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The SDGs replaced the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) implemented from 2000 to 2015 where Ethiopia made commendable progress to meet six out of the eight Millennium Development Goals. One of the goals where the country was lagging behind was the MDG on gender equality.
“Gender equality and women empowerment is a must for if we are to achieve inclusive and sustainable development in this country” stressed Ms. Louise Chamberlain, UNDP Country Director for Ethiopia.
UNDP estimates that gender inequality is costing sub-Saharan Africa on average $US95 billion a year.
“Women should believe in themselves and be able to decide on issues regarding their lives. Every one of us are responsible to take active role to achieve gender equality and treat each other with respect; women and men, girls and boys,” said Helen Berhe highlighting the background to her new single that tackles gender equality.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13612-music-sustainable-development




Date: 09 July 2018
Title: Communiqué of the Second African Union - United Nations Annual Conference
Content: 09 July 2018
ADDIS ABABA.- The Chairperson and the Secretary-General welcomed the strong collaboration between the AU and the UN, and expressed their commitment to further deepen the strategic partnership between the two organizations. They underscored the importance of multilateral organizations and multilateralism, as instrument for effective international governance and addressing global issues.
The second Annual Conference reviewed the implementation of the Joint Framework for Enhanced Partnership in Peace and Security, and welcomed the progress made. It also endorsed the Action plan on the AU-UN Framework for the Implementation of Agenda 2063 and  2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The AU and the UN undertook to enhance collaboration, cooperation and coordination in the search for sustainable solutions to ongoing and future challenges, based on the principles of complementarity, comparative advantage, burden-sharing and collective responsibility to respond early, coherently and decisively to prevent, manage, and resolve conflicts.
The Conference expressed deep concern over the evolving uncertainties in the international order, the rifts in international relations and the negative impact on the state of global peace and security, noting the need to adhere to established international norms, principles, and rules.
The Chairperson and the Secretary-General called for further strengthening of a comprehensive, integrated and coordinated approach to conflict prevention by addressing the root causes of conflicts, strengthening political processes and respect for rule of law as well as the promotion of sustainable and inclusive development.
The Conference also reviewed challenges to peace, security and development on the continent, including in Burundi, the Central African Republic, the Lake Chad Basin, The Comoros, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Madagascar, Mali and the Sahel, Somalia, and South Sudan and agreed to jointly increase their support, in close cooperation with Regional Economic Communities, for the peace, security, development and stabilization initiatives in these countries, while cooperating more closely, particularly with respect to political processes. They urged for robust action by the international community, to alleviate the humanitarian crises, risks and vulnerability in the affected communities. They welcomed continued dialogue towards the implementation of the Sahel Support Plan developed as part of the recalibration of the United Nations Integrated Strategy for the Sahel, and exchange on the AU efforts in the Sahel including ongoing efforts to review its strategy.
The Chairperson of the Commission briefed the Secretary-General on the important decisions adopted by the AU Assembly at its Ordinary Session in Nouakchott on the Western Sahara and Libyan conflicts. As a follow up, these decisions will be formerly conveyed to the Secretary-General and through him to the UN Security Council. The AU looks forward to working closely with the UN on these two issues.
The Chairperson and the Secretary-General paid tribute to the Troop and Police Contributing Countries, and AU and UN peacekeepers for their sacrifice and continued commitment to peace on the continent.  They also discussed the Action for Peacekeeping initiative, which aims at making peacekeeping operations fit for the challenges faced today, including on the African continent, by jointly strengthening operations on the ground as well as renewing the political commitment to peacekeeping.  They further commended the efforts to harmonize political stances of both organizations in countries where peacekeeping missions are deployed, as illustrated by the recent joint visit of the UN Under Secretary-General for Peacekeeping and the AU Commissioner for Peace and Security in Sudan and the Central African Republic.
The Chairperson and the Secretary-General renewed their commitment towards predictable, sustainable and flexible financing for AU-led Peace Support Operations (PSOs) authorized by the UN Security Council. They further welcomed the significant progress achieved in the revitalization of the AU Peace Fund, the ongoing efforts to the establish its governance and management structure, and agreed to sustain the high-level political engagement and consideration for the financing of AU-led PSOs through UN assessed contributions. In this respect, it was agreed to continue with the ongoing work pursuant to Security Council Resolutions 2320 (2016) and 2378 (2017).
The Annual Conference discussed the need to promote synergy between Agenda 2030 and 2063, through coherent integration of both agendas into national development frameworks as well as building requisite research, analytical, monitoring and evaluation capacities, at both national and regional levels. In this regard, the meeting stressed the critical role played by the Regional Coordination Mechanism for Africa and the Africa Peer Review Mechanism and urged all international partners to support Africa’s efforts to implement the two Agendas as a pre-condition for the achievement of peace, security and development on the continent.
The Annual Conference reviewed the progress in the ongoing institutional reform processes of both organizations aimed at enhancing effectiveness and responsiveness to the needs and aspirations of their Member States and ensuring that the two organizations are fit for purpose and have the right capabilities to address contemporary challenges. The meeting agreed to continue to share experiences and best practice, including through staff-exchanges and training in support of the two reform processes.
The Chairperson and the Secretary-General briefed the Peace and Security Council (PSC) on cooperation in peacekeeping missions in Africa.
The Chairperson and Secretary-General agreed to convene the next AU – UN Annual Conference in New York in 2019.  They also agreed to meet on the margins of the General Assembly and the AU Summit, to take stock of progress in the partnership between the two Organizations.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13610-communiqu%C3%A9-second-african-union-united-nations-annual-conference




Date: 19 August 2016
Title: Humanitarian Partners in Ethiopia commended dedication of national staff on the World Humanitarian Day
Content: 19 August 2016
ADDIS ABABA.- Calling a moment of silence to commemorate humanitarian workers who died in the line of duty, Ms. Ahunna Eziakonwa-Onochie, Ethiopia’s Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, lamented the over 3,952 relief workers who have been killed, wounded or kidnapped in the last 20 years while carrying out humanitarian services. “83 per cent of these victims are national staff. I will like to honour our national staff who are on the front line of assistance to people in need,” said Ms. Eziakonwa-Onuchie.
This year’s World Humanitarian Day follows on the World Humanitarian Summit (WHS), which was held in Istanbul in May. During the Summit, world leaders made a collective commitment to reduce suffering and better deliver for people in crisis. Ethiopia was profiled at the WHS for implementing a drought response model that has facilitated strong collaboration between the Government, UN, donors and NGOs to maintain development gains, while meeting urgent needs from the El Niño-induced drought.
“We are very proud that the World Humanitarian Summit acknowledged Ethiopia’s response model as an excellent example of how preparation, disaster risk management and response prioritization can mitigate the impact of natural disasters,” said Mr. Muluneh Woldemariam, Director, Early Warning and Response Directorate of Ethiopia’s National Disaster Risk Management Commission.
“The Government will continue its leadership until the drought is totally over, and families and communities recover from the impact of the crisis.” “The ‘One Humanity, Shared Responsibility’ environment in Ethiopia has enabled creative approaches to addressing food insecurity and stemming malnourishment. Ethiopia’s strong health system, with over 38,000 health extension workers on the Government pay-roll and over 3 million health development volunteers from rural Ethiopia, serves as the backbone of the current drought response,” added Ms. Eziakonwa-Onuchie.
Mr. Woldemariam noted that Ethiopia’s commitment to this World Humanitarian Day’s theme of ‘One Humanity, Shared Responsibility’ has peaked in the last 12 months. “While hosting the largest number of refugees in the continent, Ethiopia was experiencing one the worst droughts in its history,” he noted. “International humanitarian agencies and their staff have been at our side, not only to address the needs of Ethiopians, but also to provide life-saving assistance to the hundreds of thousands of refugees from neighboring countries, who we welcomed into our country.”
“The United States commends other donors who have contributed to the Ethiopia drought response, and encourages others to join this international effort. Mobilizing a robust and coordinated global response will be critical to protect the country’s development gains,” added USAID’s Mission Director in Ethiopia, Ms. Leslie Reed, who also announced nearly US$35 million in additional funding to humanitarian assistance. USAID has provided $774 million to humanitarian response in Ethiopia since 2015.
For further information, please contact: Choice Okoro; Head: Strategic Communications Unit, OCHA Ethiopia, Cell:+251-911216465 e-mail okoroc@un.org
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13613-humanitarian-partners-ethiopia-commended-dedication-national-staff-world-humanitarian-day




Date: 12 August 2016
Title: Ethiopia: Government and partners launch the mid-year review of Humanitarian Requirements Document for 2016
Content: 12 August 2016
ADDIS ABABA.- The revised HRD seeks US$612.4 million to help 9.7 million people with emergency food and non-food assistance. “The findings of the comprehensive belg assessment show changes in the humanitarian context that require immediate action. While the overall response strategy remains the same, we need to respond to address increased needs in some areas,” noted Commissioner Ato Mitiku Kassa, Head of the National Disaster Risk Management Commission (NDRMC).
“Thanks to the collaboration between the Government and humanitarian partners, we have done a lot this year. We need to sustain the generous support from the international community in the second half of 2016.”
Ethiopia continues to be affected by drought, exacerbated by the strongest El-Niño on record, which significantly eroded coping capacities. Some regions experienced flooding with unusually heavy belg spring rains in April and May 2016, causing temporary displacement and a surge in disease outbreaks. At the same time, some areas did not receive sufficient rainfall and people still do not have adequate access to water, resulting in continued food and nutrition needs that requires additional health and water response. The Government-led inter-agency belg seasonal assessment, undertaken at the end of June, allowed for a timely revision of the 2016 HRD to ensure   response until the end of the year.
“The Government of Ethiopia maintains its very strong and decisive leadership in responding to this crisis and has helped avoid what could have been a humanitarian catastrophe,’’ stated Ms. Gillian Mellsop, the acting Humanitarian Coordinator.
“As was highlighted at the side-event at the World Humanitarian Summit in May, Ethiopia’s response model is an excellent example of how preparation, disaster risk management and response prioritization can mitigate the impact of natural disasters,” added Ms. Mellsop. “Nevertheless, despite marked achievements earlier this year, the humanitarian situation in Ethiopia remains critical. With a combination of drought, which significantly weakened coping capacities, and extensive flooding that has caused displacement, disease outbreaks and the disruption of basic public services, we must maintain our scaled-up response,” Ms. Mellsop stressed.
“We should not underestimate our achievements this year, especially considering that we have received more than $1 billion in funding so far” Mr. Paul Handley, Head of Office for OCHA Ethiopia, emphasized. “However, we need to scale up and prioritize our response for the rest of the year to provide assistance to the most vulnerable. It is vital that the international community continues to support the Government to ensure that we do not lose the positive momentum we have gained towards ending the humanitarian crisis.”
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13616-ethiopia-government-and-partners-launch-mid-year-review-humanitarian-requirements-document




Date: 22 June 2016
Title: Sweden responds to El Niño-driven drought in Ethiopia
Content: 22 June 2016
ADDIS ABABA.- The Swedish support comes at a critical time when Ethiopia is currently facing the worst drought in decades leaving 10.2 million people, including 6 million children, in need of emergency assistance. It also created critical water shortages in Somali, Afar, parts of SNNP, eastern Oromia, Amhara and Tigray regions. Poor sanitation and hygiene conditions, resulting from water shortage, are also contributing to an increase in disease outbreaks.
In addition, the number of severely malnourished children who need therapeutic feeding treatment continues to increase. UNICEF, together with the Government of Ethiopia and humanitarian partners, is stepping up efforts to address the needs of 458,000 children under five with Severe Acute Malnutrition and 2.5 million children, pregnant and lactating women with Moderate Acute Malnutrition.
“Sweden has been a strong humanitarian and development partner to Ethiopia over the years. We are very committed to support the country in the struggle to combat and prevent the effects of the worst drought Ethiopia has seen in over 50 years,” said H.E. Jan Sadek, Ambassador of Sweden to Ethiopia. “Sweden is determined to continue to work for a deeper integration between humanitarian relief and long term development objectives. The partners in Ethiopia have come quite far in this integration but more needs to be done. We believe that in this regard, UNICEF, which has a mandate in both ‘spheres’, is playing a key role.”
Together with other donors, Sweden’s support enabled UNICEF to make the largest global purchase of Therapeutic Food for children in drought-stricken Ethiopia. With this new funding, UNICEF will work towards improving the capacity of health extension workers on Severe Acute Malnutrition management.
In addition, new stabilization centres will be established in existing health centres to cater to the increasing number of children with severe acute malnutrition. The contribution will also strengthen Mobile Health and Nutrition Teams which provide lifesaving primary health care, nutrition, hygiene and sanitation promotion services in hard hit drought areas of the Afar and Somali regions. Furthermore, water will be provided to primary schools for drinking as well as for routine handwashing in the Oromia Region.
“UNICEF appreciates the Government of Sweden’s generous contribution of life saving interventions for children and their families whose lives have been affected by the El-Niño driven drought emergency,” said Ms Gillian Mellsop, UNICEF Representative to Ethiopia. “UNICEF, together with the Government of Ethiopia and partners, continues to play an important role in scaling up its interventions in terms of nutrition, health, water sanitation and hygiene, child protection and education to mitigate the worst impact of this crisis.”
Please see important links below:
UNICEF’s largest global purchase of Therapeutic Food for children in drought-stricken Ethiopia through donor support
UNICEF’s El Niño driven drought response in Ethiopia resources:
http://uni.cf/1Sfhsxy
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13619-sweden-responds-el-ni%C3%B1o-driven-drought-ethiopia




Date: 23 March 2016
Title: Humanitarian partners launch campaign to address funding gaps in Ethiopia's drought response
Content: 23 March 2016
ADDIS ABABA.- “Ethiopia is currently contending with one of the most serious climatic shocks in recorded history with ten million people facing lost harvests and livestock as well as severe water shortages and health risks,” said Ms. Ahunna Eziakonwa-Onochie, UN Humanitarian Coordinator for Ethiopia. “We are launching this campaign to advocate for increased funding commensurate with the scale and severity of this crisis.’
While Ethiopia’s 2016 US$1.4 billion appeal has received over US$758 million from the Ethiopian government and the international community, significant life-saving gaps remain across all sectors. The four months lead time to get relief commodities to people in need means that action is required now.
Commending the Ethiopian government, the UN Humanitarian Coordinator noted that the government is one of the largest financial contributors to the crisis so far and also leads in the coordination of a complex inter-sector response, which uses government systems and relies on national capacity.
`We are indeed thankful and encouraged by the donors who have stepped up to support Ethiopia in this drought crisis,’ said the Commissioner Mitiku Kassa, National Disaster Risk Management Commission.
`Some of these donors joined the Government to respond at the onset of the crisis in October last year. They did so knowing that it costs three times more to treat severe malnutrition than to provide the food and other associated support that might have prevented that child’s descent into severe acute malnutrition.”
Noting that the international community stands to gain much from supporting Ethiopia in the drought response, the Humanitarian Coordinator observed that drought response is not just about saving lives it is about protecting development gains - gains which the Government and its development partners have worked tirelessly to build up over decades.
“The Government’s vision for development, enshrined in the second Growth and Transformation Plan, promises to steer Ethiopia further down its already remarkable path of progress,” said Ms. Eziakonwa Onochie. “We need to rally urgently to protect the development gains of Ethiopia over the past decade and ensure the country remains on its remarkable development trajectory. Urgent and substantial investment in the humanitarian crisis response this year is the only way to ensure this and we must act now.”
For further information, please contact: Choice Okoro, OCHA Ethiopia, okoroc@un.org, Cell. +251-911216465, Tel.:+251-11-5-444059 Malda Nadew. OCHA Ethiopia, nadew@un.org, Cell +251-929034346 Tel.: +251-11-5-444059
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13620-humanitarian-partners-launch-campaign-address-funding-gaps-ethiopias-drought-response




Date: 23 June 2015
Title: Millions of world’s poorest children left behind despite global progress
Content: 23 June 2015
NEW YORK.- Progress for Children: Beyond Averages, UNICEF’s final report on the child-related Millennium Development Goals, says that, despite significant achievements, unequal opportunities have left millions of children living in poverty, dying before they turn five, without schooling and suffering chronic malnutrition.
“The MDGs helped the world realize tremendous progress for children – but they also showed us how many children we are leaving behind,” said UNICEF Executive Director Anthony Lake. “The lives and futures of the most disadvantaged children matter – not only for their own sake, but for the sake of their families, their communities and their societies.”
Disparities within countries have left children from the poorest households twice as likely to die before their fifth birthday and far less likely to achieve minimum reading standards than children from the richest households.
Continued failure to reach these children can have dramatic consequences. At current rates of progress, given projected population growth, it is estimated that:
The report highlights notable successes since 1990:
And the gaps between the poorest and the wealthiest are narrowing in more than half of the indicators UNICEF analysed:
The report also highlights the bad news: Progress still eludes the nearly 6 million children who die every year before their fifth birthday, the 289,000 women who die every year while giving birth and the 58 million children who don’t go to primary school.
As world leaders prepare to adopt the Sustainable Development Goals, the most disadvantaged children should be at the heart of the new goals and targets, UNICEF said. Better data collection and disaggregation – going beyond averages such as those used to measure the MDGs – can help identify the most vulnerable and excluded children and where they live. Stronger local health, education and social protection systems can help more children to survive and thrive. And smarter investments tailored to the needs of the most vulnerable children can yield short and long-term benefits.
“The SDGs present an opportunity to apply the lessons we have learned and reach the children in greatest need – and shame on us if we don’t,” Lake said “For greater equity in opportunity for today’s children means less inequality and more global progress tomorrow.”
About UNICEF
UNICEF promotes the rights and wellbeing of every child, in everything we do. Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere.
For more information about UNICEF and its work visit: www.unicef.org
For further information please contact:
Wossen Mulatu, Communication Officer, UNICEF Ethiopia, Tel.: +251 115 184028, Mobile: +251 911 308483, email: wmulatu@unicef.org
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13627-millions-world%E2%80%99s-poorest-children-left-behind-despite-global-progress




Date: 18 June 2015
Title: UNHCR warns of dangerous new era in worldwide displacement
Content: 18 June 2015
ADDIS ABABA.- On World Refugee Day eve, UNHCR warns of dangerous new era in worldwide displacement with almost 60 million people forced to flee their homes.
• Number of refugees in Ethiopia approaching 700,00 mark
• UNHCR marks World Refugee Day in Addis Ababa on 19 June
As the UNHCR prepares to mark World Refugee Day on 20 June, the agency’s report, released today, shows that worldwide displacement from wars, conflict, and persecution is at the highest levels we have recorded, and accelerating fast.
UNHCR’s new annual Global Trends report shows a sharp escalation in the number of people forced to flee their homes, with 59.5 million people forcibly displaced at the end of 2014 compared to 51.2 million a year earlier and 37.5 million a decade ago. The increase since 2013 was the highest ever reported for a single year.
In Africa alone there are 3.7 million refugees and 11.4 million displaced people, 4.5 of these were newly displaced in 2015. In Ethiopia, there were 698,687 refugees at the end of May 2015, more than 100,000 of them newly displaced during the past one year.
“We are witnessing a paradigm change, an unchecked slide into an era in which the scale of global forced displacement as well as the response required is now clearly dwarfing anything seen before,” said UN High Commissioner for Refugees António Guterres. “It is terrifying that on the one hand there is more and more impunity for those starting conflicts, and on the other there is seeming utter inability of the international community to work together to stop wars and build and preserve peace.”
UNHCR’s report shows that in the past five years, at least 15 conflicts have erupted or reignited: Eight in Africa; one in Europe and three in Asia. Few of these crises have been resolved and most still generate new displacement.
The growing refugee arrivals from South Sudan and other neighbouring countries resulted in Ethiopia replacing Kenya as the largest refugee hosting country in Africa and the fifth largest in the world. “This, indeed, is not an enviable position to be in but it tells a lot about the Government and people of Ethiopia”, said Clementine Nkweta-Salami, the UNHCR Representative to Ethiopia. “On the one hand, this bears testimony to the continuation of Ethiopia’s age-old tradition of welcoming and giving refuge to people in distress. On the hand, it is a clear indication to the fact that Ethiopia remains an island of stability in this otherwise troubled region”.
Ethiopia plays host to refugees from more than 20 nationalities, but the four main groups are South Sudanese 273,143 (39.09%), Somalis 246,975 (35.35%), Eritreans 136,246 (19.50%) and Sudanese 36,606 (5.24%).
In order to celebrate the courage and resilience of the refugees in Ethiopia and elsewhere as well as to focus the public’s attention on their plight, UNHCR together with the government refugee agency-ARRA- and other partners, has been organizing different activities to mark World Refugee Day under the theme: refugees are people like you and me. All the 24 camps and other refugee sites across the country are organizing World Refugee Day events with activities ranging from sports activities and cultural shows to tree planting, cleaning the environment, recognizing the contributions of refugees to their communities as well as blood donation.
In Addis Ababa where there are some 6,000 urban-based refugees, the main commemorative event will take place on Friday 19 June starting 09:30 am at the Menelik II secondary school hall at Arat Kilo.
On Saturday 20 June, there will be a concert and circus show at the Addis Ababa City Hall starting at 02:00 pm. Refugees and Ethiopians will perform together symbolizing their solidarity and mutual support. Last but not least, refugees will join Ethiopians in a friendly cycling competition at the Addis Ababa Stadium on Sunday 21 June 2015 starting at 08:00 am.
Our 2015 WRD Campaign highlights our common humanity- by allowing people forced to flee to express themselves- to show that they are ordinary people living through extraordinary times. We hope this encourages tolerance, empathy and understanding. Our WRD Campaign microsites:
www.refugeeday.org features testimonials from refugees, IDPS, returnees or resettled refugees describing their passion for a particular activity, for example- cooking, music, poetry, or sports. We ask you to get to know and connect with the people in the stories and to share them with your audiences friends and family.
The full Global Trends report with this information and more, and including data on individual countries, demographics, numbers of people returning to their countries, and available estimates of stateless population is available at http://www.unhcr.org/2014trends.
For further information, please contact:
Kisut Gebre-Egziabher
UNHCR Representation in Ethiopia
e-mail: gegziabk@unhcr.org, cell phone # 0911208901.
xhe UNHCR prepares to mark World Refugee Day on 20 June, the agency’s report, released today, shows that worldwide displacement from wars, conflict, and persecution is at the highest levels we have recorded, and accelerating fast.
UNHCR’s new annual Global Trends report shows a sharp escalation in the number of people forced to flee their homes, with 59.5 million people forcibly displaced at the end of 2014 compared to 51.2 million a year earlier and 37.5 million a decade ago. The increase since 2013 was the highest ever reported for a single year.
In Africa alone there are 3.7 million refugees and 11.4 million displaced people, 4.5 of these were newly displaced in 2015. In Ethiopia, there were 698,687 refugees at the end of May 2015, more than 100,000 of them newly displaced during the past one year.
“We are witnessing a paradigm change, an unchecked slide into an era in which the scale of global forced displacement as well as the response required is now clearly dwarfing anything seen before,” said UN High Commissioner for Refugees António Guterres. “It is terrifying that on the one hand there is more and more impunity for those starting conflicts, and on the other there is seeming utter inability of the international community to work together to stop wars and build and preserve peace.”
UNHCR’s report shows that in the past five years, at least 15 conflicts have erupted or reignited: Eight in Africa; one in Europe and three in Asia. Few of these crises have been resolved and most still generate new displacement.
The growing refugee arrivals from South Sudan and other neighbouring countries resulted in Ethiopia replacing Kenya as the largest refugee hosting country in Africa and the fifth largest in the world. “This, indeed, is not an enviable position to be in but it tells a lot about the Government and people of Ethiopia”, said Clementine Nkweta-Salami, the UNHCR Representative to Ethiopia. “On the one hand, this bears testimony to the continuation of Ethiopia’s age-old tradition of welcoming and giving refuge to people in distress. On the hand, it is a clear indication to the fact that Ethiopia remains an island of stability in this otherwise troubled region”.
Ethiopia plays host to refugees from more than 20 nationalities, but the four main groups are South Sudanese 273,143 (39.09%), Somalis 246,975 (35.35%), Eritreans 136,246 (19.50%) and Sudanese 36,606 (5.24%).
In order to celebrate the courage and resilience of the refugees in Ethiopia and elsewhere as well as to focus the public’s attention on their plight, UNHCR together with the government refugee agency-ARRA- and other partners, has been organizing different activities to mark World Refugee Day under the theme: refugees are people like you and me. All the 24 camps and other refugee sites across the country are organizing World Refugee Day events with activities ranging from sports activities and cultural shows to tree planting, cleaning the environment, recognizing the contributions of refugees to their communities as well as blood donation.
In Addis Ababa where there are some 6,000 urban-based refugees, the main commemorative event will take place on Friday 19 June starting 09:30 am at the Menelik II secondary school hall at Arat Kilo.
On Saturday 20 June, there will be a concert and circus show at the Addis Ababa City Hall starting at 02:00 pm. Refugees and Ethiopians will perform together symbolizing their solidarity and mutual support. Last but not least, refugees will join Ethiopians in a friendly cycling competition at the Addis Ababa Stadium on Sunday 21 June 2015 starting at 08:00 am.
Our 2015 WRD Campaign highlights our common humanity- by allowing people forced to flee to express themselves- to show that they are ordinary people living through extraordinary times. We hope this encourages tolerance, empathy and understanding. Our WRD Campaign microsites:
www.refugeeday.org features testimonials from refugees, IDPS, returnees or resettled refugees describing their passion for a particular activity, for example- cooking, music, poetry, or sports. We ask you to get to know and connect with the people in the stories and to share them with your audiences friends and family.
The full Global Trends report with this information and more, and including data on individual countries, demographics, numbers of people returning to their countries, and available estimates of stateless population is available at http://www.unhcr.org/2014trends.
For further information, please contact:
Kisut Gebre-Egziabher
UNHCR Representation in Ethiopia
e-mail: gegziabk@unhcr.org, cell phone # 0911208901.
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13629-unhcr-warns-dangerous-new-era-worldwide-displacement




Date: 10 April 2015
Title: The IKEA Brighter Lives for Refugees campaign
Content: 10 April 2015
ADDIS ABABA.- During this period, for every LED light bulb purchased by an IKEA customer, the IKEA Foundation donated €1 to UNHCR. The funds raised by the campaign will help improve the lives of 380,000 refugees in Bangladesh, Chad, Ethiopia and Jordan by providing education opportunities, solar street lights, solar lanterns and other renewable energy solutions.
Among other activities, with the money raised since the campaign first started in 2014:
“The number of displaced people worldwide has, for the first time since World War II, exceeded 50 million people, including 13 million refugees who are under UNHCR’s care. In this context, the engagement of the public worldwide through our long-standing partner the IKEA Foundation has never been more important. I greatly appreciate the efforts of IKEA co-workers and the support of the customers who participated in this global campaign so that we can make the lives of thousands of refugees better and brighter,” said UN Deputy High Commissioner for Refugees T. Alexander Aleinikoff. Per Heggenes, CEO of the IKEA Foundation added, “thanks to IKEA’s co-workers and customers, thousands of refugee children and families will now have access to sustainable energy and lighting. Simple activities like sharing a family meal, doing homework and important social gatherings will now be possible for some of the most vulnerable people on our planet.”
For further information about this press release, please contact:
1. Andreas Needham
Tel: +251936010672
E-mail: needham@unhcr.org
2. Kisut GebreEgziabher
Tel: +251911208901
E-mail: gegziabk@unhcr.org
About IKEA Group
Our vision is to create a better everyday life for the many people and we offer well designed, functional and affordable, high quality home furnishing, produced with care for people and the environment. The IKEA Group has 315 stores in 27 countries. In addition there are more than 40 stores run by franchisees outside the IKEA Group. The IKEA Group had 716 million visitors during FY14 and 1.5 billion people visited IKEA.com. www.ikea.com
About IKEA Foundation
The IKEA Foundation, the philanthropic arm of the Swedish home furnishings company IKEA, aims to improve opportunities for children and youth in some of the world’s poorest communities by funding holistic, long-term programmes that can create substantial, lasting change. The IKEA Foundation works with strong strategic partners applying innovative approaches to achieve large-scale results in four fundamental areas of a child’s life: a place to call home; a healthy start in life; a quality education; and a sustainable family income. Learn more at
www.IKEAfoundation.org and www.facebook.com/IKEAfoundation
About UNHCR
The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees was established on December 14, 1950 by the United Nations General Assembly. The agency is mandated to lead and co-ordinate international action to protect refugees and resolve refugee problems worldwide. Its primary purpose is to safeguard the rights and well-being of refugees. It strives to ensure that everyone can exercise the right to seek asylum and find safe refuge in another State, with the option to return home voluntarily, integrate locally or to resettle in a third country. It also has a mandate to help stateless people. In more than six decades, the agency has helped tens of millions of people restart their lives. Today, a staff of some 8,600 people in more than 125 countries continues to help some 33.9 million persons.
Learn more at www.unhcr.org and www.facebook.com/UNHCR
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13633-ikea-brighter-lives-refugees-campaign




Date: 23 March 2015
Title: Ethiopia meets MDG 7c target for drinking water supply
Content: 23 March 2015
ADDIS ABABA.- The announcement was made in the presence of H.E Dr Mulatu Teshome, President of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, H.E Ato Alemayehu Tegenu, Minister of Water, Irrigation and Energy, Senior Government Officials, Ambassadors, UN representatives, WASH partners and members of the media.
Dr. Mulatu Teshome, President of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the occasion said. “I would like to congratulate you of this great achievement of meeting the Water Supply MDG target and ensure you of the commitment of Ethiopian Government to make realistic its responsibility of providing access to safe supply and sanitation services at appropriate service level to all its citizens. I call upon all of you to continue joining hands with the Government on reaching to the unreached.”
The 2015 assessment report by the UNICEF/WHO Global Joint Monitoring Programme for Water and Sanitation (JMP) indicates that Ethiopia has met the target of 57 per cent1 of the population using safe drinking water and has attained the target by halving the number of people without access to safe water since 1990.
His Excellency Ato Alemayehu Tegenu, Minister, Ministry of Water, Irrigation and Energy said, “Thanks to the great leadership of the government, the diligent effort of WASH actors in particular and Ethiopian communities at large for reaching the havenots in water supply; the country has achieved MDG 7c target”.
“Today’s event represents a great milestone to us, development partners, civil society, NGO, bilateral, multilateral, public and private sector professionals as we have joined hands to make this achievement a reality. It is also a historic moment, where Ethiopia demonstrates its political commitment to resolving challenges in the Water and Sanitation Sector,” he added.
Ethiopia has embarked on an ambitious Growth and Transformation Plan (GTP) which placed water supply at the core of all future development agenda. The Government’s heavy investment in the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) fund combined with increased donor contribution enabled the rapid acceleration of water supply coverage in many parts of the country. In addition, Ethiopia has developed a ONEWASH programme designed to ensure universal access to WASH services by 2015. The plan has a budget of US$ 2.4 billion and involves the collective contribution of public, private, NGO and donor investments.
Ms. Leila Pakkala, UNICEF Regional Director, Eastern and Southern Africa, speaking on behalf of the Joint Monitoring Programme said, “In 1990 only 6 million people had access safe water. Today, over 55 million people access clean and safe water. The progress that has been made has been impressive, to say the least. But we know that the progress we are celebrating today comes as a result of many years of consistent investment, time and resources at all levels. It has not been an easy achievement”.
The JMP estimates for Ethiopia were updated following a joint mission to Addis Ababa from 26-27 November 2014 and include data from the most recent nationally representative surveys. The current JMP estimates show that in the 1990 baseline year access to drinking water was 14 per cent and access to sanitation was 3 per cent. This means that Ethiopia’s MDG target for drinking water was 57 per cent and for sanitation was 52 per cent. The current JMP estimates show that by 2015 access to improved drinking water has increased to 57 per cent and access to improved sanitation has increased to 28 per cent.
According to the JMP, the total population reached with safe water between 1990 and 2015 is 48 million. There are still 42 million Ethiopians without access to safe water. Of the 42 million Ethiopians who are not using improved water supplies, an estimated 33 million people are residing in rural areas and peri urban communities and 9 million are living within towns and cities.
For further information, please contact:
Aster Tekle, Director, Public Relations Directorate, Ministry of Water, Energy and Mines,
Tel.: +251 911475581; email: astekle2006@gmail.com
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13638-ethiopia-meets-mdg-7c-target-drinking-water-supply




Date: 11 February 2015
Title: 27 000 People to benefit from Multiple Village Clean Water Supply Project in Tigray
Content: 11 February 2015
EBO, RAYA AZEBO WOREDA, TIGRAY.- The Ebo clean water project, with a total cost of 20 million Ethiopian Birr, is a unique project as it not only demonstrates how investments in long term sustainable water supplies can reduce the carbon emissions from water trucks, but also contributes to making Ethiopian towns and villages greener and healthier for women and children. The project shows how resilient water supply solutions can be implemented in areas where there is low average rainfall and difficult hydrological conditions. In addition, it is 70 per cent cheaper than water trucking which has been the practice previously in the villages.
The Regional Government of Tigray and the woreda Administration of Raya Azebo actively partnered with UNICEF Ethiopia to undertake a detailed technical groundwater assessment to locate deep groundwater which could be exploited for this water supply scheme. UNICEF also called on its large national and international expertise to provide high technical support and mobilised funds from UNICEF Germany to finance the construction of the entire water supply scheme.
Inaugurating the project, Minister of Water, Irrigation and Energy, H.E Ato Alemayehu Tegenu said, “We went to every corner of the possible system to make the voice of water and sanitation heard. And to promote synergies between all those whose mandate mattered to water. Now, our country has made tremendous progress over the past decade in the water and sanitation sectors and lowered the incidence of water-borne diseases significantly. We now have the opportunity to witness such a breakthrough, made possible through the committed effort of the government, development partners, NGOs, the private sector and the community. Raya Azebo Multiple Village Clean Water Supply Project in Tigray region is one of the exemplary project, providing the community with reliable access to safe water.”
UNICEF Ethiopia Representative a.i. Ms. Anupma Rao Singh said, “UNICEF will increase its technical and financial support to the water supply and sanitation sector in the Tigray Region. We also reaffirm our commitment to finance another 3 multiple village water supply schemes similar to the Ebo scheme with the aim of alleviating the burden of water collection for tens of thousands of women and children in the Tigray region.”
Ethiopia has made substantial progress in improving access to water supply and sanitation coverage since 1990. The recent National WASH Inventory data helps to confirm that, with the 2015 prediction of 57 per cent water supply coverage, Ethiopia is well on track to meet the water target of halving the 86 per cent of the population without water. The completion of such cost-effective schemes is an indication that the country is now heading into innovative approaches to address people especially the hard to reach areas who are without access to safe water services.
Ministry of Water Irrigation and Energy
For further information, please contact:
Tesfalem Hadgu, Deputy Office Head and Core Process Owner of Water Supply, Tigray Region Water Resource Bureau, Tel: +251 0914 179 156
Bizuneh Tolcha, Director, Public Relation and Communication Directorate,
Ministry of Water Irrigation and Energy, Tel +251 116 626324
Wossen Mulatu, Communication Officer, UNICEF Ethiopia,
Tel.: +251 115 184028, Mobile: +251 911 308483
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13641-27-000-people-benefit-multiple-village-clean-water-supply-project-tigray




Date: 14 November 2014
Title: UNICEF: Steep drop in pneumonia deaths in last decade, but much further to go
Content: 14 November 2014
NEW YORK/ADDIS ABABA.- Pneumonia is still among the leading killers of children – accounting for 15 per cent of deaths, or approximately 940,000 children per year – but deaths from the disease have declined by 44 per cent since 2000, according to figures released recently by UNICEF.
“Pneumonia is still a very dangerous disease – it kills more children under five than HIV/AIDS, malaria, injuries and measles combined – and though the numbers are declining, with nearly 1 million deaths a year, there is no room for complacency,” said Dr. Mickey Chopra, Head of UNICEF’s global health programmes. “Poverty is the biggest risk factor, and that means our efforts need to reach every child, no matter how marginalized.”
Deaths from pneumonia are highest in poor rural communities. Household air pollution is a major cause of pneumonia, so children from households which rely on solid fuels such as wood, dung or charcoal for cooking or heating, are at high risk. Overcrowded homes also contribute to higher pneumonia levels. In addition, poor children are less likely to be immunized against measles and whooping cough, which are also among major causes of the disease.
In Ethiopia, pneumonia is a leading single disease killing under-five children. It is estimated that 3,370,000 children encounter pneumonia annually which contributes to 20 per cent of all causes of deaths killing over 40,000 under-five children every year. These deaths are easily preventable and treatable through simple and cost-effective interventions.
Immunization, good nutrition, exclusive breast feeding, appropriate complementary feeding and hand washing are among the preventive while administration of amoxicillin dispersible tablets and other antibiotics are among the curative methods which can save lives.
With the objective of increasing access to these lifesaving interventions, Ethiopia has made a policy breakthrough of introducing community-based treatment of pneumonia through health extension workers in 2010[2]. Since then over 38,000 health extension workers from nearly 15,000 health posts are equipped with the skills and supplies to treat pneumonia at community level using the integrated community case management (iCCM) approach.
Early diagnosis and treatment of pneumonia, and access to health care, will save lives, thus strategies must target low income communities. The increased use of pneumonia vaccines, particularly in low income countries has led to progress against the disease, but inequities exist even in countries with wide coverage.
“Closing the treatment gap between the poor and the better off is crucial to bringing down preventable deaths from pneumonia,” Dr Chopra said. “The more we focus on the causes and the known solutions, the faster we will bring this childhood scourge under control.” UNICEF’s Supply Division has today put out a call to innovators for new, improved and more easily affordable respiratory rate timers to aid in the timely recognition and management of pneumonia.
One simple treatment has had great success: trained community health workers give sick children the antibiotic amoxicillin in a child-friendly tablet form, as part of an integrated case management programme at the community level. Scaling up the availability of similar inexpensive medicines will help to reduce the treatment gap especially among hard to reach populations.
Simple measures such as early and exclusive breastfeeding; handwashing with soap; vaccination; and provision of micronutrients will also reduce the incidence of pneumonia.

About UNICEF
UNICEF promotes the rights and wellbeing of every child, in everything we do. Together
with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment
into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded
children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere. For more information about UNICEF and
its work visit: www.unicef.org.
For more information about UNICEF Ethiopia and its work, visit:
http://www.unicef.org/ethiopia

For further information, please contact:
Wossen Mulatu, Communication Officer, UNICEF Ethiopia
Tel.: +251 115 184028, Mobile: +251 911 308483, email: wmulatu@unicef.org

United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13646-unicef-steep-drop-pneumonia-deaths-last-decade-much-further-go




Date: 03 November 2014
Title: Investing in people-centred innovation and technology essential to Africa's development
Content: 03 November 2014
ADDIS ABABA.- Decision-makers and business leaders, economists and academics from across the globe met for the AEC to discuss how to harness knowledge and innovation to boost youth employment, foster the adoption of new technologies, and enhance Africa’s economic transformation.
“Investments in skills, technology, knowledge, and innovation will ensure democratic and responsive governance that can deliver effective public services and facilitate universal access to basic services, such as food and nutrition, water and sanitation, shelter, health and education,” pointed out Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, African Union Commission Chairperson.
Innovation is seen as an essential component for the transformation of African economies, said Steve Kayizzi-Mugerwa, Acting Chief Economist and Vice-President of African Development Bank, who emphasised the need to be proactive and address the challenges Africa is facing.
“We need to stop being lazy analysts and take our challenges for ourselves; stop wasting resources and implement our own ideas,” he said. “Africa must first understand where we are, what brought us here and then try to understand what to do differently to bring different results.”
Beyond technology and technology transfer, the role of innovation was discussed at the conference as a trigger for behaviour and social change.
“Innovation is a key determinant of the ability of economies to sustain growth, and is critical to improving socio-economic conditions. Socio-economic transformation in Africa requires both adaption of existing technologies, and the development of home-grown innovations,” said Abdoulaye Mar Dieye, Director, UNDP Regional Bureau for Africa, UN Assistant Secretary General.
The continent can boost its development agenda by using technology and technology transfer creatively, participants argued, creating revenue opportunities for farmers, jobs for youths in urban areas and tackling a wide diversity of challenges, from climate change adaptation to disaster risk reduction.
M-Pesa, an innovative mobile-phone payment system, created in Kenya and expanded to Tanzania, South Africa, Afghanistan, India and Eastern Europe, has had great impact on the lives of ordinary Kenyans. It has increased access to financial services to 19 million Kenyans, created jobs, and positively impacted savings and money transfer patterns. In just five years, MPesa decreased informal savings in the country by 15%, increased the frequency of transfers and remittances by 35%, and increased usage of banking services by 58% beyond the levels of 2006.
It is critical to address acute skills deficits to provide African youth and women opportunities to take part in these types of new economic activities and derive benefits from the economic growth in Africa, the participants noted. “Innovation and technology-oriented education is vital for sustained economic performance and competitiveness. It gives our youth critical building blocks to secure their future,” said Carlos Lopes, Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Africa. Continuous investments in education, research and development, structured on-the-job training programmes, and establishments of technical training institutes were also identified by the participants as ways of engaging the youth and boosting the participation and empowerment of women. Governments, private sector, academia and the civil society need to act as complimentary entities and not as competitors in the development process. Creating strong links between all these different entities is required to ensure innovation results in scaling up, adoption of best practices, enhancement in inclusive economic growth and sustainable development.
Given the current population profile, with the majority of the African population under 20, conference participants underlined that the age of innovation for Africa is yet to come. Fostering innovative solutions and creating a social contract in which governments, private sector, academia, and the civil society use innovation to address the barriers of inclusive development and structural transformation is key to inclusive and sustainable development. This is critical to ensure moving from aspiration to implementation with Africa’s Agenda 2063, the 50-year vision for Africa, and the Common African Position on the post-2015 development agenda.
Since 2006, the African Economic Conference has been jointly organized by the AfDB, ECA and UNDP with the mandate to foster dialogue and the exchange of knowledge on economic issues and challenges facing Africa.
For media information, please contact:
AfDB: Olivia Ndong Obiang, o.ndong-obiang@afdb.org, tel. +225 01560505 (Abidjan)
ECA: Mercy Wambui, mwambui@uneca.org, tel. +251 92 10 14 767
UNDP: Nicolas Douillet, Nicolas.douillet@undp.org, tel. +1 212 906 5937 (New York);
Martha Mogus, martha.mogus@undp.org, tel. +251 11 44 43 18 (Addis Ababa)
About the AfDB:
The African Development Bank Group (AfDB) is Africa’s premier development finance institution.
It comprises three distinct entities: the African Development Bank (AfDB), the African
Development Fund (ADF) and the Nigeria Trust Fund (NTF). On the ground in 34 African countries
with an external office in Japan, the AfDB contributes to the economic development and the social
progress of its 54 regional member states. www.afdb.org
About ECA:
Headquartered in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa was
established in 1958 with the mandate of promoting the economic and social development of its
member States, fostering intra-regional integration, and promoting international cooperation for
Africa's development. www.uneca.org
About UNDP:
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13650-investing-people-centred-innovation-and-technology-essential-africas-development




Date: 16 September 2014
Title: Despite dramatic progress on child survival, 1 million children die during their first day of life from mostly preventable causes
Content: 16 September 2014
NEW YORK.- Child survival rates have increased dramatically since 1990, during which time the absolute number of under-five deaths has been slashed in half from 12.7 million to 6.3 million, according to a report released today by UNICEF.
The 2014 Committing to Child Survival: A Promise Renewed progress report, indicates that the first 28 days of a newborn’s life are the most vulnerable with almost 2.8 million babies dying each year during this period. One million of them don’t even live to see their second day of life.
Many of these deaths could be easily prevented with simple, cost-effective interventions before, during and immediately after birth.
Analysis points to failures in the health system during the critical time around delivery as a significant contributing factor to these unnecessary deaths. It also shows that there is considerable variation – from country to country and between rich and poor – in the take-up and quality of health services available to pregnant women and their babies.
Key findings in this study include:
A UNICEF analysis of 10 high mortality countries indicates that less than 10 percent of babies delivered by a skilled birth attendant went on to receive the seven required post-natal interventions, including early initiation of breastfeeding. Similarly, less than 10 per cent of mothers who saw a health worker during pregnancy received a core set of eight prenatal interventions.
Additionally, the report shows that the education level and age of the mother has a significant bearing on the chances of her baby’s survival. Neonatal mortality rates among mothers with no education are nearly twice as high for those with secondary schooling and above.
“The data clearly demonstrate that an infant’s chances of survival increase dramatically when their mother has sustained access to quality health care during pregnancy and delivery,” said Geeta Rao Gupta, UNICEF Deputy Executive Director.
“We need to make sure that these services, where they exist, are fully utilised and that every contact between a mother and her health worker really counts. Special efforts must also be made to ensure that the most vulnerable are reached.”
Inequality, particularly in health care access, remains high in the least developed countries: women from the richest households are almost three times as likely as those from the poorest to deliver their baby with a skilled birth attendant. Despite this, the report suggests that the equity gap in under-5 child mortality is steadily reducing. In every region, except sub-Saharan Africa, the proportion of under-five mortality among the poorest sections of society is declining faster than in the richest. More significantly, worldwide, the poor are registering greater absolute gains in child survival than their wealthier compatriots.
“It is deeply heartening that the equity gap in child survival is continuing to narrow,” said Rao Gupta. “We need to harness this momentum and use it to drive forward programmes that focus resources on the poorest and marginalised households; a strategy which has the potential to save the largest number of children’s lives.”

Note to editors:
About A Promise Renewed
A Promise Renewed is a global movement that seeks to advance Every Woman Every Child – a strategy launched by United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to mobilize and intensify global action to improve the health of women and children around – through action and advocacy to accelerate reductions in preventable maternal, newborn and child deaths.
The movement emerged from the Child Survival Call to Action convened in June 2012 by the Governments of Ethiopia, India and the United States, in collaboration with UNICEF, to examine ways to spur progress on child survival. It is based on the ethos that child survival is a shared responsibility and everyone – governments, civil society, the private sector and individuals – has a vital contribution to make.
Since June 2012, 178 governments and many civil society organizations, private sector organizations and individuals have signed a pledge to redouble their efforts and are turning these commitments into action and advocacy. More details on A Promise Renewed are available at www.apromiserenewed.org.
About Committing to Child Survival: A Promise Renewed 2014 Progress Report
This year’s annual report focuses on newborn survival. This report not only presents levels and trends in under-five and neonatal mortality since 1990, but also provides analysis on key interventions for mother and newborn.
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in more than 190 countries and territories to help children survive and thrive, from early childhood through adolescence. The world’s largest provider of vaccines for developing countries, UNICEF supports child health and nutrition, good water and sanitation, quality basic education for all boys and girls, and the protection of children from violence, exploitation, and AIDS. UNICEF is funded entirely by the voluntary contributions of individuals, businesses, foundations and governments.
For more information about UNICEF and its work visit: http://www.unicef.org/
For further information please contact:
Alexandra (Sacha) Westerbeek, Communication Manager, UNICEF Ethiopia
Tel.: +251 11 518 4039, Mobile: +251 911 255109, email: awesterbeek@unicef.org
Wossen Mulatu, Communication Officer, UNICEF Ethiopia,
Tel.: +251 115 184028, Mobile: +251 911 308483, email: wmulatu@unicef.org
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13653-despite-dramatic-progress-child-survival-1-million-children-die-during-their-first-day-life




Date: 07 August 2014
Title: WFP Inaugurates New Office Compound
Content: 07 August 2014
SEMERA.- “WFP delivers food assistance to 700,000 people from our Semera office, so it was therefore a priority for us to upgrade facilities in this office, and shows the commitment that WFP has towards the Afar region and its people. We are grateful to the regional authorities for helping us to better serve people in this area,” said Abdou Dieng, WFP Ethiopia Country Director during the inauguration of the new premise.
Eighteen national staff and one international are employed by WFP in Semera, which is the newest WFP office in Ethiopia and was established in December 2011. The WFP team had been working in another location in Semera before the new compound was finished.
“I am thankful to WFP, the first UN agency to open an office in Semera two years ago. This is truly a commitment to our region and to help us improve food security,” said Ismail Ali Sirro, President of the Afar region during the inauguration.
“This facility is an important footprint for the UN in Afar, and it gives us an opportunity to scale up our effort to this region,” said Eugene Owusu, UN Resident Coordinator in Ethiopia.
The WFP Semera office oversees WFP activities in all five zones of Afar, including the provision of school meals to more than 80,000 children and the distribution of monthly food rations to 25,000 refugees from Eritrea. WFP also assists more than 472,000 people in the region under the Productive Safety Nets Programme (PSNP) as well as nearly 159,000 who receive relief assistance.

WFP is the world's largest humanitarian agency fighting hunger worldwide, delivering food in emergencies and working with communities to build resilience. In 2013, WFP assisted more than 80 million people in 75 countries.
Follow us on Twitter @wfp_ethiopia
For more information please contact (email address: firstname.lastname@wfp.org):
Stephanie Savariaud, WFP/Addis, cell +251911201976
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
Congo Building, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
URL: https://ethiopia.un.org/en/13656-wfp-inaugurates-new-office-compound




