Date: 06 June 2024
Title: In Loving Memory of George (Gia) Nikabadze
Content: 06 June 2024
6 June 2024
It is with deepest sorrow that we announce the passing of George Nikabadze, affectionately known as Gia, on June 6, 2024.
Gia joined WHO Country Office in 1998, as a driver/clerk, and has been, since then, an indispensable, integral member of the WHO family. Over the years, his dedication, warm heart, and unwavering positivity left a mark on everyone who had the privilege of knowing him. He treated all colleagues and partners with utmost respect, receiving everyone’s full respect in return.
Gia received 2022 Regional Director’s Award for Excellence. At the same time, he was, on several occasions, voted as the bravest person of the team by his colleagues, setting an example of how to handle challenges with utmost dignity.
Beyond his professional life, Gia was a devoted husband, a loving father, and a proud grandfather of two. His passions were many, including crafting intricate creations and mastering the art of barbecue. Coming from a science background (physics), Gia authored several inventions, still to become known to the public. Gia was always ready to lend a helping hand, offering empathy and kindness even in the toughest of times.
Gia will be greatly missed by all of us. May he rest in peace.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/270944-loving-memory-george-gia-nikabadze




Date: 05 June 2024
Title: UN Secretary-General's Message for World Environment Day 2024
Content: 05 June 2024
The theme of this year’s World Environment Day is “land restoration, desertification, and drought resilience.”
Humanity depends on land.  Yet, all over the world, a toxic cocktail of pollution, climate chaos, and biodiversity decimation are turning healthy lands into deserts, and thriving ecosystems into dead zones.  They are annihilating forests and grasslands, and sapping the strength of land to support ecosystems, agriculture, and communities.
That means crops failing, water sources vanishing, economies weakened, and communities endangered — with the poorest hit hardest.  Sustainable development is suffering.  And we are trapped in a deadly cycle — land use is responsible for 11 per cent of the carbon dioxide emissions heating our planet.  It’s time to break free.
Countries must deliver on all their commitments to restore degraded ecosystems and land, and on the entire Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework.  They must use their new national climate action plans to set out how they will halt and reverse deforestation by 2030.  And we must drastically scale up finance to support developing countries to adapt to violent weather, protect nature, and support sustainable development.
Inaction is too costly.  But swift and effective action makes economic sense.  Every dollar invested in ecosystem restoration creates up to thirty dollars in economic benefits.
We are Generation Restoration.  Together, let’s build a sustainable future for land, and for humanity.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/270597-un-secretary-generals-message-world-environment-day-2024




Date: 31 May 2024
Title: Ukrainian Entrepreneurs’ Year-Long Journey in Georgia
Content: 31 May 2024
Germany, UNDP, and CARE Caucasus Empower Refugee Businesses Strengthening Economic Resilience and Justice
Thirty-nine refugee entrepreneurs, primarily from Ukraine, established businesses in Georgia with the support of the German Government, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and CARE Caucasus. This support, which includes funding, consultancy, and technical assistance, is part of the broader Germany-funded project 'Improving the Rule of Law and Access to Justice for All'.
Operating in major cities like Tbilisi and Batumi, and small villages, these dynamic small enterprises span diverse sectors from hospitality and technology to services, trade, and crafts. They support refugee families who sought shelter in Georgia during the war, create sustainable employment for more than 80 people, and contribute to Georgia’s economy.
Over 70 percent of these vibrant new businesses are led by women, highlighting the importance of promoting economic justice and women's rights in building resilient and sustainable economies.
On 31 May, the refugee entrepreneurs gathered in Tbilisi to celebrate the successes of their entrepreneurial journey in Georgia, discuss challenges, and plan the future.
Anna Chernyshova, UNDP Deputy Resident Representative in Georgia; Sarah Zielonka, the First Secretary and Head of Economic and Press Affairs at the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany to Georgia; and Ketevan Khachidze, CARE Caucasus CEO, addressed the participants and guests of the event underscoring tangible results and broader implications of the initiative.
"Two years into the war in Ukraine, supporting Ukrainian refugees, especially women entrepreneurs, is one of our key priorities. This initiative showcases the resilience of the human spirit and the power of friendship and cooperation in the face of challenges."
Anna Chernyshova, UNDP Deputy Resident Representative in Georgia
"Germany is proud to support the refugee entrepreneurs in Georgia, whose efforts help rebuild lives disrupted by the war. We salute their courage, resilience and innovative spirit leading to success in the hardest times."
Sarah Zielonka, First Secretary and Head of Economic and Press Affairs at the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany.
“Over the past two years, CARE Caucasus has led the way to a better life for Ukrainian women and children in Georgia, through cash assistance, legal aid, employment support, and entrepreneurship development. For many, income from these enterprises is their only financial lifeline. Our joint efforts are helping them rebuild their lives with dignity.”
Ketevan Khachidze, CARE Caucasus CEO
The support provided to the refugee entrepreneurs in Georgia is part of the ‘Improving the Rule of Law and Access to Justice for All’ initiative, funded by the German Government and implemented by UNDP. Through this US$1.62 million project, UNDP and Germany enhance the capacities of Georgia’s rule of law institutions and promote legal empowerment and socio-economic resilience among disadvantaged communities.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/270258-ukrainian-entrepreneurs%E2%80%99-year-long-journey-georgia




Date: 17 May 2024
Title: International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia
Content: 17 May 2024
UN Georgia observance message urges to safeguard human rights for everyone, everywhere.
On International Day against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia, we share the global message of the UN Secretary-General and reiterate our steadfast commitment to safeguard human rights for everyone, everywhere.
We underscore our solidarity with LGBTIQ+ communities in Georgia who continue experiencing stigma, hostility, violence, discrimination, and other forms of human rights violations. Any exclusion undermines human rights protection for all, leads to inequality and threatens democracy.  We stand ready to continue working alongside Georgian partners to align state policies and practices with the fundamental human rights values enshrined in the Constitution of Georgia and underscored by the country’s international commitments.
Following is UN Secretary-General António Guterres’ message for the International Day against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia:
On this International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia, I applaud the brave work of LGBTQI+ human rights defenders fighting to outlaw discrimination and secure equality before the law.
Yet there is a worrying surge in the opposite direction. New laws are codifying old bigotries, exploiting fears and stoking hate.
The theme of this year’s Day – “No one left behind: equality, freedom and justice for all” – reminds us of our obligations to respect the human rights and dignity of every person. We need action around the world to make those rights a reality.
The criminalisation of same-sex relationships must end, so must all violence, discrimination and harmful practices against LGBTQI+ communities.
On this and every day, let’s commit to building a world of respect, dignity and human rights for all around the world.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/268861-international-day-against-homophobia-biphobia-and-transphobia




Date: 16 May 2024
Title: Georgia: UN experts condemn adoption of Law on Transparency of Foreign Influence
Content: 16 May 2024
15 May 2024
GENEVA --Adoption of the controversial ‘Foreign Agents’ law by the Georgian Parliament will have a chilling effect on civil society, journalists and human rights defenders and sends an extremely negative signal about the country’s commitment to human rights, UN experts* said today.
The experts said that despite the withdrawal of an identical draft law in March 2023, following large-scale protests, the Georgian Parliament in April 2024 considered a new draft of the Law on Transparency of Foreign Influence in three expedited readings and proceeded with its adoption on 14 May. The move follows assurances provided by high-ranking government officials and MPs to the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders during her country visit in November 2023 that the draft law would not be reintroduced.
“We are shocked that even in light of clear opposition by a significant segment of Georgia’s people, the law was expedited through Parliament with media and civil society representatives denied access to the proceedings,” the experts said.
“We are seriously concerned at the speed of deliberations in Parliament, which appear to have taken place without inclusive, transparent and genuine consultations with civil society, society at large and opposition parties,” said Mary Lawlor, the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders.
The Law on Transparency of Foreign Influence, more commonly known as the ‘foreign agents bill’ requires media and nongovernmental organisations and other nonprofits to register as “pursuing the interests of a foreign power” if they receive more than 20% of their funding from abroad. Georgia’s opposition has denounced the legislation as an effort to crackdown on independent media, civil society, human rights activists and government critics.
The experts said they had communicated their concerns to the government about the draft law and its expected destructive effect on civil society in Georgia.
“If signed into law by the President, the law will place Georgia in contravention of its human rights obligations, notably on freedom of association,” they warned.
The violent crackdown by security forces and riot police on people protesting peacefully against the proposed draft law escalated in April 2024. Riot police used water cannons, teargas, and stun grenades to disperse protesters. Several human rights defenders monitoring the protests have been assaulted, while others have received threatening phone messages and calls and targeted in intimidatory poster campaigns.
“For Georgia, this is a step in the wrong direction,” the experts said. “Human rights defenders, young people and peaceful protestors are not enemies of the state.”
-----------
*The experts: Mary Lawlor, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders; Gina Romero, Special Rapporteur on the Rights to Freedom of Peaceful Assembly and of Association; Irene Khan, Special Rapporteur on the right to freedom of opinion and expression ;and Cecilia M Bailliet, Independent Expert on human rights and international solidarity.
Special Rapporteurs, Independent Experts and Working Groups are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
For more information and media requests, please contact Ms. Orsolya Toth (orsolya.toth@un.org/+41 22 917 99 13) or write to hrc-sr-defenders@un.org.
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact please contact Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org) and John Newland (john.newland@un.org).
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter@UN_SPExperts
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/268802-georgia-un-experts-condemn-adoption-law-transparency-foreign-influence




Date: 15 May 2024
Title: UN Human Rights Chief Volker Türk deeply regrets adoption of ‘foreign influence’ law in Georgia
Content: 15 May 2024
GENEVA (15 May 2024)
UN Human Rights Chief Volker Türk on Wednesday expressed deep regret at the adoption by Georgia's Parliament of the Law on Transparency of Foreign Influence, noting that the legislation seriously undermines the freedoms of expression and association.
“Authorities and lawmakers have chosen to disregard the many warnings by human rights defenders and civil society organisations,” Türk said. “The impacts on the rights to freedom of expression and association in Georgia unfortunately now risk being significant.”
The law, adopted yesterday, declares civil society and media organisations which receive more than 20 percent of their funding from foreign sources as “organisations acting in interest of a foreign power” and requires registration as such.
“The ability of associations to seek, secure and use resources is essential to their effective operation. This overbroad law risks these organisations being labelled and stigmatised, and having to face an atmosphere of mistrust, fear and hostility,” the High Commissioner said.
“The registration requirement may also have a chilling effect on them, significantly curtailing their activities. Stifling diverse voices on matters of serious public interest will only complicate the Government’s ability to respond effectively to the many challenges facing the country with sound legislative and policy measures.”
Türk reiterated his call for the law to be shelved, and for the authorities to engage in dialogue with concerned media and civil society organisations as well as human rights defenders.
The UN Human Rights Office has previously expressed concern about unnecessary and disproportionate use of force against demonstrators.
“Authorities need to promptly investigate allegations of violence and ill-treatment in the context of the protests, including reported assaults on protesters and their families,” Türk said.
“I call on the authorities in Georgia to build on recent important human rights achievements and to work with the country’s vibrant civil society to resolve the current challenges through an inclusive and rights-centered process,” the High Commissioner said.
----
In GenevaRavina Shamdasani + 41 22 917 9169 / ravina.shamdasani@un.orgLiz Throssell + 41 22 917 9296 / elizabeth.throssell@un.orgJeremy Laurence +41 22 917 9383 / jeremy.laurence@un.org
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/268805-un-human-rights-chief-volker-t%C3%BCrk-deeply-regrets-adoption-%E2%80%98foreign-influence%E2%80%99-law-georgia




Date: 03 May 2024
Title: United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres' message for the World Press Freedom Day
Content: 03 May 2024
3 May 2024
The world is going through an unprecedented environmental emergency which poses an existential threat to this and future generations.
People need to know about this – and journalists and media workers have a key role in informing and educating them.
Local, national and global media outlets can highlight stories about the climate crisis, biodiversity loss, and environmental injustice.
Through their work, people come to understand the plight of our planet, and are mobilized and empowered to take action for change.
Media workers also document environmental degradation. And they provide evidence of environmental vandalism that helps to hold those responsible to account.
It is no surprise that some powerful people, companies and institutions will stop at nothing to prevent environmental journalists from doing their jobs.
Media freedom is under siege. And environmental journalism is an increasingly dangerous profession.
Dozens of journalists covering illegal mining, logging, poaching and other environmental issues have been killed in recent decades.
In the vast majority of cases, no one has been held to account.
UNESCO reports that in the past fifteen years, there have been some 750 attacks on journalists and news outlets reporting on environmental issues. And the frequency of such attacks is rising.
Legal processes are also misused to censor, silence, detain and harass environmental reporters, while a new era of climate disinformation focuses on undermining proven solutions, including renewable energy.
But environmental journalists are not the only ones at risk.
Around the world, media workers are risking their lives trying to bring us news on everything from war to democracy.
I am shocked and appalled by the high number of journalists killed in Israeli military operations in Gaza.
The United Nations recognizes the invaluable work of journalists and media professionals to ensure that the public is informed and engaged.
Without facts, we cannot fight mis- and disinformation. Without accountability, we will not have strong policies in place.
Without press freedom, we won't have any freedom.
A free press is not a choice, but a necessity.
Our World Press Freedom Day is very important. And so, I call on governments, the private sector and civil society to join us in reaffirming our commitment to safeguarding press freedom and the rights of journalists and media professionals around the world.
***

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/267631-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres-message-world-press-freedom-day




Date: 19 April 2024
Title: Launching Partnership for Clean Air in Georgia
Content: 19 April 2024
European Union, United Nations, and Austria join efforts with the Georgian Government to improve air quality in Georgia
The European Union brings together international and local partners to improve air quality and safeguard public health across Georgia. With EUR 4 million in EU funding, the four-year initiative builds on cooperation with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE), and the Environment Agency Austria (UBA).
The 2023 IQAir Index ranks Georgia 62nd out of 134 countries in terms of air pollution, with an average national pollution level considered 'unhealthy for sensitive groups.' This indicates that the annual average of fine particles in Georgia's air, PM2.5, exceeds the World Health Organization's air quality guideline by at least three times.
The ambitious goals set for completion by the end of 2027 include strengthening Georgia's air quality surveillance network and enhancing national capacities in monitoring, modelling, and predicting air quality, along with its impact on public health. Furthermore, the project will assist Georgia in establishing a national reference laboratory and implementing efficient strategies to regulate industrial emissions and mitigate pollution in alignment with Best Available Techniques and international practice.
The project will be carried out in cooperation with the National Environment Agency (NEA), the National Centre for Disease Control and Public Health (NCDC), and the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development of Georgia, fostering dialogue, sharing expertise, and implementing practical measures.
The project participants and stakeholders convened on 19 April for an inception workshop to kickstart discussions on the implementation of this vital initiative.
"By joining forces with our European and UN partners, Georgia will implement effective solutions that will lead to tangible improvements in air quality across the country," said Nino Tandilashvili, First Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia.
“The European Union supports Georgia in achieving its national environmental objectives and responding to environmental challenges, including the critical issue of air pollution. Our new initiative brings together governmental agencies and international partners to bolster Georgia’s air monitoring network and implement tools to improve air quality and protect people’s health. This will be important on Georgia’s journey to the EU,” said Nicholas Cendrowicz, Head of Cooperation at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia.
"This partnership marks a significant step towards addressing the pressing issue of air pollution in Georgia. We aim to ensure cleaner air for all and safeguard the health and well-being of Georgian citizens," noted Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia.
"Our new initiative provides Georgia with technical expertise and focused support to enhance air quality. By bringing together international partners and local stakeholders across public, private, and civic sectors, we aim to create a comprehensive system addressing environmental, economic, social, and health aspects of air quality in Georgia," said Douglas Webb, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. in Georgia.
About the ‘Air Quality for Better Citizen Health’ Project:
The EU-funded EUR 4 million project ‘Air Quality for Better Citizen’s Health’ aims to improve air quality in Georgia and safeguard people’s health. The initiative is implemented by UNDP, WHO, UNECE, and UBA, in partnership with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia, the National Centre for Disease Control and Public Health (NCDC), and the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development of Georgia. More information about the project is available on the UNDP website.
About the European Union:
For over 30 years, the European Union has built a close partnership with Georgia, supporting its development through knowledge and experience sharing, expertise, innovation, and financial support. The relationship between the EU and Georgia is based on shared values of peace, freedom, democracy, human rights, and inclusive economic growth. More information about the EU's support in Georgia can be found at the EU4Georgia website.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/266482-launching-partnership-clean-air-georgia




Date: 09 April 2024
Title: Statement of the United Nations in Georgia
Content: 09 April 2024
April 9, 2024
Recalling its statement of 26 February of 2023, the United Nations in Georgia expresses its profound concern with the re-introduction of the draft Law on Transparency of Foreign Influence in the Parliament of Georgia as it would impede the work of civil society and media and the essential contributions they make to Georgian democracy and society as a whole.
Civil society organizations in Georgia have been at the forefront of delivering essential services to the most vulnerable and helping protect their human rights. Stigmatizing their work risks leaving persons with disabilities, internally displaced, minorities, older persons, women, youth and children, survivors of domestic violence and other people in need without effective assistance and support.
The UN has been a trusted partner for over three decades, supporting the country’s development in line with Georgia’s own national priorities and assisting the people of Georgia together with all our local partners, including civil society and media.
We recall the findings of the analysis conducted by OSCE/ODIHR in consultation with the UN Special Rapporteur on the rights to freedom to peaceful assembly and of association at the request of the Public Defender of Georgia, that the draft law falls short of a number of Georgia’s international obligations.
Noting Georgia’s current membership of the UN Human Rights Council, we urge the Parliament of Georgia to withdraw this draft law and conduct broad, inclusive, and meaningful consultations with a wide range of stakeholders on relations between the state and civil society.
In addition, the United Nations in Georgia expresses regret that the Parliament opted to use an expedited procedure to abolish mandatory gender quotas in parliamentary election lists. The temporary measure of a gender quota has been a long-standing recommendation to Georgia of the UN Committee on Elimination of Discrimination against Women to compensate for women’s systemic exclusion from political decision-making. The abolition of quotas is a step back for gender equality.
We urge the Georgian authorities to take all the necessary steps to avoid actions that run counter to Georgia’s international obligations and that risk having a chilling effect on Georgian democracy.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/265569-statement-united-nations-georgia




Date: 05 April 2024
Title: WHO calls for action to uphold right to health amidst inaction, injustice and crises
Content: 05 April 2024
On the anniversary of its founding, the Organization urges countries to invest, tackle discrimination and intolerance, and expand equitable access to quality health services

To mark World Health Day (7 April), the World Health Organization (WHO) is running the “My health, my right” campaign to champion the right to health of everyone, everywhere.
The campaign advocates for ensuring universal access to quality health services, education, and information, as well as safe drinking water, clean air, good nutrition, quality housing, decent working and environmental conditions, and freedom from discrimination.
All around the world, the core challenges consistently compromising the right to health are political inaction coupled with a lack of accountability and funding, compounded by intolerance, discrimination and stigma. Populations facing marginalization or vulnerability suffer the most, such as people who live in poverty, are displaced, are older or live with disabilities.
While inaction and injustice are the major drivers of the global failure to deliver on the right to health, current crises are leading to especially egregious violations of this right. Conflicts are leaving trails of devastation, mental and physical distress, and death.
The burning of fossil fuels is simultaneously driving the climate crisis and violating our right to breathe clean air. The climate crisis is in turn causing extreme weather events that threaten health and well-being across the planet and strain access to services to meet basic needs.
Everyone deserves access to quality, timely and appropriate health services, without being subjected to discrimination or financial hardship. Yet, in 2021, 4.5 billion people, more than half of the world’s population, were not covered by essential health services, leaving them vulnerable to diseases and disasters. Even those who do access care often suffer economically for it, with about 2 billion people facing financial hardship due to health costs, a situation that has been worsening for two decades.
To expand coverage, an additional US$200–328 billion a year is needed globally to scale up primary health care in low- and middle-income countries (i.e. 3.3% of national forecast GDP). Progress has shown to be possible where there is political will. Since 2000, 42 countries, representing all regions and income levels, succeeded in improving both health service coverage and protection against catastrophic health spending.
“Realizing the right to health requires governments to pass and implement laws, invest, address discrimination and be held accountable by their populations,” said WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “WHO is working with governments, partners and communities to ensure the highest attainable standard of health, as a fundamental right for all people, everywhere.”
The right to health is enshrined within the WHO Constitution, and at least 140 countries recognize the right to health in their national constitutions. But recognition alone is not enough, which is why WHO supports countries to legislate the right to health across sectors and integrate human rights into health policies and programmes. The aim of this support is to make health services available, accessible and responsive to the needs of the populations they serve and to increase community participation in health decision-making.
On this World Health Day and beyond, WHO is calling for governments to make meaningful investments to scale up primary health care; to ensure transparency and accountability; and to meaningfully involve individuals and communities in decision-making around health. Recognizing the interdependence between the right to health and other fundamental rights, the campaign includes calls to action on finance, agriculture, environment, justice, transport, labour and social affairs.
Individuals, communities and civil society have long defended their right to health, improving access to health care services by breaking down barriers and advocating for equity. WHO urges the public to know, protect and promote their health rights, including those related to safe and quality care, zero discrimination, privacy and confidentiality, information, bodily autonomy, and decision-making.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/266796-who-calls-action-uphold-right-health-amidst-inaction-injustice-and-crises




Date: 18 March 2024
Title: Statement of the United Nations in Georgia regarding the draft law on amendments to the Tax Code of Georgia on tobacco excise tax
Content: 18 March 2024
18 March 2024
The UN in Georgia expresses its deep concern about the bill initiated in the Parliament of Georgia on March 4, 2024, with the purpose to cut excise taxes on certain tobacco products. This would unwind Georgia’s hard-won achievements in tobacco control, public health and sustainable development while continuing a troubling pattern of tobacco industry influence in policymaking. The initiative will harm the health of the population of Georgia, the country's economy, and only serves the business interests of the tobacco industry.
Despite the important steps taken in 2017-2019 in the tobacco control legislation and the tax code, tobacco use in Georgia is still very high. About a third of the population consumes tobacco and according to the UNDP/WHO/NCDC Tobacco Control Investment Case study from 2017, tobacco-related direct healthcare costs and indirect costs due to premature mortality and disability and workplace costs exceeded 800 million GEL per year, equivalent to 2.4% of Georgia's GDP, with the number of deaths surpassing 11,400. Addressing this situation necessitates long-term and steadfast implementation of comprehensive and effective tobacco control policies.
Tobacco control is not a trade-off between health and economic prosperity. On the contrary, health and well-being combined is a pillar of economic growth. Consequently, the proposed changes would not only harm health but also weaken the economy.  Research carried out by the UN together with the Georgian government found that raising cigarette taxes could prevent GEL 2.2 billion in economic losses and healthcare costs over 15 years, and that for every 1 GEL invested in implementing an increased tobacco tax, the country economy would gain 221 GEL in return, without even factoring in even greater gains from increased income tax and cigarette tax revenue. There are few – if any – other policies available with such a spectacular return on investment, and a reversal of this policy would be a bad investment decision for Georgia.
The proposed amendments contradict the policy of Georgia to reduce tobacco use: they will create a significant difference between the prices of different tobacco products, which will stimulate the return of cheap tobacco to the market, with increased consumption as a result.
Proposed changes would distance Georgia from international obligations, such as the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control to which Georgia is a Party, and international best practices, while undermining the nation’s aspirations for EU accession.
In Georgia, by 2019, with the longstanding efforts of the Parliament of Georgia, the Government and non-governmental and international organizations, significant tax increases and equalization resulted in a reduced market share of cheaper tobacco, an overall decline in the rate of tobacco use, and increased revenues for the country's budget. Since 2019, however, tobacco taxes have not increased,leading to more affordable harmful tobacco products. Import tax on tobacco raw materials is suspended until 2026. Also, taxes on tobacco in Georgia are significantly lower than in the European Union.
The purported rationale for reducing the excise tax rate – ‘development of the branch and reducing illicit trade’ – do not survive scrutiny against evidence-based consensus nor the experiences of other countries, including Georgia itself.
This amendment would be a second significant step backwards in tobacco control in Georgia, after the regrettable changes made last year in the tobacco control legislation regarding the postponement of plain packaging implementation and the total exclusion of heated tobacco products from that regulatory mechanism.
We call on the Parliament of Georgia to reject the initiated change in the Tax Code and instead of reducing taxes, to increase them on all tobacco products equally. Georgia’s existing state policy, as well as relevant international acts, enable Georgia to reduce access to these fatal products, protect the health of the population and contribute to sustainable development of the country.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/263572-statement-united-nations-georgia-regarding-draft-law-amendments-tax-code-georgia-tobacco




Date: 08 March 2024
Title: Invest in women. Accelerate progress.
Content: 08 March 2024
Joint Statement on the International Women’s Day 2024
This joint statement is issued by the United Nations system in Georgia, the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe,  the Embassies to Georgia of Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, France, Finland, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
On the International Women’s Day, we celebrate the accomplishments and contributions of women around the world, including in Georgia. We reaffirm our commitment to achieving gender equality and empowerment of all women and girls.
At a time when the world is facing many crises, achieving gender equality is more vital than ever.  Despite progress over the last decades, full equality is clearly off track. Globally, at the current pace of progress, achieving full legal equality may take up to 300 years.[1]
In Georgia, women spend five times more time on unpaid domestic and care work than men.[2] This prevents women from pursuing their own professional success and from participating in political and public life.  Women's economic activity rate (41.5%) lags significantly behind men's (64%).[3] Nearly half of women aged 25-34 are not working. Thousands of women have migrated to support their families through remittances. Violence against women and girls remains one of the most pervasive human rights violations. Women's voices are often excluded from political participation and decision-making. Despite the implementation of mandatory electoral gender quotas, women in Georgia hold only one-fifth of parliamentary seats and one-fourth of local council seats. Fifty-four percent of women candidates in Georgia have experienced physical, psychological, economic, or sexual violence and harassment during their election campaigns or political careers.[4]
To build stronger, fairer societies, we must ensure that the rights of women are safeguarded and promoted, that women have an equal seat at the table and an equal voice and agency in economic, political and social life. Public and private investments are needed to drive women’s inclusion across all sectors of the economy and to actively address all forms of discrimination and violence against women and girls. Ensuring decent work for all women, including by closing gender employment gaps, ensuring fair wages, and formalizing women's informal work could significantly boost Georgia’s economy and lift women and their families from poverty. More support is needed for forcibly displaced women who have shown great resilience and taken on leadership roles in seeking solutions for their communities.
We hope to see strong, meaningful commitment by all political parties to gender equality and women’s political and economic empowerment.  We especially emphasize the urgent need to take concrete steps to eliminate violence against women in politics and strengthen efforts in combatting sexist hate speech against women politicians and women election officials. We must also support women’s rights organizations fighting against stereotypes and battling to make women’s and girls’ voices heard.
On this International Women’s Day, let us all join forces in building inclusive communities and societies with the full participation of women and girls of all backgrounds.
-----------
[1] Progress on the Sustainable Development Goals: The gender snapshot 2022. UN Women: https://rb.gy/9ku4b3
[2]  Time Use Survey, 2020-21, UN Women: https://rb.gy/oxenup
[3] Women’s Economic Inactivity in Georgia, UN Women:  https://t.ly/1_jEI
[4] Violence Against Women in Politics in Georgia, UN Women: https://rb.gy/me1h23
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/262605-invest-women-accelerate-progress




Date: 07 March 2024
Title: Meeting on the economic rehabilitation of victims of violence held on the International Women’s Day.
Content: 07 March 2024
Meeting supported by UN Women and the French Embassy on the economic rehabilitation of victims of violence held on the International Women’s Day.
At the initiative of UN Women, the French Embassy in Georgia and business associations, the representatives of Anti-Violence Network of Georgia and the private sector held a meeting attended by the members of Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) signatory business organizations, the business federation Women for Tomorrow, the European Business Association and Chamber of Commerce and Industry France - Georgia (CCIFG).
The French Ambassador to Georgia, Sheraz Ghasri, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Sabine Machl, and the UN Women Country Representative in Georgia, Kaori Ishikawa opened the meeting. During the next part of the event, the participants discussed the importance of involvement of business organizations in the process of social and economic rehabilitation of the victims/survivors of violence.
During the event, the participants discussed the current situation regarding the gender-based violence and victim support services in the country, the private sector representatives also shared successful initiatives implemented in their companies supporting social and economic capacities of the survivors of violence.
It was highlighted at the event that an effective fight against gender-based violence requires the engagement of various sectors, including the government, non-governmental or donor organizations and businesses. It is the unified approach of this kind that leads to large-scale changes in social norms and behavior, and the private sector can play the role of utmost significance in this process, inter alia, by raising awareness and changing the stereotypical approaches, mobilizing resources, etc.
‘The UN will continue to promote greater gender equality, gender responsiveness and non-discrimination. The road to healing for survivors of violence requires not only justice, but also a path back to social and economic stability. The private sector can help with providing employment opportunities, skills training, and a supportive workplace’ noted UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Sabine Machl
‘Investing in women and girls benefits the whole society. That's why French President Macron has made women's rights a priority of our national policy and our diplomacy. In Georgia we have partnered with UNWOMEN and civil society organisations to protect victims of violence. With TBC Bank, we facilitate women entrepreneurs access to financing. Business has an enormous transformative power, to fight discriminations, end prejudices, advance equality. We are looking forward to working with every company and everyone in Georgia to advance the global cause of gender equality #FeministDiplomacy’ said Sheraz Ghasri, The French Ambassador to Georgia.
The meeting was dedicated to the celebration of International Women’s Day on March 8th. It is noteworthy that this year the key message of the International Women's Day “Invest in Women: Accelerate Progress” highlights the importance of investing in women's potential and capacities, and calls upon everyone to join their efforts for achieving gender equality, building democratic communities and fair economies.
The meeting was held within the framework of the UN Women’s project Strengthening Specialized Services for the Victims of Gender-Based Violence, generously funded by the French Ambassy.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/262541-meeting-economic-rehabilitation-victims-violence-held-international-women%E2%80%99s-day




Date: 27 January 2024
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  MESSAGE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL DAY OF COMMEMORATION IN MEMORY OF THE VICTIMS OF THE HOLOCAUST
Content: 27 January 2024
27 January 2024
Today, we pause to mourn the six million Jewish children, women, and men systematically murdered by the Nazis and their collaborators – and we grieve the Roma and Sinti, the people with disabilities, and so many others who were persecuted and killed in the Holocaust.
We honour their memory.
We stand with the survivors, their families and descendants.
We pledge never to forget – nor let others forget the truth of what happened.
And we recognize the horrific resonance this day of commemoration finds in our own times.
The antisemitic hate that fueled the Holocaust did not start with the Nazis, nor did it end with their defeat.
Today, we are witnessing hate spreading at alarming speed.
Online, it has moved from the margins to the mainstream.
But today of all days, we must remember:
That demonization of the other and disdain for diversity is a danger to everyone.
That no society is immune to intolerance – and worse.
And that bigotry against one group is bigotry against all.
As the former Chief Rabbi of the United Kingdom, Jonathan Sacks, so memorably said: “The hate that begins with Jews never ends with Jews”.
And so today – especially in the wake of the abhorrent 7 October terror attacks by Hamas -- we must resolve to stand up against the forces of hate and division.
We must condemn – unequivocally – whenever and wherever we encounter antisemitism – just as we must condemn all forms of racism, prejudice and religious bigotry, including anti-Muslim hatred and violence against minority Christian communities.
Let us never be silent in the face of discrimination, and never tolerant of intolerance.
Let us speak out for human rights and the dignity of all.
Let us never lose sight of each other’s humanity, and never let down our guard.
To all who confront prejudice and persecution, let us clearly say: you are not alone.
The United Nations stands with you.

***
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/259049-secretary-general-message-international-day-commemoration-memory-victims-holocaust




Date: 24 January 2024
Title: On International Day of Education, UNICEF calls for increased focus on equal access to quality education in Georgia
Content: 24 January 2024
UNICEF calls on its partners in the Government to prioritize equal access to quality education and to ensure that every child, including those from ethnic minorities and from remote areas has access to quality and safe formal and non-formal education, as well as extracurricular and social cohesion activities, innovative educational resources and uninterrupted support from educators and school community.
UNICEF calls on its partners in the Government to prioritize equal access to quality education and to ensure that every child, including those from ethnic minorities and from remote areas has access to quality and safe formal and non-formal education, as well as extracurricular and social cohesion activities, innovative educational resources and uninterrupted support from educators and school community.
The results of the 2022 PISA assessment of 81 countries show an overall decline in the performance of students. Very few countries managed to maintain or raise levels of students’ performance. The results of students in Georgia remained at a similar level to the 2018 PISA results, and well below the OECD average. Georgian students are placed 59th in math, 66th in reading and 65th in sciences.
Results of 2022 PISA underscore inequalities in the education system – students living in cities outperform those living in villages; socio-economically advantaged students have better academic outcomes than their disadvantaged peers; students with Georgian language instruction outperform their peers learning in Azerbaijani language; and children studying in private schools have better results than public school students.
COVID-19 contributed to inequalities in accessing quality education in recent years. More than half of students in Georgia reported that their school building was closed for more than three months due to COVID-19. During distance learning, 32% of students had problems at least once a week with understanding school assignments and 30% of students struggled with finding someone who could help them with schoolwork.  As a result, 44% of students reported they fell behind during distance learning.
PISA uses the life-long learning principle and measures the knowledge and skills obtained by 15 years old students in three mentioned subjects necessary to participate in everyday life, including the reproduction and usage of knowledge as well as skills in problem-solving, understanding and analyses of information, logical and scientifical interpretations, evidence-based conclusions and effective communication in different real-life situations, in and outside the schools. To bridge the gaps demonstrated by the PISA results, it is important to ensure that every child has opportunities to develop transferable skills allowing them to become adaptive learners and citizens equipped to navigate personal, social, academic, economic and environmental challenges. Skills such as problem-solving, negotiation, empathy, communication, participation, play, peacebuilding, environmental awareness, emotional and mental wellbeing should be put at the center of the formal and non-formal teaching and learning practices.
UNICEF calls on the Government to put more focus on low performing schools and most disadvantaged children to eliminate inequalities in education and to make sure that teachers and school leaders are provided with continuous high quality and impactful pre- and in-service professional development and education programmes, including in the languages of ethnic minorities, leading to child-centered and innovative teaching and learning environment.
UNICEF remains committed to working alongside the Government, educators, and communities to create an inclusive and empowering educational environment for every child in the country.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/258689-international-day-education-unicef-calls-increased-focus-equal-access-quality-education




Date: 19 January 2024
Title: EU and UNDP Enhance Health Services for Conflict-Affected Communities
Content: 19 January 2024
Renovated outpatient clinics serve 5,500 people in Samegrelo Region
ZUGDIDI. 19 January 2024 – In a joint effort to improve access to essential health services, the European Union (EU) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have successfully renovated outpatient clinics in Orsantia and Rike villages, benefitting over 5,500 people in the Samegrelo region of Georgia. This initiative is part of the broader EU4Dialogue programme aimed at supporting communities affected by conflict.
The refurbishment project encompassed the installation of plumbing, electrical, and heating systems, along with enhancements to interior design. Crucially, the renovations prioritized increased accessibility for people with disabilities, ensuring inclusivity in both physical infrastructure and services.
On 18 January, high-level guests, including Douglas Webb, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. in Georgia; Agata Nieboj, Human Rights, Justice, and Home Affairs Team Leader at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, and Zviad Zviadadze, Head of Department at Georgia’s State Minister’s Office for Reconciliation and Civic Equality; visited the Samegrelo Region. The delegation, accompanied by Maizer Nanava, Deputy Mayor of Zugdidi, met with local communities and people displaced by conflict, assessing the ongoing healthcare initiatives and other support projects.
“The European Union is committed to enhancing access to essential services for disadvantaged communities, including people displaced or affected by conflict and people with disabilities. We believe that greater social protection fosters resilience, promotes equality, and contributes to peaceful and sustainable development,” said Agata Nieboj, Human Rights, Justice, and Home Affairs Team Leader at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia.
Douglas Webb, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. in Georgia, highlighted the positive impact of healthcare projects on conflict-affected communities, benefiting up to 12,000 people, including 1,900 children, in Samegrelo and Shida Kartli regions. "Communities alongside administrative boundary lines need support to fully exercise their rights to basic social services, including healthcare. UNDP is proud to work with the European Union and local partners in this initiative that improves lives and livelihoods."
The successful renovation of outpatient clinics in Orsantia and Rike villages follows a similar initiative in Mejvriskhevi village (Shida Kartli region), where a newly refurbished medical facility serves around 6,000 people. The EU and UNDP's joint support extends to various villages across Georgia, enhancing access to healthcare and basic services for people living alongside administrative boundary lines.
###
EU4Dialogue: Support to Conflict Transformation in the South Caucasus and the Republic of Moldova is a collaborative initiative between the European Union and UNDP within the EU4Dialogue programme. The project partners with local civil society organizations and grassroots groups to enhance socio-economic conditions, promote livelihoods, advance gender equality, encourage youth involvement, and facilitate the peaceful transformation of conflicts.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/258170-eu-and-undp-enhance-health-services-conflict-affected-communities




Date: 18 January 2024
Title: UNICEF and the Republic of Korea join forces to strengthen Georgia's public health system
Content: 18 January 2024
The partnership aims at strengthening critical elements of the public health system, with a specific focus on Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) and immunization in Georgia. This collaboration will enhance emergency response capacities, addressing weaknesses exposed during the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond.
The first ever partnership between UNICEF Georgia and the Government of the Republic of Korea was launched today by Charge D’Affairs of the Republic of Korea, Mr Kim Tong Op, First Deputy Minister of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health, and Social Affairs of Georgia, MsTamar Gabunia, Chair of the Parliamentary Committee on Health and Social Issues, Mr. Zaza Lominadze and Representative of UNICEF in Georgia, Mr Jesper Moller. The initiative will be implemented in close collaboration with the Government of Georgia.
The partnership aims at strengthening critical elements of the public health system, with a specific focus on Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) and immunization in Georgia. This collaboration will enhance emergency response capacities, addressing weaknesses exposed during the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond.
“We are delighted to launch a new partnership with the Government of the Republic of Korea to support the Government of Georgia in strengthening essential health services”, said Jesper Moller, Representative of UNICEF in Georgia. “We extend a deep gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Korea for this important contribution and support. This collaboration marks a significant step towards a resilient and responsive public health system in Georgia, as it addresses current challenges and supports in building more sustainable health systems. We look forward to our collaboration and partnership for the health of every child of Georgia.”
The intervention focuses on three key areas:

UNICEF/Geo-2024/Sukhitashvili
In particular, within the new partnership, an accredited interpersonal communication course will be developed and delivered to 2000 health personnel of maternity houses and large policlinics across the country. The sessions will be led by local experts, offering interactive and evidence-based training sessions, to help health practitioners to identify and address their own biases and misconceptions and to equip them with the essential knowledge and skills on positive interpersonal communication around vaccination.
The project will develop and pilot the electronic monitoring system on WASH for primary health care facilities providing possibility of obtaining real-time data. The project will also focus on increasing capacities of the respective staff from the clinics across the country on data collection and assessment.
The initiative will also address infection prevention and control at all rural primary health care settings through training of healthcare facility staff who have a role in the development, management or oversight of environmental cleaning services for the healthcare facility.
COVID-19 vaccination hesitancy has greatly affected the uptake of routine vaccinations. Despite concerted efforts, challenges persist, with the anti-vaxxer movement actively opposing vaccination promotion work. Additional impeding factor for vaccine uptake is low compliance among the health personnel. Health providers have always been an important and trusted source of information for parents and caregivers. The way they interact with families and the quality of their communication and engagement may have a positive or negative influence on patients’ decision to immunize.
The COVID-19 pandemic has also highlighted the importance of safe WASH services in health facilities to enable life-saving infection prevention and control practices, curb the spread of antimicrobial resistance, and help in delivering quality primary health care services to all.  Absence of real-time data on WASH and waste management services hampers quality of primary health care service and increases the risk of infection, which can be deadly for children and mothers.

About the project:
The Government of Korea contributed USD 20 million toward UNICEF’s Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator (ACT-A) work. This grant is carried out by 22 country offices across all 7 UNICEF regions between mid-2023 and mid-2024. The UNICEF/ROK ACT-A partnership will support three broad interventions. The country-specific interventions were determined based on the needs on the ground.  These include: (1) Support COVID-19-related recovery and restore essential health services, including immunization, to prevent backsliding of SDG 3 on ending preventable deaths; (2) Strengthening primary healthcare, with focus on community health systems; (3) Strengthening primary health care infrastructures (WASH, oxygen systems).
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/258132-unicef-and-republic-korea-join-forces-strengthen-georgias-public-health-system




Date: 30 December 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General New Year's Day Message for 2024
Content: 30 December 2023
United Nations Secretary-General, António Guterres, says 2024 must be a year for rebuilding trust and restoring hope.
2023 has been a year of enormous suffering, violence, and climate chaos.
Humanity is in pain.
Our planet is in peril.
2023 is the hottest year on record.
People are getting crushed by growing poverty and hunger.
Wars are growing in number and ferocity.
And trust is in short supply.
But pointing fingers and pointing guns lead nowhere.
Humanity is strongest when we stand together.
2024 must be a year for rebuilding trust and restoring hope.
We must come together across divides for shared solutions.
For climate action.
For economic opportunity and a fairer global financial system that delivers for all.
Together, we must stand up against the discrimination and hatred that are poisoning relations between countries and communities.
And we must make sure new technologies such as artificial intelligence are a force for good.
The United Nations will keep rallying the world for peace, sustainable development and human rights.
Let’s resolve to make 2024 a year of building trust and hope in all that we can accomplish together.
I wish you a happy and peaceful New Year.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/256947-un-secretary-general-new-years-day-message-2024




Date: 22 December 2023
Title: Urgent action needed to protect children and prevent the uptake of e-cigarettes
Content: 22 December 2023
14 December 2023
Urgent action is needed to control e-cigarettes to protect children, as well as non-smokers and minimize health harms to the population. E-cigarettes as consumer products are not shown to be effective for quitting tobacco use at the population level. Instead, alarming evidence has emerged on adverse population health effects.
E-cigarettes have been allowed on the open market and aggressively marketed to young people. Thirty-four countries ban the sale of e-cigarettes, 88 countries have no minimum age at which e-cigarettes can be bought and 74 countries have no regulations in place for these harmful products.
“Kids are being recruited and trapped at an early age to use e-cigarettes and may get hooked to nicotine," said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General. "I urge countries to implement strict measures to prevent uptake to protect their citizens, especially their children and young people.”
E-cigarettes with nicotine are highly addictive and are harmful to health. Whilst long-term health effects are not fully understood, it has been established that they generate toxic substances, some of which are known to cause cancer and some that increase the risk of heart and lung disorders. Use of e-cigarettes can also affect brain development and lead to learning disorders for young people. Fetal exposure to e-cigarettes can adversely affect the development of the fetus in pregnant women. Exposure to emissions from e-cigarettes also poses risks to bystanders.
“E-cigarettes target children through social media and influencers, with at least 16 000 flavours. Some of these products use cartoon characters and have sleek designs, which appeal to the younger generation. There is an alarming increase in the use of e-cigarettes among children and young people with rates exceeding adult use in many countries,” Dr Ruediger Krech, WHO Director for Health Promotion.
More children 13–15-years old are using e-cigarettes than adults in all WHO regions. In Canada, e-cigarette use among 16–19-year-olds has doubled between 2017-2022, and in England (the United Kingdom) the number among youth has tripled in the past three years.
Even brief exposure to e-cigarette content on social media can be associated with increased intention to use these products, as well as more positive attitudes toward e-cigarettes. Studies consistently show that young people that use e-cigarettes are almost three times more likely to use cigarettes later in life.
Urgent measures are necessary to prevent uptake of e-cigarettes and counter nicotine addiction alongside a comprehensive approach to tobacco control, and in light of national circumstances.
Cessation strategies should be based on the best available evidence of efficacy, to go with other tobacco control measures and subject to monitoring and evaluation. Based on the current evidence, it is not recommended that governments permit sale of e-cigarettes as consumer products in pursuit of a cessation objective.
Any government pursuing a smoking cessation strategy using e-cigarettes should control the conditions under which the products are accessed to ensure appropriate clinical conditions and regulate the products as medicines (including requiring marketing authorization as medicines). The decision to pursue a smoking cessation objective, even in such a controlled form, should be made only after considering national circumstances, along with the risk of uptake and after exhausting other proven cessation strategies.
The tobacco industry profits from destroying health and is using these newer products to get a seat at the policy-making table with governments to lobby against health policies. The tobacco industry funds and promotes false evidence to argue that these products reduce harm, while at the same time heavily promoting these products to children and non-smokers and continuing to sell billions of cigarettes.
Strong decisive action is needed to prevent the uptake of e-cigarettes based on the growing body of evidence of its use by children and adolescents and health harms.


Media contacts:
Jaimie Guerra
Communications Officer
M. +41794755536

Relevant links:
Restricting digital marketing in the context of tobacco, alcohol, food and beverages, and breast-milk substitutes: existing approaches and policy options (who.int)

FCTC DOCUMENTS:
Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems and Electronic Non-Nicotine Delivery Systems https://fctc.who.int/publications/m/item/fctc-cop-7-11-electronic-nicotine-delivery-systems-and-electronic-non-nicotine-delivery-systems-(ends-ennds)
Progress report on technical matters related to Articles 9 and 10 of the WHO FCTC (Regulation of contents and disclosure of tobacco products, including waterpipe, smokeless tobacco and heated tobacco products) (storage.googleapis.com)


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/256554-urgent-action-needed-protect-children-and-prevent-uptake-e-cigarettes




Date: 08 December 2023
Title: UN holds consultation on disability rights
Content: 08 December 2023
Georgia UN Disability Inclusion Group and organizations of persons with disabilities come together to discuss progress and challenges.
As celebrations from the International Day of Persons with Disabilities continue, the Georgia UN Disability Inclusion Group (GUNDIG) invited the organizations of persons with disabilities (OPDs) in Georgia to highlight accomplishments and discuss challenges that hamper progress towards an inclusive and equal society.
The meeting created a discussion space for UN agencies and organizations of persons with disabilities to exchange ideas and plans for supporting the sustainability of the achieved results.
UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl opened a discussion and commended progress towards an inclusive and rights-based environment for persons with disabilities (PwDs).
“We salute progress made so far towards creating a more inclusive, equitable, and empowering environment for persons with disabilities,” said UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl. “We look forward to continuing our work in close partnership with people with disabilities to support building an inclusive society. We need to achieve real impact in the implementation of the rights of persons with disabilities and to foster development that creates more opportunities for all.”
The consultation included an overview of priority areas and identifying the specific steps to be taken for advancing the disability agenda in Georgia.
The event featured presentations by Nutsi Odisharia, UNFPA, Ketevan Melkadze, UNICEF, Sophio Benashvili, OHCHR,  and Eliso Chabrava, UNDP bringing attention to crucial areas, including  biopsychosocial model, access to quality health and social services, with  emphasis on the sexual and reproductive health and gender based violence, data management, economic empowerment and full participation and inclusion in society, capacity building of women and young persons with disabilities and organizations of persons with disabilities in all decision-making and development processes.
Representatives from various disability organisations and UN agencies stressed the need for greater effort and commitment to promoting disability rights and inclusivity and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) in Georgia. This resonates with the UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres  message for the International Day of Persons with Disabilities (IDPD) that calls on “the world to work side-by-side with persons with disabilities to design and deliver solutions based on equal rights in every country and community”.
The event served as a catalyst for renewed efforts and partnerships, aiming to achieve the ambitious goals of "United in Action to Rescue and Achieve the SDGs for, with and by Persons with Disabilities," the theme of this year's IDPD.
The United Nations in Georgia has been helping to protect the rights of persons with disabilities in Georgia for over three decades. This work has included strengthening the legislative framework and creating an evidence-based policy environment, in alignment with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) and the Sustainable Development Goals.  The UN has helped to improve systems for quality integrated health and social services and to enhance capacities for data collection, monitoring, and advocacy. The UN excelled in transformation of the disability assessment system, focused on the best interests of persons living with disabilities. At present two joint programmes are being implemented with the support of the United Nations Partnership on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNPRPD) to strengthen disability inclusive development policy in Georgia.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/255215-un-holds-consultation-disability-rights




Date: 05 December 2023
Title: Gender aspects of investing discussed at annual WEPs conference
Content: 05 December 2023
Gender equality in companies, gender-balanced investments and financing women’s businesses was also in the focus of the conference.
Gender inequality remains a challenge for the business and investment community. At the same time, in recent years, more and more data have confirmed that the pursuit of equality helps businesses not only to attract more investment and increase revenue but also to make a significant contribution to public welfare.
It was these topics that were discussed at the annual conference on the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs), which was held for the sixth time on the initiative of UN Women and with the support of the Norwegian Government. This year, the co-organizer of the event was the Investors Council, which provides dialogue between the business community, international financial institutions, donors and the Government of Georgia in order to promote the business and investment climate. The event was attended by representatives of international organizations, the private sector and business associations.
Bergljot Hovland, Ambassador of Norway to Georgia, addressed the participants of the conference in a welcoming speech: “Innovation and entrepreneurship contribute to women’s empowerment by supporting their involvement in public life and their workforce participation, which leads to the strengthening of democracy and economic well-being. In business terms, investing in gender equality is beneficial both in the short and long term.”
During the conference, the participants discussed ways to measure gender equality in companies and the importance of gender-balanced investment teams, as well as the practice of financing women’s businesses. They also discussed the reasons why the companies that are signatories to the WEPs seem attractive to investors.
“The interest of the private sector in the directions of women’s economic empowerment and gender equality has increased,” said Ana Iluridze, gender expert at the Investors Council. “Business has realized that these issues are not only important in terms of social responsibility but also beneficial in terms of income growth and organizational development.”
The number of companies that have signed on to the WEPs in Georgia is already up to 200, which is quite an important result considering the existing scale of the private sector. The WEPs provide companies with a global blueprint on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. UN Women Georgia has been working on the implementation of the WEPs since 2014, and it carries out this activity with the support of the Norwegian Government.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/262351-gender-aspects-investing-discussed-annual-weps-conference




Date: 03 December 2023
Title: Secretary-General  Message on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities
Content: 03 December 2023
3 December 2023
This year’s International Day of Persons with Disabilities reminds us that achieving the Sustainable Development Goals requires living up to the promise to leave no one behind, especially the 1.3 billion persons with disabilities worldwide.
Today, at the halfway point to the 2030 Agenda, persons with disabilities continue facing systemic discrimination and barriers that restrict their meaningful inclusion in all areas of society.
Truly sustainable development for persons with disabilities requires a laser-like focus on their needs and rights — not only as beneficiaries, but as active contributors across social, economic and political life.
This means ensuring that persons with disabilities are at every decision-making table, in line with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and across countries’ efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals — from poverty eradication, to health, education and climate action.
The United Nations is leading by example through our Disability Inclusion Strategy, and by supporting Member States as they drive progress for, and with, persons with disabilities.
On this important day, I call on the world to work side-by-side with persons with disabilities to design and deliver solutions based on equal rights in every country and community.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/254705-secretary-general-message-international-day-persons-disabilities




Date: 02 December 2023
Title: Strengthening the Rule of Law and Access to Justice Across the Region
Content: 02 December 2023
UNDP and Germany Gather Rule of Law Professionals from Armenia, Georgia, Moldova, and Ukraine to Exchange Insights, Share Best Practices, and Set New Regional Standards on Access to Justice
Representatives of National Human Rights Institutions and state legal aid providers from Armenia, Georgia, Moldova, and Ukraine convened in Tbilisi, Georgia, on 1-2 December for the Tbilisi Regional Conference on Improving the Rule of Law and Access to Justice for All. UNDP and Germany worked in partnership with the national governments and civil societies to organize this important regional forum.
Douglas Webb, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. to Georgia, and Lidija Christmann, Head of Development Cooperation in South Caucasus at the Embassy of Germany to Georgia, inaugurated the conference with welcome remarks underscoring the fundamental role of the rule of law institutions in building a strong democracy.
"UNDP is working with governments, civil societies, and international partners to bolster transparent and independent rule of law institutions throughout the region. Our commitment extends to advancing equitable access to justice, with a particular focus on addressing the needs of disadvantaged communities."
Douglas Webb, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. to Georgia
"The Tbilisi Regional Conference brings together decision-makers and rule of law practitioners from four countries, marking a significant step towards strengthening the rule of law networks across the region and building a crucial foundation for the development of robust democratic institutions."
Lidija Christmann, the Head of Development Cooperation in South Caucasus at the Embassy of Germany to Georgia
Nino Kadagidze, President of the Supreme Court of Georgia and the Head of the High Council of Justice of Georgia, and Levan Ioseliani, Public Defender of Georgia, emphasized that the conference fosters regional partnerships and promotes cooperation in the crucial domains of the rule of law and access to justice.
Katy Thompson, Head of Rule of Law, Security, and Human Rights at the UNDP’s Crisis Bureau, and Agata Nieboj, Human Rights, Justice, and Home Affairs Team Leader at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, delivered keynote speeches shedding light on accomplishments in upholding justice and the rule of law. They also addressed the challenges faced by the participant countries in establishing transparent and independent institutions, stressing the need to undertake further measures, especially considering Ukraine, Moldova, and Georgia's EU aspirations.
The conference critically examined the rule of law trends in the four countries. Government officials and civil society representatives discussed lessons learned and best practices in strengthening institutions, ensuring access to justice for all, and supporting the resilience of the most disadvantaged communities.
The conference highlight was the adoption of the Tbilisi Declaration on Access to State-Guaranteed Legal Aid for Forcibly Displaced Populations. This document sets regional standards to promote people-centred approaches to access to justice, enhancing knowledge-building and coordination among state legal aid providers across Armenia, Georgia, Moldova, and Ukraine.
On the sidelines of the conference, participants visited the conflict-affected Khurvaleti community near the administrative boundary line with the Tskhinvali region/South Ossetia and the Ukrainian House in Tbilisi.
These visits aimed to demonstrate the effectiveness of Georgia’s state-funded Legal Aid Service in offering free legal assistance to vulnerable and remote communities nationwide. They also provided firsthand insights into the practical assistance extended to Ukrainian nationals who sought support in Georgia during the war. Both UNDP and Germany play an active role in supporting these initiatives through funding, technical assistance, and strategic backing.
With US$1.62 million in funding from Germany, UNDP assists Georgia in boosting the capacities of rule of law institutions and enhancing legal empowerment and socio-economic resilience of disadvantaged communities. Find out more information about this initiative on the UNDP website.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/254543-strengthening-rule-law-and-access-justice-across-region




Date: 01 December 2023
Title: UNFPA High-level Meeting on Accelerating National Commitments to Eliminate Harmful Practice of Child Marriage
Content: 01 December 2023
The event aimed to support a dialogue between government agencies and civil society representatives on current efforts and gaps to be addressed in order to jointly take steps to eliminate child marriage.
A high-level meeting on the importance of Accelerating National Commitments to Eliminate Harmful Practice of Child Marriage was held on December 1, at the initiative of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).
The event was opened by Dr. Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, and Mr. Erik Illes, Head of Development Cooperation and Deputy Head of Mission of the Kingdom of Sweden to Georgia.
The discussion on the importance of joining efforts to promote the coordination of state institutions in order to eliminate the harmful practice of child marriage was facilitated by Mariam Khan, UNFPA Representative in Türkiye, Country Director for Azerbaijan and Georgia.
The participants of the discussion included: Ms Baia Kvitsiani, Member of the Standing Parliamentary Council for Gender Equality, Ms Tamar Makharashvili, Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Georgia, Ms Rusudan Kokhodze, Director of the Agency for the State Care and Assistance for the (Statutory) Victims of Human Trafficking, Mr Giorgi Osadze, Director of Human Rights Protection and Investigation Quality Monitoring Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia,  Ms Londa Bichikashvili, Head of the Department of Prosecutorial Activities Supervision and Strategic Development of the Prosecutor’s Office of Georgia,  Mr Niko Tatulashvili, Advisor of the Prime Minister on the Human Rights issues, and  Ms Tozu Gulmamedova, Lawyer, women’s rights activist.
The event aimed to support a dialogue between government agencies and civil society representatives on current efforts and gaps to be addressed in order to jointly take steps to eliminate child marriage.
The prevalence rate of child marriage in Georgia remains at 13.9 percent[1]. The recent tragic cases involving adolescent girls in Georgia demonstrated significant gaps that need to be urgently addressed. The participants of the meeting emphasized the importance of raising awareness of adolescents of the support services they should turn to when needed. In addition, they highlighted the need for strengthening the coordination mechanism among state institutions to ensure a holistic approach to the problem, so that adolescent girls are protected as much as possible from the harmful practice of early marriage. The focus of the discussion was on empowering adolescents and creating opportunities for their development - as an important strategy for elimination of this harmful practice.
The meeting focused on the issue of further tightening the legislation in order to criminalize any manifestation of child marriage, such as the practice of betrothal adolescent girls’ families often practice.
The meeting was held within the framework of the Joint UN Programme for Gender Equality, which is funded by the Government of Sweden, and was dedicated to the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence.

[1] The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Georgia Country Office, In-Depth Analysis of the Georgia 2018 Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS 2018): Child Marriage in Georgia, 2018. Available at: https://georgia.unfpa.org/en/publications/child-marriage-georgia
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/254497-unfpa-high-level-meeting-accelerating-national-commitments-eliminate-harmful-practice-child




Date: 30 November 2023
Title: EU-supported Online Vineyard Pruning Video Tutorial for Viticulturalists Now Available in Georgian
Content: 30 November 2023
In November 2023, video tutorials on respect pruning in vineyards became available online for Georgia’s viticulturalists.
Through the support of the European Union, the educational videos have been translated due to an initiative from FAO. Led by a Spanish expert, Julio Prieto Diaz, the educational program teaches modern agricultural techniques that increase the yield and quality of vine grapes and wine. Through the support of the European Union (EU), FAO is working with Georgian viticulturalists and wine producers with a focus on improving the production and competitiveness of their industry in and outside of the Georgian market.
Georgian viticulturalists interested in accessing the online video course should contact FAO in Georgia by sending a message to the Organization’s Facebook page.
With nearly ten hours of video content, viticulturalists in Georgia can now learn from an experienced international expert. Mr. Prieto Diaz narrates the video tutorials and elaborates on the advanced various pruning techniques through actual examples in the field.
The educational video series is divided into five modules:
1)      Respect pruning in vineyards
2)      Goblet pruning
3)      Cordon royat pruning
4)      Vertical axis pruning
5)      Guyot pruning
Pruning is essential in ensuring a vineyard is healthy, resilient, and productive. When implemented correctly, it makes the plants more robust to varying climatic conditions and diseases; as a result of consistent pruning, vineyard productivity and quality of harvest increases.
Through the support of the EU, FAO has hosted Mr. Prieto Diaz in Georgia several times. He has trained more than 220 representatives of Georgian wine companies on pruning and internationally acknowledged methodologies for wine production. Mr. Prieto Diaz is also working on EU-supported FAO's Mating Disruption Programme, which helps 15 wine-producing companies advance their Integrated Pest Management practices with a focus on the control of the European grapevine moth – Lobesia botrana, responsible for the loss of up to a 40% of the harvest every year in Georgia.
„Through the continued, impactful partnership with the EU, FAO has been providing support to Georgia’s viticulture industry from sapling to market. Georgia has an impressively old and rich tradition of winemaking, and we are building on it to train the next generation of viticulturists who will place Georgian wines at the top of winemaking worldwide. And to reach this, the respect and care for the vines, the reduced use of pesticides and the use of endemic varieties will be key. We partner with Julio Prieto, a top Spanish expert in respect viticulture, to teach proper pruning techniques and explain that you can hardly produce good wine, if you don’t take care properly of your vine plants. In short, bad pruning is very expensive. Julio’s online educational programme is an opportunity for all motivated viticulturists in the country that will drive Georgia, the cradle of wine, to the top level,” says the FAO Programme Coordinator, Javier Sanz Alvarez.
“Sharing knowledge is an important step toward improving the production efforts of Georgian viticulturalists and winemakers. The ten-hour video series can become a great tool for professionals who want to ensure that the country’s wine industry is resilient toward climate change, diseases, and pests while also improving the quality of the final product. Under the EU4Business initiative, the EU, in partnership with FAO, has supported the private sector in improving its access to international knowledge. The video series made available to Georgian audiences is a great example of the continued support that the EU and FAO have provided the country’s viticulturalists and winemakers with,” says Catalin Gherman, Deputy Head of Cooperation at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia.
---
The online video tutorials on respect pruning have been made available in the Georgian language through the technical assistance of FAO and funded by the EU under the EU4Business initiative - EU Innovative Action for Private Sector Competitiveness in Georgia. The Programme aims to assist Georgian entrepreneurs in improving the legal environment and access to finance while strengthening ties with the European Union.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/254740-eu-supported-online-vineyard-pruning-video-tutorial-viticulturalists-now-available-georgian




Date: 28 November 2023
Title: Take five: “Electronic surveillance ensures maximum safety for the victim”
Content: 28 November 2023
Ana Pachuashvili is the Head of the Human Rights Protection Division at the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia. With the support of UN Women and the European Union, important steps have been taken to improve the legal mechanisms protecting women and victims of domestic violence. In particular, the risk assessment tool and the standard of issuing the electronic surveillance were updated in May 2023 to become more victim oriented. Ana Pachuashvili actively participated in this process.
Ana Pachuashvili is the Head of the Human Rights Protection Division at the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia. With the support of UN Women and the European Union, important steps have been taken to improve the legal mechanisms protecting women and victims of domestic violence. In particular, the risk assessment tool and the standard of issuing the electronic surveillance were updated in May 2023 to become more victim oriented. Ana Pachuashvili actively participated in this process.
What is the risk assessment tool and electronic surveillance system?
The risk assessment tool is a structured questionnaire used by authorized police officers to assess the risk of repeated violence in reported cases of violence against women and/or domestic violence. These questions help officers obtain the most information on the occurrence of violence and the persons involved in it, reveal what risk the specific victim faces and determine whether or not there is a likelihood of reoccurrence by the abuser. This tool gives the police the ability to make the right decision and to take effective measures in order to prevent repeated acts of violence.
If the identified risks indicate a credible threat of violence, the police will be given the option to offer electronic surveillance to the victim, carried out solely for the maximum 30-day duration of the order.
Electronic surveillance ensures maximum safety for the victim through electronic means—specifically an ankle bracelet for the violator, and the monitor for victim and the perpetrator. These devices are similar to mobile phones. Thanks to electronic surveillance, the attacker’s proximity to the victim is monitored in real time. If the victim gives consent to use electronic surveillance, the police will submit the request to the court for approval.
How does the electronic surveillance process work?
When implementing electronic surveillance, and taking into account the victim’s requests, certain locations are identified in advance as exclusion zones under the terms of a restraining order, such as the victim’s house, workplace or any other frequented place. In these areas, the violator is prohibited from approaching the victim within the prescribed radii: a 100-metre danger zone and a 500-metre buffer zone. These distances are automatically determined by the receiving devices that both the victim and the violator have, and as soon as the permissible distance is violated, a signal is immediately transmitted to the 112 Monitoring Centre.
If the perpetrator enters any predefined exclusion zone and does not comply with an authorized person’s request to leave the danger zone or buffer zone, and/or evades electronic surveillance, his actions will be regarded as grounds for criminal liability.
It is important that the devices sound an alarm not only to 112 but also to the victim and the violator. The police, in all situations, are connected to both the perpetrator and the victim and take immediate measures to ensure the safety of the victim.
What is the role of the victim in the effective operation of the electronic surveillance process?
The victim’s consent is essential when using electronic surveillance because without it, the police cannot use this mechanism, a very effective system for protecting victims.
Unfortunately, there have been cases in which violators have broken the terms of their restraining order, and the victim or other persons have not informed law enforcement officers that the violator has established communication, such as going to the victim’s house. Electronic surveillance safeguards against such cases. Victims no longer have to contact the police; the 112 Monitoring Centre is already monitoring offenders’ compliance with the terms of their restraining order.
How does the updated risk assessment tool and electronic surveillance standard effect the safety of victims?
As a result of changes carried out with the support of UN Women, the specific questions in the risk assessment tool are now more comprehensive and better tailored to the victim, which allows the police to better identify the risk of violence. The risk levels are more elevated too: if earlier there were high, medium and low levels, now there is only ‘risk’ and ‘high risk’, with previously assessed average risks now being identified as high risks. Naturally, this increases the possibility of offering electronic supervision to victims.
What are the statistics on the use of electronic surveillance, and do they reflect the recent changes?
From 2020, when the system launched, until 1 May 2023, law enforcement officers were given the opportunity to offer this mechanism to victims in 44 cases. Between May and September 2023, 68 electronic surveillance systems were utilized. This means that the changes have given more victims access to the most effective electronic surveillance and security mechanism available.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/255539-take-five-%E2%80%9Celectronic-surveillance-ensures-maximum-safety-victim%E2%80%9D




Date: 27 November 2023
Title: Open Day on Women, Peace and Security
Content: 27 November 2023
The event served the purpose of promoting the dialogue and exchanging information on women, peace and security issues, and related challenges.
UN Women, in cooperation with the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in Georgia and the representatives of various UN agencies, held an Open Day on Women, Peace and Security as part of the global 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence campaign.
As is tradition, this year’s event served the purpose of promoting the dialogue between the UN system and civil society representatives, displaced and conflict-affected women and youth, as well as exchanging information on women, peace and security issues and related challenges. The representatives of the women’s rights organizations displaced, and conflict-affected women and youth attended the event.
Ayşe Cihan Sultanoğlu, United Nations Representative to the Geneva International Discussions, and Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, addressed about 90 participants of the meeting. In addition, the attendees heard from the invited guest Ambassador Viorel Moșanu, Special Representative of the OSCE Chairperson-in-Office for the South Caucasus.
“The full and meaningful participation of women in peace processes is critical, as women bring unique perspectives, insights and experiences to the negotiation table that are essential to achieving a lasting and inclusive peace,” Ms. Sultanoğlu said in her opening remarks. “Their inclusion not only promotes gender equality but also significantly increases the effectiveness and sustainability of peace agreements.”
A significant part of the Open Day was dedicated to the discussion about the challenges of the displaced and conflict-affected population—among them, security issues especially in the villages along the Administrative Boundary Line (ABL), unlawful detentions and abductions of the population. Community leader women underlined the economic hardship, labour migration and infrastructural problems, the lack of roads, transport, health care and other services, the need to dismantle the dilapidated buildings in IDP settlements, the malfunctioning of sewerage and drainage, natural gas and water supply systems, and the absence of the Internet, among other challenges.
Ekaterine Gamakharia, Head of the Representative Office in Tbilisi of Women Fund “Sukhumi”, emphasized the importance of the Open Day format. She also stated that there is a need to create consultation platforms of this kind that would enable the displaced and conflict-affected women to have a direct dialogue with line ministries in order to resolve their problems in a timely and effective manner.
Refugee women from Egypt and Ukraine, who founded civil society organizations in Georgia and now are supporting refugees living in the country, spoke about their experiences and needs at the meeting. They emphasized the need for integration and support programmes.
Representatives from the UN agencies noted that it is necessary to organize such meetings and to tailor their activities to the current needs in order to prioritize relevant issues when designing programmes and projects, as well as to collaborate with the authorities.
The Open Day on Women, Peace and Security is supported by the UK Government’s Conflict, Stability and Security Fund.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/262352-open-day-women-peace-and-security




Date: 26 November 2023
Title: EU and Georgia Working Together for Sustainable Rural Development
Content: 26 November 2023
Georgian Government Convenes Rural Development Conference with EU Funding and UNDP Support
In pursuit of EU membership, Georgia is advancing its institutional reforms, with agriculture and rural development playing an important role in this transformative journey. The Government of Georgia convened the Rural Development Conference to enhance policy reforms and foster coordination, bringing together national stakeholders, international partners, and rural development experts from EU Member States.
Georgia’s Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture hosted this high-level forum with funding from the European Union and in cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
Otar Shamugia, Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia, and Catalin Gherman, Deputy Head of the Cooperation Section at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, opened a discussion by highlighting the indispensable role of rural development in driving Georgia's regions forward, improving the well-being of its people, and facilitating a seamless transition to a greener economy.
"Georgia has made significant strides in the last decade through rural development programmes, institutional reforms, and the adoption of European approaches. As we draw closer to the European Union, we aim to build on these achievements, working with partners to set rural development priorities and design interventions aligning with the EU Common Agricultural Policy."
Otar Shamugia, Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia
"Sustainable and green rural development will improve the lives of over 40 percent of Georgians living outside major cities, fostering opportunities for entrepreneurship, education, and environmental protection. With support from the European Union, Georgia made notable progress in institutional reforms aimed at aligning its rural development frameworks with the EU Common Agricultural Policy. We remain committed to working with the Government, civil society, the private sector, and communities on this developmental journey. One of the most important components in this context is the EU’s LEADER programme—a bottom-up initiative designed to bolster the growth of rural areas by implementing projects that directly address local needs. We look forward to the forthcoming implementation of the established mechanism in Georgia, facilitating state financing for rural development projects spurred by LEADER initiatives."
Catalin Gherman, Deputy Head of the Cooperation Section at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia
The Rural Development Conference featured insightful panel discussions involving Georgian and European officials, practitioners, and experts. Key topics included policy frameworks for sustainable rural development and agriculture, harmonization of Georgian policies with the EU Common Agriculture Policy, the transition to a greener economy in line with the EU’s Green Deal, digital solutions for monitoring and control systems, and funding mechanisms available for EU membership candidate countries.
Experts from Austria, Italy, Latvia, Serbia, and North Macedonia shared their countries' experiences implementing the EU Common Agricultural Policy and the Instrument of Pre-Accession Assistance in Rural Development (IPARD).
Summarizing the conference outcomes, Douglas Webb, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. in Georgia, underscored its significance as a step toward equitable rural development.
"Georgia has every opportunity to foster vibrant rural economies that benefit the people and contribute to the country’s prosperity. Our goal is to empower rural communities by ensuring sustained attention from decision-makers, that engages the private sector and civil society, and harnesses best practices from European countries."
Douglas Webb, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. in Georgia
More information on the Rural Development Conference is available on the website: https://ruralconference.ge
The EU and UNDP support for rural development in Georgia draws on the EUR 234.5 million EU-funded European Neighbourhood Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development (ENPARD) implemented since 2013.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/254544-eu-and-georgia-working-together-sustainable-rural-development




Date: 25 November 2023
Title: Statement on International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and Girls
Content: 25 November 2023
This joint statement is issued by the United Nations system in Georgia, the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, the NATO Liaison Office in Georgia, and the Embassies to Georgia of Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, France, Finland, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.
On this International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and Girls, we call for action to end violence against women and girls in all its forms – from sexual harassment and abuse to child marriage and  femicide. Globally, nearly one in three women have experienced physical or sexual violence at least once, the majority of them assaulted by their husband or partner.[1] In Georgia, violence against women and girls remains a critical problem despite decisive steps taken by the government and civil society to combat these horrific human rights violations. Such violence is rooted in gender inequality and is in turn further perpetuating discrimination of women and girls. As a result, our societies are less peaceful and less just, and our economies are less prosperous.
Eliminating violence against women and girls will require strengthening and enforcing legislation and policies to protect their rights and to promote gender equality, to ensure full protection and support to survivors of violence, and to end impunity for all perpetrators. To make this happen, it is vital to raise awareness and promote women’s leadership at every stage of decision-making. We especially emphasize the urgent need to take concrete steps in order to eliminate violence against women in politics, which prevents women’s meaningful participation in Georgian democracy. According to the latest data, 54 per cent of female candidates have experienced physical, psychological, economic, or sexual violence and harassment during their election campaigns or political careers.[2] Sexist hate speech is often used against women politicians in social media, including attacks based on their gender identity, appearance, intellectual abilities, and moral criteria.[3]
Economic violence is one of the most hidden forms of violence in Georgia, forcing the victim to stay with the perpetrator. Challenges remain in reducing the gender pay gap[4], women’s equal access to financial resources, inheritance rights, employment opportunities, recognizing and redistributing unpaid and care work. Improving child protection systems, access to education and adolescent-friendly health services is of paramount importance to combat violence against girls.
We call on all stakeholders, including political parties, the government, civil society organizations and the media to work towards a future where women are empowered to participate fully and equally in economic, social and political life, without fear of violence or harassment.
___________________
[1] Facts and figures: Ending violence against women, available at: https://www.unwomen.org/en/what-we-do/ending-violence-against-women/facts-and-figures
[2] Violence Against Women in Politics in Georgia, available at: https://georgia.unwomen.org/en/digital-library/publications/2023/08/violence-against-women-in-politics-in-georgia
[3] Election Monitoring Report: Sexism and Gender Stereotypes in Social Media, available at: https://www.undp.org/georgia/publications/gender-bias-social-media-2020
[4] In 2022 the adjusted hourly gender pay gap equaled 15.4%. The same indicator calculated at the monthly level equaled 23.0%, available at: https://www.geostat.ge/media/57459/Adjusted-gender-pay-gap---2022.pdf
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/253835-statement-international-day-elimination-violence-against-women-and-girls




Date: 24 November 2023
Title: The Secretary-General Message for the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women
Content: 24 November 2023
25 November 2023
Violence against women is a horrific violation of human rights, a public health crisis, and a major obstacle to sustainable development. It is persistent, widespread – and worsening.
From sexual harassment and abuse to femicide – the violence takes many forms.
But all are rooted in structural injustice, cemented by millennia of patriarchy.
We still live in a male-dominated culture that leaves women vulnerable by denying them equality in dignity and rights.
We all pay the price: our societies are less peaceful, our economies less prosperous, our world less just.
But a different world is possible.
This year’s theme of the UNiTE campaign – “Invest to Prevent Violence against Women & Girls” – calls on all of us to take action.
Support legislation and comprehensive policies that strengthen the protection of women’s rights across the board.
Ramp up investments in prevention and support to women’s rights organization.
Listen to survivors and end impunity for perpetrators everywhere.
Stand with women activists and promote women’s leadership at every stage of decision-making.
Together, let us stand up and speak out. Let’s build a world that refuses to tolerate violence against women anywhere, in any form, once and for all.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/253791-secretary-general-message-international-day-elimination-violence-against-women




Date: 23 November 2023
Title: Human Rights Day 2023
Content: 23 November 2023
Commemorating Human Rights Day 2023 and the 75th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
UN is launching a month-long campaign dedicated to Human Rights Day. This year's Human Rights Day celebrates the 75th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and spotlights the remarkable impact of this foundational document on countries, people, and communities worldwide.
თhe campaign will unite diverse stakeholders, including representatives from the Georgian Government, Parliament, civil society, the private sector, international organizations, and diplomatic missions. The events will feature collaborative initiatives, discussions, and activities that promote awareness, understanding, and engagement on human rights issues.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/262343-human-rights-day-2023




Date: 13 November 2023
Title: The EU-funded programme on green economy brings resource efficiency to the core of Georgian industries.
Content: 13 November 2023
The European Union-funded EU4Environment programme, with technicalsupport of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), hosted the national conference on Resource Efficient and Cleaner Production (RECP) in Georgia at Biltmore Hotel.
This year’s event marked an important milestone in the Action’s activities dedicated to Circular Economy (CE) and
New Growth Opportunities in the country. It served as a platform to communicate results, discuss challenges and opportunities, and engage national and international partners on how resource efficiency can guide Georgian businesses toward success.
The Government of Georgia recognises the opportunities of the green economy and its potential for sustainable economic growth, especially in terms of job creation and poverty reduction. As small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) represent 99.7% of Georgian enterprises, to integrate the principles of sustainable development into the production processes, it is especially important to involve SMEs, as they are much more vulnerable in the face of changes, and flexible to make their products more energy, socially, and resource efficient, and of course "green". SMEs are definitely becoming central in the green and CE policymaking within various government institutions and national strategic documents and legal frameworks increasingly provide incentives for green actions within SMEs, said Mr. Romeo Mikautadze, Deputy Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development of Georgia.
Between 2020-2023, within the EU-funded EU4Environment programme, with the technical assistance of UNIDO, eleven professionals and 44 companies have been assessed and trained (17 RECP Clubs members and 27 Demonstration Companies) using the RECP methodology. Overall, 115 RECP measures were recommended, which could potentially yield annual savings worth 2,173,268 EUR. So far, 26 RECP measures have been implemented, expecting savings of 557,650 EUR per year.
“We are happy to learn that due to the regional EU4Environment programme, SMEs are embracing RECP. EU4Environment is part of the EU's efforts to open new opportunities for people and the economy due to twin green and digital transitions. A greener industrial sector is crucial for the development and resilience of our economies and societies. Given that Georgia has a clear European perspective, it is important to align with the European Green Deal”, said Mr. Cătălin Gherman, Deputy Head of Cooperation of the Delegation of the European Union to GeorgiGathering over 100 participants in a hybrid format, the event centred around Georgia’s SMEs through six specialised sessions. Here, the stakeholders discussed practical means to base Georgia’s growth
agenda on the CE, assessed the country’s integration of CE practices in the past decade, and rejuvenated the policy and regulatory framework for green growth. In addition, international experiences from EU4Business and others, paired with the national experiences on resource efficiency, value chains, and regulatory frameworks, were the catalyst for the increasingly urgent conversation on green skills and how to direct investment towards efficient use of resources in the country.
“Georgia has been making significant progress toward the establishment of the CE in recent years. The "Assessment of the circularity level of the Georgian Economy policy document, which was created with the assistance of the Swedish Government, identifies 14 key economic sectors with the greatest potential for waste recycling and defines the circularity goals and target indicators suggested for the national CE  policy. The document also identifies sectoral opportunities and develops policy options and recommendations. This provides the framework for the next phase, which entails elaboration of the national CE roadmap that will determine the pathway for Georgia to a circular transformation. In addition, it will also be the basis for the development of the CE strategy“, said Mr. Solomon Pavliashvili Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture.
In the past decade, the EU, with the technical assistance of UNIDO, has built the capacity of Georgian SMEs through the RECP Demonstration Projects and via pilot exercises on Industrial Waste Mapping (IWM) and Product Environmental Footprint (PEF). IWM pilot exercise was carried out in the regions of Rustavi and Zestaponi, involving 723 enterprises employing 7,000 workers. The PEF pilot trained 33 experts and initiated an in-depth exercise for five companies to assess selected products. This work will contribute to promoting the potential benefits of the PEF methodology for Georgian enterprise interested in the EU Single Market for Green Products. It will also assist Georgia on its path to EU membership, which requires harmonisation of the country’s legal system with the EU acquis. “Resource efficiency is an essential component of CE and part of UNIDO’s mandate to accelerate and promote inclusive and sustainable industrial development, a key contributor to SDG 9. Promoting
circularity, we supported businesses in reconsidering their production processes in such a way that waste
is prevented, reduced, and reused as much as possible. In addition, (limited) natural resources are efficiently considered, giving Georgian enterprises the edge to increase productivity and competitiveness through innovation”, said Ms. Tatiana Chernyavskaya, EU4Environment Project Manager, UNIDO.
Background
The EU-funded “European Union for Environment” (EU4Environment) programme aims to help the EU’s Eastern Partnership countries preserve their natural capital and increase people's environmenta well-being by supporting environment-related action, demonstrating and unlocking opportunities for greener growth, and setting mechanisms to manage environmental risks and impacts better. The Action’s implementation period is 2019-2024. For more details, please visit: www.eu4environment.org. For more information about RECP in Georgia, please visit: www.recp.ge
Contact
Ms. Tatiana Chernyavskaya
EU4Environment Project Manager
Circular Economy and Resource Efficiency Unit
United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO)
Email: t.chernyavskaya@unido.org
Mr. George Abulashvili
Energy Efficiency Centre Georgia
0160, 19 D. Gamrekeli Str. VI floor, office 611, Tbilisi, Georgia
Tel: +99 53 2224 25 42
E-mail: eecgeo@eecgeo.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/252739-eu-funded-programme-green-economy-brings-resource-efficiency-core-georgian-industries




Date: 09 November 2023
Title: The Greenhouse Pilot Programme for Women Farmers is being expanded
Content: 09 November 2023
The goal of the developed stand-alone Greenhouse Programme is to empower economically inactive women within the target municipalities by improving their socioeconomic status and stimulating women’s involvement in agricultural activities.
The Rural Development Agency (RDA) has extended its support to women farmers in the municipalities of Chkhorotsku, Vani and Chokhatauri following the successful implementation of the first stand-alone Greenhouse Pilot Programme in Marneuli and Lagodekhi municipalities. The initial pilot programme was launched in 2022 as part of a collaboration between UN Women and the RDA, with 80 per cent of the funding contribution coming from UN Women. This new phase of the programme will be implemented in the three new municipalities and will be fully funded by state resources. The collaboration between the RDA and UN Women aims to enhance the opportunities for women living in rural areas, increase their involvement in the RDA’s programmes, foster the development of special initiatives and, consequently, promote the socioeconomic empowerment of women. Moreover, the development of the stand-alone support programme for women is part of the 2022–2024 Gender Strategy and Action Plan of the RDA.
“The Rural Development Agency supports the involvement of rural women in agricultural businesses,” says Natalia Kharatishvili, Deputy Director at the RDA. “This year, the Agency is creating an opportunity for rural women in targeted municipalities of western Georgia, specifically in Chokhatauri, Vani and Chkhorotsku, to establish greenhouses. This initiative enables them to cultivate crops and generate income throughout the year.”
The goal of the developed stand-alone Greenhouse Programme is to empower economically inactive women within the target municipalities by improving their socioeconomic status and stimulating women’s involvement in agricultural activities. The programme offers financial and technical assistance to eligible female participants to establish new greenhouses. It is important to note that this programme is exclusively for women and that the participants are required to legally own or co-own land plots of no more than 5,000 square metres. Within the framework of the programme, a greenhouse with an area of at least 200 square metres will be financed. The beneficiary’s co-financing requirement is set at a minimum of 10 per cent of the greenhouse set-up cost, which is significantly lower than the co-financing rates typically required in other existing RDA programmes.
The first Greenhouse Pilot Programme for Women, which has already been implemented in Marneuli and Lagodekhi municipalities, was initiated by UN Women and the RDA based on the findings of the Gender Impact Assessment of the RDA’s largest programme, Plant the Future. Under the first pilot programme, 37 applications were approved in the two aforementioned municipalities (Marneuli and Lagodekhi), and women have already received resources for starting up or further expanding their greenhouses.
The cooperation between UN Women and the Rural Development Agency is part of the “Women’s Economic Empowerment in the South Caucasus” regional project implemented by UN Women. It is being implemented with financial support from the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation and the Austrian Development Cooperation.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/254532-greenhouse-pilot-programme-women-farmers-being-expanded




Date: 07 November 2023
Title: Georgia: A veneer of openness masks systematic efforts to undermine human rights defenders
Content: 07 November 2023
TBILISI (7 November 2023)
The authorities in Georgia need to radically improve their attitude towards human rights defenders, from public statements to policy measures and the legislative framework, in order to   create a supportive environment for their legitimate work and to dispel fears of increased polarization and insecurity, said Lawlor in a statement at the conclusion of her 9-day visit to the country.
‘Georgia has an extremely strong, vibrant, determined and diverse civil society, which has grown over time and should be considered as part of the pride of the country, said Lawlor. ‘It is extremely important for authorities to publicly acknowledge the legitimate role of human rights defenders and their important contribution to a just and harmonious society.’
As long as members of the government and the parliament continue their disparaging comments about civil society, or condone such rhetoric by others, including smear campaigns in social media, human rights defenders will not feel safe and protected. The government should not merely ‘tolerate’ civil society, but actively promote their role and activities, including by safeguarding the rights to freedom of assembly, privacy and expression.’
I am very concerned about what appears to be systemic impunity for attacks and harassment against human rights defenders, including women HRDs and LGBTQI defenders, as well as unjustified surveillance. Ensuring prompt and transparent investigations into alleged cases of violence against defenders is key to accountability and will significantly contribute to preventing further attacks.
The Georgian government should fully live up to its international human rights obligations and commitments, and treat human rights defenders as allies rather than enemies.
The Special Rapporteur will present a full report on her visit to the Human Rights Council in March 2025.

ENDS
Ms. Mary Lawlor is the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders. She is currently Associate Professor of Business and Human Rights at the Centre for Social Innovation (CSI) at Trinity College Dublin Business School. In 2001 she founded Front Line Defenders - the International Foundation for the Protection of Human Rights Defenders to focus on human rights defenders at risk. As Executive Director between 2001 and 2016, Ms. Lawlor represented Front Line Defenders and played a key role in its development. Ms. Lawlor was previously Director of the Irish Office of Amnesty International from 1988 to 2000, after becoming a member of the Board of Directors in 1975 and being elected its President from 1983 to 1987.
The Special Rapporteurs, Independent Experts and Working Groups are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, Country Page – Georgia
For more information and press inquiries, please contact Ms. Orsolya Toth (orsolya.toth@un.org / +41 79 444 37 81) or write to hrc-sr-defenders@un.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter https://twitter.com/UN_SPExperts
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org)
Follow news related to the UN's independent human rights experts on Twitter: @UN_SPExperts.

Read the statement below

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/251986-georgia-veneer-openness-masks-systematic-efforts-undermine-human-rights-defenders




Date: 06 November 2023
Title: “Will Resource Efficiency Be at the Core of Business Success in Georgia?”
Content: 06 November 2023
United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) conference “Will Resource Efficiency Be at the Core of Business Success in Georgia?” will be organized in a hybrid format (in person and online) on November 7-8, 2023 in Tbilisi, Georgia at Hotel Biltmore., starting at 9:30 (GET).
The purpose of the conference is to highlight and promote resilience and green growth in Georgian enterprises by showcasing the benefits of Resource Efficient and Cleaner Production (RECP) in the transition to a Circular Economy. Additionally, the event will provide an opportunity to discuss and share experiences, tools, and programmes on greening Georgia’s Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) through six sessions.
The stakeholders engaged in green economic development in Georgia (including Government agencies and relevant departments), industrial enterprises, businesses, experts in the fields of engineering (chemical, industrial, environmental) and energy, members of academia, RECP Clubs’ member and RECP Demonstration Companies from EU4Environment (2019-2024) and EaP GREEN (2013-2017), RECP experts, businesses, and representatives of the SMEs taking part in different components of the EU4Environment Action will participate in the event.
At the first session dedicated to national policies strategies governing green development will be discussed with a focus on manufacturing enterprises, reflecting on policies and associated development in Georgia. Inter alia, these also include questions of industrial pollution and emissions, waste and water management, and the issues of the EU Green Deal and development of the new Green Growth strategy of Georgia. The second session will be devoted to resource efficiency in practice as application of this methodology boosts competitiveness and improves performance of SMEs. At the third session, the focus will be on the transition to a circular economy (CE) in Georgia, which is supported already by a number of regional and national initiatives. Here, participants will receive an overview of Circular Economy mapping in Georgia and the Black Sea basin, and familiarize with priority practices for waste management. As part of the session, discussion will also include the concept of Industrial Waste Mapping (IWM), where the successful experiences of two pilot regions (the municipalities of Zestaponi and Rustavi) will be showcased. The fourth session includes overview of product-focused initiatives supporting greening of Georgian SMEs, such as Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) and eco-labelling as a part of the Single Market for Green Products (SMGP) initiative, promoting eco-innovation, and stimulating the greening of production through Sustainable Public Procurement (SPP) and its complementary tools.
The Day 2 of the conference will serve as a platform to discuss the necessary skills and national funding for greening SMEs. The fifth session will host presentations on training and certification programmes , including on energy transition for income and employment. It will also consider building a pathway between skills/training and high-value employment opportunities and showcase the award-winning solutions in this area. The issues dedicated to financing the green transition for SMEs in Georgia will be discussed at the sixth session. It will cover the country conditions, programs and available sources of financing for greening SMEs. The session will include presentations on the green taxonomy implementation in Georgia, interventions from various banks, and examples of successful projects serving as an inspiration to stimulate new green investments in the Georgian industrial sectors.

Background
Resource Efficient and Cleaner Production (RECP) is an umbrella term used for the application of preventative environmental strategies to processes, goods, and services in order to improve the industrial sector’s efficiency and lower risks to people and the environment. The RECP methodology was developed by UNIDO to assist enterprises in identifying, evaluating, and reducing their resource usage while eradicating losses, increasing resilience, and enhancing productivity and competitiveness. In Georgia and other Eastern Partnership (EaP) countries, the UNIDO RECP methodology is introduced under the regional programme funded by the European Union, "EU4Environment" Action.
About EU4Environment
EU4Environment is a programme funded by the European Union that aims to help the EU’s Eastern Partnership countries preserve their natural capital and increase people’s environmental well-being by supporting environment-related action, demonstrating and unlocking opportunities for greener growth, and setting mechanisms to better manage environmental risks and impacts. It is implemented by five partner organisations: OECD, UNECE, UNEP, UNIDO and the World Bank over the 2019-2024 period, with a budget of EUR 20 million.
For further information, visit: www.eu4environment.org; For more information about RECP in Georgia, visit: www.recp.ge
For further information about the possibility to attend the event, please contact Ms. Tatiana Chernyavskaya, Project Manager (t.chernyavskaya@unido.org) and/or Ms. Liana Garibashvili, Project Coordinator Assistant in Georgia (l_gari@eecgeo.org, Tel: +995 599 548782).


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/251880-%E2%80%9Cwill-resource-efficiency-be-core-business-success-georgia%E2%80%9D




Date: 30 October 2023
Title: Statement of the United Nations in Georgia regarding the draft laws on amendments to the Tobacco Control Law
Content: 30 October 2023
30 October 2023
The UN in Georgia maintains that the draft laws initiated in the Georgian Parliament on October 16, 2023 is damaging to public health. The proposed changes seek to exclude heated tobacco products from standardized packaging regulations, extend the sale of tobacco products with old packaging for another eight months, and modify the requirement to display brand and variant information in the state language of Georgia, by allowing also display in English.
Protecting public health and effective tobacco control policy are paramount. Governments must act to protect public health policies from tobacco industry interference as per Art. 5.3 of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. Allowing these changes would prioritize the financial interests of tobacco companies over the interest of public health.
Almost one-third of adults and a substantial portion of adolescents and young people in Georgia are using tobacco. Tobacco-related direct healthcare costs and indirect costs due to premature mortality and disability and workplace costs exceed 800 million GEL annually, with the number of deaths surpassing 11,000[1]. Addressing this situation necessitates long-term and steadfast implementation of comprehensive and effective tobacco control policies. Georgia took a positive step with the adoption of strong tobacco control legislation in 2017, which yielded initial results through effective implementation. However, to achieve a sustained reduction in tobacco use rates and mitigate its catastrophic impact, full implementation and further strengthening of tobacco control legislation and state policies are required.
Standardized packaging regulations under the new tobacco control legislation were originally intended to take effect on January 1, 2018, then unfortunately postponed to December 31, 2022, and subsequently extended once more to July 1, 2024. This delay and other proposed changes are unjustifiable and further delays the demonstrable benefits that plain packaging provides.
As of today, many countries in Europe and globally have demonstrated that plain packaging is an effective tobacco control measure. It reduces the appeal of tobacco products, enhances the impact of health warnings, diminishes consumer deception, and ultimately reduces tobacco consumption rates.
We urge the Parliament of Georgia  to reject the proposed  changes and we hope that it will continue the policy announced at the highest level in the field of health protection and tobacco control, protect the legislation from the interests of the tobacco industry, including the implementation of standardized packaging of tobacco products.


[1] UNDP/WHO/NCDC Tobacco Control Investment Case study, 2017

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/251059-statement-united-nations-georgia-regarding-draft-laws-amendments-tobacco-control-law




Date: 27 October 2023
Title: UN Women support leads to expansion of the existing shelter for victims of violence in Tbilisi
Content: 27 October 2023
Part of this support is the expansion of the existing shelter for victims of violence against women and domestic violence in Tbilisi.
Along with the increasing detection of incidents of violence against women and domestic violence in Georgia, there is particular urgency to improve the services needed by victims and expand the network of shelters. It is significant that the country has taken on this obligation by ratifying the Istanbul Convention, and UN Women actively supports the Government of Georgia in the process of fulfilling the relevant obligation.
Part of this support is the expansion of the existing shelter for victims of violence against women and domestic violence in Tbilisi. The newly expanded space opened in Tbilisi on 27 October and operates under the State Care Agency. It is adapted for persons with disabilities and will serve women victims of violence and their dependants.
Kaori Ishikawa, UN Women Country Representative in Georgia; Tamila Barkalaia, Deputy Minister of Health of Georgia; and Nicholas CENDROWICZ, Head of the Cooperation Section at the European Union Delegation to Georgia, attended the opening event.
“We at the State Care Agency and the Ministry of Health will continue to work together so that more services are available to women and children who are victims of violence, in order to make it possible for them to live in a safe environment and so that their psychosocial rehabilitation is ensured by the State,” said Ms. Barkalaia.
Victims/survivors of violence in the shelter are provided with temporary day-to-day housing, psychosocial rehabilitation, legal services and arrangements to receive medical services. The new space at the shelter is designed for 15 people.
UN Women has been cooperating with the State Care Agency since 2010 in the direction of creating services for victims/survivors of violence. It is significant that seven crisis centres and five shelters, which operate under the Agency’s management throughout the country, were opened within the framework of this cooperation—with the support of UN Women and with the financing of the European Union and Sweden—and are currently financed with state funds.
The new space at the Tbilisi shelter was renovated within the framework of the project “Ending Violence against Women and Girls in Georgia”, funded by the European Union. The project is implemented by UN Women and UNFPA.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/254531-un-women-support-leads-expansion-existing-shelter-victims-violence-tbilisi




Date: 26 October 2023
Title: United Nations Day: Accelerating the SDGs
Content: 26 October 2023
This year’s United Nations Day observance in Georgia centered around the Sustainable Development Goals - a global call to action to end poverty, protect the earth’s environment and climate, and ensure that people everywhere can enjoy peace and prosperity in the spirit of Leaving No One Behind.
Halfway to the SDG deadline, the UN Day commemoration underlined the importance of collaborative efforts to advance the Sustainable Development Goals.
A special panel discussion “From Economic Growth to Shared Prosperity: Reality Check after the SDG Summit and Vision for the Future” focused on Georgia’s progress on decent jobs creation and decentralization and discussed forward-looking strategies for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and provision of equal opportunities for all.
The panel discussion brought together government officials, think tanks, civil society (including organizations of persons with disabilities), academia, the private sector and other stakeholders to facilitate discussion on how to ensure that economic models and policy processes are revamped at scale for SDG acceleration and for transforming Georgia’s economic growth at the macroeconomic level into shared prosperity. The diversity of involved individuals enriched the dialogue and the exchange of perspectives. Speaking at the event, United Nations Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl noted that economic growth is not an end goal in itself, but one of enablers of meaningful improvements in the lives of people, including reducing poverty and achieving other development goals. She  highlighted the urgent need for action and collaboration to achieve the SDGs.
The central focus of another panel discussion organized by the United Nations in Georgia in partnership with the Georgian-American University (GAU) and the Kant’s Academy has revolved around SDG 4 – quality education. UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl, President of the Georgian-American University (GAU) R. Michael Cowgill, and prominent representatives of the Iv. Javakhishvili Tbilisi State University, Ilia State University, Caucasus University, and the University of Georgia took stock of where we are in terms of progress towards SDG 4, shared knowledge about good practices and suggested ways forward to expedite the achievement the SDGs.
The role of young people in accelerating efforts to achieve Sustainable Development Goals was the primary focus of the discussion between UN Resident Coordinator, Sabine Machl and members of the youth organization ‘Civic Engagement and Activism Center’ held on October 25 at the UN House in Tbilisi.
In celebration of UN Day, the United Nations in Georgia also unveiled the multifunctional SDG Spaces at the Gori State Teaching University and the Georgian-American University (GAU) on October 24 and 25, respectively. The initiative implemented in partnership with the Education and International Development Academy and the Kant’s Academy aims at empowering young people with the skills and opportunities to advance their vision of a sustainable future.
“We at the United Nations are happy to have contributed to the country to reduce poverty and inequality. We focus on promoting climate action and justice and provide life-saving relief to the vulnerable and disadvantaged. The SDG Summit, which was held in September 2023, reaffirmed  that we all stand  united to leave no one behind, even in dire circumstances. On this United Nations Day, let us renew our commitment to build an inclusive and prosperous future, leaving no one behind.  Only together can we push for peace to rescue our Global Goals for people and planet,” said Dr. Sabine Machl in her video message on United Nation Day.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/250674-united-nations-day-accelerating-sdgs




Date: 24 October 2023
Title: The Secretary-General UN Day  message
Content: 24 October 2023
24 October 2023
The United Nations is a reflection of the world as it is – and an aspiration of the world we know it can be.
It is our responsibility to help build that world of peace, sustainable development and human rights for all.
I know we can do it. The Charter of the United Nations – which entered into force 78 years ago today – points the way.
Above all, it is rooted in a spirit of determination to heal divisions, repair relations, and build peace.
To expand opportunities, and leave no one behind.
To ensure justice, equality and empowerment for women and girls.
To provide life-saving relief to those in need.
And to be flexible enough to address challenges that did not even exist when the UN was born – from the existential climate crisis to the perils and promise of artificial intelligence.
The United Nations is guided by timeless values and principles, but it must never be frozen in time. That is why we must always keep strengthening ways of working and applying a 21st century lens to all we do.
On this United Nations Day, let us commit with hope and determination to build the better world of our aspirations.
Let us commit to a future that lives up to the name of our indispensable organization.
We are a divided world. We can and must be united nations.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/250632-secretary-general-un-day-message




Date: 22 October 2023
Title: Georgia hosts large-scale exhibition and sale of goods produced by women entrepreneurs
Content: 22 October 2023
During the two-day sales and exhibition, about 160 participants from all over the country had the opportunity to present their products to the visitors.
On the initiative of UN Women, Georgia hosted a large-scale exhibition and sale of products made by entrepreneurial women in Tbilisi for the second consecutive year. On 21 and 22 October, 160 female entrepreneurs from different regions of the country had the opportunity to present their products to visitors at the Expo Georgia Exhibition Center, sell them on the spot and establish important business contacts.
The opening of the event was attended by Kaori Ishikawa, UN Women Country Representative in Georgia; Alkis Drakinos, Regional Head of the Caucasus for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD); and guests from the private sector, business associations and the media.
“I believe that this large-scale exhibition and sale will give women entrepreneurs in Georgia more awareness and opportunities for business development,” Ms. Ishikawa said in her speech. Mr. Drakinos focused on the promotion of women’s entrepreneurship in his remarks: “We are glad that for the second year, together with our partners, we have the opportunity to support the exhibition and sale of extraordinary products [made by] women entrepreneurs. Together with donors, we continue to promote women’s entrepreneurship, be it loans for their businesses or consultations.”
The goal of the exhibition and sale was to promote women’s entrepreneurship in Georgia. The event has already helped many participants to establish interesting business connections and new prospective partnerships.
“The exhibition has been a great opportunity,” said participant Una Kutateladze, who produces herbal pet care products under the ‘Mouare’ brand. “I’ve met a lot of women entrepreneurs and people who are interested in my work. I think this is a very big step forward for the business.
It is significant that this year, for the first time in the exhibition space, a separate corner was allocated for tech start-ups founded by women. “Holding more events like this will be a great support for us. General and complex exhibitions are very interesting for us too,” said Tamar Bosikashvili, co-founder of the tech start-up Aisitec.
Along with the exhibition and sales area, other activities were awaiting the visitors during the two-day event at Expo Georgia, including a children’s entertainment and educational corner as well as food and music spaces, where young female DJs put the guests in a good mood.
The supporters and organizers of the event were the EBRD, TBC Bank, the Georgian Farmers’ Association, Expo Georgia, Business and Technology University, and the Georgian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
The exhibition and sales initiative was part of a wider regional expo that was held in parallel to Georgia in several countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia, namely Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of Moldova, Tajikistan, Türkiye and Ukraine. The event in Georgia was part of the Women’s Economic Empowerment component of the project “Good Governance for Gender Equality in Georgia”, which is implemented with the support of the Norwegian Government.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/254533-georgia-hosts-large-scale-exhibition-and-sale-goods-produced-women-entrepreneurs




Date: 22 October 2023
Title: Georgia hosts large-scale exhibition and sale of goods produced by women entrepreneurs
Content: 22 October 2023
160 female entrepreneurs from different regions of the country had the opportunity to present their products to visitors at the Expo Georgia Exhibition Center.
On the initiative of UN Women, Georgia hosted a large-scale exhibition and sale of products made by entrepreneurial women in Tbilisi for the second consecutive year. On 21 and 22 October, 160 female entrepreneurs from different regions of the country had the opportunity to present their products to visitors at the Expo Georgia Exhibition Center, sell them on the spot and establish important business contacts.
The opening of the event was attended by Kaori Ishikawa, UN Women Country Representative in Georgia; Alkis Drakinos, Regional Head of the Caucasus for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD); and guests from the private sector, business associations and the media.
“I believe that this large-scale exhibition and sale will give women entrepreneurs in Georgia more awareness and opportunities for business development,” Ms. Ishikawa said in her speech. Mr. Drakinos focused on the promotion of women’s entrepreneurship in his remarks: “We are glad that for the second year, together with our partners, we have the opportunity to support the exhibition and sale of extraordinary products [made by] women entrepreneurs. Together with donors, we continue to promote women’s entrepreneurship, be it loans for their businesses or consultations.”
The goal of the exhibition and sale was to promote women’s entrepreneurship in Georgia. The event has already helped many participants to establish interesting business connections and new prospective partnerships.
“The exhibition has been a great opportunity,” said participant Una Kutateladze, who produces herbal pet care products under the ‘Mouare’ brand. “I’ve met a lot of women entrepreneurs and people who are interested in my work. I think this is a very big step forward for the business.
It is significant that this year, for the first time in the exhibition space, a separate corner was allocated for tech start-ups founded by women. “Holding more events like this will be a great support for us. General and complex exhibitions are very interesting for us too,” said Tamar Bosikashvili, co-founder of the tech start-up Aisitec.
Along with the exhibition and sales area, other activities were awaiting the visitors during the two-day event at Expo Georgia, including a children’s entertainment and educational corner as well as food and music spaces, where young female DJs put the guests in a good mood.
The supporters and organizers of the event were the EBRD, TBC Bank, the Georgian Farmers’ Association, Expo Georgia, Business and Technology University, and the Georgian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
The exhibition and sales initiative was part of a wider regional expo that was held in parallel to Georgia in several countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia, namely Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of Moldova, Tajikistan, Türkiye and Ukraine. The event in Georgia was part of the Women’s Economic Empowerment component of the project “Good Governance for Gender Equality in Georgia”, which is implemented with the support of the Norwegian Government.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/262353-georgia-hosts-large-scale-exhibition-and-sale-goods-produced-women-entrepreneurs




Date: 18 October 2023
Title: Georgia: Prison system needs modernisation, says UN torture prevention body
Content: 18 October 2023
GENEVA (18 October 2023)
Georgia has made significant progress in fighting torture and improving detention conditions, but extra measures are necessary to lower prison population, expand staff force and strengthen rehabilitation program, bringing its prison system up to 21st century standards, UN torture prevention experts said after their first visit to the country.
“We note that the prison population in Georgia has decreased by more than half in the last decade, and we commend the various reforms undertaken by the authorities to ensure safeguards against ill-treatment and enhance detention conditions,” said Massimiliano Bagaglini, who led the Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture (SPT) delegation to the country from 8 to 14 October.
“While we acknowledge the efforts made by the Government, the prison population rate of Georgia continues to be significantly higher than the European average in relation to the free population,” Bagaglini said, adding that “alternative measures to detention and conditional early release are essential to reduce the prison population.”
“A modern prison system especially requires a strong focus on rehabilitation. Staffing levels should also be raised to guarantee the welfare of both prison staff and detainees,” he stated.
The delegation visited various prisons, temporary detention isolators and police stations. The SPT experts conducted confidential interviews with detainees, personnel and medical staff in these facilities.
The delegation also held discussions with senior Government officials and the national monitoring body of Georgia, officially known as the National Preventive Mechanism (NPM). The delegation carried out joint visits with the NPM to a prison and a temporary detention facility during the mission.
“The NPM in Georgia has been systematically and professionally monitoring places where people are deprived of liberty.  The State party should continue and expand its support to ensure that the mechanism is well resourced to perform its preventive mandate in a sustainable manner,” Bagaglini said.
The SPT monitors how States that have ratified the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture (OPCAT) are fulfilling their treaty obligations, including establishing an independent national preventive mechanism.  Georgia ratified the Optional Protocol in 2005.
The SPT will submit a confidential report to the Government of Georgia with its observations and recommendations on preventing torture and ill-treatment of people deprived of their liberty.  As with all other States, the SPT encourages Georgia to make the SPT report public.
The SPT delegation comprised Massimiliano Bagaglini, head of Delegation (Italy), Jakub Czepek (Poland), Julia Kozma (Austria) and María Luisa Romero (Panama) and was accompanied by three secretariat staff.

ENDS

For more information and media requests in Geneva, please contact:
Armen Avetisyan at Armen.Avetisyan@un.org or
Vivian Kwok at vivian.kwok@un.org, or
UN Human Rights Office Media Section at ohchr-media@un.org

Background:
The Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture monitors States parties’ adherence to the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture, which to date has been ratified by 93 countries. The Subcommittee is made up of 25 members who are independent human rights experts drawn from around the world, who serve in their personal capacity and not as representatives of States parties.
The Subcommittee has the mandate to visit States that have ratified the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture, during the course of which it may visit any place where persons may be deprived of their liberty and assist those States in preventing torture and ill-treatment. The Subcommittee communicates its observations and recommendations to States through confidential reports, which it encourages countries to make public.

Learn more with our videos on the Treaty Body system and
the Subcommittee on the Prevention of Torture.
Follow the UN Treaty Bodies on social media!
We are on Twitter @UNTreatyBodies
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/249802-georgia-prison-system-needs-modernisation-says-un-torture-prevention-body




Date: 16 October 2023
Title: World Food Day celebrated in Zugdidi, Georgia
Content: 16 October 2023
World Food Day – the anniversary of the FAO foundation - is one of the most celebrated days in the UN calendar and is marked in about 150 countries every year. This year, the main message of the World Food Day is to protect water as a vital resource which is the driving force of people, nature and economy, and the foundation of food, while freshwater is not an infinite resource.
On October 16, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in collaboration with the Committee on Agrarian Affairs at the Parliament of Georgia, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia and the City Hall of Zugdidi Municipality, marked the World Food Day in Zugdidi, Samegrelo region of Georgia.
Farmers' agricultural exhibition and market, wheat and bread exhibition, information corners about food safety as well as food losses and waste, and educational activities for children were organized in Zugdidi at the courtyard of the Dadiani Palace to mark the World Food Day with the main theme Water is Life, Water is Food, Leave No one Behind. The day was closed by a concert with the participation of local artists.
At the agricultural market, farmers presented local products, including dairy products, honey, dried fruit, Georgian bread and various niche produce. In the information corners, the guests were introduced to the updates about the food chain and meat products traceability system in Georgia, as well as the reduction of food waste and donation. In partnership with the "Caucasus Environmental Non-Governmental Organizations Network (CENN)," an educational program and game was organized for children, which was related to water resources and their protection. At the event a short documentary about Food Hero from Georgia was also screened. Every year, as part of the World Food Day, FAO names Food Heroes from the FAO member Countries. This year the Food Hero from Georgia is a FAO beneficiary farmer Avtandil Marakvelidze who has successfully implemented sustainable and climate smart water management systems in his farm.  The day was closed with a short program performed by the local folk singers.

The FAO event was attended by representatives of the Government, Parliament, European Union Delegation, Swiss Cooperation Office, Austrian Development Agency and other development partners as well as the representatives of private and public sector of Georgia.
“At FAO we are deeply committed to promoting responsible water use in agricultural and food systems which is central to achieving what we refer to as the Four Betters – Better Production, Better Nutrition, Better Environment and Better Life. To achieve these goals, the governments, the private sector, academia, and civil society must work together and invest in integrated water resources management for sustainable development; ensure equitable, sustainable, and economically beneficial water use;  equip our farmers, livestock producers, fisher folks and foresters with the right tools for sustainable water management. We must all recognize and value water for the food it produces and the planet it nourishes,” said Raimund Jehle, FAO Representative in Georgia.

"It is symbolic that this year we are focusing on water resources and on this day we are meeting with the law on water resources management adopted by the parliament. The purpose of this law is to create legal basis for the management of water resources in the country, which ensures the implementation of an unified state policy in the field of protection and use of water resources, the right of citizens to access clean water, the creation of a safe environment for human health and life, and in accordance with the principles of integrated management, the protection of water resources and sustainable use," said Nino Tsilosani, the Chair of the Committee on Agrarian Affairs at the Parliament of Georgia.

"We celebrate the World Food Day every year in different regions together with local farmers. We all understand importance of the massage of the World Food Day 2023. Water is a resource without which life would be impossible. We must take care of water and acknowledge that we need to protect this resource", said the First Deputy Minister of Environment Protection and Agriculture, Nino Tandilashvili.
World Food Day: "Water is Life, Water is Food"
Every year, as part of the World Food Day, the governments, civil sector, business sector, media, public and youth come together to spread important messages related to food security.
Water is Life, Water is Food - with this message, FAO intends to raise awareness about one of the planet's most important resources: water covers the largest part of the planet's surface, makes up almost 50 percent of the body, and is crucial while achieving sustainable development and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) under the 2030 Agenda.
However, freshwater is not an finite resource. Unless we take urgent measures, we are on course to increase our water use by more than a third by 2050 globally, given our planet’s growing population that means, collectively, we risk reaching a point of no return. Making informed decisions when purchasing products, wasting less water, and preventing flooding disasters and pollution are among the ways we can contribute to saving water and helping the planet. These activities are also central to achieve better production, better nutrition, better environment and better life.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/250633-world-food-day-celebrated-zugdidi-georgia




Date: 11 October 2023
Title: United Nations Statement on the International Day of the Girl Child
Content: 11 October 2023
TBILISI. Georgia. 11 October 2023.
Today, the United Nations (UN) family in Georgia marks the International Day of the Girl Child by highlighting the urgent need for increased attention and resources to enable girls to realize their rights and achieve their full potential.
The UN in Georgia expresses its deep condolences on the murder of the 14-year-old girl in Sagarejo municipality on October 6, 2023 and calls for a prompt and thorough investigation as well as the adjudication of the perpetrator.
This tragic case of gender-based violence is a result of gender inequality, harmful practice of child marriage and sexual violence. The case demonstrates that more vigorous efforts are needed by actors involved in the State Child Protection Referral Procedures to prevent, identify, and properly respond to cases of violence. The state protection and support services for children and their families need to take proactive measures to ensure that child victims of violence, including sexual violence, receive immediate and necessary protection and support.
Considering the importance of a multi-sectoral response to eliminate the harmful practice of child marriage, the UN in Georgia calls for coordinated actions to improve the State Child Protection Referral Procedures, law enforcement practices, child-friendly judicial processes, and adolescent-friendly health services. It is pivotal to design integrated services for child survivors of sexual violence that provide both child-friendly justice processes and child psycho-social rehabilitation in one space and ensure that these services are accessible in all regions of the country. In addition, children should have access to child-friendly reporting mechanisms to seek support when and as needed.
The UN in Georgia believes that urgent change is necessary in social norms and attitudes that tolerate child marriage and sexual violence against women and girls while preventing responsible professionals from acting on the cases of violence.
Ensuring access to education, information, and health services for adolescent girls is of paramount importance as it allows them to make informed decisions about the future, protect their bodily autonomy, and freedom of choice. Empowering adolescent girls is fundamental to ending the harmful practice of child marriage and building a more just and equitable society for all. When girls have equal access to education and healthcare, they are better equipped to realize their potential and contribute to their communities.
The UN in Georgia remains committed to working with the Government of Georgia, civil society groups, and with human rights activists to address systemic problems that are the root causes of these tragedies. The UN in Georgia will continue its work to ensure that the fundamental human rights of women and girls are protected, they are equipped with the knowledge and skills and are empowered to make informed decisions about their lives.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/248908-united-nations-statement-international-day-girl-child




Date: 09 October 2023
Title: Together for People and Planet!
Content: 09 October 2023
EU and UNDP Bring Young People Together to Celebrate Human Rights and Climate Action
Hundreds of young people united in the picturesque town of Lagodekhi in eastern Georgia on 6 and 7 October to champion human rights, equality, inclusion, climate-smart development, and Georgia's European aspirations.
The European Union (EU) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), in partnership with Lagodekhi Municipality, presented the captivating People & Planet Festival, conveying a powerful message about the pivotal role of individual and collective actions in shaping a sustainable society that prioritizes both people and the planet. The event placed particular emphasis on the active involvement of youth in shaping the future of their country.
The event also showcased the substantial support provided by the European Union to Georgia and its citizens, spotlighting several flagship EU-funded initiatives undertaken in partnership with UNDP.
"At UNDP, we believe that by empowering young people, we are sowing the seeds for a more inclusive, equitable, and sustainable future for all. Working hand in hand with the European Union and our national partners, we are reaching out to every region of Georgia to inspire positive change and amplify the voices of Georgia's youth," remarked Anna Chernyshova, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. in Georgia.
"The European Union is committed to supporting Georgia on its path towards sustainable development. By engaging with the youth and focusing on human rights and climate action, we are nurturing the next generation of leaders who will drive positive change for people and the planet," said Daniel Rackowski, Attaché for Civil Society and Democracy at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia.
The People & Planet Festival offered a range of engaging activities such as outdoor games for youth, a photography masterclass for young visual artists, and a Human Rights Talk centred around the right to education, presented by esteemed Georgian public figures, including:
The Lagodekhi People's Theatre dazzled the audience with an educational puppet show titled "How Words Can Harm," featuring endearing puppets that conveyed important lessons on data privacy and digital security.
The event culminated in a spirited Boccia game, a paralympic sport played by athletes with physical disabilities. Two remarkable teams from Lagodekhi and Sighnaghi municipalities showcased their unique sporting talents, inviting the audience to celebrate inclusion and dismantle stigma and stereotypes.
The People & Planet Festival brought together decision-makers, local communities, representatives from civil society, and the private sector. Along with the EU and UNDP representatives, the event was hosted by Jondo Mdivnishvili, Lagodekhi Municipality Mayor, and Nino Batiashvili, Deputy Mayor. Notable attendees included H.E. Vesselin Petrov Valkanov, Ambassador of the Republic of Bulgaria to Georgia; Marcos Granados Gómez, Chargé d’Affaires ad interim of the Kingdom of Spain to Georgia; Niko Tatulashvili, Human Rights Advisor to the Prime Minister of Georgia; Lia Gigauri, First Deputy State Minister for Reconciliation and Civic Equality; Nikoloz Popiashvili, Chief of Staff at the Personal Data Protection Service, along with other officials.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/248806-together-people-and-planet




Date: 21 September 2023
Title: Fostering Peace: The Art of Creative Communication
Content: 21 September 2023
EU and UNDP Support Peace Initiatives by Local Community Organizations
On the occasion of the International Day of Peace, celebrated worldwide on 21 September, the town of Gori witnessed a grassroots gathering that united diverse groups, including conflict-affected women, youth, internally displaced persons, and residents living near the Administrative Boundary Line with South Ossetia/Tskhinvali region.
This community event, aligning with the global Peace Day theme "Actions for Peace", was organised by the local women-led organization “Peace Research Centre Tbilisi”, committed to promoting a culture of peace, understanding, and respect for diversity. The celebration was supported by the European Union (EU) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), as part of the EU4Dialogue project.
The event emphasized the significance of constructive communication techniques to replace confrontational styles and foster empathy and compassion within and among communities affected by conflict. Participants engaged in a hands-on workshop where they honed their verbal and nonverbal communication skills, through tango dance moves, enhancing their capacity to navigate emotions and interpersonal interactions effectively, build understanding between people, and prevent conflicts from happening.
"On this International Day of Peace, we stand with those affected by conflict, striving for a peaceful future. We firmly believe that open and respectful communication can break down bias and stereotypes, fostering understanding between people," said Anna Chernyshova, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. in Georgia.
The EU and UNDP, under the EU4Dialogue programme, work with over 20 Georgian civil society and community organizations aiming to bolster support for conflict-affected communities and foster social cohesion. Key initiatives include entrepreneurial training for rural women, support for youth groups and environmental activists, and facilitating community dialogues on peaceful conflict transformation, human rights, and equality.
###
EU4Dialogue: Support to Conflict Transformation in the South Caucasus and the Republic of Moldova is a collaborative initiative between the EU and UNDP within the broader EU4Dialogue program. This initiative partners with local civil society organizations and grassroots groups to enhance socio-economic conditions, promote livelihoods, advance gender equality, encourage youth involvement, and facilitate the peaceful transformation of conflicts.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/246874-fostering-peace-art-creative-communication




Date: 15 September 2023
Title: Georgia: UN expert hails policy progress on disability rights, urges practical implementation
Content: 15 September 2023
GENEVA (14 September 2023)
A UN expert today lauded Georgia’s progress towards an inclusive and rights-based environment for persons with disabilities and urged practical implementation of the policies.
“In recent years, Georgia has undertaken legislative and policy reforms at an unprecedented pace to apply human rights standards in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which the country ratified in 2014,” said Gerard Quinn, Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities, in a statement at the end of a 10-day official visit to the country.
“In particular, the 2020 Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is a ground-breaking step forward that can generate concrete change if practically implemented,” Quinn said.
“There is genuine willingness to move away from the historical legacy of a medical approach to disability based on ableism and paternalistic attitudes,” the expert said. “The effort now is to replace them with core values for an inclusive society in which persons with disabilities can be active citizens on an equal basis with others,” he said.
Quinn said the outdated medicalised assessments used to determine disability status play a role in perpetuating misconceptions about disability.
“I welcome Georgia’s plan to move to a biopsychosocial model of disability which is paramount to shift mindsets and make sure that everyone has access to services and support based on their individual needs and barriers they experience,” he said.
The UN expert particularly welcomed the readiness of public authorities, both at central and local levels, to closely consult persons with disabilities, their representative organisations, and civil society. He further noted the importance of transparent and impartial support to all organisations of persons with disabilities, especially at grassroot level.
The expert said that setting priorities is difficult in the absence of reliable and disaggregated data on persons with disabilities and especially on the barriers they face.
“Better understanding the different needs of persons with disabilities is paramount for the development of effective support services to enable independent living,” he said.
The expert lauded Georgia’s commitment to deinstitutionalisation and said that in order to succeed, it must be accompanied by a holistic development of community and home-based services.
Quinn recognised the potential of the decentralisation reforms underway to make services more accessible and targeted as long as sufficient resources are provided to municipalities.
“While recent legislative reforms are trending in the right direction, implementation remains a key challenge. Much remains to be done, for example on accessibility to the physical and digital environment, labour inclusion and economic empowerment, education, mental health, legal capacity, and access to justice,” the expert said.
The Special Rapporteur will present a detailed report on his visit including findings and recommendations to the Human Rights Council in March 2024.

ENDS

Gerard Quinn (Ireland) is the UN Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities, appointed by the Human Rights Council in October 2020. Mr Quinn holds two research chairs at the Raoul Wallenberg Institute on Human Rights in the University of Lund (Sweden) and Leeds University (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland). He was the lead focal point for the global network of National Human Rights Institutions (NHRIs) during the negotiations leading to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and was head of delegation for Rehabilitation International during the UN Working Group (2004). He previously held a chair at the National University of Ireland where he founded and directed the Centre on Disability Law and Policy.

The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.

UN Human Rights country page: Georgia

For media enquiries and additional information, please contact:

In Geneva: Barbora Zamrska at barbora.zamrska@un.org; hrc-sr-disability@un.org

For media inquiries related to other UN independent experts, please contact Maya Derouaz (maya.derouaz@un.org) or Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org)

Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone's rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/246067-georgia-un-expert-hails-policy-progress-disability-rights-urges-practical-implementation




Date: 01 September 2023
Title: Georgia: UN expert to assess human rights of persons with disabilities
Content: 01 September 2023
The UN Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities, Gerard Quinn, will conduct an official visit to Georgia from 4 to 14 September 2023.
The UN Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities, Gerard Quinn, will conduct an official visit to Georgia from 4 to 14 September 2023.
During hist visit, Quinn will examine laws, policies and concrete measures that the Government is taking to protect, promote and the rights of persons with disabilities in the country. The visit is taking place at the invitation of the Government.
The expert will travel to Tbilisi, the Kakheti region and other areas to meet with Government authorities, the office of the Public Defender, persons with disabilities and their representative organisations, civil society, UN agencies.
He will also visit institutions for people with disabilities, psychiatric facilities, and establishments providing services for persons with disabilities.
The Special Rapporteur will hold a press conference on Thursday 14 September at 2 p.m. local time at the Courtyard by Marriott Hotel in Tbilisi, 4 Freedom Square, Tbilisi, Georgia. Access will be strictly limited to journalists.
The expert will present his report to the Human Rights Council in March 2024.
ENDS
Gerard Quinn (Ireland) is the UN Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities, appointed by the Human Rights Council in October 2020. Mr Quinn holds two research chairs at the Raoul Wallenberg Institute on Human Rights in the University of Lund (Sweden) and Leeds University (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland). He was the lead focal point for the global network of National Human Rights nstitutions (NHRIs) during the negotiations leading to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and was head of delegation for Rehabilitation International during the UN Working Group (2004). He previously held a chair at the National University of Ireland where he founded and directed the Centre on Disability Law and Policy.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights country page: Georgia
For media enquiries and additional information, please contact:
In Geneva: Barbora Zamrska at barbora.zamrska@un.org; hrc-sr-disability@un.org
In Tbilisi: Meri Makharashvili at +995 599 500 137
For media inquiries related to other UN independent experts, please contact Maya Derouaz (maya.derouaz@un.org) or Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone's rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/244791-georgia-un-expert-assess-human-rights-persons-disabilities




Date: 23 August 2023
Title: UNDP Georgia bids farewell to Nick Beresford
Content: 23 August 2023
Statement on passing of Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia
It is with a heavy heart that we share the news of the untimely passing of Nick Beresford, Resident Representative of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Georgia.
We extend our deepest condolences to Nick’s family during this incredibly difficult time. Our thoughts are with his wife, Angela, their children, Anna and Kit, and all his many friends and admirers around the world. In this moment of grief, we stand by their side, offering our support and sharing in their sorrow.
We are immensely grateful to the dedicated doctors and medical personnel at the Aleksander Aladashvili Clinic in Tbilisi, who fought tirelessly for Nick’s life.
Nick Beresford will forever be warmly remembered in Georgia as an extraordinary person who managed to combine consummate professionalism with a witty and self-deprecating sense of humor.
He was that rare person in UNDP who could claim qualifications at once as an auditor, an economist and a specialist in English literature – intertwining all these skills to deliver uniquely capable leadership.
His unwavering commitment to upholding UN values for everyone everywhere made a profound impact on UNDP's work. He was a resolute champion for human rights, deftly supporting the LGBTQI community in the most difficult of contexts. He believed in delivering tangible results to people in need, and he was happiest when visiting families and communities whose lives were transformed thanks to UNDP’s work.
Throughout his two years in Georgia, Nick earned the trust and respect of all who had the privilege of knowing him. His kindness and humility instantly won the hearts of the entire UNDP Georgia team.
The grief at his passing is global, extending from Tbilisi across the entire UNDP family to the many locations scattered across the globe where he served during his two decades of UN work: Cambodia, Bangladesh, Somalia, East Timor and New York. In life, Nick was a friend and role model to many; in death, may his legacy inspire us in our human duty to love one another and our mission to create a better world for all.
As we bid farewell to Nick Beresford, a book of condolences will be opened at the UN House in Tbilisi (9 R. Eristavi Street, Tbilisi, Georgia) from 10:00 to 18:00 on 24 and 25 August 2023. This book will serve as a testament to the lasting impact he had on the lives of those he touched.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/243386-undp-georgia-bids-farewell-nick-beresford




Date: 04 August 2023
Title: UN Joint Statement on Shovi Landslide
Content: 04 August 2023
The United Nations in Georgia expresses profound sorrow over the lives lost due to the tragic landslide in Shovi, Racha on August 3rd.



The United Nations in Georgia expresses profound sorrow over the lives lost due to the tragic landslide in Shovi, Racha on August 3rd. The UN extends its sincere condolences to the people and Government of Georgia, especially those who have lost family members in this disaster. Our hearts go out to those who are still unaccounted for, the injured, and the survivors. We recognize the heightened susceptibility of certain groups, including women and children, to the impacts of such disasters.
We commend the heroism of the first responders, rescuers, and police who continue to work tirelessly on the ground to ensure the safety and well-being of all those affected.
The UN stands in solidarity with the people of Georgia during this challenging time. We stand ready to support the government, local authorities, and humanitarian partners in coordinating efforts to increase the resilience of communities at risk of natural hazards.
The landslide in Shovi, triggered by intense rainfall and natural damming of the river, is a stark reminder of the escalating impact of climate change, not just in Georgia, but worldwide. It underscores the urgency of the global community's commitment to climate action, resilience building and disaster risk reduction.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/240950-un-joint-statement-shovi-landslide




Date: 01 August 2023
Title: Special Investigation Service Conducts Training Supported by EU and UN OHCHR
Content: 01 August 2023
The training focused on effective communication and issues related to torture and inhuman treatment.
Due to the increasing number of referrals of cases to the Special Investigation Service (SIS) and the need to enhance the capacity of employees within the newly created Devision for the Protection of Victims' Rights, a two-day training was conducted in Batumi for staff of this Department. The training focused on effective communication and issues related to torture and inhuman treatment.
The event was held with the support of the European Union (EU) and organized by the South Caucasus field presence of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UN OHCHR). Attendees included representatives from the administrative and public relations department of the SIS, as well as personnel from the hotline, the citizen reception, and the victims' rights protection division.
"The training program of effective communication included familiarization with the basic techniques, which in the future will help the employees of the service to manage communication in a way that will reduce the negative mood of the citizen and make the process more effective." - noted the Deputy Head of the SIS, Natia Songhulashvili.
The Senior Human Rights Adviser of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in the South Caucasus, Vladimir Shkolnikov, emphasized the importance of creating a new devision in the SIS, which will be specifically focused on protecting the rights of victims. "This represents an important step forward in our commitment to promote human rights and ensure justice for all."
“We recognize that effective communication with victims is critical. Therefore, we support the capacity building actions of service employees, especially those who have the first contact with victims, to handle this relationship with professionalism and empathy," – he said.
The training was be led by experts on the topics - Giorgi Chkheidze and Nino Chaladze. Participants discussed the specific features of effective communication in the field of services, the main principles, the mechanisms for effectively dealing with citizens' prejudices and emotional background, as well as the main principles of fighting against torture, inhuman and degrading treatment, protecting the rights and interests of torture victims, and the crime of hate-motivated torture.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/240562-special-investigation-service-conducts-training-supported-eu-and-un-ohchr




Date: 17 July 2023
Title: Setting Stage for Carbon-Neutral Future
Content: 17 July 2023
Georgia Presents Long-Term Low-Emission Development Strategy, with Support from EU and UNDP
The Government of Georgia unveiled its first-ever Long-Term Low Emission Development Strategy (Lt-LEDS) 2050, which was officially adopted on 24 April 2023. The Lt-LEDS sets the stage for Georgia’s carbon-neutral future and will be instrumental in updating the national Climate Action Plan 2023-2025, outlining a clear roadmap towards sustainable, low-emission growth.
The Lt-LEDS adheres to the main principles of the Paris Agreement and aligns with Georgia's unique national realities. It serves as a vital compass, providing essential guidance on greenhouse gas reduction trajectories and presenting priority measures tailored to specific sectors, including energy, building, transport, industry, agriculture, waste, land use, and forestry.
This groundbreaking document, developed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture in collaboration with public agencies and civil society partners, received significant support from the European Union (EU) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Working closely with the Government, civil society, and international partners, the EU and UNDP, through their regional EU4Climate programme, provided technical assistance, consultancy, and expert support in developing Georgia’s first-ever Lt-LEDS in line with the best practices of the EU Member States.
"The Government of Georgia is strongly committed to addressing climate change and ensuring a sustainable future for our citizens,” said Otar Shamugia, Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia, at the public presentation of the Lt-LEDS held in Tbilisi on 17 July. “This Low-Emission Development Strategy sets a clear course towards carbon neutrality and will guide our efforts to create a climate-resilient economy and protect our environment for generations to come."
"The European Union commends Georgia on the adoption of its Long-Term Low Emission Development Strategy. We are proud to have supported Georgia in shaping its vision for carbon neutrality and smart technology development and look forward to continued collaboration in its implementation," said H.E. Pawel Herczynski, Ambassador of the European Union to Georgia.
Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia, noted that the Lt-LEDS marks a significant milestone for Georgia's sustainable development journey. “We congratulate the Government of Georgia on this achievement and reaffirm our commitment to supporting the country's efforts in realizing its climate ambitions.”
The other speakers at the event included Romeo Mikautadze, Deputy Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development of Georgia; Maia Bitadze, Head of the Parliamentary Committee on Environmental Protection and Natural Resources; Nino Tandilashvili, Deputy Minister of Environment Protection and Agriculture of Georgia; and Maia Tskhvaradze, Head of Climate Change Division at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia.
###
The Lt-LEDS can be accessed at:
https://www.undp.org/georgia/publications/georgia-low-emission-development-strategy-2050
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/239812-setting-stage-carbon-neutral-future




Date: 14 July 2023
Title: Jesper Moller is UNICEF’s new Representative in Georgia
Content: 14 July 2023
The newly appointed Representative of UNICEF in Georgia, Mr Jesper Moller, officially presented his credentials to the first Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Georgia, Lasha Darsalia, thereby formally commencing his official duties.
"I am so delighted to be in Georgia with the important mission to advance the rights of all children, especially the most vulnerable," said Jesper Moller. "I look forward to working together with my colleagues and our national and international partners to improve the lives of children and their families in Georgia. It is crucial to join efforts to ensure that every child is given equal opportunities in accessing quality health, education, and protection services to reach their full potential"
Jesper Moller is joining UNICEF Georgia as Representative after serving with UNICEF and other UN agencies in different management and technical capacities for more than 22 years.
Mr Moller joined UNICEF in 1999 and worked in India, Thailand, Zambia, United States, Viet Nam, Somalia and South Sudan. Before joining UNICEF, he worked in South Africa with national NGOs focusing on economic development research advancing the rights of vulnerable rural women.
Jesper Moller is a Danish national and holds a master’s degree in economics from University of Copenhagen with concentration on Development Economics, International Political Economics and Human Rights and Democracy.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/239813-jesper-moller-unicef%E2%80%99s-new-representative-georgia




Date: 26 June 2023
Title: Human Rights Summer School 2023 Fosters Equality and Inclusion
Content: 26 June 2023
EU, UNDP, and OHCHR Empower Georgian Youth to Become Human Rights  Advocates
A five-day Human Rights Summer School held in the town of Kvareli on 19-23 June, brought together over 25 young people from across Georgia, fostering their understanding of fundamental principles of human rights, equality, and social inclusion. Organized by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), in collaboration with the Training Centre of Justice of Georgia and with support from the European Union (EU), the event aimed to empower the youth and equip them with the knowledge necessary to promote human rights within their communities.
The programme incorporated a unique blend of educational activities, team-building exercises, and cultural events to engage the participants. Insightful discussions focused on the rights of minorities, the role of youth in civic integration, the combating of disinformation and hate speech, the protection of gender equality in public offices and families, and the elimination of all forms of discrimination and violence. Furthermore, the Summer School participants delved into international and national mechanisms of human rights protection and the prospects of fostering a human rights-based society both in Georgia and across the world.
“Education empowers young people with the necessary knowledge and tools to become effective advocates for human rights," said H.E. Pawel Herczynski, Ambassador of the European Union to Georgia. "The European Union supports Human Rights Summer School in line with our commitment to promoting equality, inclusion, and justice for all."
“At UNDP, we believe that fostering a generation of human rights defenders is a crucial step towards building sustainable and equitable societies,” said Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia. "We are excited to see the enthusiasm and dedication of young people in becoming human rights advocates and driving transformative change within their communities and their country."
“OHCHR supports efforts to strengthen the rule of law, combat discrimination, and mitigate human rights violations in Georgia. As participants of this Human Rights Summer School, you possess the power to ignite change and create a more just society. The energy of young people is much needed in carrying out the responsibility we all share in defending and promoting human rights." - Senior Human Rights Advisor for the South Caucasus Presence of the Office of the United Nations High Commisioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), Vladimir Shkolnikov told the School youth participants.
The annual Human Rights Summer School draws on Human Rights for All, a US$3 million EU-funded flagship programme implemented by two UN agencies, UNDP and OHCHR, to assist Georgia in strengthening human rights protection and addressing the remaining issues of concern.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/238150-human-rights-summer-school-2023-fosters-equality-and-inclusion




Date: 19 June 2023
Title: Secretary-General’s message on the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict
Content: 19 June 2023
19 June 2023
The use of sexual violence as a tactic of war, torture and repression is widespread in the conflicts that affect hundreds of millions of people around the world
Harrowing reports from across the globe are a terrible reminder that this despicable crime persists despite international commitments to stamp it out. And many of those responsible never face justice. While stigma too often causes survivors to walk in shame, perpetrators walk free.
Today, on the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict, we stand in solidarity with survivors and everyone supporting them. And we commit to redoubling our efforts to prevent atrocities and hold those responsible to account.
That means listening to survivors. It means governments incorporating international humanitarian law into national laws, military rules and training. And it means holding perpetrators to account, so that they face justice – we must confront the belief that fighters can inflict horror with impunity.
This year’s International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict focuses on technology and the digital divide. Accessible technology can alert people to danger, help them to reach sanctuary and support, and enable abuses to be documented and verified, as a first step towards accountability. But it can also perpetuate violence, harm survivors and inflame hate. We must ensure technology supports our efforts to prevent and end these crimes, including by increasing access and holding people to account for their actions online.
Together, we must turn rhetoric into response, and commitments into action, to make the promises to end sexual violence in conflict a reality.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/237121-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-message-international-day-elimination-sexual-violence-conflict




Date: 19 June 2023
Title: Representatives of Norwegian Embassy and UNICEF visit education institutions in Adjara to learn about the progress in improving inclusive and quality education
Content: 19 June 2023
The project is being implemented in close partnership with the Ministry of Education and Science of Georgia and funded by the Government of Norway.
Marko Soldic, Chargé d’Affaires a.i. of the Norway Embassy to Georgia and Armenia, Amy Clancy, Officer in Charge, UNICEF Representative in Georgia and Maia Khajishvili, Minister of Education, Culture and Sport of Adjara visited education institutions in Adjara to learn about the progress in implementation of the joint project ‘Building Inclusive, Equitable and Quality Pre-school and General Education systems for Children in Georgia’. The project is being implemented by UNICEF in close partnership with the Ministry of Education and Science of Georgia and funded by the Government of Norway.
Launching of inclusive, after school education models in Keda and Kobuleti public schools was among the initiatives supported by this joint project. The initiative aimed at expanding educational opportunities for children with special educational needs and disabilities through supporting the establishment of inclusive education centers and development of extracurricular programmes. Educational opportunities were expanded by:
In partnership with National Center for Teacher Professional Development, teachers and educators in pre-school institutions were trained and equipped with educational materials to reach children with diverse learning styles to facilitate learning and development of every child.

UNICEF, in cooperation with Innovations for Inclusive Society, established resource rooms in ten public schools to strengthen the inclusion of children with special needs in education.  As part of the initiative, educational materials, computer equipment and special furniture were handed over to these schools to support functioning of the resource rooms. Teachers and special educators were also trained in the use of the developmental and educational materials considering diverse needs and interests of children. To build a strong culture of parent-teacher cooperation, parents’ clubs were established in the schools. The initiative also leveraged a close cooperation between schools and vocational institutions to support children with disabilities and special educational needs in their successful transition from general to vocational/higher education levels.
Access to inclusive and quality compulsory education is limited for children, especially from the most socially and economically marginalized groups. While the system opens doors to children with special educational needs and disabilities, there is a recognized need for teachers and educational professionals to have enhanced knowledge and support to fully meet the diverse needs of children and facilitate their meaningful participation in the learning process and school activities. Lack of after school programmes is one of the impediments for full inclusion of children with special educational needs and disabilities.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/256223-representatives-norwegian-embassy-and-unicef-visit-education-institutions-adjara-learn-about




Date: 14 June 2023
Title: UN calls for coordinated global action on disinformation hate and artificial intelligence
Content: 14 June 2023
The policy brief is the latest in a series based on proposals contained in Our Common Agenda, the Secretary-General’s 2021 report that outlines a vision for future global cooperation and multilateral action.
The world must address the “grave global harm” caused by the proliferation of hate and lies in the digital space, United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres said at the launch of his report into information integrity on digital platforms.
 
Alarm over the potential threat posed by the rapid development of generative artificial intelligence must not obscure the damage already being done by digital technologies that enable the spread of online hate speech, mis- and disinformation, stressed the UN chief.
 
Digital platforms have brought many benefits, supporting communities in times of crisis and struggle, elevating marginalized voices and helping to mobilize global movements for racial justice and gender equality. They help the UN to engage people around the world in pursuit of peace, dignity and human rights on a healthy planet. 
 
Yet these same digital platforms are being misused to subvert science and spread disinformation and hate to billions of people, fueling conflict, threatening democracy and human rights, and undermining public health and climate action.
 
This clear and present global threat demands coordinated international action to make the digital space safer and more inclusive while vigorously protecting human rights.
 
Existing responses have, to a large extent, been lacking. Some tech companies have done far too little, too late to prevent their platforms from contributing to the spread of violence and hatred, while Governments have sometimes resorted to drastic measures – including blanket internet shutdowns and bans – that lack any legal basis and infringe on human rights.
 
The policy brief puts forward the framework for a concerted global response though a Code of Conduct for information integrity on digital platforms, outlining potential guardrails to contain this runaway threat while safeguarding freedom of expression and information.
 
It includes the following proposals to be built on in a Code of Conduct:
 
Governments, tech companies and other stakeholders should refrain from using, supporting, or amplifying disinformation and hate speech for any purpose.
 
Governments should guarantee a free, viable, independent, and plural media landscape, with strong protections for journalists.
 
Digital platforms should ensure safety and privacy by design in all products, alongside consistent application of policies and resources across countries and languages.
 
All stakeholders should take urgent and immediate measures to ensure that all AI applications are safe, secure, responsible and ethical, and comply with human rights obligations.
 
Tech companies should move away from business models that prioritize engagement above human rights, privacy, and safety.
 
Advertisers and digital platforms should ensure that ads are not placed next to online mis- or disinformation or hate speech, and that ads containing disinformation are not promoted.
 
Digital platforms should ensure meaningful transparency and allow researchers and academics access to data, while respecting user privacy.
 
The policy brief is the latest in a series based on proposals contained in Our Common Agenda, the Secretary-General’s 2021 report that outlines a vision for future global cooperation and multilateral action. Together, the briefs are intended to inform discussions ahead of the SDG Summit in September, marking the midpoint towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, and the related Summit of the Future next year.
The policy brief is available at https://www.un.org/en/common-agenda/policy-briefs

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/236776-un-calls-coordinated-global-action-disinformation-hate-and-artificial-intelligence




Date: 14 June 2023
Title: Mr. Kaha Imnadze of Georgia - Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of the United Nations Regional Centre for Preventive Diplomacy for Central Asia (UNRCCA)
Content: 14 June 2023
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres announced today the appointment of Kaha Imnadze of Georgia as his Special Representative and Head of the United Nations Regional Centre for Preventive Diplomacy for Central Asia (UNRCCA).
Mr. Imnadze succeeds Ms. Natalia Gherman of Moldova who was appointed as Executive Director of the Counter-Terrorism Executive Directorate and to whom the Secretary-General is grateful for her dedication and leadership of UNRCCA.
 
Mr. Imnadze brings to the position over 30 years of experience in diplomacy, civil service and business.  Joining his country’s Foreign Service in 1989, he possesses extensive experience in diplomacy, negotiation, and mediation; foreign, defence and security policy; conflict resolution and political risk assessment.  Mr. Imnadze is currently serving as Ambassador of Georgia to Canada and Permanent Representative to the International Civil Aviation Organization. Previously, he served as Permanent Representative of Georgia to the United Nations from 2013 to 2022.  Mr. Imnadze has also spent 10 years in the private sector working on issues of political risk assessment and investment.
 
Mr. Imnadze is a graduate of Tbilisi State University.  He speaks Georgian, English and Russian.
 
are
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/236429-mr-kaha-imnadze-georgia-special-representative-secretary-general-and-head-united-nations




Date: 07 June 2023
Title: The World Food Safety Day in Georgia
Content: 07 June 2023
No matter what we do or where we are, we play an important role in making sure – food is safe and healthy to eat.
On 7 June Georgia joined the world to celebrate the World Food Safety Day (WFSD), which was founded five years ago jointly by the Food and Agriculture Organization of United Nations (FAO) and World Health Organization (WHO) at the United Nations General Assembly.
The theme of the World Food Safety Day 2023 was „Food Standards Save Lives“. With this message, the National Food Agency of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, National Center for Disease Control and Public Health of Georgia and the Georgian Technical University joined forces to mark the World Food Safety Day together with their partners and donor organizations.
The celebration aimed to raise awareness about importance of the food safety standards, as well as the ways to avoid food borne diseases. The fifth World Food Safety Day drew attention and inspire action to help prevent, detect and manage foodborne risks, contributing to food security, human health, economic prosperity, agricultural production, market access, tourism and sustainable development.
Two major events were held in Tbilisi to make sure that we had a possibility to reach various audiences of every age starting from children to grownups including future professionals of the Food Safety Field.
The organizers and guests of the event that took place in Rike Park (Tbilisi, Georgia) marked the day with thematic, informative and entertaining activities and the agrarian market. The Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia, Chair of Committee on Agrarian Issues at Parliament of Georgia, Head of the National Food Agency, FAO and WHO Representatives in Georgia addressed the public.
„The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture and the National Food Agency traditionally join the World Food Safety Day. The government has a complex approach to food safety and it includes the involvement of all parts of the chain such as the producers, consumers, and state agencies. This year the main message is "food standards save lives". To protect health and interests of consumers, food safety standards and systematic approach are key in our policy. Marking such days aim to increase awareness among people”, said the Deputy Minister of the Environmental Protection and Agriculture, Kakha Kakabadze.
„Improvement and constant development of the food safety standards are one of the top priorities for our organization. Four Betters: Better Production, Better Nutrition, Better Environment and Better Life as the main components of the FAO Strategic Framework 2022-31 play an important role in achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), where implementation of the well-developed Food Safety system is a crucial component in reaching Agenda 2030,“ said Raimund Jehle, the FAO Representative in Georgia.
Another event that took place on the World Food Safety Day was a public lecture „Food Safety is Everyone’s Business“, held at the Faculty of Agricultural Sciences and Biosystems Engineering of the Georgian Technical University (Tbilisi, Georgia).
For the students and invited guests, the lecture covered the zoonotic and food-related infections and the importance of traceability of animal products and the "from farm to table" principle in improving food safety. The lecture was presented by the Scientific Director at the National Center for Disease Control and Public Health of Georgia, Prof. Paata Imnadze, and by Mr. Mikheil Sokhadze, the project team leader at FAO Georgia.
According to FAO, one in ten people worldwide falls ill from contaminated food each year. It affects all countries. Over 200 diseases are caused by eating food contaminated with bacteria, viruses, parasites or chemical substances such as heavy metals. Children under five make up 9 percent of the population, but carry 40 percent of the foodborne disease burden. According to WHO, 1 600 000 people get sick due to unsafe food in one day, on average.
“Unsafe food can cause communicable to non-communicable diseases. It creates a vicious cycle of disease and malnutrition, particularly affecting infants, young children, elderly and the sick. In addition to contributing to food and nutrition security, a safe food supply and healthy food also supports national economies, trade and tourism, stimulating sustainable development,” said Silviu Domente, WHO representative and the Head of the Country Office in Georgia.

Food safety standards protect the lives of all, and the livelihoods of many. They establish the criteria which food should meet to protect consumers and establish confidence in the product.




UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/236053-world-food-safety-day-georgia




Date: 04 June 2023
Title: UN team's visit to Adjara
Content: 04 June 2023
The Head of UN and representatives of UN agencies visit Adjara to foster stronger ties between the United Nations and the region.
The UN team made up of UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl, UNFPA Head of Office Lela Bakradze,  Assistant FAO Representative Mamuka Meskhi, IOM Field Office Coordinator Nana Papiashvili,  UNHCR Communications Officer Nino Kajaia,  UNFPA Communications and Partnerships Analyst Salome Benidze,  FAO Project Officer Gvantsa Gedenidze, and UNDP Projects Coordinator Irakli Goradze toured the Adjara Autonomous Republic between May 31 and June 1, 2023.
The visit encompassed a wide-ranging agenda, including meetings with government officials, civil society representatives, businesses, and youth.
The UN team had an opportunity to visit the Batumi Independent Living Center and meet its employees: Irma Kiladze, Soso Kazaishvili, Ramin Macharashvili, Temur Kakabadze and Dea Eremashvili. The center, funded by USAID, fills a critical service gap by raising awareness about the needs of persons with disabilities and providing consultations, legal advice, information, and other services to persons with disabilities and those around them.
The UN team met with the Chairperson of the Adjara AR Government Tornike Rizhvadze. Tornike Rizhvadze emphasized the active work of the United Nations agencies in Adjara.
The discussions and interactions throughout the meeting  covered the ongoing cooperation in rural development, food safety, agriculture services, reintegration of migrants, youth development, reproductive health services, telemedicine, gender equality, support to IDPs and Ukrainian refugees.
The UN team met with Batumi City Mayor Archil Chiqovani and the director of Ltd. Sandasuptaveba Sulkhan Evgenidze. The discussions at the meeting focused on the UN’s longstanding relationship with the municipality. The sides also discussed the prospects for strengthening cooperation in urban transportation, waste management, tourism,  inclusive education,  youth development, and environment protection.
The UN team also visited the  Machakheli National Park visitor’s centre and the highland village of Upper Chkhutuneti, where UNDP helps protect unique biodiversity, promote green solutions in tourism and farming, and create economic opportunities for the communities living in close vicinity of the park.
The UN team checked on the progress of rural development and ecosystem conservation projects rolled out with invaluable support of the European Union in Georgia, the Global Environment Facility, the Embassy of Japan in Georgia, the German Embassy  and the QATAR Embassy in Tbilisi, and cooperation with  the Government of Adjara and the Batumi City Hall.
The UN team visited  the Guesthouse "Woodhide" in the Machakhela National Park, supported through ENPARD and UNDP programme; the Gvianidze family, beneficiary of fuelwood alternatives (solar water heater  and biomass fuel) piloted in 2017, and the  Putkaradze family, beneficiary of the human-wildlife conflict mitigation pilot program.
The UN team had the opportunity to visit local businesses, including the Nuri Sirabidze Wine Cellar in  the village of Gegelidzeebi, Keda Municipality, supported through FAO initiatives. the Nuri Sirabidze Wine Cellar owns a 6 000 square meter vineyard, growing 20 varieties  of vine grapes and producing natural wines.
Together with Sulkhan Evgenidze, director of Ltd. Sandasuptaveba, the UN team visited the municipal waste sorting facility to get first-hand information about  sustainable waste management practices in Batumi.
During the visit, the UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl and the Rector of the Batumi Shota Rustaveli State University Merab Khalvashi inaugurated the SDG Space at the Batumi Shota Rustaveli University. Established with the support of UN Department of Global Communications/UNO Tbilisi, the space aims at engaging young people towards advocating for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
On May 31, an “Equality Corner” opened at the Shota Ananidze Public School in the village of Tskhmorisi, Keda municipality, at the initiative of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). More than 200 books on gender equality, empowerment of women and girls, tolerance and human rights have been added to the school library. The “Equality Corner” in the village of Tskhmorisi, which is already the sixteenth in Georgia, has been launched within the UN Joint Programme “For Gender Equality” by UNFPA, with the financial support of Sweden.
As part of the visit, the UN team attended the opening of a “Happy Space facility in Batumi” for refugee youth from Ukraine. Established by the World Vision Georgia, the space aims at supporting and empowering of Ukrainian Children and their parents. The opening of the space was dedicated to the Children’s International Day thus main focus was on children and their families. Activities included games and performance with the group of animators.
On June 1 the UN team together with the Minister of Education of Adjara Maia Khadjishvili visited the Public School #20 in Batumi to meet with the Ukrainian refugee teacher and kids. Refugee children from Ukraine shared their dreams of wanting to become programmers, artists, football players, musicians, and even the ambition of being president with the UN team.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/236064-un-teams-visit-adjara




Date: 01 June 2023
Title: "Equality Corner" opens in the village of Tskhmorisi
Content: 01 June 2023
More than 200 books on gender equality, empowerment of women and girls, tolerance and human rights have been added to the library.
On May 31, an “Equality Corner” opened at the Shota Ananidze Public School in the village of Tskhmorisi, Keda municipality, at the initiative of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), within the UNCT Sabine Machl's visit to Adjara. More than 200 books on gender equality, empowerment of women and girls, tolerance and human rights have been added to the library.
Launching “Equality Corners” in different regions of Georgia is an initiative of the UNFPA that has been implemented since 2018 with the support of partner organizations. This initiative enables adolescents and young people to learn more about the concept of equality through contemporary literature.
For many years now, the UNFPA Georgia Country Office has been actively using innovative approaches to reach the target audience and thereby contribute to social changes.
The “Equality Corner” in the village of Tskhmorisi, which is already the sixteenth in Georgia, has been launched within the UN Joint Programme “For Gender Equality” by UNFPA, with the financial support of Sweden.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/236050-equality-corner-opens-village-tskhmorisi




Date: 21 May 2023
Title: Reducing Salt Intake will save ten thousand lives in Georgia
Content: 21 May 2023
WHO and NCDC launch communications campaign aiming at salt reduction
WHO and National Center for Disease Control and Public Health launched a national salt reduction campaign, “Less salt, better health for Georgia" as part of the National Action plan to reduce the incidence of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in the population. The joint campaign, informed by behavioral insights, aims at raising awareness of the population and decision-makers about risks related to high salt intake and the available policies and techniques for decreasing salt consumption.
High salt consumption is a main risk-factor for arterial hypertension, which is a major cause of Cardio-Vascular Diseases (CVDs), constituting the leading cause of morbidity, disability, and mortality globally and in Georgia, and hindering also socio-economic development. Moreover, more evidence is emerging documenting links between high sodium intake and increased risk of other health conditions such as gastric cancer, obesity, osteoporosis and kidney disease. According to the 2016 STEPS survey, the adult population of Georgia consumes 8.5 g of salt/day and which is significantly higher than the WHO recommended dosage (5 g/day). Salt consumption is even higher - almost 2x than the recommended dosage in men - who are at higher risk for heart disease.
WHO Regional Director for Europe has recently initiated the Signature Initiative to reduce inequalities in cardiovascular disease burden and high blood pressure prevalence through improving hypertension control at primary health care level and implementing salt-reduction strategies. Georgia is one of the first countries in the European region to respond to this initiative.
“According to the latest evidence, reducing salt consumption can result in the highest return on investment. It can save up to 10,000 lives in Georgia over the period of the next 15 years, and the economic gain is equivalent to 19.6 GEL on every 1 GEL spent ” - said Silviu Domente, the WHO Representative and the Head of the WHO Country Office in Georgia.

For more information:
Check the campaign here.
Talking with patients about salt can save their lives: doctors fight hypertension in Georgia

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/232618-reducing-salt-intake-will-save-ten-thousand-lives-georgia%C2%A0




Date: 16 May 2023
Title: Take a stand for human rights for all: stop discrimination and violence against LGBTQI+ persons in Georgia
Content: 16 May 2023
This joint statement is issued by the United Nations system in Georgia, the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, the Embassies to Georgia of Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States, the European Investment Bank’s Regional Representation for the South Caucasus, and the Head of the EU Monitoring Mission in Georgia
On the International Day against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia (IDAHOBIT), we celebrate diversity and call for solidarity with the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and intersex (LGBTQI+) community in Georgia. LGBTQI+ persons continue to experience prejudice, discrimination, stigma, hostility and violence on a daily basis and are prevented from living their lives in dignity as free and equal members of Georgian society.
We welcome the increase in public support for the protection of minority rights in Georgia, as the number of Georgians stating that LGBTQI+ rights must be protected has doubled since 2015.[1] We also welcome the protections against discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity and expression that Georgia’s landmark Law on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination continues to provide since 2014. We acknowledge the efforts of various state institutions and civil society organizations in ensuring full protection of human rights and freedoms.
We are concerned that despite these efforts, progress has stalled. Newly adopted national policy documents, such as the National Human Rights Strategy 2022-2030, the State Concept of Georgia on Gender Equality and the national development strategy Vision 2030 do not include measures to strengthen protection and inclusion of LGBTQI+ persons. Stigmatization, discriminatory language and hate speech by some public officials, politicians, media and religious figures incite further harassment against LGBTQI+ persons and threaten their lives. Instigators and many perpetrators of open acts of violence against LGBTQI+ individuals in recent years, including during Pride Week in July 2021, have not been brought to justice, thus further limiting the opportunity for LGBTQI+ persons to exercise their right to peaceful assembly.
Exclusion of any member of society perpetuates social, economic and political inequality and injustice for everyone, thus hampering further development of Georgia’s democracy. We call upon Georgian state, political, civic and religious leaders to stand up and speak out against hate, discrimination and violence and to work together with the LGBTQI+ communities to ensure full enjoyment of everyone’s rights. We call on the Government of Georgia to align state policy and practice with Georgia’s international commitments to safeguard the rights of LGBTQI+ persons and to promote an inclusive society where everyone is safe and free to make decisions about their bodies and their lives. As Georgia’s international supporters, we stand ready to continue working alongside Georgian partners towards these goals.

[1] Women’s Initiatives Support Group (WISG)/SIDA/UNW/UNDP/UNFPA, (2022), ‘From Prejudice to Equality: Study on Public Knowledge, Awareness and Attitudes towards LGBT(Q)I Community and Legal Equality’, retrieved from: https://bit.ly/3KN7hh3


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/231680-take-stand-human-rights-all-stop-discrimination-and-violence-against-lgbtqi-persons-georgia




Date: 11 May 2023
Title: UN Country Team in Georgia Releases 2022 Annual Results Report
Content: 11 May 2023
The United Nations Country Team (UNCT) in Georgia released its annual report for the year 2022.
The report details efforts of UN entities, contributing to Georgia advancing national development priorities and the Sustainable Development Goals for the benefit of all people in Georgia – particularly vulnerable and marginalized groups including persons with disabilities.
The report highlights the progress made in the five priority areas identified in the UNSDCF, which include rights-based and accountable governance and justice, inclusive economy and human capital development, equal and inclusive access to quality services, human security and resilience, sustainable environment and climate change.
Human rights remained core to the UN work in Georgia. Among the achievements of the United Nations is the development of the  National Human Rights Strategy 2022-2030, the State Concept on Gender Equality and the National Action Plan on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence for 2022–2024 as well as municipal social programmes and gender equality action plans, which are central to promoting human rights and gender equality.
The UN  supported the Government in fulfilling the obligations under the  Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Good progress was made in developing more inclusive legislation including the National Rehabilitation Strategy and Action Plan, introducing the biopsychosocial assessment of persons with disabilities, and integrating rights and needs of persons with disabilities in health and social services.
Another key focus was fostering competitiveness of Georgian businesses, improving Georgia’s food resilience, tackling climate change, and strengthening institutions and other key areas.The report also provides an overview of UN’s support to conflict affected communities to enable them to enjoy human rights, enhanced human security and resilience.
“The past few years have been especially difficult as the world and this region navigated extreme uncertainty and the complex impact of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the COVID-19 pandemic and the climate crisis. In 2022, the UN supported Georgia in tackling these ongoing and new challenges, strengthening resilience and prioritizing progress towards sustainable development with a total of 56 million USD worth of programming,” says Dr. Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, in her foreword to the report.
Find out more about the UN’s achievements in 2022 by downloading the report, accessible here

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/231165-un-country-team-georgia-releases-2022-annual-results-report




Date: 08 May 2023
Title: Young Talent Pipeline: UNEP calls on young professionals with a passion for the environment
Content: 08 May 2023
The UN Environment Programme (UNEP) has launched the Young Talent Pipeline, in partnership with the United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme. This new initiative aims at increasing the diversity of experiences and solutions to solve the triple planetary crisis of climate change, nature loss and pollution and waste.
UNEP is actively seeking young, passionate, and skilled talent from less represented regions of the world to join the organization and become the environmental leaders of tomorrow. This online recruitment drive will last until 15 May 2023.
This is your chance to help us all work together to protect our Earth; your chance to help us shape your own future. --Inger Andersen, Executive Director of UNEP, speaking to potential applicants in a video message
The pipeline targets professionals below the age of 33 in the early stages of their careers with a relevant postgraduate degree, a minimum of three years of relevant work experience, and a passion to work for people and planet.
More than 50 years since the founding of UNEP and UNV, a new generation of environmental leaders are emerging. UNEP and UNV are coming together to provide them an important platform on the global stage. --Toily Kurbanov, UNV Executive Coordinator
The first cohort of the initiative will comprise 12 young professionals, recruited through the UN Volunteers international specialist modality for specific programmatic work. They are expected to start work with UNEP in September 2023.
The appointments will initially be for one year, based at UNEP’s headquarters in Nairobi, Kenya. Colleagues recruited through the Young Talent Pipeline will have access to learning and professional development opportunities, including a suite of online learning programmes.
Qualified candidates should apply to assignments listed on the dedicated page below between 1 April and 15 May 2023.
UNEP-UNV Young Talent Pipeline
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/230590-young-talent-pipeline-unep-calls-young-professionals-passion-environment




Date: 05 May 2023
Title: Georgia: Enhancing Efforts for Better International Cooperation and Global Inclusion
Content: 05 May 2023
TBILISI/GENEVA  - 5 May 2023
Georgia has demonstrated that positive change is possible to break a cycle of conflict, UN Independent Expert on the Promotion of a Democratic and Equitable International Order, Livingstone Sewanyana, said today following a 10-day visit to the country.
Mr. Sewanyana noted that Georgia has undertaken notable efforts to respect the principles of the 2008 cease-fire agreement to maintain peace and security and avoid a return to hostilities.
“I acknowledge that in spite of the challenges related to the status of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali/South Ossetia region, the Georgian Government has formulated reconciliation and engagement policies towards these regions to build trust among communities on both side of the Administrative Boundary Line that separates the regions from the rest of the country,” the expert said.
The Independent Expert also encouraged the continuation of the Geneva International Discussions that seek to address the consequences of the 2008 conflict.
The expert encouraged the Government to address concerns raised by civil society concerning restrictions on the civic space, underlining that the human rights to freedom of assembly, association and expression must be guaranteed.
In ending his statement, the expert reaffirmed his encouragement to the Government of Georgia to strengthen its efforts to enhance democracy, respect for human rights and rule of law in the country.
During his visit, the expert met with high-level officials of the Government, representatives of the civil society, and academias.
The Independent Expert will present a report on his visit, including key recommendations, to the
Find the end of mission end of mission statement of the UN Independent Expert on the Promotion of a Democratic and Equitable International Order, Dr. Livingstone Sewanyana bellow.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/230265-georgia-enhancing-efforts-better-international-cooperation-and-global-inclusion




Date: 03 May 2023
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL MESSAGE FOR WORLD PRESS FREEDOM DAY
Content: 03 May 2023
3 May 2023
For three decades, on World Press Freedom Day, the international community has celebrated the work of journalists and media workers.
This day highlights a basic truth: all our freedom depends on press freedom.
Freedom of the press is the foundation of democracy and justice. It gives all of us the facts we need to shape opinions and speak truth to power. And as this year’s theme reminds us, press freedom represents the very lifeblood of human rights.
But in every corner of the world, freedom of the press is under attack.
Truth is threatened by disinformation and hate speech seeking to blur the lines between fact and fiction, between science and conspiracy.
The increased concentration of the media industry into the hands of a few, the financial collapse of scores of independent news organizations, and an increase of national laws and regulations that stifle journalists are further expanding censorship and threatening freedom of expression.
Meanwhile, journalists and media workers are directly targeted on and offline as they carry out their vital work. They are routinely harassed, intimidated, detained and imprisoned.
At least 67 media workers were killed in 2022 — an unbelievable 50 per cent increase over the previous year. Nearly three quarters of women journalists have experienced violence online, and one in four have been threatened physically.
Ten years ago, the United Nations established a Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists to protect media workers and end impunity for crimes committed against them.
On this and every World Press Freedom Day, the world must speak with one voice.
Stop the threats and attacks.
Stop detaining and imprisoning journalists for doing their jobs.
Stop the lies and disinformation.
Stop targeting truth and truth-tellers.
As journalists stand up for truth, the world stands with them.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/229949-secretary-general-message-world-press-freedom-day-%C2%A0




Date: 01 May 2023
Title: Human Rights Summer School 2023
Content: 01 May 2023
The Summer School will take place from 19 to 23 June at the Kvareli Training Center of Justice.
The European Union (EU), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), in cooperation with the Training Center of Justice of Georgia, are pleased to announce that enrolment is now open for the Human Rights Summer School 2023. The Summer School is being held under the EU-funded project “Human Rights for All”.
The Summer School covers a range of human rights topics aiming to enhance young people’s knowledge and awareness of human rights.
The Summer School will take place from 19 to 23 June at the Kvareli Training Center of Justice.
Participation and Admission Criteria:
The summer school is open for the students or graduates of the Faculty of Law, Socio-Political Sciences and Humanitarian Studies from accredited higher education institutions in Georgia. The participants are expected to:

*Students from regional universities are encouraged to apply.

Registration of Participants:
Interested individuals should submit their CVs and Cover Letters via the application form. A cover letter should describe their experience in the field of human rights, their motivation for participating in the summer school, and their plans to apply the acquired knowledge in their future activities. A cover letter should not exceed 300 words.

Deadline for submissions: May 20, 2023
Summer School graduates will receive certificates of participation in both Georgian and English languages.
The organizers will fully cover transportation and accommodation costs for all participants.

Contact information:
E-mail: projects@tcj.gov.ge

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/229327-human-rights-summer-school-2023




Date: 28 April 2023
Title: World Day for Safety and Health at Work:  Why safety and health at work is essential for social justice
Content: 28 April 2023
In a statement to mark World Day for Safety and Health, the ILO Director-General, Gilbert F. Houngbo, outlines the critical importance of safe and healthy working environments.
10 years ago this month, more than eleven hundred workers died and thousands were injured when the Rana Plaza building collapsed.
I visited Bangladesh in the days after. I remember the shock and pain of the victims and families. Dealing not just with bereavement, but with the loss of bread-winners, their security, incomes and futures.

There could be no more brutal lesson about the importance of occupational safety and health.

We have an essential responsibility to ensure that people go to work and come home alive, uninjured, and healthy.

This year, on World Day for Safety and Health at Work, we can celebrate an important step towards this goal. The designation of a safe and healthy working environment as a fundamental principle and right at work.

All ILO Member States are now expected to respect, realize, and promote this principle, and the two fundamental conventions at its core.

It is the start of a long journey. But it is a step in the right direction, towards decent work and social justice for all.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/229352-world-day-safety-and-health-work-why-safety-and-health-work-essential-social-justice




Date: 26 April 2023
Title: UN expert on international order to visit Georgia
Content: 26 April 2023
During the 10-day visit, Livingstone Sewanyana will observe good practices and challenges in efforts to promote a democratic and equitable International Order according to Human Rights Council Resolution 18/6.
The United Nations Independent Expert on the promotion of a democratic and equitable International Order Livingstone Sewanyana will conduct his first official visit to Georgia from 26 April to 5 May 2023.
During the 10-day visit, Livingstone Sewanyana will observe good practices and challenges in efforts to promote a democratic and equitable International Order according to Human Rights Council Resolution 18/6.
The UN expert will engage with authorties, civil society, and other stakeholders to assess the country’s situation in terms of peace and security, international cooperation on several areas, its efforts in advancement of the right to development, youth participation in global decision-making and involvement at the regional and international level, among others.
The independent expert will also visit the Administrative Boundary Line with South Ossetia, to better understand the human rights situation in the surrounding regions of this part of the country.
The expert will share his preliminary findings with the media at a press conference on 5 May 2023 at 11:00 am (local time) at the Courtyard By Marriott Hotel in Tbilisi, 4 Freedom Square, Tbilisi, Georgia. Access will be strictly limited to accredited journalists.
Sewanyana will present a report on his visit to the Human Rights Council in September 2023.

Livingstone Sewanyana (Uganda) took up his functions as Independent Expert on the promotion of a democratic and equitable International Order as of July 2018. He is the Founder and Executive Director of the Foundation for Human Rights Initiative (FHRI), a Ugandan civil society organization. He is a lawyer by profession and advocate of the High Court of Uganda. Mr. Sewanyana has written and published widely on human rights, corporate governance, public sector management and access to justice. He has received several awards for his scholarly and professional work.
UN human rights country page: Georgia
For more information and media requests please contact: Namindranasoa Ny Haja (namindranasoa.nyhaja@un.org)
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Maya Derouaz (maya.derouaz@un.org)  or Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone's rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org



UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/228984-un-expert-international-order-visit-georgia




Date: 14 April 2023
Title: Advancing the green path in Georgia – awareness workshop on the Product Environmental Footprint methodology and its benefits for manufacturing enterprises
Content: 14 April 2023
An awareness-raising workshop on the introduction of the Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) and the European Union Single Market for Green Product (SMGP) initiative to be held.
On 24 April 2023, EU4Environment invites Georgian representatives from industrial enterprises, local authorities and agencies, business associations, stakeholders, and NGOs to an awareness-raising workshop on the introduction of the Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) and the European Union Single Market for Green Product (SMGP) initiative.
The event is open to all professionals interested in and working on issues related to green economy, circular economy, Resource Efficient and Cleaner Production (RECP), and environmental protection. The meeting is organized by UNIDO in collaboration with PRé Sustainability (the Netherlands) and national partners.
To attend the online event, please register here.
Its purpose is to introduce the potential impact of the Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) methodology in the country by focusing on industries exporting to the European Union (EU) market. The main objectives are:
EU4Environment and the introduction of the EU SMGP initiative
Within EU4Environment Action, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) is introducing the EU SMGP and PEF methodology in the Eastern Partnership (EaP) countries, including Georgia. Here, UNIDO is supported by Civitta, a consultancy firm with extensive experience in environmental and sustainability projects.
Learn more about the EU SMGP and PEF from our leaflet:
Advancing Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) (available in Georgian and English)
____
The “European Union for Environment” (EU4Environment – Green Economy) Action is a regional programme funded by the European Union. It helps the Eastern Partnership countries preserve their natural capital and increase people's environmental well-being, by supporting environment-related action, demonstrating and unlocking opportunities for greener growth, and setting mechanisms to better manage environmental risks and impacts.
For further information, please visit www.eu4environment.org
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/227677-advancing-green-path-georgia-%E2%80%93-awareness-workshop-product-environmental-footprint




Date: 09 April 2023
Title: Longer, healthier lives for all: WHO at 75
Content: 09 April 2023
This year, starting on 7 April, World Health Day, we celebrate 75 years of continuous work dedicated to improving human health.
The World Health Organization was founded in 1948, based on the principle that everyone has the right to the highest attainable standard of health, regardless of their race, religion, political belief, or economic or social condition.
This year, starting on 7 April, World Health Day, we celebrate 75 years of continuous work dedicated to improving human health. Over this time, we have made extraordinary advances in public health: average life expectancy across the WHO European Region’s 53 Member States in Europe and central Asia has increased by 16 years.
Scientific discoveries, medical developments and global health agreements have changed our world.
We have developed and rolled out vaccines against smallpox, poliomyelitis and measles, establishing the Expanded Programme on Immunization to bring lifesaving vaccines to children worldwide.
The discovery of modern antibiotics has meant that previously deadly infectious diseases can be treated easily, and has made many medical procedures, from organ transplants to cancer chemotherapy, possible.
The lives of millions of women have changed following widespread access to sexual and reproductive health and rights.
Twenty years ago, countries adopted WHO’s first global public health treaty – the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control – to stop tobacco use.
They also committed to implementing the International Health Regulations (2005), a global framework to protect people from health emergencies, and strengthen efforts to prevent and respond to public health threats.
New diagnostics, medicines and treatments for tuberculosis, HIV, cancer, dementia, and many other diseases and conditions have become available.
Today, we have a much better understanding of the interlinked environmental, economic, behavioural and genetic factors that affect our health.
Together, these advances, made possible by dedicated health professionals, have ensured that the European Region is a healthier place.
As we look back on 75 years of science-driven learning and collaboration across countries and cultures and celebrate our collective achievements, we stand at a critical juncture. There are many opportunities still to be harnessed, and ever-more complex climate, demographic, economic and political crises that affect our health to be resolved.
Our resilience and capacity to work together is under unprecedented pressure, reminding us how fragile our health can be, and why we cannot allow more than 7 decades of groundbreaking achievements to be reversed or undone.
The goal that has guided WHO since 1948 is as important today as it was at our founding – to work together to improve the health and well-being of every person and achieve health for all.
Learn More:
https://www.facebook.com/WHOGeorgia/videos/1586893891738141/
https://www.who.int/campaigns/75-years-of-improving-public-health/milestones#year-1945
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/226992-longer-healthier-lives-all-who-75




Date: 08 March 2023
Title: The UN Secretary-General message for International Women's Day
Content: 08 March 2023
António Guterres, 8 March 2023
On International Women’s Day, we celebrate the achievements of women and girls across all walks of life, in all corners of the world.
But we also recognize the enormous obstacles they face — from structural injustices, marginalization, and violence, to cascading crises that affect them first and worst, to the denial of their personal autonomy and rights over their bodies and lives.
Gender-based discrimination harms everyone – women, girls, men, and boys.
International Women’s Day is a call to action.
Action to stand with women who are demanding their fundamental rights at great personal cost.
Action to strengthen protection against sexual exploitation and abuse.
And action to accelerate women’s full participation and leadership.
This year’s theme stresses the need for technology and innovation to advance gender equality.
Technology can expand pathways to education and opportunities for women and girls.
But it can also be used to amplify abuse and hatred.
Today, women make up under a third of the workforce in science, technology, engineering, and maths.
And when women are under-represented in developing new technologies, discrimination may be baked in from the start.
That is why we must close the digital divide and increase the representation of women and girls in science and technology.
Women’s exclusion from the digital world has shaved an estimated $1 trillion from the GDP of low- and middle-income countries in the last decade — a loss that could grow to $1.5 trillion by 2025 without action.
Investing in women uplifts all people, communities, and countries.
Let us work together – across governments, the private sector and civil society –to build a more inclusive, just, and prosperous world for women, girls, men, and boys everywhere.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/222247-un-secretary-general-message-international-womens-day




Date: 28 February 2023
Title: Political Forum on Gender Equality highlights the need for equal and inclusive political processes in Georgia
Content: 28 February 2023
Elected officials, public servants and civil society representatives get together at the annual discussion on gender equality supported by Denmark, Sweden and UNDP in partnership with the Georgian Parliament
Elected officials, public servants and civil society representatives from all over Georgia gathered at the annual Political Forum on Gender Equality inaugurated by President of Georgia Salome Zourabichvili.
Focusing on the political empowerment of women and youth and greater cooperation between legislative and executive bodies, local self-governments and civil society, the event brought together over 350 participants.
The Forum was co-organised by the Parliament of Georgia and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), with Denmark and Sweden’s support, and co-hosted by MP Nino Tsilosani, Chairperson of the Permanent Parliamentary Council for Gender Equality, and Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia.
Deputy Chairperson of the Parliament Archil Talakvadze addressed the participants with welcome remarks.
Keynote speeches were delivered by H.E. Ulrik Tideström, Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia; and H.E. Sabine Machel, UN Resident Coordinator to Georgia.
MP Khatia Tsilosani (political Party “Georgian Dream”); MP Ana Natsvlishvili (political party “Lelo”); MP Khatia Dekanoidze (political party “United National Movement”); Niko Tatulashvili, Human Rights Advisor to the Prime Minister of Georgia; and Mzia Giorgobiani, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Infrastructure of Georgia, facilitated panel discussions on economic, social and political issues associated with gender-sensitive politics and on key aspects of successful cooperation between the executive and legislative branches of power at the national and local levels.
The Forum concluded with local youth groups discussing ways to achieve greater equality in governance and presenting their vision of future Georgian politics.
“Continued progress towards gender equality is essential for Georgia’s democracy, development and EU integration,” said H.E. Ulrik Tideström, Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia. “The annual forum provides a platform for politicians, officials and civil society to connect, share ideas and work together to build an equal and inclusive political process – this is even more important in times of political polarization when gender equality risks being de-prioritized. Sweden will continue our persistent support for gender equality in Georgia, where cooperation between all political actors and the full and free involvement of civil society remains crucial.”
“Bringing equality to politics benefits the entire society, helps protect human rights and creates a shared prosperity for all,” said Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia. “UNDP works with Sweden, Denmark and the Parliament of Georgia to build a consensus on gender equality across political parties and all levels of governance.”
###
UNDP’s support for the annual Political Forum on Gender Equality draws on its two ongoing initiatives – the Swedish-funded UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality and the Danish-funded programme for Decentralization and Good Governance in Georgia.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/221072-political-forum-gender-equality-highlights-need-equal-and-inclusive-political-processes




Date: 26 February 2023
Title: Statement of the United Nations in Georgia  on the draft Law on Transparency of Foreign Influence
Content: 26 February 2023
26 February 2023
The United Nations in Georgia expresses profound concern that adoption of the draft Law on Transparency of Foreign Influence would risk impeding the work of civil society and media and the essential contributions they make to Georgian democracy.
Civil society organizations in Georgia have been at the forefront of delivering essential services to the most vulnerable persons and helping to protect their human rights. Stigmatizing their work risks leaving persons with disabilities, internally displaced, minorities, older persons, women, youth and children, survivors of domestic violence and other people in need without effective assistance and support.
The draft law poses risks to full respect of freedoms of association and expression, the right to participate in public affairs, the right to privacy and prohibition of discrimination. Noting Georgia’s current membership of the UN Human Rights Council, we encourage the Parliament of Georgia to seek legal opinions of competent regional and international bodies, to consider opinions of these bodies on similar legislation, and to conduct broad, inclusive and meaningful consultations with a wide range of stakeholders that could potentially be affected by the adoption of this draft law.
If adopted, such a law is likely to impede the work of the UN to implement the Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework, the country strategy that we have co-signed with the Government of Georgia. The UN has been a trusted partner of Georgia for over three decades, supporting the country’s development in line with Georgia’s own national priorities and assisting the people of Georgia together with all our local partners, including civil society and media.
We urge the Georgian authorities to take all the necessary steps to avoid measures that risk having a chilling effect on Georgian democracy and on the vibrancy and quality of development support to Georgia.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/220801-statement-united-nations-georgia-draft-law-transparency-foreign-influence




Date: 13 February 2023
Title: Credible and transparent statistical data informs municipal development in Georgia
Content: 13 February 2023
EU, Denmark and UNDP assist GEOSTAT to introduce new services for municipal data collection
Credible and transparent municipal data is critical as Georgia strives to improve the quality of rural life and promote balanced territorial development of its regions. Diverse statistical information from municipalities will inform targeted development programmes and will help assess the efficiency of local services and the achievements and gaps in local and regional governance.
The European Union and Denmark, in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), assist the National Statistics Office, GEOSTAT, to improve municipal data collection, systematize already available statistical information, define and collect new statistical indicators, and make the sub-national statistics easily accessible to the public.
The results of this support were presented to the public on 13 February, with representatives from the Georgian Government, municipal authorities, civil society and the private sector attending the event.
“The EU cares deeply about further developing the regions of Georgia to make sure that the whole population has access to opportunities and services. The foundation of this is clear and reliable data. The new GEOSTAT platform will help policy-makers and local authorities to make well-informed decisions for the people living in their regions. We are happy to celebrate its launch today,” said Colombe de Mercey, Governance and Human Capital Team Leader at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia.
“Municipalities need reliable and transparent statistical data to assess their needs and develop responsive policies and programmes. Denmark helps improve municipal data collection as part of our broader support for decentralization and good governance in Georgia,” said H.E. Anne Toft Sørensen, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Denmark in Georgia.
With the EU and Denmark’s support, GEOSTAT developed a specialized webpage regions.geostat.ge integrated into its public website. The digital service offers information on 64 Georgian municipalities, tracking economic, demographic and social dynamics across 82 indicators, with 52 indicators provided by Georgia’s public agencies and the rest by GEOSTAT through statistical surveys.
"The Regional and Municipal Statistics Portal will be available to all categories of users, enabling quick and easy access to statistical information, both at the regional and municipal levels," said Gogita Todradze, Executive Director of Geostat.
“UNDP welcomes cooperation with the EU and Denmark to support GEOSTAT in its vital work, respond to the national data needs, and assist Georgia to achieve its sustainable development priorities,” said Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia.
UNDP’s assistance to Georgia’s National Statistics Office, GEOSTAT,  is supported by the EU-funded programme EU for Integrated Territorial Development (EU4ITD) promoting balanced territorial development and improved living standards in Georgia’s regions, and the Denmark-funded project for decentralization and good governance in Georgia.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/219034-credible-and-transparent-statistical-data-informs-municipal-development-georgia




Date: 09 February 2023
Title: New opportunities emerge for public-private partnerships to combat climate change
Content: 09 February 2023
UNDP and Switzerland assist Georgia to enact Article 6.2 of the Paris Climate Agreement
More than 50 representatives from the Government of Georgia, the Georgia Climate Finance Working Group, regional authorities, and the private sector attended a strategy session and training this week to accelerate the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.  The event, organized by UNDP with the support of the Government of Switzerland and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia, introduced new opportunities for businesses that work for profit, people and the planet.
Georgia has committed to unconditionally reducing its total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to 35 percent below its 1990 baseline level (an approximately 16 percent per capita reduction) by 2030. Article 6 of the Paris Climate Agreement provides a viable way to achieve this through incentives for businesses to innovate new ways to create products or deliver services while simultaneously reducing carbon emissions.
“This is a great opportunity for Georgian investors and entrepreneurs to develop new businesses that serve the public and the planet while earning profits,” said UNDP Resident Representative Nick Beresford. “Once the reduction has been documented, the enterprise can receive back up to 25 percent of its initial investment as an ex-post subsidy.”
“Carbon trade creates new prospects in our global effort to mitigate climate change,” said Maia Tskhvaradze, Head of the Climate Change Division at Georgia’s Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture. “Access to carbon trade markets will support climate-friendly business development in Georgia, promote a low-emission economy and contribute to fulfilling Georgia’s ambitious climate agenda.”
In this market-oriented approach, a private or state-owned enterprise must first identify and invest in a market opportunity that provides a product or service while helping to reduce Georgia’s GHG emissions.  This could be anything from developing a new solar power plant to launching an e-mobility transportation service to renovating old buildings with improved insulation.  Once the initiative has demonstrated proven success in reducing carbon emissions, it can receive up to 25 percent of its originally invested capital from the specialized global facility created to mobilize funds for carbon trading systems. The Swiss Federal Office for the Environment and the Swiss carbon procurement programme have contributed US$120 million to the Facility to be used for this purpose.
Georgian companies interested in entering carbon markets can contact the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture for more information: ClimateChange@mepa.gov.ge
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/219035-new-opportunities-emerge-public-private-partnerships-combat-climate-change




Date: 01 February 2023
Title: The Judicial School 2023 Completed
Content: 01 February 2023
The School enhanced the theoretical knowledge and practical skills of participants.
The 5th Judicial Winter School 2023, which ran from January 22-26, 2023, has come to an end. The School enhanced the theoretical knowledge and practical skills of twenty participants, consisting of judicial assistants, representatives of court analytical units, judicial interns, and graduating law school students. 2023
The Judicial School was held under the auspices of the High School of Justice, co-organized by the USAID Rule of Law Program, Council of Europe (CoE), and the South Caucasus presence of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UN OHCHR).
The topics covered by the eleven invited experts included the latest practices of the Constitutional Court of Georgia and the European Court of Human Rights, children's rights, national and international standards related to the prohibition of discrimination, freedom of expression, personal and family life immunity, current business law issues, legal writing, and decision-making.
“OHCHR is mandated to promote and protect the enjoyment and full realization by all people of their human rights in the spirit of Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 75th anniversary of which we are celebrating this year. Capacity building of the judiciary was and will remain one of the priorities of the OHCHR. We are happy to continue to support this initiative and hope that the Winter School enables participants to acquire not only theoretical knowledge, but also practical tools for acting in the spirit of the principles of fair trial,” - emphasized UN OHCHR Human Rights Projects Manager, Sopho Benashvili.
USAID Rule of Law Program Deputy Chief of Party Neil Weinstein in his welcome notes stated that “one of the goals of the Program is to build the capacity of individual judges and court personnel. The Winter School, which USAID has supported since 2018, is part of that effort. Our support for the Winter School is in recognition of the important role judicial assistants and other court personnel play in Georgia’s judicial system and the importance of professional and independent judges and court staff in Georgia.”
“Judicial School of Justice, which has been supported by the CoE from the day of its creation, is a unique platform that enables judicial professionals to further their professional development, thereby improving their knowledge and skills. It also creates the opportunity for judicial professionals to network with their peers from other courts, share best practices, and exchange experiences.” – said Senior Project Officer, EU/CoE co-funded project “Support to the Judicial Reform in Georgia,” Ushangi Bakhtadze.
At the end of the Winter School the participants were given tests, based on which the first- and second-place winners will be identified. The first-place winner will join a study tour to the U.S. together with ten civil and administrative Georgian judges. The runner-up will visit the European Court of Human Rights and Council of Europe in Strasbourg, France to study mechanisms of human rights protection in Europe.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/217425-judicial-school-2023-completed




Date: 31 December 2022
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL NEW YEAR’S MESSAGE 2023
Content: 31 December 2022
New York, 31 December 2022
Every New Year is a moment of rebirth.

We sweep out the ashes of the old year and prepare for a brighter day.

In 2022, millions of people around the world literally swept out ashes.

From Ukraine to Afghanistan to the Democratic Republic of the Congo and beyond, people left the ruins of their homes and lives in search of something better.

Around the world, one hundred million people were on the move, fleeing wars, wildfires, droughts, poverty and hunger.

In 2023, we need peace, now more than ever.

Peace with one another, through dialogue to end conflict.

Peace with nature and our climate, to build a more sustainable world.

Peace in the home, so women and girls can live in dignity and safety.

Peace on the streets and in our communities, with the full protection of all human rights.

Peace in our places of worship, with respect for each other’s beliefs.

And peace online, free from hate speech and abuse.

In 2023, let’s put peace at the heart of our words and actions.

Together, let’s make 2023 a year when peace is restored to our lives, our homes, and our world.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/213826-secretary-general-new-year%E2%80%99s-message-2023




Date: 15 December 2022
Title: First-ever National Conference on Gender Equality held in Georgia
Content: 15 December 2022
The first-ever National Conference on Gender Equality was attended by representatives of the legislative and executive branches of the Government, the diplomatic corps, international and local non-governmental organizations.
The gender equality and empowerment of women agenda is continuously prioritized and addressed as an integral and critical part of Georgia’s democratic and sustainable development. In order to realize this priority, it is very significant that the relevant stakeholders join forces around one aspiration and facilitate societal development by enhancing the quality of human rights protection and supporting equality.
The National Conference on Gender Equality, held on 15 December by the United Nations Country Team’s Gender Theme Group, focused precisely on illustrating how important the gender equality and empowerment of women agenda is. The event was dedicated to the global 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence campaign and was conducted in partnership with the Government of Georgia and civil society organizations.
“Working towards greater equality and women’s empowerment means that we are tackling the most widespread social inequality and injustice there is in today’s world, as women and girls in all their diversity represent the majority of humankind,” remarked Dr. Sabine Machl, United Nations Resident Coordinator in Georgia. “This also means we are attempting to bring about a novel social reality that is better because it is based on the values of human rights, respect for human dignity, equality and inclusion—a reality that enables the realization of the full potential of women, men, boys and girls.”
The first-ever National Conference on Gender Equality was attended by representatives of the legislative and executive branches of the Government, the diplomatic corps, international and local non-governmental organizations and the media, as well as women’s rights advocates.
Mr. Archil Talakvadze, Vice-Speaker of the Parliament of Georgia, addressed the participants of the conference and remarked: “Gender equality is by all means a priority for the Government of Georgia. We clearly see the challenges and barriers women face in politics and in life, in general, and thus, we consider eliminating these barriers our responsibility. Enhancing reforms in this direction has never been more urgent than today, when gender equality is one of the 12 recommendations put forth to Georgia on its path to receiving European Union candidacy. The Parliament of Georgia will do its best to fulfil these recommendations and is, therefore, ready to proceed with work in active collaboration with international development partners and non-governmental organizations.”
Mr. Ulrik Tideström, Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia, spoke about Sweden’s efforts to achieve gender equality and remarked: “Georgia has every chance to continue being a front runner towards a more modern and equal society in this part of Europe. A society that remains attractive to your brilliant youth. Where everyone has the same potential to shape their own lives. You can do it. And we can do it. Let’s keep doing it together.”
Participants of the conference held discussions on the efforts to enhance women’s participation in politics and eliminate femicide and violence against women in politics. Moreover, discussions focused on such issues as enhancing prevention and response mechanisms to sexual violence against women in times of peace and war, using education as the primary medium to combat gender-based discrimination and harmful practices, implementing maternity benefit reform and many more. The event was held within the scope of Phase III of the UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality with the support of Sweden.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/219030-first-ever-national-conference-gender-equality-held-georgia




Date: 14 December 2022
Title: Human Rights Day strikes debate on human rights reforms and economic, social and cultural rights
Content: 14 December 2022
EU, UNDP and OHCHR assist Georgian decision-makers and civil society to create a discussion forum on human rights
As Georgia gets ready to adopt its National Human Rights Strategy for 2023-2030, the European Union (EU), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) create a space for discussion on ongoing reforms on administrative offences regulatory framework and the effective realisation of economic, social and cultural rights, bringing together decision-makers, civil society, and human rights defenders.
The conference “Stand up for Dignity, Freedom and Justice for All” echoes Human Rights Day theme and calls on the Government, Parliament, civil society organizations and communities to work together and seek solutions to the challenges that prevent Georgia’s citizens, especially representatives of the vulnerable communities and minority groups, from fully enjoying their Constitutionally guaranteed rights.
Mikheil Sarjveladze, Chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee for Human Rights and Civil Integration; and Niko Tatulashvili, Advisor to the Prime Minister of Georgia on Human Rights Issues, opened the conference.
Catalin Gherman, Acting Head of Cooperation of the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia; Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia, and Vladimir Shkolnikov, Senior Human Rights Advisor for the OHCHR’s South Caucasus Office, addressed the participants with welcome remarks.
“The European Union supports a constructive discussion on human rights between decision-makers and civil society. The new National Human Rights Strategy and the follow-up Action Plan should encompass the rights of all social groups, including the vulnerable and marginalised communities, and come with solutions to address the challenges linked to discrimination and exclusion in Georgia".
Catalin Gherman, Acting Head of Cooperation at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia
“We bring economic, social and cultural rights to the centre of the discussion on human rights challenges faced by minority groups – especially the most vulnerable, such as the national and religious minorities and the LGBTQI+ community. The conference will help produce policy reforms and practical measures to support Georgia’s progress toward an equal, just and fair society".
Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia
“Whenever and wherever humanity's values are abandoned, we all are at greater risk. The solutions to today’s greatest crises are rooted in human rights. Thus, it is a primary obligation of officials in all states, including Georgian authorities, to respect the rights and dignity of all individuals regardless of their race, colour, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, gender, disability, age or other grounds. Stigmas and deep-rooted stereotypes should not have room in contemporary Georgia".
Vladimir Shkolnikov, Senior Human Rights Advisor for the OHCHR’s South Caucasus Office
The event is part of the ongoing Human Rights Week which kickstarts a year-long campaign acknowledging and promoting the 75th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The campaign will reach out to wide circles of Georgia’s society bringing together an array of partners and supporters, including the Government, Parliament, civil society, the private sector, community organizations, international agencies and diplomatic missions.
###
“Human Rights for All” is a US$3 Million EU-funded initiative supporting Georgia to promote respect for human rights, strengthen human rights protection in all areas of life, and address the remaining issues of concern. The initiative is implemented by the two UN agencies – UNDP and OHCHR, in close collaboration with national partners and stakeholders.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/211484-human-rights-day-strikes-debate-human-rights-reforms-and-economic-social-and-cultural-rights




Date: 14 December 2022
Title: Conference held by UN Women on business supporting an equal and diverse work environment
Content: 14 December 2022
At the end of the converence, as in previous years, new companies joined the Women’s Empowerment Principles
Equality and diversity are essential prerequisites for a decent work environment, and business can play a vital role in creating it. The annual conference of UN Women, which was held in Tbilisi for the fifth time on the Women’s Empowerment Principles, was dedicated to this topic.
The event was attended by representatives of companies, business associations, civil society and academic circles, and specialists in organizational development, human resources management, gender and human rights protection. Many of the attendees represented companies that have already signed on to the Women’s Empowerment Principles.
“Nowadays, business needs the experience and knowledge of different teams,” remarked Medea Tabatadze, one of the speakers at the conference and the managing partner of the consulting and recruiting company Insource. “This is confirmed by the financial indicators. For example, Fortune 500 reports show that the results of companies in which there are women in executive positions are 22 per cent higher. The environment is very diverse; therefore, the workforce and culture should also be diverse.”
In the course of the panel discussions, the event participants discussed the role of equality, diversity and the well-being of employees in the workplace, considered the contribution that human resources management strategies of private companies can make to the promotion of equality and diversity, and shared with one another their own or international experience in the formation of these strategies, among other topics.
Anna Arganashvili, one of the participants of the discussion and the executive director of the non-governmental organization Partnership for Human Rights, noted: “Years ago, the private sector was alienated from human rights and thought that inclusion and diversity were self-imposed obligations, but this attitude is gradually changing. Business sees for itself how different people work in this field and how important the well-being of its employees is to it. Therefore, if people’s rights are protected in the private sector, diversity will be promoted, and business too will work better and the employees will feel better as well.”
At the end of the event, as in previous years, new companies joined the Women’s Empowerment Principles. It should be noted that the number of signatories has already increased to 170 in Georgia, which is quite an important result considering the existing scale of the private sector. UN Women has been working on the implementation of the Women’s Empowerment Principles in Georgia since 2014, and it carries out this activity with the support of the Government of Norway.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/219028-conference-held-un-women-business-supporting-equal-and-diverse-work-environment




Date: 13 December 2022
Title: Nearly 400 million people across Europe and Central Asia need rehabilitation care for health conditions, but most aren’t getting it
Content: 13 December 2022
Lack of action risks costing economies millions in lost income
394 million people in Europe and Central Asia live with a health condition that requires rehabilitation care, but the majority of people aren’t getting the care they need. Rapidly ageing populations, a significant increase in the number of people living with chronic conditions, and lack of awareness about the benefits of rehabilitation are among the main drivers of this unmet need across Europe and Central Asia.
People’s quality of life can be limited by ageing, a health condition—including chronic conditions— or an injury or trauma. Rehabilitation can support these people as they go about their daily lives. The report shows that the majority of people requiring these services aren’t getting the care they need, leading to an estimated total of 49 million years of healthy lives lost because of a health condition requiring rehabilitation. Some of the key barriers to people’s access to rehabilitation include little awareness of what rehabilitation is, how it works and its benefits as well as misconceptions about affordability.
Crucially, a serious shortage of rehabilitation professionals is stopping people in some parts of the European Region from getting the rehabilitation care they need. The report highlights that there are 12 times fewer physiotherapists, 141 times fewer occupational therapists and six times fewer prosthetics and orthotics professionals in middle-income countries than in higher-income ones.
In the Region as a whole, some of the most common conditions that drive the need for rehabilitation include low back pain, fractures, hearing and vision loss, as well as stroke and dementia. As these conditions affect people’s lives, including their ability to work, countries face millions of dollars in costs due to lack of economic productivity and rising poverty and joblessness.
The primary focus of rehabilitation is to support someone with a health condition to improve and maintain their functioning. Difficulties in functioning occur because of impairments such as pain or muscle weakness and limitations in activities, such as self-care or walking.
Importantly, rehabilitation should be available in primary health care settings, where most cases of chronic diseases are managed, and in popular community settings, such as homes and schools.
There is progress, but much more needed to make rehabilitation more widely available
Evidence shows that rehabilitation activities are cost-effective and help to achieve and maintain the best outcomes of other health interventions. Crucially, access to rehabilitation supports the realization of the right of all people to health.
Research shows that rehabilitation has the potential to avoid costly hospitalization and reduce the time spent in a hospital, decrease re-admissions and lower the risks of complications due to health problems. By improving functions and the ability to participate in everyday life, rehabilitation cuts the costs of ongoing care and supports individuals to participate in education and employment.
WHO Regional Office for Europe is urging countries to:
Watch a Video: https://bit.ly/3FNZKiL

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/211223-nearly-400-million-people-across-europe-and-central-asia-need-rehabilitation-care-health




Date: 10 December 2022
Title: The global human rights system is a common heritage of humankind: UN experts
Content: 10 December 2022
Human Rights Day - 10 December 2022
GENEVA (9 December 2022) – Extraordinary progress has been made to secure the rights of all persons since the adoption of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, UN experts said today, as the world marks the beginning of a year celebrating the 75th anniversary of the declaration. Ahead of Human Rights Day 2022, the Special Procedures of the UN Human Rights Council issue the following joint statement:
“This Human Rights Day, 10 December 2022, marks the beginning of a year celebrating the 75th anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights. Since then, extraordinary progress has been made in relation to the rights of all persons and root causes for systemic violations on human rights have been given visibility and addressed by a vigorous global human rights system that is a common heritage of humankind, a heritage that should unite us, not divide us.
These significant achievements should not lead us to underestimate remaining and emerging challenges, which include but are not limited to discrimination, the erosion of democracy, climate crisis and armed conflict and protracted war. We, the Special Rapporteurs, Independent Experts and Working Groups that comprise the Special Procedures of the United Nations Human Rights Council, restate our determination to address these challenges by putting human rights squarely at the centre of our response.
Next year will bring crucial moments and opportunities to jointly solidify our vision for the future of human rights and multilateralism, reinvigorating the immense hope that led to the creation of the human rights system 75 years ago. For these opportunities not to be missed, we urge everyone, State and non-State actors alike, to embrace, support, and sustain multilateralism and its institutions to further human rights, peace, security and development.
We are committed to using the next year for thoughtful and ambitious considerations on our role, and the role of the international community, to shape a next 75 years of furtherance of human rights for all persons. We should put our ambition high and focus on, building and realising a transformative human rights system that will underpin the next 75 years of global history. We also reaffirm our commitment to a multilateralism that is built on the principles of non-discrimination, participation, empowerment and accountability. As the UN has embarked on key processes to shape its future, especially the one leading to its Summit for the Future, we call on all to join us in this endeavour.
Human rights should be our common language to build trust between the UN and the people we serve.” #UDHR75
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/211115-global-human-rights-system-common-heritage-humankind-un-experts




Date: 10 December 2022
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL MESSAGE ON HUMAN RIGHTS DAY
Content: 10 December 2022
New York, 10 December 2022
The world is facing unprecedented and interlocking challenges to human rights.
Hunger and poverty are increasing – an affront to the economic and social rights of hundreds of millions of people.
Civic space is shrinking.
Media freedom and the safety of journalists are in dangerous decline in almost every region of the world.
Trust in institutions is evaporating, especially among young people.
The COVID-19 pandemic has led to increased levels of violence against women and girls.
Racism, intolerance and discrimination are running rampant.
New human rights challenges are emerging from the triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution.
And we are only beginning to grasp the threat posed to human rights by some new technologies.
These trying times call for a reignition of our commitment to all human rights - civil, cultural, economic, political and social.
The Call to Action I launched in 2020 positions human rights at the centre of solutions to the challenges we face.
This vision is reflected in my report on Our Common Agenda, which calls for a renewed social contract, anchored in human rights.
The 75th anniversary of the landmark Universal Declaration on Human Rights next year must be an opportunity for action.
I urge Member States, civil society, the private sector and others to put human rights at the heart of efforts to reverse today’s damaging trends.
Human rights are the foundation for human dignity, and the cornerstone of peaceful, inclusive, fair, equal and prosperous societies.
They are a unifying force and a rallying cry.
They reflect the most fundamental thing we share – our common humanity.
On this Human Rights Day, we reaffirm the universality and indivisibility of all rights, as we stand up for human rights for all.
Video link: https://youtu.be/6KKCS2Rlu-8
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/210987-secretary-general-message-human-rights-day




Date: 02 December 2022
Title: Human Rights Day 2022
Content: 02 December 2022
Dignity, Freedom, and Justice for All
On 10 December the whole world celebrates Human Rights Day, the main message of which is joining efforts to fight for equality, justice and human dignity. This day also marks the end of the annual 16 Days Activism Against Gender-based Violence.
In December, the United Nations family in Georgia in close partnership with Georgia’s national human rights institutions and other partner organisations is organising a series of events to mark Human Rights Day 2022 and 74 years of the existence of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
See the calendar below:
2-3 December
Kaspi and Kvemo Chala

Film festival featuring famous Georgian women filmmakers on the quest for equality. Organizers: EU and UNDP in partnership with the local civil society organization “Kona”.

5 December, 17:00
Ilia Chavchavadze Literary-Memorial Museum
7 Iv. Javakhishvili Str., Tbilisi
Launch of the Norway-funded “Leadership, Equality, Advocacy and Democracy” project supporting the rights of national and religious minorities and LGBTQI+ communities in Georgia. Check the event details on Facebook.
5 December

The first meeting of an advisory group of persons with disabilities at Georgia’s Ministry of Justice.
Supporters: EU, UNDP
5 December

Meeting of the SDG Secretariat with persons with disabilities.
Supporters: UNDP, UNFPA, OHCHR

6 December
Fabrika

“Invisible” – UNFPA and Palitra L are presenting comic book created on gender equality

9 December, 16:00
Tbilisi State Academy of Arts, Exhibition Hall
22 Griboedov Str.

Multimedia exhibition “What makes me human?” showcasing the search for humanity in contemporary Georgian art. Curator: Art Professor Khatuna Khabuliani.
Organizers: EU, UNDP

13 December, 10:00
Radisson Blu Iveria
First Republic Square, Tbilisi


15 December
Samtskhe-Javakheti State Universit


Conference “Dignity, Freedom and Justice for All” – a discussion space on economic, social and cultural rights for the legislative and executive branches, the Public Defender’s Office, and international organizations.
Organizers: EU, UNDP, OHCHR


Public lecture at Samtskhe-Javakheti State University about international human rights mechanisms, UN treaty bodies and national human rights institutions in Georgia.
Organizers: UN OHCHR; Supported by European Union in Georgia.

17-18 December
Kaspi Tech Park
Davit Aghmashenebeli Str., Kaspi
Diversity Hackathon “Hack for Inclusion” aimed at finding technological solutions to making the environment more accessible for persons with disabilities.
Supporters: EU, Sweden, UNDP, GITA

19 December
Telavi Youth Club


19 December, 17:00
Parliament of Georgia
8 Shota Rustaveli Ave, Tbilisi
Public lecture at Telavi Youth Club about international human rights mechanisms, UN treaty bodies and national human rights institutions in Georgia.
Organized by UN OHCHR; Supported by European Union in Georgia.


Presentation of the Digital Gender Equality Library.
Supporters: Sweden, UNDP

---------
The UN has been helping to protect human rights in Georgia over three decades, promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms of all, including marginalized communities, persons with disabilities, women, children, ethnic and religious minorities, LGBTQ+ people, internally displaced persons, refugees, asylum seekers, people with low-income or living in poverty. This work has included developing and enforcing relevant laws and policies to uphold the rights of all Georgians, including  the national Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Human Rights Strategy for 2021-2030, the National Action Plan on Ending Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, and the Code on the Rights of the Child, to name a few, and building accessible, efficient and fair justice institutions to effectively enforce the laws. Equally important has been the strengthening of human rights education at all levels of society.
The 75th anniversary of the landmark Universal Declaration on Human Rights next year is an opportunity for further action in meeting human rights commitments.
----------
Human Rights Day is observed every year on 10 December — the day the United Nations General Assembly adopted, in 1948, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). The UDHR is a milestone document to stand up for and defend human rights. It sets out a broad range of fundamental human rights and freedoms. It proclaims the inalienable rights that everyone is entitled to as a human being - regardless of race, colour, religion, sex, language, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/210408-human-rights-day-2022




Date: 02 December 2022
Title: Conflict-affected communities host a women-themed film festival
Content: 02 December 2022
EU and UNDP support youth and women’s engagement in conflict-affected communities
As part of 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence, Shida Kartli-based civil society organization ‘Kona’ is organizing a two-day film festival, bringing depictions of Georgian women’s lives to the communities living near the dividing line. The event is supported by the European Union (EU) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) under the EU4Dialogue project.
The film festival opened in Kaspi Technopark today with Keti Machavariani’s award-winning documentary Sunny - Mziuri (2021). The film earned the Honourable Mention of the Best Mid-Length Documentary category at the Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival, the largest documentary festival in North America.
The second day of screenings is set to be held at the culture house of nearby Kvemo Chala village, where the EU4Dialogue programme assists ‘Kona’ to build a youth centre. The festival is bringing together Kvemo Chala and Kaspi community youths and adults, as well as youngsters from the neighbouring conflict-affected communities and IDP settlements.
“Women have always played a crucial role in the process of peace-making but also in film-making, however, the link between the two is often overlooked. Together with our UN partners, it is our great pleasure to highlight some of Georgia’s creative power in these women-created films, shown in Kvemo Chala. Within the 16 Days of Activism campaign, we continue to speak up to help end gender-based violence and empower women all across the country.”
Catalin Gherman, Deputy Head of Cooperation at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia
“Today’s event under 16 Days of Activism is a great opportunity to rethink challenges facing women, as well as to celebrate the vision and creativity of Georgian women filmmakers together with the conflict-affected communities in Shida Kartli. Georgia rightfully takes pride in a century-old tradition of female filmmaking, continued by contemporary artists telling their thought-provoking stories. We are pleased to see our local partners driving social discussions here in Kaspi and Kvemo Chala communities, by offering screenings of world-class Georgian cinema. Together with the EU, UNDP is working to encourage the engagement of women and youth, including by facilitating greater access to digital services and education.”
Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia
Along with Keti Machavariani’s Mziuri, the festival will feature movies by Lana Ghoghoberidze, Nana Ekvtimishvili and Nino Gogua, celebrating the artistry and vision of Georgian women filmmakers. The movies offer an authentic display of women's lives at times of peace and conflict. The screenings will pave the way for discussions between filmmaker Keti Machavariani and Nino Gogua and the audience, including women and youth.
###
The 16 Days of Activism is an international campaign to eliminate gender-based violence in all forms. It begins on 25 November, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, and runs until 10 December, Human Rights Day.
EU4Dialogue: Support to Conflict Transformation in the South Caucasus and the Republic of Moldova is a joint initiative of the EU and UNDP under the broader EU4Dialogue program. The project partners with local CSOs and grassroots groups to improve socio-economic conditions for people, build livelihoods, drive progress toward gender equality, promote youth engagement and support the peaceful transformation of conflict. More information on the website: https://bit.ly/3BIreEv
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/219023-conflict-affected-communities-host-women-themed-film-festival




Date: 02 December 2022
Title: Advancing the CBRN Safety and Security in Georgia
Content: 02 December 2022
The sixth meeting of the Interagency Coordinating Council of Georgia for Combating Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) Threats held on December 1, 2022.
The sixth meeting of the Interagency Coordinating Council of Georgia for Combating Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) Threats was held on December 1, 2022 to discuss the  implementation of activities planned in the CBRN Strategy and its National Action Plan.
"Chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear weapons remain one of the main challenges faced by the world today. The National Strategy and Action plan for combating Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) threats were developed to reduce and eventually eliminate these threats," said Aleksi Batiashvili, First Deputy Head of the State Security Service, Chair of the Interagency Coordination Council, in his opening remarks. He presented the achievements of a two-year long work and informed of the future steps to making Georgia a resilient country.
The other speakers at the meeting included Evija Kotan, Head of Political, Press, and Information Section at the EU Delegation to Georgia; Bernard Dobner, Head of the Georgia Office of the US Defence Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA); Irakli Beria, Chair of the Parliamentary Defense and Security Committee; Lela Chikovani,  First Deputy Minister of Defense; Tamar Gabunia, First Deputy Minister of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia; Vladimir Konstantinidi, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs; and Apolon Kakabadze, Deputy Minister of Environment Protection and Agriculture.
The event was organized by the  State Security Service with the support of the European Union’s CBRN Centre of Excellence. The Initiative is funded by the European Union and implemented by the jointly by the European Commission with the United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute (UNICRI) and the Joint Research Centre (JRC).
The event brought together 60 key national stakeholders from ministries and other public entities of Georgia, and international organizations.
The next meeting will take place in 2023.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/211153-advancing-cbrn-safety-and-security-georgia




Date: 01 December 2022
Title: Vocational education opens a pathway to success for people living in rural areas
Content: 01 December 2022
Switzerland and UNDP announce a new phase of the project to support Vocational Education and Training in Georgia
Youth education, public-private partnerships, rural economy skills and modern technologies in Vocational Education and Training (VET) are the focus of a new project launched today by the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The three-year initiative draws on US$4.4 million in Swiss funding and will be implemented in close partnership with the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia.
Giorgi Khanishvili, First Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture; Valerian Gobronidze, Deputy Minister of Education and Science; Tamar Kitiashvili, Director General of Georgia’s Skills Agency;  Dr. Danielle Meuwly, Regional Director of the Swiss Cooperation Office for the South Caucasus, Embassy of Switzerland in Georgia; and Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia, attended the project launch event.
“The VET modernization project plays a key role in the current Swiss Cooperation Program 2022-2025. Skills development and rural employment are also high among Georgia’s Government priorities. Therefore, we are confident that with our continued cooperation with the national entities, with UNDP, and with the private sector, the project will achieve success and will make a significant contribution to Georgia’s development,” said Dr. Danielle Meuwly, Regional Director of the Swiss Cooperation Office for the South Caucasus, Embassy of Switzerland in Georgia.
“Our joint work with Switzerland, Georgia’s Government and the private sector provides people living in rural areas with better access to vocational education and training. We are helping to create an environment where quality learning is available for all and job seekers, particularly the youth, can realize their true potential,” said Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia.
The new SDC and UNDP project builds on the achievements of the previous initiative carried out in 2018-2022 to support reforms in Georgia’s vocational education and training in agriculture. The results of this five-year work include training and professional education opportunities for 21,000 small farmers across Georgia, 140 innovative local projects in climate-smart agriculture, and 48 active partnership projects between educational institutions and private companies seeking a qualified workforce.
Besides, SDC and UNDP helped establish a network of qualified extension officers and agriculture advisors in four regions (Guria, Racha-Lechkhumi, Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti, and Samtskhe-Javakheti), and supported the first Sectorial Skills Organization “Agroduo” to enhance the partnership between the private and educational sectors.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/209675-vocational-education-opens-pathway-success-people-living-rural-areas




Date: 28 November 2022
Title: Joint statement by the UN Country Team on entry into force of plain packaging regulation of tobacco products
Content: 28 November 2022
Tbilisi, 28 November 2022
December 31, 2022 is the deadline set by the Law of Georgia "On Tobacco Control" for the regulation of plain packaging of tobacco products to come into force. Plain packaging was expected to enter into force in 2018, but was postponed until the end of this year. Currently, a legislative initiative on another postponement of this deadline has been submitted to the Parliament of Georgia. We call on the Parliament of Georgia to reject this legislative initiative and ensure that the plain packaging regulations will enter into force within the timeframe specified in the current law.
To reduce the enormous health, social and economic damage caused by active and passive tobacco use in Georgia, the Parliament of Georgia adopted a strong tobacco control legislation in 2017, which was later recognized by international organizations and experts as a visionary law that serves as an example for many countries in the region. Just two years after the successful implementation of this law, studies show a significant decrease in tobacco use and second-hand tobacco smoke pollution in Georgia, which resulted in the reduction of the burden of tobacco-attributable diseases.
To build on this success, further comprehensive tobacco control measures need to be implemented in line with the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. Regulation on plain packaging for tobacco products is one of the most powerful regulations that make tobacco products less attractive and reduce the ability of tobacco products to mislead consumers about the harms of smoking.
The United Nations in Georgia would like to commend the firm position of the decision-makers of the Parliament of Georgia of various convocations and the Government of Georgia on the smooth implementation of tobacco control regulations. We hope that the Parliament of Georgia will take immediate steps to avoid another postponement and to ensure the plain packaging regulation enters into force in the beginning of 2023 and will thus help to protect the health of the current and future generations of Georgia.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/209273-joint-statement-un-country-team-entry-force-plain-packaging-regulation-tobacco-products




Date: 25 November 2022
Title: Statement on the occasion of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women (25 November)
Content: 25 November 2022
This joint statement is issued by the United Nations system in Georgia, the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia,  the Council of Europe Office in Georgia, the EU Monitoring Mission in Georgia and the Embassies to Georgia of Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States.
On the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, we would like to join hands with survivors, activists, decision-makers, and people from every walk of life to take a bold stand against this global scourge.
Stigma and impunity have allowed violence against women to escalate to pandemic proportions. Across the world, as well as in Georgia, violence against women and girls remains one of the most pervasive and latent human rights violations, both a cause and a consequence of gender inequality and discrimination.
A world where violence against women and girls is not just condemned but stopped is possible. It can and must be prevented.
As highlighted in the GREVIO baseline report on Georgia published on 22/11/2022, over the past decade, Georgia has made significant progress towards effectively addressing the shadow pandemic of violence against women and girls by putting in place a comprehensive policy and legislative framework, producing data and strengthening institutions to effectively enforce the laws. Moreover, specialized services for survivors such as shelters, crisis centres and a hotline have been created, and law enforcement has been specialized to handle cases in a more sensitive and qualified manner. Importantly, there have been positive shifts in public perceptions and an increase in survivors’ trust in the justice system and services.
Despite these significant measures taken to tackle gender-based violence in Georgia, women continue to die as a result of these atrocious crimes. Often, femicide represents the continuum of other forms of violence experienced by women and girls. Sexual violence also persists in Georgia, with an extremely low number of reporting and respective cases reaching the courts. The persistent patriarchal norms and deeply entrenched stereotypes in Georgian society tend to blame victims and condone violence against women and girls.
We call for the strengthening of a holistic national framework to prevent all forms of violence against women and girls in Georgia.  Efforts should be translated into concrete actions through the necessary legislative measures by, inter alia, amending the definition of rape in the Criminal Code of Georgia to ensure compliance with the Council of Europe’s Istanbul Convention and other international standards, as well as by exercising due diligence to prevent (including through integrating the issue into the general education programmes), investigate, punish, and provide reparation for acts of violence. Building and strengthening an enabling environment for women’s economic, political, and social empowerment is paramount.
Since everyone has a pivotal role to play in tackling violence against women and girls, we remain steadfast in our determination to support the Government of Georgia, civil society, and other partners to ensure that the inalienable right of women and girls to live a life free from violence is observed and enjoyed for the benefit of everyone.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/208787-statement-occasion-international-day-elimination-violence-against-women-25-november




Date: 22 November 2022
Title: First Joint Steering Committee Meeting on implementation of UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework held
Content: 22 November 2022
Government of Georgia and United Nations agree on priority actions for sustainable development
The implementation of the 2021-2025 Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) in Georgia was discussed at the first Joint Steering Committee meeting. The Joint Steering Committee (JSC) is the highest governing structure for the implementation of UNSDCF.
In their opening remarks, Deputy Head of Administration of the Government of Georgia Zviad Barkaia and UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl emphasized the successful cooperation between the United Nations and the Government of Georgia and spoke about the importance of the framework to support development that leaves no one behind.
At the meeting, the co-chairs of Results Groups highlighted the results achieved over the course of the past year under the five priority areas of the framework.
It was agreed that the UN and the Government of Georgia will continue to cooperate to implement the Cooperation Framework and foster prosperity, equality and well-being for all.
The next Joint Steering Committee meeting will take place in the spring of 2023.
-----
The United Nations in Georgia are implementing the current Framework since 2021. This framework was developed and adopted in close consultation with the Government of Georgia and other national and regional actors in the course of 2020. The Framework represents joint commitment to advance Georgia’s development agenda with the overarching objective of enhanced wellbeing, capabilities and social equality in Georgia by 2025.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/209594-first-joint-steering-committee-meeting-implementation-un-sustainable-development-cooperation




Date: 15 November 2022
Title: As world population reaches 8 billion, Eastern Europe’s demographic woes call for rethink of population policies - UNFPA
Content: 15 November 2022
This requires a rethink of how countries approach demographic change.
Today’s milestone of a still-growing world population reaching 8 billion must not eclipse the potentially severe consequences that countries with shrinking population numbers could face if they fail to rethink the way they address demographic change, Florence Bauer, the Director of UNFPA’s Regional Office for Eastern Europe and Central Asia, said today.
Globally, population growth has slowed down considerably, and has started to reverse in an increasing number of countries, most of them in Central and Eastern Europe, where a combination of outmigration and low birth rates has sent population numbers down. If left unaddressed, this could jeopardize the future of economies, social systems, and infrastructures.
In their responses to population decline, governments tend to focus on increasing birth rates and providing people with financial incentives to have more children,” said Ms. Bauer.
But we have seen that this does not work. What is needed is a broad range of measures that make it easier for people to build a future in their own country, instead of having to look for opportunities elsewhere, and to have the number of children they desire.”
This requires a rethink of how countries approach demographic change, Ms. Bauer said: Moving away from an overemphasis on numbers and perceptions of threats, and towards seeing demographic change as an opportunity to build stronger and more inclusive societies.
With large numbers of people leaving their countries to work elsewhere, and birth rates at low levels, Eastern Europe has been the first world region to experience sustained population decline over the past decades. Currently all but one of the world’s ten fastest shrinking countries are in Central and Eastern Europe.
Of course, numbers are important, but an obsession with the ups and downs of population numbers can distract from what really matters: creating societies in which people want to live and have families,” said Ms. Bauer.
Evidence suggests that a mix of policies is most likely to make a difference. This includes investments in early childhood care, generous family support benefitting men and women, measures to make it easier for women and men to combine family and career duties, expanding job and housing opportunities for young people, and a fair distribution of care and household tasks between men and women.
Strengthening inclusion is also key for making countries fit for demographic change. This includes removing barriers for women, older people, immigrants and those on the margins of society to fully contribute to the economy and public life.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/209685-world-population-reaches-8-billion-eastern-europe%E2%80%99s-demographic-woes-call-rethink-population




Date: 13 November 2022
Title: UN Team visits Kaketi and Kvemo Kartli Regions
Content: 13 November 2022
During the visit, the UN team led by UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl encountered a very good and constructive collaborative spirit from local authorities, beneficiaries and civil society. looked at the opportunities and development needs in the regions.​​​​​​​
The UN team made up by the representatives of FAO, UNFPA, IOM and UNDP toured the Kakheti and Kvemo Kartli regions on October 31 and November 1, 2022
The UN team met with local authorities and stakeholders to discuss development needs and explore opportunities for future cooperation as well as  to have a firsthand experience of different aspects of the UN’s work on the ground.
The trip kicked off with a visit to a vineyard of the “Telavi Wine Cellar”, which is one of the leading Georgian wine companies currently partnering with FAO. Together with Tamar Otkhmezuri, FAO Consultant and Guram Sakvarelidze, FAO Communications Consultant, the UN team met with the founder of the company Zurab Ramazashvili and got first-hand information about the organic solutions, which have been implemented at the vineyard to tackle agricultural pests and ensure environmental sustainability and improved food safety standards, in line with the 2030 Agenda.
The partnership between FAO in Georgia and the “Telavi Wine Cellar” has been initiated as part of the Mating Disruption Programme, which is implemented with the support for the EU as part of its EU4Business Initiative, EU Innovative Action for Private Sector Competitiveness in Georgia.
In the course of the visit, the UN team met with the First Deputy Mayor of Telavi, Mr. Nikoloz Metreveli, the Head of the Administration of the Municipality Ms. Tamar Zazanashvili and the Head the Judicial Service, Ms. Ana Peikrishvili to discuss areas with great potential for cooperation. The discussions at the meeting focused on the UN’s longstanding relationship with the municipality in various fields, including child rights, support to returned migrants, youth development and disaster management.
One of the main issues of the discussion was the integration of minorities into the region’s political, economic, and cultural life. The sides also discussed the prospects for strengthening cooperation for the equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities.
In Telavi, the UN team also had an opportunity to meet the newly appointed State Representative in Kakheti Mr. Giorgi Aladashvili to discuss long-standing ties and areas of future cooperation.
The sides exchanged thoughts related to programs implemented in the region by the UN agencies. The State Representative introduced his long-term vision of Kakheti’s economic development. The meeting also set out some areas of possible future cooperation.
To celebrate the 30th anniversary of the UN-Georgia partnership as well as the UN Day, UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl, the Director of the Telavi History Museum Guram Ushukashvili, the Deputy Mayor of Telavi Pikria Kurshitashvili and the Head of the culture service of the administration of the State Representative in Kakheti  Leila Legashvili opened a ‘’SDG Open Space’’ at the Telavi History Museum  - a stunning conference, meeting, and training venue for smaller groups of up to 100 participants. Alexander Lortkipanidze, an activist of the UNFPA MenCare Campaign, TV presenter and writer delivered a lecture for students of the Telavi university and high-schools about the significance of the SDGs. The main goal of the SDG Open Space is to engage young people in advocating for the achievement of the SDGs.
Next stop was in Telavi where the team met Marina Raidt-Altunashvili. After living in Germany for eighteen years, where she worked as a licensed music therapist, Marina Raidt-Altunashvili returned to Georgia and decided to make music therapy accessible for the residents of her hometown of Telavi. The therapy sessions are offered to children with special needs, children and adolescents on the autism spectrum, and those with conditions such as Down Syndrome, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, speech difficulties and various behavioral disorders, as well as their parents and caregivers. The centre renders its services not only to the Telavi residents, but also to neighboring municipalities.
IOM in Georgia is piloting innovative interventions which support local livelihood opportunities for returning Georgian migrants that not only assist with their own reintegration but also contribute to the revitalization of their home municipalities, making the environment more favorable for reintegration overall. Under the IDF project - “Sustainable Reintegration and Community Revitalization - Pilot Initiative in Communities of Return”, the centre is now furnished and equipped with all the necessary instruments to provide effective and comfortable services. This project aims to contribute to the sustainable reintegration of returning migrants and community revitalization.
While in Kvemo Kartli, the UN team held consultations with the Mayor of Rustavi Ms. Nino Latsabidze. Ms. Nino Latsabidze provided detailed information about ongoing and planned reforms, projects and existing challenges in Rustavi. Discussion focused on ways to expand existing cooperation.
During the visit to Kvemo Kartli region, UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl visited the Business Incubator and Innovation Hub in Rustavi. The Head of the Rustavi Innovation Hub Revaz Barbakadze, the project Manager Mikheil Lobzhanidze and UNDP Georgia Innovations Specialist Khatuna Sandroshvili shared information about innovative projects which provide development opportunities for young people and novel solutions for local development.
Established in 2017 with the financial support of UNDP, the Hub has been supporting youth economic empowerment in the region. The Hub is a space where civil servants collaborate with diverse groups and individuals for designing solutions for addressing urban challenges. The Hub has created a knowledge handbook and a board game to engage young people in finding innovative solutions. The Hub has also supported start-ups to develop their own ideas and turn them into real profitable activities.
In the course of the visit, UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl attended the puppet show “Luna and the Planet of Fireflies” in Tamarisi village, Marneuli region together with the deputy mayors of the Marneuli Municipality - Zurab Pangani and Temur Shubitidze.
The puppet show “Luna and the Planet of the Fireflies” was prepared in cooperation with the Marneuli Culture Centre within the framework of the programme “Ending Violence against Women and Girls in Georgia” (EVAWGG), which is jointly implemented by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and the UN Women with the financial support of the European Union. The puppet show is part of the campaign “Do not Differentiate: a Girl and a Boy are both your Future!“, through which the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) reminds everyone that both girls and boys are of equal value to their families, communities and countries.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/208027-un-team-visits-kaketi-and-kvemo-kartli-regions




Date: 02 November 2022
Title: The Power of Words
Content: 02 November 2022
UK and UNDP bring Georgian and Ossetian scholars together to celebrate Caucasian culture through the ages
Melancholy verses by Nikoloz Baratashvili, rebellious poems by Kosta Khetagurov, the beauty of folk songs, and the wisdom of medieval epos – this wealth of poetry and folklore is now available in Georgian and Ossetian languages thanks to the joint work of scholars in Tbilisi and Tskhinvali.
An impressive collection of books was presented to the public on 2 November at an artistic event “The Power of Words” organised by the civil society organization “Caucasian Mosaic” with support from the United Kingdom (UK) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). A set of publications includes:
At the event, H.E. Mark Clayton, British Ambassador to Georgia, and Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia, addressed the audience with welcome remarks. “Caucasian Mosaic” representatives Naira Bepievi and Nino Popiashvili presented the joint work of Georgian and Ossetian researchers. Well-known actors Lili Khuriti and Tinatin Kobaladze recited immortal stanzas by Shota Rustaveli and a beautiful poem allegedly written by the 11th-century Georgian Queen Borena who by birth belonged to the Ossetian royal family.
“The UK is proud to support Georgian and Ossetian scholars in their joint effort to study the historic and cultural heritage of the Caucasus and introduce it to young people."
H.E. Mark Clayton, British Ambassador to Georgia
“Through our languages, literature and poetry we celebrate the beauty and diversity of our heritage. At UNDP, we are proud to work with the UK Government to support scholars and researchers to preserve and popularize the treasures of Georgian and Ossetian literature."
Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia
Along with its historic and cultural value, the joint work of Georgian and Ossetian researchers marks a 10-year-long collaboration focused on the history and culture of the Caucasus. The partnership produced Georgian and Ossetian editions of the ancient “Nart Sagas” mythology collection; Georgian-Ossetian and Ossetian-Georgian dictionaries with over 22,000 words explained, translated and commented on by linguists; an encyclopaedic album summarizing Georgian-Ossetian relations before the 19th century; and theatrical performances in Georgian and Ossetian.
The team of experts on Caucasian languages, history, literature and folklore brought together by “Caucasian Mosaic” was supported by the European Union (EU), the UK and UNDP through their Confidence Building Early Response Mechanism (COBERM).
Designed to build confidence between conflict-divided communities, COBERM works with civil society organizations on all sides of the conflict to address some key confidence-building areas, such as healthcare, youth education, people-centred diplomacy, cultural cooperation, minority rights, gender equality, and environmental protection. Since its start in 2010, COBERM has supported over 200 initiatives, contributing to developing new approaches to peace and confidence building.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/219022-power-words




Date: 25 October 2022
Title: UN Day celebrated in Georgia
Content: 25 October 2022
The 77th United Nations Day was celebrated in Tbilisi at the Rustaveli National Theatre yesterday.
The UN Day is marked on October 24 annually on the anniversary of the UN Charter in 1945. This year United Nations Day is also a celebration of the 30th anniversary of Georgia’s accession to the United Nations. On 31 July 1992, Georgia became part of the United Nations family.
The celebration was attended by the State Minister of Georgia for Reconciliation and Civic Equality, Ms. Tea Akhvlediani, who shared a message on behalf of the Government of Georgia.
Speaking at the event, Ms.Tea Akhvlediani highlighted the UN’s support to Georgia.
“The UN contribution cannot be overestimated in the realization of our national priorities, including in democratic development, consolidation of human rights and freedoms, rule of law, open governance, public services, economic empowerment, gender equality, healthcare, education, agriculture, environmental protection, climate change and in other respective fields. The role and support of the UN, along with our international partners, is absolutely crucial in the peaceful conflict resolution process and assistance rendered to the conflict affected population in Georgia. I would like to seize this opportunity and once again express my sincere gratitude for the firm position of the UN towards the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia within is internationally recognized borders,” Akhvlediani said.
The State Minister of Georgia for Reconciliation and Civic Equality, Ms. Tea Akhvlediani, stressed Georgia’s commitment to supporting the UN and its principles.
“On behalf of the Government, I would like to reiterate Georgia’s strong commitment to the founding principles of the UN and its full readiness to further deepen cooperation for the protection of our common values, reinforcement of peace in Georgia and across the globe, as well as for achieving our priority goal - to cement Georgia’s place within the European Family through further reform process,” the State Minister  said.
In her opening remarks,  the UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Dr. Sabine Machl noted that despite external and internal instabilities, over the past three decades Georgia has succeeded in consolidating its statehood;  transforming itself from the impoverished post-Soviet state into a stable, democratic and prosperous country.
“I believe that fruitful cooperation between UN and all international and local counterparts will bring closer the realization of hopes and desires of this beautiful country and its people and that the goal of making a difference will be accomplished through our day-to-day efforts. We remain committed to further support to the prosperity of Georgia,” she said.
In his welcome speech, the Georgia’s Youth Representative to the United Nations, Mr. David Esatia called on the young people to unite for building more prosperous future.
The celebratory concert featured performances of the Georgian National Symphony Orchestra, with almost a hundred years of history, conducted by maestro Nikoloz Rachveli and an outstanding musician of the new generation, 12 years old Tsotne Zedginidze. Tsotne Zedginidze performed his composition "Fantasy for piano and orchestra" which was first presented in Germany in July 2022. Giorgi Tsagareli, the internationally recognized Georgian viola, the Trinity Cathedral Choir directed by Svimon Jangulashvili, and  Tbilisi Women’s Choir directed by Omar Burduli presented the immortal work "Stix", by the legendary Georgian composer Gia Kancheli that has been performed in the best halls of the world for over half a century.
The programme  of the event  also included a photo exhibition entitled  ”The UN in Pictures: 30 years of partnership” and screening of a  short film on the 30-year partnership between Georgia and the United Nations.
Watch interesting moments of the event.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/205853-un-day-celebrated-georgia




Date: 22 October 2022
Title: Celebrating the 30th anniversary of Georgia’s accession to the United Nations and UN Day
Content: 22 October 2022
UN is hosting a range of events and activities from 24 October to 31 October
24 October marks United Nations Day. The annual event commemorates the founding in 1945 of the United Nations. This year United Nations Day is also a celebration of the 30th anniversary of Georgia’s accession to the United Nations. On 31 July 1992, Georgia became part of the United Nations family.
To highlight United Nations Day and the UN-Georgia partnership, the following events and activities are scheduled from 24 October to 31 October.
UN Day Concert and Reception
On October 24, 19:00 p.m., a celebratory concert and reception will be held at the Rustaveli National Theatre. The event will feature performances by the Georgian Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Nikoloz Rachveli; the outstanding musician of the new generation Tsotne Zedginidze; the internationally recognized Georgian viola Giorgi Zagareli; Tbilisi Women’s Choir directed by Omar Burduli, and Trinity Cathedral Choir, directed by Svimon Jangulashvili. The programme  will also include a photo exhibition entitled  ”The UN in Pictures: 30 years of partnership” and screening of a  short film on the 30-year partnership between Georgia and the United Nations.

UN Logo projection
On October 24, UN logo will be projected on the iconic Tbilisi Underwheel.
A photographic exhibition
A photographic exhibition entitled “The United Nations in Pictures” to mark the 30th anniversary of Georgia’s accession to the United Nations is currently on display near Vake Park. The retrospective exhibition features 30 photographs from the United Nations Photo Library and the UN Agencies on the 30-year partnership of Georgia and the United Nations.
Opening of SDG Laboratory at the Caucasus International University
On October 27 at 12:00 p.m. the UN Resident Coordinator will open the SDG Lab in the Caucasus International University. This initiative aims at building a culture of collaboration and knowledge exchange on the Global Goals.  The event will be moderated by the Dean of the Business Faculty, Giorgi Abashishvili,  the founder and Chancellor of the Caucasus International University,  Vaktang Tsivtsivadze, and the Rector of the Caucasus International University, Kakhaber Kordzaia.  Dr. Namsuk Kim, UN DESA EAPD Economic Affairs Officer will deliver his address through a pre-recorded video.
Opening of SDG Space at Telavi History Museum
On October 31 at 15:00 p.m., the SDG Space will be opened at the Telavi History Museum. The space is to become a one-stop-shop for people to learn about the SDGs. The programme includes a public lecture by Alexander Lortkipanidze, Georgian poet, playwright and novelist, contests for young people; and Telavi Art School students art display.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/204272-celebrating-30th-anniversary-georgia%E2%80%99s-accession-united-nations-and-un-day




Date: 22 October 2022
Title: Electoral gender quotas promote equality in politics, reveal gaps in legislation and party rules
Content: 22 October 2022
NDI and UNDP, with support from the UK and Sweden, unveil key findings of analytical research on mandatory electoral gender quotas in Georgia
Electoral gender quotas increase women’s political participation in Georgia and are supported by both citizens and political parties. Yet, to make this electoral mechanism truly effective, political parties need to introduce stronger internal gender policies and explore better ways of attracting, engaging and promoting women candidates.
These and other findings are included in the research commissioned by the National Democratic Institute (NDI) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), with support from the UK and Sweden, to analyse the impact of gender quotas on Georgia’s politics and society based on the results of the parliamentary elections in 2020 and the local elections in 2021.
The research examines the outcomes of public opinion polls undertaken after Georgia introduced mandatory gender quotas in 2020, looks into policies adopted in the same period and examines whether electoral quotas indeed supported women in entering political careers.
It also provides a set of recommendations for political parties and lawmakers aimed at enhancing electoral gender quotas and giving women better access to the resources and services they need to win in politics.
The findings and recommendations of the research were presented to the public on 25 October, at a conference attended by representatives of parliamentary and non-parliamentary political parties, civil society and international organizations.
The research team – Irma Pavliashvili and Salome Mukhuradze presented research findings and recommendations, focusing on improving the legislative framework, strengthening national gender equality mechanisms, and establishing institutionally strong political parties.
“Gender equality at all levels of governance is a matter of democracy and human rights. Involving 100 percent of the talent and experience in political decision-making, not just the male 50 percent, also improves the development of a country in all other areas including economic prosperity and security. Georgia has made important steps in this direction. The research by UNDP, within the UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality, and NDI could help Georgian stakeholders to assess how the chosen quota mechanism has worked so far and how it could be developed further. Continued progress on gender equality is possible, and is also one of the 12 priorities for Georgia’s EU integration process.”
H.E. Ulrik Tideström, Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia
“For many talented and motivated Georgian women, electoral gender quotas are an open door to a political career. However, the same mechanism reveals the remaining gaps in legislation, party rules and social practices. UNDP helps study these challenges, stir public discussion, empower women in politics and find solutions that will bring Georgia closer to an equal, fair and inclusive society.”
Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia
“The introduction of gender quotas triggered an unprecedented increase in the number of elected women both at the national and local levels. The number of elected women at the local level has doubled in 2021 compared to 2017. Despite this spike, Georgia is still far from achieving a ‘critical minimum’, which is at least 30 percent of women in decision-making. Political parties should continue empowering women meaningfully by improving internal party policies and practices, making them more gender-sensitive and interesting for women. One important finding of this research suggests that thanks to gender quotas parties have started looking for women internally and have identified quite a few talented candidates.”
Teona Kupunia, Deputy Director for NDI Georgia
Following the adoption of mandatory electoral gender quotas in 2020, Georgian women increased their share of seats in parliament from 14 to almost 20 percent. In 2021, women’s representation in local councils increased from 13.8 to 24 percent. Women received 31.4 percent of mandates in proportional lists (441 mandates in total) compared to 19.8 percent of mandates received in 2017.
Yet, even this leap in numbers leaves Georgian women with just one-fifth of seats in parliament and one-fourth of seats in local councils, far from enough to make a meaningful impact on decision-making.
The expansion and improvement of quota policies can help Georgia make further steps towards gender equality and bring a diversity of perspectives into the political agenda.
###
The Sweden-funded UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality is implemented by UNDP, UN Women and UNFPA and assists Georgia to achieve meaningful gender equality in all areas of life.
###
The programme “Supporting More Responsive and Inclusive Political Decision-Making at the National Level” is carried out by NDI with financial support from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland through the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office’s Good Governance Fund.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/209679-electoral-gender-quotas-promote-equality-politics-reveal-gaps-legislation-and-party-rules




Date: 12 October 2022
Title: Georgia Elected to UN Human Rights Council
Content: 12 October 2022
Election of the Human Rights Council (11 October 2022)
The General Assembly elected the following 14 members:
Algeria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Chile, Costa Rica, Georgia, Germany,
Kyrgyzstan, Maldives, Morocco, Romania, South Africa, Sudan, Viet Nam
The United Nations General Assembly voted on 11 October and elected Georgia as a member of the UN Human Rights Council for the term 2023-2025, alongside thirteen other countries.
The United Nations Resident Coordinator in Georgia Sabine Machl congratulated Georgia on its election to the Council and underscored that it is an “excellent opportunity to contribute to protection of human rights globally by setting example domestically.”
In accordance with paragraph 7 of General Assembly resolution 60/251, the Council shall consist of 47 Member States, which shall be elected directly and individually by secret ballot by the majority of the members of the General Assembly.
The membership shall be based on equitable geographical distribution, and seats shall be distributed as follows among regional groups:
The members of the Council shall serve for a period of three years and shall not be eligible for immediate re-election after two consecutive terms.
In accordance with General Assembly resolutions 60/251 and 65/281 and decision 75/402, the Human Rights Council starts its yearly membership cycle on 1 January.
At its 71st plenary meeting, on 10 May 2022, the General Assembly, pursuant to its resolutions 60/251 of 15 March 2006 and 65/281 of 17 June 2011, elected Czechia for the remainder of the term of office of the Russian Federation beginning on 10 May 2022 and ending on 31 December 2023.
Member States who have chosen to announce their candidacies in writing are listed below. Voluntary pledges that Member States have chosen to provide in support of their respective candidacies, in accordance with paragraph 8 of General Assembly resolution 60/251, are issued as General Assembly documents in all official languages. For more information, read the FAQ.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/202950-georgia-elected-un-human-rights-council




Date: 02 October 2022
Title: UN Women hosts its first large-scale exhibition for the sale of products and services made by women entrepreneurs
Content: 02 October 2022
It gave the opportunity to present their products to the various attendees, sell them on the spot and to establish important connections with potential customers.
On 1 and 2 October, the UN Women Georgia Country Office, within the framework of a regional initiative from UN Women Europe and its Central Asia Office, hosted its first large-scale exhibition for the sale of products and services created by women entrepreneurs at the Expo Georgia Exhibition Center in Tbilisi. During the two-day event, around 100 participants from all over the country had the opportunity to present their products to the various attendees, sell them on the spot and to establish important connections with potential customers.
The event was held on the initiative of UN Women, with the involvement of the Georgian Government, certain educational circles, international organizations and the private sector. The exhibition was officially opened by the President of Georgia, Ms. Salome Zourabichvili. She spoke about the importance of women’s involvement in socioeconomic and business spheres, while also focusing on the availability of financial resources and the empowerment of women in the regions, affirming: “I want to tell you that, at any time, in any format, the President and her administration are and will be by your side.”
The participants and guests of the exhibition were moreover addressed by the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Kingdom of Norway to Georgia, Ms. Helene Sand Andresen, and the UN Women Regional Director for Europe and Central Asia, Ms. Alia El-Yassir. “Achieving gender equality is very important because it allows women to contribute more to public life. The empowerment of women is aimed both at their well-being and at the more sustainable, stable development of the country’s economy,” emphasized Ms. Sand Andresen. Ms. El-Yassir subsequently thanked the Government of Georgia, the Government of Norway, and all partners and women entrepreneurs, noting: “Cooperation is the basis of such events. I am glad that we have great partners in Georgia and that together we are trying to create more opportunities and a supportive environment for women to succeed.”

During the two-day exhibition, about 100 participants from all over the country had the opportunity to present and sell their products to attendees. Photo: UN Women/Leli Blagonravova
It is significant that the exhibition was in part devoted to conducting motivational and educational sessions, speeches and practical masterclasses for women entrepreneurs. Along with the exhibition and sales area, there was also an entertainment corner for children, as well as food and music spaces, where young female DJs took care of the mood of the guests.
“I am happy to be taking part in this exhibition today,” said the founder of Otanadze Design, Teona Otanadze, who creates handmade, eco-friendly wooden accessories. “I think such large-scale events are very important because they give us women the opportunity to show our abilities and talents.”
The event was supported by the Enterprise Georgia programme, the Georgian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Business and Technology University, TBC Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), working within the framework of a programme supported by the Government of Sweden that aids women entrepreneurs.
The event itself is one part of the Women’s Economic Empowerment component of the UN Women “Good Governance for Gender Equality in Georgia” project, as supported by the Government of Norway.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/209688-un-women-hosts-its-first-large-scale-exhibition-sale-products-and-services-made-women




Date: 29 September 2022
Title: Georgia takes steps to build digital health capacity
Content: 29 September 2022
Launched in September 2021 by WHO, the project is funded by the European Union (EU); the Ministry of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia; the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF); the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS); and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).
The COVID-19 pandemic has shown the importance of telemedicine for reaching patients in need regardless of their location or accessibility. As part of its response, WHO is leading a multiagency project to build digital health and telemedicine capacity in Georgia. “Minimizing the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak in Georgia through telemedicine and digital health solutions” aims to harness the potential of digital tools for advancing telehealth services and promoting health in the country.
Launched in September 2021 by WHO, the project is funded by the European Union (EU); the Ministry of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia; the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF); the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS); and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).
In the framework of the project, the WHO Country Office in Georgia, together with WHO/Europe’s data and digital health team and health workforce team, organized a technical workshop with international experts and key stakeholders in Georgia’s health system. Together they discussed digital governance and readiness, improvements to the health information system, and how health workers and patients can benefit from their use.
The workshop followed months of preparatory work by WHO/Europe’s data and digital health team. It included a series of assessments of the country’s health information system and digital health capacity, site visits, interviews with stakeholders, and readiness assessments of 100 rural primary health care (PHC) facilities.
Participants in the workshop included PHC doctors as well as staff from Georgia’s Innovation and Technology Agency; the Georgian Medical Holding under the Ministry of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health and Social Affairs; the National Statistics Office; the National Center for Disease Control and Public Health; the WHO Collaborating Centre in eHealth based at the Open University of Catalonia (UOC) in Barcelona, Spain; and the United Kingdom’s National Health Service organizations Health Education England and Education for Scotland.
Across the board, the experts stressed the importance of considering the human and cultural aspects of implementing telemedicine.
“It is critical that policies that promote the use of telemedicine go beyond the purely technological dimensions and take into account other key factors such as professional and social determinants, as well as those of a contextual and organizational nature,” explained Francesc Saigí Rubió from the WHO Collaborating Centre in eHealth.
Drawing on this, the workshop focused on establishing a telemedicine governance group, developing a plan to improve the health information system in the country, and developing standards and competencies for the delivery of telemedicine.
Over 40% of Georgia’s population lives in rural areas. In rural settings, PHC is provided by standalone family medicine practices, each with 1 family doctor supported by 1 nurse. Only 20% of PHC facilities use electronic records, while 80% continue with paper-based records.
During the workshop, participants identified some of the main challenges in delivering heath care in rural settings, including:

Experts from the governments of the United Kingdom and Scotland presented their experiences in delivering telemedicine services. They explained how, in most rural settings, they took a gradual approach, starting small and slowly adding additional functions and providers.
“Georgia has the opportunity to move step by step to develop the best telemedicine model for Georgia,” said an expert from HEE. “Drawing on experiences of others, it is best to start with the simplest services and gradually refine and expand them.”
Following the workshop, experts visited rural outpatient clinics operating both with and without telemedicine equipment, met a cardiologist providing remote consultations, and talked to ministry leaders.
Doctors, patients and project stakeholders expressed their passion for contributing to the project and increasing access to health services. They also shared some of the challenges facing telemedicine in Georgia, such as inadequate coordination among agencies, weak internet connections, paper-based patient records and lack of interoperability between computer systems.
The mission delivered important results, including a draft governance mechanism for digital health, productive discussions on the improvement plan for the health information system, and discussions on the standard of care framework and core competencies for the development of noncommunicable disease guidelines. The mission also contributed to building new partnerships and strengthening existing relationships.

Data and digital health
Health workforce
Health systems governance
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/252235-georgia-takes-steps-build-digital-health-capacity




Date: 12 August 2022
Title: Youth Week | August 12-14
Content: 12 August 2022
On August 12 and 14, on the occasion of the International Youth Day, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), with the support of the European Union, organizes the Youth Week, combining education and entertainment events.
On August 12, the Week will open with a youth festival in the town of Akhaltsikhe, and on August 14, it will continue with a youth festival in the town of Zestafoni.

International Youth Day celebrated annually on August 12 - was established by the United Nations (UN) to promote the inclusion of issues important to young people on the international agenda and to recognize the key role young people play in modern society.
Within the framework of the Youth Week, an exhibition installation: “Youth for Social Change” will be organized, introducing 12 active young people from different regions of Georgia who believe in gender equality, want to make changes in their community and help create a healthy environment for future generations. The photos belong to Dina Oganova, and the illustrations – to Tatia Nadareishvili and ForSet.
In addition, a youth forum will be held in both towns, within the framework of which the Body Shop company will hold a grant competition for young people. Young people will also have the opportunity to participate in the Public Broadcaster’s intellectual game “Bookshelf”, and the events will end with a concert given by Mebo Nutsubidze.
On August 12, the youth festival in Akhaltsikhe is organized by UNFPA, in cooperation with the local municipality and Akhaltsikhe City Hall, within the framework of the programme “Addressing Gender-biased Sex Selection and Related Harmful Practices in South Caucasus”, implemented with the support of the European Union.
On August 14, an event dedicated to the International Youth Day organized in cooperation with the local municipality and Zestafoni City Hall will be held in Zestafoni, within the framework of the programme “EU 4 Gender Equality: Together Against Gender Stereotypes and Gender-Based Violence” jointly implemented by UN Women and the UNFPA, with the support of the European Union.
The events planned as part of the festival showcase the joint effort by UNFPA and partners to empower young people, while echoing the EU's European Year of Youth to highlight the importance of youth engagement in making change, building a sustainable, inclusive and equitable society.
The events organized as part of the Youth Festival are open to everyone.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/194690-youth-week-august-12-14




Date: 31 July 2022
Title: UN-Georgia: 30 Years of Partnership
Content: 31 July 2022
Statement by the United Nations Country Team in Georgia
Thirty years ago, on 31 July 1992, Georgia became part of the United Nations family at the 88th plenary meeting of the 46th session of the UN General Assembly. Joining the UN provided an opportunity for the newly independent state of Georgia to be recognized as a fully-fledged member of the global community of nations, and to affirm its commitment to multilateralism. Since then, Georgia has consistently supported the aims and purposes of the Organization in the areas of peace and security, development, justice and human rights, as set forth in the UN Charter.
In the first years of the UN-Georgia partnership, the UN emergency humanitarian aid played a key role in the country’s recovery efforts in the aftermath of the 1992-93 conflicts and the economic hardships of the early 1990s. Later, the UN mission grew to encompass much more: transition initiatives, environment, agriculture, rural development, climate change, education, health, asylum and migration, and economic development. Over three decades of work to support Georgia’s development, the UN helped the country to develop human and institutional capacities and to create opportunities for the neediest.
We look back with pride at many joint achievements in the past 30 years. Among them are our efforts to support Georgia in promoting gender equality and enhancing protection of human rights for all people in all parts of the country, including children, women, ethnic minorities, LGBTQI+ persons, people with disabilities, older persons, internally displaced persons, refugees and migrants. UN is proud of our partnership with the Public Defender’s Office and other national institutions protecting human rights. We have also continuously promoted good governance and supported Georgian national institutions in enhancing transparency, accountability, evidence-based policy-making, improving delivery of services and enabling decentralization. Important milestones were the election of Georgia as a Chair country of the Open Government Partnership (OGP) in 2017 and granting the United Nations Public Service Award to the Public Service Halls in 2012.
Today, the UN is present in Georgia in areas where our experience and resources are most needed. In October 2020 we co-signed with the Government of Georgia the new UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for 2021-2025 with one overarching priority of enhancing wellbeing, human capabilities and social equality.
The 30th anniversary represents a unique opportunity to look back in order to move firmly forward.  Over these years Georgia has been able to achieve real progress on its development pathway. As we look forward, we remain unwavering in our support of Georgia’s sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity. We will reinforce our joint efforts to leave no one behind and to make a real difference in the lives of disadvantaged and vulnerable people at a time when many fragilities and societal fault lines are even more exposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of Russia’s aggression against Ukraine. Today we reaffirm our commitment to our partnership with Georgia to deliver on the Sustainable Development Goals for the benefit of people and prosperity of the country.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/192645-un-georgia-30-years-partnership




Date: 30 July 2022
Title: Video message of the Under-Secretary General Melissa Fleming
Content: 30 July 2022
Video message of the Under-Secretary-General Melissa Fleming on the 30th anniversary of accessions of 13 countries, including Georgia, to the United Nations.
My name is Melissa Fleming. I am the Under-Secretary-General for Global Communications at the United Nations.

I wish to extend my warmest congratulations to the Governments and people of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of Moldova, San Marino, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan.

Thirty years ago, your 13 countries became part of the United Nations family.

The year 1992 saw the biggest single increase in UN membership since the wave of decolonization of 1960.

And, like that previous expansion, it opened a renewed opportunity for peaceful relations between nations to advance shared prosperity, with the Charter of United Nations at its heart.

Let us take this opportunity to recall and recommit to the promise made in the UN Charter, namely, to save future generations from the scourge of war.

As we look forward together, our UN Country Teams and I reaffirm our ambition to deliver on the promises made in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, for current and future generations.
As the UN Secretary-General, António Guterres has set out in his vision, “Our Common Agenda”, the world needs to strengthen global governance, focus on the future, renew the social contract, and ensure a United Nations fit for a new era.
Together with all 193 Member States, we will continue to work to deliver better multilateralism, based on deeper solidarity, to prevent and solve the crises we face, and ensure a greener, safer world for all, in the decades to come.
With that, I wish a happy 30th anniversary of your UN membership.
***
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/192649-video-message-under-secretary-general-melissa-fleming




Date: 25 July 2022
Title: Combatting  Disinformation while Supporting Civic Integration Process and Freedom of Expression
Content: 25 July 2022
Disinformation and hate speech has far-reaching implications for human rights and democratic norms worldwide including Georgia.
To raise awaness on disinformation and assist the civic integration process, the Office of the State Minister for Reconciliation and Civic Equality with the support of the European Union (EU), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the South Caucasus Field Presence Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) held a training for the representatives of media outlets working in the regions with significant ethnic minority populations. Journalists from Kvemo Kartli, Samtskhe-Javakheti and Kakheti regions learned about the negative consequences of the influence of disinformation on the process of civil integration and discussed ways to prevent their spread.
In her welcome notes, State Minister of Georgia for Reconciliation and Civic Equality Thea Akhvlediani shared about strategic directions of the State Minister's office - the policy of reconciliation and engagement, as well as civil equality and integration. The State Minister reviewed the challenges of disinformation in the process of civil equality and integration, emphasized the importance of dealing with it and the special role of the media in the said process.
“Disinformation threatens freedom of thought, the right to privacy and the right to democratic participation, as well as endangers a range of economic, social and cultural rights. It also diminishes broader democratic processes, undermining citizens’ faith in democratic institutions. Journalists can play a very powerful role in preventing spread of disinformation, as they are able to challenge falsehoods and present alternative viewpoints. Thus, today’s event is a great example of cooperation of State with allies in preventing of disinformation, especially containing stigmatization of minorities, that can lead to negative effect on human rights,” said Dr. Vladimir Shkolnikov, Senior Human Rights Advisor for the South Caucasus Field Presence of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.
Anna Chernyshova, Resident Representative a.i., UNDP welcomed the participants by stressing upon the importnace of the training that addesses one of the main challenges faced by democratic societies these days – disinformation and the intentional spread of false and misleading news. She said, “as journalists, you can – and must! – provide credible reporting and promote informed civic engagement. It is from your newspapers, websites, and broadcasters that communities can expect to access reliable information and understand the debates that shape their societies.”
During the two days, the media representatives also heard and discussed the issues like: warfare, tasks and technologies for spreading disinformation; influence of disinformation and propaganda in the process of public opinion formation; hate speech; the impact of media literacy on the effective implementation of journalistic activities; and the importance of media literacy of a multi-ethnic society in combatting disinformation containing by stereotypes.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/191897-combatting-%C2%A0disinformation-while-supporting-civic-integration-process-and-freedom-expression




Date: 23 July 2022
Title: Black Sea grain exports deal ‘a beacon of hope’ amid Ukraine war - Guterres
Content: 23 July 2022
An “unprecedented agreement” on the resumption of Ukrainian grain exports via the Black Sea amid the ongoing war is “a beacon of hope” in a world that desperately needs it, UN Secretary-General António Guterres said at the signing ceremony in Istanbul, Türkiye, on Friday.
The UN plan, which also paves the way for Russian food and fertilizer to reach global markets, will help to stabilize spiralling food prices worldwide and stave off famine, affecting millions.
Russian and Ukrainian Ministers signed the Black Sea Grain Initiative, facing each other at opposite ends of the table, while the Secretary-General and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan sat in the centre.
“Today, there is a beacon on the Black Sea,” the UN chief said, speaking prior to the signing. “A beacon of hope – a beacon of possibility – a beacon of relief -- in a world that needs it more than ever.”
Mr. Guterres thanked President Erdogan and his government for facilitating the talks that led to the deal.
He commended the Russian and Ukrainian representatives for putting aside their differences in the common interests of humanity.
“The question has not been what is good for one side or the other,” he said. “The focus has been on what matters most for the people of our world.  And let there be no doubt – this is an agreement for the world.”
Ukraine is among the world’s leading grain exporters, supplying more than 45 million tonnes annually to the global market, according to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).
The Russian invasion, which began on 24 February, has sparked record food and fuel prices, as well as supply chain issues, with mountains of grain stocks stuck in silos.
In addition to stabilizing global food prices, the agreement “will bring relief for developing countries on the edge of bankruptcy and the most vulnerable people on the edge of famine,” said Mr. Guterres.
“Since the war started, I have been highlighting that there is no solution to the global food crisis without ensuring full global access to Ukraine’s food products and Russian food and fertilizer.”

The initiative specifically allows for significant volumes of commercial food exports from three key Ukrainian ports in the Black Sea – Odessa, Chernomorsk and Yuzhny.
The Secretary-General also announced the establishment of a Joint Coordination Centre to monitor implementation.  It will be hosted in Istanbul and will include representatives from Ukraine, Russia and Türkiye.
Inspection teams will monitor the onloading of grain at the three ports. Ukrainian pilot vessels will guide the ships through the Black Sea, which is mined, after which they will head out through the Bosphorus Strait along an agreed corridor.
Ships going into the ports also will be inspected.
Mr. Guterres acknowledged “the long road” and weeks of around-the clock negotiations leading up to the landmark agreement.
In April, the Secretary-General met with Russian President Vladimir Putin and with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to propose a plan. The UN has been "working every day since", he said.
Two UN Task Forces were established in parallel on the talks - one focused on the shipment of Ukrainian grain through the Black Sea, which was led by UN humanitarian affairs chief Martin Griffiths, and the other on facilitating access of Russian food and fertilizers, headed by Rebecca Grynspan, Secretary-General of the UN trade and development body, UNCTAD.
Mr. Guterres pledged the UN’s full commitment to the agreement, and urged all sides to do the same.
“This is an unprecedented agreement between two parties engaged in bloody conflict. But that conflict continues,” he said, noting that people are dying every day as the fighting rages.
“The beacon of hope on the Black Sea is shining bright today, thanks to the collective efforts of so many. In these trying and turbulent times for the region and our globe, let that beacon guide the way towards easing human suffering and securing peace.”
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/191705-black-sea-grain-exports-deal-%E2%80%98-beacon-hope%E2%80%99-amid-ukraine-war-guterres




Date: 22 July 2022
Title: President of the General Assembly to make official visit to Georgia
Content: 22 July 2022
The President of the United Nations General Assembly, Abdulla Shahid, will undertake an official visit to Georgia from 23 to 26 July, at the invitation of the Government.
The working visit will focus on the 30th anniversary of Georgia’s membership in the United Nations, sustainable recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, implementation of Agenda 2030, sustainable tourism, youth and women issues, as well as strengthening multilateralism on topics related to the Presidency of Hope.
The President of the General Assembly is scheduled to call on President Salome Zourabichvili.
He is also expected to meet separately with Prime Minister Irakli Garibashvili.
On 25 July, President Shahid will meet with Mr. Ilia Darchiashvili, Minister of Foreign Affairs.  Topics to be raised will include the priority areas of the Presidency of Hope, namely recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, sustainable development, responding to the needs of the planet, respecting the rights of all, and revitalizing the United Nations.
During his visit to the Parliament of Georgia, President Shahid will meet with Mr. Shalva Papuashvili, Chairman of the Parliament. He will also visit the Public Service Hall, showcasing Georgia’s public administration and open governance reforms, transparency and accountability, in line with Sustainable Development Goal 16. In 2012, the Public Service Hall was awarded the United Nations Public Service Award.
During this official visit, President Shahid will also have opportunities to meet with representatives of youth and women civil society groups.
He will undertake several field visits. One will be to meet with internally displaced persons. The UN General Assembly passed a resolution 76/267 on “Status of internally displaced persons and refugees from Abkhazia, Georgia, and the Tskhinvali region/South Ossetia, Georgia” in June of this year, recognizing, inter alia, the right of return in safety and dignity for all internally displaced persons to their homes.
President Shahid will also use this visit to focus on recovery of the tourism sector, support for small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and local culture.
The President of the General Assembly will meet and interact with the UN Country Team, led by Ms. Kemlin Furley, Resident Coordinator a.i., UNHCR Representative in Georgia, to see how the UN agencies in Georgia are supporting these efforts.
The President will travel with five personnel from his Office. The trip is paid for by the Government of Georgia and the OPGA Trust Fund.
For further information or interview requests, please contact:
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/191695-president-general-assembly-make-official-visit-georgia




Date: 20 July 2022
Title: UNIDO and the Czech Republic to support cluster development in Georgia
Content: 20 July 2022
With the financial support of the Czech Republic, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) conducted a cluster validation workshop in Zugdidi, Georgia,
VIENNA, 19 JULY 2022 -- With the financial support of the Czech Republic and within in the framework of its project “Increasing the competitiveness of micro, small and medium-sized (MSMEs) enterprises in the Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti region through a cluster development approach”, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) conducted a cluster validation workshop in Zugdidi, Georgia, to present the project’s activities as well as the key findings of the cluster diagnostic studies of honey, greenhouses and cheese products in the target region.
The studies allowed for a deeper insight into the clusters by exploring the structure of the value chains and discovering the main challenges and commonalities shared by the producers. Overall, the clusters’ stakeholders provided useful feedback regarding the planned interventions and expressed strong interest in UNIDO’s support. As the next steps, out of three clusters, UNIDO, in close consultations with national partners and the donor, will select one cluster with strong growth and employability potential, especially for women, and will develop a more comprehensive package of support tools to enhance the selected cluster’s capacity to organize collective activities.
Ultimately, the project will strengthen the industrial fabric of the country as well as its potential for revenue and job creation and, by extension, it will contribute to the country’s efforts to attain the objectives set forth in the Sustainable Development Goals, and especially SDG9 on inclusive and sustainable industrial development. In doing so, the project laid a strong foundation for future cooperation between UNIDO and the Czech Republic in Georgia and the wider region.
For more information, please contact:
Fabio Russo
F.Russo@unido.org
Giorgi Todua
G.Todua@unido.org
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/191126-unido-and-czech-republic-support-cluster-development-georgia




Date: 17 July 2022
Title: UN Entities for Implementing Disability-inclusive SDGs for all PWDs
Content: 17 July 2022
Three UN entities – United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), South Caucasus field presence of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) and United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) - has ushered in a decade of action to ambitiously step up efforts and support Georgia in implementing disability-inclusive Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for all persons with disabilities (PWDs) with the full involvement of multiple local organizations of persons with disabilities (OPDs).
Two days training enabled the representatives of 15 OPDs and parents of children with disabilities to learn more and strengthen their capacity to be more vigorously involved in the implementation and monitoring processes of the national action plan of SDGs.
“SDGs create substantial space for the inclusion of PWDs in the development initiatives. When talking about turning national commitments into meaningful actions, PWDs must be included in the design and delivery of initiatives to implement the SDGs. We are glad to contribute and guide OPDs for their meaningful participation in achieving national goals for 2030.” - said Rusudan Kokhodze, PWDs Expert at UNDP in her welcome remarks.
Sophio Benashvili, UN OHCHR Projects Manager stressed upon the essential role that promotion and protection of human rights play in achieving sustainable development that leaves no one behind. “This is reflected in the transformative ambition of the 2030 global agenda and Georgia’s plan of SDGs that seeks to realize the human rights of all and is firmly anchored in human rights principles and standards, including the UDHR and the international human rights treaties.”
“Despite considerable efforts across international development actors, PWDs still remain excluded from many processes and actions. There is not much time left before the SDGs deadline of 2030; therefore, it is crucial we mobilize around the national consensus that the government has developed. We are here to facilitate efforts and achieve all goals together. “ – said Nutsi Odisharia, Project Officer at UNFPA.
The training program led by national expert Ekaterine Skhiladze, Deputy Public Defender of Georgia, was exciting and challenging on both intellectual and practical level. The program combined knowledge sharing on global agenda and national plan of 2030, SDGs thematic working groups, structure, work and reporting as well as practical exercises where participants were challenged to use their abilities and knowledge for effective participation in the SDGs implementation on national level. Using practical examples and case studies, the participants were able to identify and discuss the barriers and potential enablers to support inclusion and meaningful participation of women and girls with disabilities as well as how to break the cycle of marginalization.
One of the training participants and the representative of the Georgian Network of Psychiatry Service Users and Survivors, Olga Kalina said that learning about the SDGs connections with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was utmost importance for her. “I intend to join SDGs’ thematic groups and work in this format on issues related to us. It is important to study the existing indicators and and how to deliver on those, considering the needs of people with psychosocial and intellectual disabilities and women with disabilities. Furthermore, I am sure the knowledge gained from this action will significantly strengthen our ability for advocacy efforts. “
Tinatin Revazishvili, International Relations Coordinator of the Georgian Paralympic Committee, said: “an interesting issue for me is increasing involvement and participation of women in public, economic, political and sports life. We want to strengthen our efforts in relation to SDG Goals 3 (Good Health and Wellbeing) and 5 (Gender Equality), within the framework of which we want to increase the participation of girls and women with disabilities in sports activities. Sport is the best field and way to realize the possibilities of persons with disabilities and integrate them into society.”
The training of OPDs representatives was part of the United Nations Partnership for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNPRPD) supported initiative in Georgia - a unique actions that brings together three UN entities (UNDP, UN OHCHR and UNFPA), government, OPDs and broader civil society to advance the rights of PWDs.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/190690-un-entities-implementing-disability-inclusive-sdgs-all-pwds




Date: 06 July 2022
Title: Pride Week 2022: a potential stepping-stone for enhancing LGBTQI+ rights protection in Georgia 06 July 2022
Content: 06 July 2022
This joint statement is issued by the United Nations Development Programme, the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, the Embassies to Georgia of Czech Republic, France, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States.
We, the undersigned development partners, welcome the successful completion of Pride Week 2022. We congratulate the organizers, Tbilisi Pride and other community organizations, and express our solidarity with the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and intersex (LGBTQI+) communities and support their right, as citizens of Georgia, to exercise their Constitutional rights without fear.
We acknowledge that marking Pride Week is still connected to safety risks and other stressful situations that many have to live through on a daily basis. It is our sincere hope that this year’s successful holding of events marks a step forward in protecting the rights of LGBTQI+ persons, including their right to freedom of assembly.
We express gratitude toward the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the police for their successful work in maintaining public order and ensuring safety during the Pride Week events. We appreciate the involvement of the Administration of the Government of Georgia in the coordination and preparatory process.
By protecting the rights of vulnerable groups, the state stands up for ensuring basic human rights protection for all and the building of an inclusive society that embraces diversity and empowers and protects all people, with no exception. We encourage further steps to be taken by Georgia to reinforce its national commitments in the human rights area, including through the adoption of a robust National Human Rights Strategy and Action Plan.
A growing number of Georgian citizens welcomes diversity and believes that the protection of LGBTQI+ rights is important. It is vital for state policies and practices to embrace this social trend, align with Georgia’s international commitments and ensure that every citizen can enjoy due protection of their human rights and liberties regardless of disability, religion or belief, national, ethnic or social origin, sex, race, sexual orientation, gender identity or any other grounds.
In this context, we also remind the Georgian authorities of the need to properly follow up on the events of 5 July 2021, including the full investigation and prosecution of the instigators and organizers of violence.
We remain committed to supporting Georgia to further enhance the protection of LGBTQI+ rights, prevent and combat discrimination and violence against LGBTQI+ communities, and strengthen the social protection of vulnerable LGBTQI+ persons by providing housing solutions and improving access to employment, education and healthcare.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/239149-pride-week-2022-potential-stepping-stone-enhancing-lgbtqi-rights-protection-georgia-06-july




Date: 24 June 2022
Title: UN Team kicks off visit to Samtskhe-Javakheti
Content: 24 June 2022
During the visit, the UN team looked at the opportunities and development needs in the region.
The UN Resident Coordinator, Sabine Machl, accompanied by the UNFPA Head of Office, Lela Bakradze, the IOM Chief of Mission, Sanja Celebic Lukovac, the  UNICEF Health Education Officer, Nana Pruidze, the Head of the Office of the Resident Coordinator, Anna Platonova, the FAO Project Officers, Tamta Tavartkiladze and Gvantsa Gedenidze, the FAO Communications Officer, Sophio Altunashvili, the UNFPA Communications and Partnerships Analyst, Salome Benidze, and the UNFPA Programme Officer, Marika Kurdadze, visited the Samtskhe-Javakheti region on June 21-23 to discuss challenges and opportunities in the region, and  to have a firsthand experience of different aspects of the UN’s work on the ground.
The team met with the State Representative in Samtskhe-Javakheti  Besik Amiranashvili,  the Mayor of  Akhaltsikhe municipality Irakli Lazarashvili, representatives of municipal authorities, civil society, academia,  local farmers, entrepreneurs, young people  and local communities.
The trip kicked off with an opening of an Equality Corner at the Public School #2 in the village of Vale, Akhaltsikhe Municipality.  The Equality Corner has been established by UNFPA Georgia with the support of the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia. Over 240 books have been handed over to the school’s library to raise awareness among teachers, parents and children about gender equality, tolerance and human rights. Alexandre Lortkipanidze, TV presenter and writer shared his knowledge with children and teachers about equality and the many benefits of reading. The UN team also had an opportunity to meet with young people - participants of the Youth for Social Change initiative in Akhaltsikhe, implemented by UNFPA in partnership with the Center for Civic Engagement, in the frameworks of the programme “Addressing Gender-Biased Sex Selection and Related Harmful Practices in the South Caucasus”, with the support of the European Union. The initiative brought together the youth who believe that by accumulating necessary knowledge and competence, and by encouraging small group initiatives in their communities, they can change the harmful gender norms at the local level.
In the course of the visit, the UN team met with the Mayor of  Akhaltsikhe municipality Irakli Lazarashvili. The discussions at the meeting focused on the UN’s longstanding relationship with the municipality in various fields, including women entrepreneurship, support to returned migrants and youth development. The sides discussed the opportunities and development needs of the municipality, and  the prospects for further enhancing partnerships in various sectors. Irakli Lazarashvili also shared information on ongoing infrastructure projects and future plans.
The UN team also had an opportunity to meet  the State Representative in Samtskhe-Javakheti,  Besik Amiranashvili,  the Chairman of the Akhaltsikhe Municipal Assembly (Sakrebulo), Davit Lomidze, and the Head of the Governor's Office, Giorgi Mikeladze. The sides exchanged thoughts related to programs implemented in the region by the UN agencies in Georgia and discussed the ways for further fostering cooperation in the fields of mutual interest, including  in the field of youth development and social inclusion.

The visit continued in the village of  Khertvisi, Aspindza, where  six female producers – members of One Village One Product (OVOP) group, "Tuta"  –  took charge of mulberry production and, in turn, of their own destiny.  Originated in Japan, OVOP is a model based on which people in a village decide on a single product that is unique to their area. The initiative aims to spur countryside development and promote the emergence of women in agricultural area development.  With UNDP’s support, the local producers received training and economic resources to widen family’s income generation.
Next stop was in Akhaltsikhe where the team met Liana Tchankvetadze. She returned home with IOM’s support and restarted cattle-breeding business. She was provided with entrepreneurship skills training and cash assistance to make a decent income.   Read her story
While in Akhaltsikhe, the UN Head Sabine Machl and UN representatives visited the Samtskhe-Javakheti State University. They met with the Rector of the University Maka Beridze and visited university premises and workshops as well as  a  vibrant outdoor mural created by UNFPA that captures the spirit of the MenCare campaign (illustrator – Sonia Eliashvili, artist – Lia Ukleba).
The UN team had an opportunity to visit the Child Rights Center set up by UNICEF to raise awareness of specialists, academics, teachers, and students about children's rights as well as to gain insight into the Minor Program launched by UNDP to help students develop their skills by using new technologies, including AgroDron.
The team also visited a modern potato sorting and storage facility in Chamdura, Akhlakalaki. With a matching grant from EU and FAO, under the ENPARD programme, LTD "Akhali Mosavali" headed by Tamaz Kurdadze, managed to purchase a receiving hopper, ventilation system, and wooden crates and set up a sorting and storage facility, where potatoes are stored with high standards. The storage facility supports up to 200 rural entrepreneurs and farmers in selling their harvest and minimising food loss. Watch a video
This was followed by a meeting with representatives of civil society organizations from Samtkhe-Javakheti region to discuss the work of these organizations in the region. Included in the meeting were representatives of some of the many NGOs working on youth engagement, human rights issues in Samtskhe-Javakheti, including the Democrat Women's organization, Akhaltsikhe Youth Center, Civil Initiatives Association,  and Samtskhe-Javakheti Development Centre. At the meeting, the main needs of regional NGOs were identified. The ideas discussed were relevant to the sectors of youth development, national minorities, child rights, etc. Their feedback on areas needing attention remains a valued source of information for the UN.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/188006-un-team-kicks-visit-samtskhe-javakheti




Date: 18 June 2022
Title: World Refugee Day 2022: Everyone has the right to seek safety!
Content: 18 June 2022
On June 19, to mark World Refugee Day, a Solidarity Walk will be held at the Tbilisi Botanical Garden, organized jointly by the UN Refugee Agency in Georgia and the UN Resident Coordinator.
On June 19, to mark World Refugee Day, a Solidarity Walk will be held at the Tbilisi Botanical Garden, organized jointly by the UN Refugee Agency in Georgia and the UN Resident Coordinator.
To support and show solidarity with millions forcibly displaced people around the world, the UNHCR Representative in Georgia, Ms. Kemlin Furley, UN Resident Coordinator to Georgia, Ms. Sabine Machl, together with UN Country Team, Ambassadors and representatives of various government agencies and international and non-governmental organizations, will participate in a solidarity walk along with the refugees living in Georgia.
On 20 June World Refugee Day is observed globally. On this day we honour refugees everywhere, paying respect to the resilience and courage of those who have fled conflict or persecution and are having to make new homes in foreign places. World Refugee Day is an occasion to build understanding for their plight and to celebrate empathy and public solidarity with refugees.
This is a day when we ask people to remember the importance of welcoming newcomers into their communities. Those who have been forced to flee bring with them their cultures, their unique experiences and their hope – all of which make any community stronger and more vibrant.
“In Georgia, as in the rest of Europe, the dramatic situation in Ukraine has produced an outpouring of kindness and support for those fleeing this horrible war. This year, World Refugee Day focuses on the right to seek safety. Everyone deserves to be safe, wherever they come from. We stand with refugees, whoever they are.”- Kemlin Furley, the UNHCR Representative in Georgia.
Recently, the world marked a grim milestone: the number of people forced to flee conflict, war, persecution and human rights abuses crossed the 100 million mark for the first time on record. Behind this dramatic figure - more than 100 million women, men and children forced to flee are real stories of loss and trauma, as well as of courage and strength. Given the chance, refugees will continue to contribute to a stronger, safer and more vibrant world. We stand #WithRefugees! We hope you do too!
Tbilisi City has signed up to the global initiative “Cities with Refugees”. Its beautiful botanical garden is the perfect place to celebrate the opportunities Georgia offers for safety and new beginnings.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/186713-world-refugee-day-2022-everyone-has-right-seek-safety




Date: 17 June 2022
Title: Multipurpose Community Centre (MPC) opens in Bukistsikhe
Content: 17 June 2022
The centere is to promote social relationships and cohesion of returned migrants and non-migrant members of the local community.
On 15 June, Bukistsikhe hosted the official opening of the Multipurpose Community Centre (MPC). The event was attended by the local authorities, the representatives of the Swiss Cooperation Office for the South Caucasus/Embassy of Switzerland in Georgia, UN organizations, as well as by the local populationcommunity. Giorgi Urushadze, State Representative in Guria Region, Dato Sharashidze, Mayor of Chokhatauri Municipality, Danielle Meuwly, Regional Director of the Swiss Cooperation Office for the South Caucasus, Embassy of Switzerland in Georgia, Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Sanja Celebic Lukovac, Chief of IOM Mission in Georgia and George Nanobashvili, National Programme Officer at UN Development Programme (UNDP) made opening remarks at the launching event.
“We are looking forward that this renovated building for a shared space, with the primary healthcare unit, adult education classes, sports’ room for youth, transformable into a small cinema or the office space for the community leaders, will promote social relationships and cohesion within the community and encourage local development potential,” stated Giorgi Urushadze, State Representative in Guria Region.
The Multipurpose Community Centre was established in the Bukistsikhe community which is characterized by active migration processes – 14 percent% of families have one or two family members in emigration or returned from migration. The centere aims to promote social relationships and cohesion of returned migrants and non-migrant members of the local community and to also encourage them afore-mentioned to become development actors for their community’s wellbeing.
“Through its projects, the SDC encourages local communities to come up with initiative which best reflect local needs. Hence, we are delighted to support the establishment of the community centre that comes from the community itself,” said Danielle Meuwly. “We are convinced that that the ownership of the space will be gradually increased with the support of our partner UN agencies and that the space and concept of community centre will remain alive, so that each and every room here will serve evolving needs and interests of local community,” Ms. Meuwly added.
“Structured environment is an important prerequisite for promoting community mobilization. Engaging women and men to identify community needs and to think of solutions in such a way as to promote positive change is essential. I encourage local community members to be active in problem solution processes and in the elaboration of local development plans and programmes”, said Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia.
“The community centre aims to serve as a focal point for the Bukistsikhe community for advancing the local development and revitalization agenda, with a hope of contributing to the sustainability of returns, and decreasing pressure from emigration decisions,” stated Sanja Celebic Lukovac, Chief of IOM Mission in Georgia, “and for that, there are some plans that IOM and its partners have, that considers series of targeted training courses, cultural events, information sessions for women and youth, members of the community with or without migration experience, for furthering the community development agenda.”
Multipurpose Community Centre (MPC) was established in Bukistsikhe in cooperation between the UNDP and IOM with the financial support from the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) within the in the frames of the UNDP project “Fostering Regional and Local Development in Georgia Phase 2 (FRLD2) and IOM project “Sustainable Reintegration and Community Revitalization Pilot Initiative in Communities of Return”. The project latter aims to contributes to the efforts of the Government of Georgia to support sustainable reintegration of returning migrants and community revitalization, encouraging migrants and communities to become development actors. Through aThe active cooperation withis thought with the local municipalities and other local development actors itto promotes participatory approach in reintegration of returned migrants and development of the communities of return.
Current population of Bukistsikhe counts about 550 persons , with 53 percent% women and, 47 percent% - men.  The share of the population over the age of 60 is 31 percent%, which is quite high and indicates that the population of Bukistsikhe community is demographically aging. Forty nine percent of the population is of active working age (18-60 years), which has a positive impact on the level of economic activity of the population.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/186652-multipurpose-community-centre-mpc-opens-bukistsikhe%C2%A0




Date: 08 June 2022
Title: Georgia strives to strengthen the care economy and introduce gender-responsive family policies
Content: 08 June 2022
The EU, Sweden and UN are launching a high-level discussion on systemic solutions supporting women’s economic empowerment in Georgia
The United Nations, in partnership with the Government of Sweden and the European Union (EU), is supporting Georgia’s efforts to introduce key principles of the care economy and promote strategic solutions supporting women’s economic empowerment, equal employment opportunities and gender-responsive family policies.
The national vision of this life-changing transformation was discussed at a high-level conference, organised on 8 June by two UN agencies – the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). The event was supported by the Sweden-funded UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality, implemented by three UN agencies (UNDP, UNFPA, UN Women), and the EU-funded programme “EU4GenderEquality: Together against gender stereotypes and gender-based violence", implemented jointly by UN Women and UNFPA.
Chairperson of the Parliament’s Gender Equality Council Nino Tsilosani presented some main principles of the National Concept for Women’s Economic Empowerment, a strategic policy document being prepared by lawmakers.
Advisor to the Prime Minister on Human Rights Niko Tatulashvili stressed that gender-responsive family policies increase the participation of women in the labour market and open opportunities to fulfil their career aspirations, ensure gender balance and reduce discrimination. Besides, they support building a tolerant and non-discriminatory society and in combination with other factors, increase the birth rate and ensure demographic resilience.
This was followed by panel discussions focused on social and economic issues that a well-functioning care economy can address, including a high share of women in unpaid and low-paid care work, economic insecurity of caregivers, low participation of women in the labour market, unequal distribution of domestic chores between women and men, lack of access to quality childcare services, and low engagement of women in economic activities and politics.
Georgian officials announced concrete commitments aimed at enhancing care economy principles and introducing gender-responsive family policies while representatives of international organizations reconfirmed their support for Georgia’s efforts.
Speakers included Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia Ulrik Tideström, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia Sabine Machl, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia Nick Beresford,  Head of UNFPA Georgia Office Lela Bakradze, Deputy Minister of IDPs from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia Tamila Barkalaia and representatives of Georgia’s Government, Parliament, civil society, the private sector and international organizations.
“Women’s economic empowerment requires active measures to increase women’s access to and control over economic resources – including to secure a more equal sharing of family responsibilities between women and men. Sweden supports comprehensive economic equality reforms in Georgia, including efforts to address legal and societal inequalities that hinder women's and marginalized groups’ access to resources.’’
H.E. Ulrik Tideström, Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia
“We support policies that help Georgia build an economy that responds to people's needs. Good quality and affordable childcare, elderly care with dignity, paid family leave and workplace flexibility are building blocks of a society and an economy that works for all of us.”
Nick Beresford, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia
“Evidence shows that gender-responsive family policies – both at the national level and those implemented by the private sector – are powerful tools to shift discriminatory gender norms and redistribute unpaid care work so that both men and women can realize their career aspirations and their fertility intentions. When women are forced to give up their careers to take care of children and the household, their talents and other contributions remain untapped in the economy and public life. And when women can’t have the number of children they want because that would in effect end their careers, the resulting low birth rates add further pressure on population numbers. The existence of the Gender-responsive Family Policies is, in fact, a wise solution to tackle the problem.”
Lela Bakradze, Head of UNFPA Georgia Office
Even though Georgia makes significant progress in reducing gender inequalities, there are still areas where discrimination, bias and deep-rooted social norms prevent women from being fully engaged in economic, social and political participation.
Only about 40 percent of Georgian women of working age participate in the formal labour market (GEOSTAT, 2020), largely due to the challenges they face in combining work and family obligations. According to the World Bank, the economic cost of this persisting issue is 11 percent of Georgia's GDP.
The distribution of household work in Georgia is still starkly segregated by gender, with women doing family chores in overwhelming numbers. Three out of four respondents say that women always perform basic care duties (UNDP/UNFPA. 2020).
The new National Concept for Women’s Economic Empowerment addresses many of these unresolved issues, defines key national priorities and paves the way to better economic and family policies and greater equality for all
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/185241-georgia-strives-strengthen-care-economy-and-introduce-gender-responsive-family-policies




Date: 05 June 2022
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL MESSAGE ON WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY
Content: 05 June 2022
The theme of this year’s World Environment Day, “Only One Earth”, is a simple statement of fact.  This planet is our only home.  It is vital we safeguard the health of its atmosphere, the richness and diversity of life on Earth, its ecosystems and its finite resources.  But we are failing to do so.  We are asking too much of our planet to maintain ways life that are unsustainable.  Earth’s natural systems cannot keep up with our demands.
The theme of this year’s World Environment Day, “Only One Earth”, is a simple statement of fact.  This planet is our only home.  It is vital we safeguard the health of its atmosphere, the richness and diversity of life on Earth, its ecosystems and its finite resources.  But we are failing to do so.  We are asking too much of our planet to maintain ways life that are unsustainable.  Earth’s natural systems cannot keep up with our demands.
This not only hurts the Earth, but us too.  A healthy environment is essential for all people and all 17 Sustainable Development Goals.  It provides food, clean water, medicines, climate regulation and protection from extreme weather events.  It is essential that we wisely manage nature and ensure equitable access to its services, especially for the most vulnerable people and communities.
More than 3 billion people are affected by degraded ecosystems.  Pollution is responsible for some 9 million premature deaths each year.  More than 1 million plant and animal species risk extinction, many within decades.
Close to half of humanity is already in the climate danger zone – 15 times more likely to die from climate impacts such as extreme heat, floods and drought.  There is a 50:50 chance that annual average global temperatures will breach the Paris Agreement limit of 1.5 degrees Celsius in the next five years.  More than 200 million people each year could be displaced by climate disruption by 2050.
Fifty years ago, the world’s leaders came together at the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment and committed to protecting the planet.  But we are far from succeeding.  We can no longer ignore the alarm bells that ring louder every day.
The recent Stockholm+50 environment meeting reiterated that all 17 Sustainable Development Goals rely on a healthy planet.  We must all take responsibility to avert the catastrophe being wrought by the triple crises of climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss.
Governments need urgently to prioritize climate action and environmental protection through policy decisions that promote sustainable progress.  To that end, I have proposed five concrete recommendations to dramatically speed up the deployment of renewable energy everywhere, including making renewable technologies and raw materials available to all, cutting red tape, shifting subsidies and tripling investment.
Businesses need to put sustainability at the heart of their decision-making for the sake of humanity and their own bottom line.  A healthy planet is the backbone of nearly every industry on Earth.
And as voters and consumers we must make our actions count: from the policies we support, to the food we eat, to the transport we choose, to the companies we support.  We can all make environmentally friendly choices that will add up to the change we need.
Women and girls, in particular, can be forceful agents of change.  They must be empowered and included in decision-making at all levels.  Likewise, indigenous and traditional knowledge must also be respected and harnessed to help protect our fragile ecosystems.
History has shown what can be achieved when we work together and put the planet first.  In the 1980s, when scientists warned about a deadly continent-sized hole in the ozone layer, every country committed to the Montreal Protocol to phase out ozone-depleting chemicals.
In the 1990s, the Basel Convention outlawed the dumping of toxic waste in developing countries.  And, last year, a multilateral effort ended the production of leaded petrol – a move that will promote better health and prevent more than 1.2 million premature deaths each year.
This year and the next will present more opportunities for the global community to demonstrate the power of multilateralism to tackle our intertwined environmental crises, from negotiations on a new global biodiversity framework to reverse nature loss by 2030 to the establishment of a treaty to tackle plastics pollution.
The United Nations is committed to leading these cooperative global efforts, because the only way forward is to work with nature, not against it.  Together we can ensure that our planet not only survives, but thrives, because we have Only One Earth.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/184990-secretary-general-message-world-environment-day




Date: 04 June 2022
Title: Statement by the Secretary-General - on the 100th day of the war in Ukraine
Content: 04 June 2022
New York, 3 June 2022
Today marks 100 days since the start of the 24 February Russian invasion of Ukraine. The conflict has already taken thousands of lives, caused untold destruction, displaced millions of people, resulted in unacceptable violations of human rights and is inflaming a three-dimensional global crisis – food, energy and finance – that is pummeling the most vulnerable people, countries and economies.
From the first days of the war, the United Nations has been there to support the people of Ukraine in dealing with the humanitarian impact of the conflict, while also drawing attention to the dangers and long-term implications of continued fighting and potential escalation of hostilities for the country, the wider region and the world.
As we mark this tragic day, I renew my call for an immediate halt to violence, for unfettered humanitarian access to all those in need, for safe evacuation of civilians trapped in areas of fighting and for urgent protection of civilians and respect for human rights in accordance with international norms.
The UN is committed to the humanitarian effort. But as I have stressed from the beginning, resolving this conflict will require negotiations and dialogue. The sooner the parties engage in good-faith diplomatic efforts to end this war, the better for the sake of Ukraine, Russia and the world. The United Nations stands ready to support all such efforts.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/184860-statement-secretary-general-100th%C2%A0day-war-ukraine




Date: 03 June 2022
Title: The way forward: Georgia presents its national vision of a sustainable and climate-smart future
Content: 03 June 2022
Sweden and UNDP assist Georgia to join an international Stockholm+50 dialogue
Georgia is one of 70 countries to join the Stockholm+50 international dialogue on 2-3 June to amplify a global call for greater ambition on climate change and pressing environmental challenges.
At the conference, Georgia’s delegation, led by Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture Nino Tandilashvili, presented the country’s vision of a healthy planet and prosperity for all and national roadmaps for environmental protection and climate action.
This comprehensive document builds on the nationwide consultations with Georgian decision-makers, civil society activists and the private sector rolled out from April through May with assistance from the Government of Sweden and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). It focuses on four main issues identified during the consultations – climate action, ecosystem services, resilient cities and environmental education – and includes an array of opinions, strategies and recommendations to help Georgia make bold steps towards a climate-smart and sustainable future.
“Georgia has just submitted its EU membership application. It’s vital to put our international environmental commitments into practice to support Georgia’s progress under the EU Association Agreement,” Tandilashvili noted.
“The only way to make peace with nature is to rewind our environmental and climate impact and work together to protect our planet and enhance the quality of life for all. Sweden will continue to support Georgia on our joint path to reimagine the future, regenerate ecosystems and rebalance our resource use for a greener and liveable future”, said Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia Ulrik Tideström.
"Preparations for the Stockholm+50 conference showed that Georgia’s decision-makers and people are increasingly concerned with the environmental and climate challenges the country is facing and are ready to take action. UNDP is working with Sweden and other partners to encourage and support this growing consensus and to promote urgent action to conserve biodiversity, reduce pollution and protect communities from climate-induced disasters,” said UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia Nick Beresford.
The original 1972 Stockholm conference was a milestone in rethinking the relationship between humans and the environment. After 50 years, Stockholm+50 once again calls on the world to invest in the planet and act together to create a truly sustainable future.
Co-hosted by Sweden and Kenya, this crucial international environmental meeting created space for leadership dialogues, debates engaging women, youth, older persons, persons with disabilities and local communities, and hundreds of side events and webinars aimed at driving global action toward a healthy planet. This included the daily ‘UNDP Hour’, organised jointly with the We Don't Have Time movement, that brought together some of the world’s most notable experts to discuss the pressing climate concerns from a human perspective.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/184835-way-forward-georgia-presents-its-national-vision-sustainable-and-climate-smart-future




Date: 01 June 2022
Title: The Ministry of Internal Affairs Launches Information Campaign Against Child Marriage - "Do Not Deprive of Childhood"
Content: 01 June 2022
The Ministry of Internal affairs has launched an information campaign - "Do Not Deprive of Childhood", which aims to eliminate crimes of child marriage, raise public awareness on the issue, and ensure timely reporting of cases to law enforcement.
Ministry of Internal Affairs prioritizes the fight against harmful practices of child marriage and the timely detection of such cases. To respond effectively, the Human Rights Protection and Investigation Quality Control Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs studies and monitors all possible cases of child marriages.
The Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Alexander Darakhvelidze, the head of the UNFPA Georgia Country Office, Lela Bakradze, and the Ambassador of the Kingdom of Sweden to Georgia H.E. Ulrik Tideström addressed the guests at the campaign opening ceremony.
The governmental and non-governmental sector representatives, the Public Defender’s office, members of the Parliament, and international organizations dealing with this issue attended the event. At the meeting, the Human Rights Protection and Investigation Quality Control Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs delivered a presentation informing the guests about the statistics on child marriages and the activities to be carried out in the framework of the campaign.
In addition, Advisor to the Prime Minister on Human Rights, Niko Tatulashvili, First Deputy Minister of Education and Science Tamar Makharashvili , Deputy Minister of Labor, Health and Social Protection, Tamar Barkalaia, and Head of the Gender Department at the Public Defender’s Office Sophie Rusetski participated in the panel discussion dedicated to the challenges associated with the work on elimination the harmful practices..
Furthermore, a video was prepared on the topic of child marriage where the representatives of various fields talked about the harmful effects of child marriages and emphasized the importance of eliminating the practice. The campaign is carried out in partnership with the UNFPA office in Georgia within the framework of the “UN Joint Program For Gender Equality” funded by the Government of Sweden.
The informational campaign will continue for one month and include various activities, such as holding meetings with different target groups in Tbilisi and the regions, arranging drawing contest for school children, etc.  Human Rights Protection and Investigations Quality Control Department staff members, representatives of the police departments, and other partner agencies will lead the informational meetings.
Furthermore, informative brochures, bookmarks with the campaign logo, T-shirts, brooches, bags, and other branded items prepared for the campaign, will be distributed to school administrations and other stakeholders during the various activities implemented throughout the campaign.



UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/184574-ministry-internal-affairs-launches-information-campaign-against-child-marriage-do-not




Date: 31 May 2022
Title: World No Tobacco Day, 31 May 2022
Content: 31 May 2022
Carcinogenic waste and disappearing forests: tobacco is contaminating life on our planet
Tobacco threatens the health of every living being on Earth. The full cycle of tobacco cultivation, growth, production, consumption and waste poisons the air, the water, and the entire ecosystem. On World No Tobacco Day 2022, WHO highlights the latest facts on the environmental harm of tobacco life cycle and exposes the tobacco industry’s effort to greenwash its reputation by marketing its products as environmentally friendly.
Overall tobacco cycle: 25 million metric tons of waste every year
Globally, tobacco kills over 8 million people every year and fuels the prevalence of dangerous noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) such as cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory diseases, cancer, diabetes, and more.
“We know that tobacco kills its users, but the harm goes far beyond the smoke of a cigarette. Every year, 4.5 trillion cigarette butts are discarded in the environment releasing over 7,000 chemicals – 70 of which are known carcinogens that pollute pavements, parks, and eventually waterways where they poison marine life”, said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe.
The environmental impact of tobacco use moves it from an individual issue to a global problem. Tobacco not only harms the individuals who use it and those around them but is a threat to sustainabledevelopment. Therefore, tobacco control requires a holistic approach and a whole of government and society engagement.
“In Georgia, around 11.400 people are dying and 2.4% of GDP is lost due to tobacco each year. The good news is that after the introduction of the new Tobacco Control law in 2018 rates of both active and passive smokers have been decreasing. In 2020 27.4% of adults were active smokers, while in 2016 the same rate was 31%. By sustainably reducing the rates of tobacco consumption, Georgia can create healthier environment for all, while also having a positive impact on country’s economy”- said Kakha Gvinianidze, National Professional Officer at WHO Country Office Georgia.
Beyond the smoke of a cigarette: how tobacco industry harms the environment
The harm tobacco production and waste causes is a hidden environmental hazard:
Talking trash: behind the tobacco industry's 'green' public relations
To greenwash its reputation and portray itself as eco-friendly, the tobacco industry uses deceitful tactics. The industry’s self-reported data and marketing activities tend to mislead the public into minimizing the effects of tobacco growing on the environment and believing that tobacco production is not harmful.
“The truth is that from start to finish, the tobacco life cycle is an overwhelmingly polluting and damaging process, which puts already fragile ecosystems at risk and threatens the development of current and future generations around the world. It is our moral imperative to enable children to grow up free from the dangers of tobacco exposure and provide them with clean, safe and secure environments”, said Dr Nino Berdzuli, Director of the Division of Country Health Programmes at WHO/Europe.
On this WNTD WHO calls on general public, policy-makes, civil society, academia and other partners to:
It’s time to say NO to tobacco for a healthier planet and healthier people.

Links:
World No Tobacco Day 2022: Tobacco’s threat to our environment
WHO factsheets on Tobacco Control in the WHO European Region
WHO webinar - Talking trash: Behind the tobacco industry's 'green' public relations

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/184156-world-no-tobacco-day-31-may-2022




Date: 20 May 2022
Title: UN and Development Partners Recommit to Support the Transformation of Social Protection System for Persons with Disabilities
Content: 20 May 2022
The United Nations in Georgia, along with various development partners, expressed commitment to further support the transformation of the social protection system for persons with disabilities in Georgia.
A one-day meeting was convened by the United Nations to assess progress in the implementation of the Joint Programme ‘Transforming Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) in Georgia’.
UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl opened the meeting. Other speakers included Deputy Minister of MoIDPOTLHSA Tamila Barkalaia, Human Rights Advisor, Prime Minister’s Office Niko Tatulashvili, Deputy Chair of the Parliament Legal Affairs Committee Rati Ionatamishvili, and Public Defender Nino Lomjaria. Head of Programmes of the Joint SDG Fund Nenad Rava delivered his address through a pre-recorded video.
Using an action-oriented approach, participants discussed the remaining gaps in the social protection system for persons with disabilities and identified areas to further address issues affecting persons with disabilities.
Launched in January 2020 with USD 2 million from the Joint SDG Fund, a multi-sectoral approach has been used to enhance social protection for persons with disabilities. The Joint Programme involves collaboration among UNICEF, UNDP, UNFPA, UN Women, WHO, OHCHR, as well as the Government, civil society and organizations of people with disabilities. The focus of the Programme was to improve the policy environment, advance the accessibility of infrastructure, information and services, promote social inclusion, and increase access to social services for people with disabilities in Georgia, as well as to support the effective implementation and monitoring of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities (UN CRPD).
“The joint efforts of the UN advanced transformative and lasting change for persons who are too often left behind,” said Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in her opening remarks. “We made good progress in developing more inclusive legislation, reforming the way disability determinations are made - and thereby end the invisibility of persons with disabilities, ensuring access to sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights for all persons with disabilities as well as preventing and responding to gender-based violence”. She also noted that “today’s meeting is an important step in supporting the sustainability of the achieved results and driving change across a variety of interconnected issues”.
Since 2020, the Joint Programme supported reforms for enabling legislative and policy environment in Georgia, advocated for adopting the new Law on the Rights of Persons with disabilities which facilitated the process of including bringing Georgian legislation in compliance with UN CRPD standards as well as advocated for ratification of the Optional Protocol to UN CRPD. With support from the Joint Programme, one of the most important mechanisms for CRPD implementation - the Interagency Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities -was created,  annual action plans on implementation of the Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (LRPD) and the national regulatory framework on accessibility were elaborated.
With the JP support the draft Human Rights Strategy, as well as number of annual action plans on implementation of the Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (LRPD) and  the national regulatory framework on accessibility were elaborated. Relevant national policies and plans and educational platforms that guarantee access to family planning and antenatal care of women with disabilities, as well as mechanisms for identification  and management of GBV were updated and developed.
Under this Joint Programme, the process and procedures of the disability assessment and status determination system based on a social model of disability were formulated, piloted and refined to match the needs of various disability groups. Mechanisms for roll-out of the new disability assessment system were developed including (1) a roadmap to create a cadre of professionals necessary for the assessment; (2) the concept for the system’s monitoring and professionals’ supervision; (3) information management system; and (4) draft legislative changes to support the transformation process. Over 1,500 persons (including children) with disabilities have been assessed using the new assessment methodology, as part of the pilot initiatives.
The Joint Programme also enhanced the capacities of legal professionals with special focus on Legal Aid Service (LAS) as a primary provider of legal aid to persons with disabilities and law-enforcement on international CRPD standards.
An Advisory Committee on disability assessment and status determination system was formed, comprised of 10 representatives of different disability communities, including parents and children  with disabilities. The Committee as well as various organizations for persons with disabilities were supported. In total, over 409,000 people, including women and girls with disabilities, benefitted from improved knowledge on their rights as well as improved policies and public attitudes, and one million people were reached through awareness raising initiatives, including on the rights of women and girls with disabilities.
The Joint Programme improved access to social services and employment, including strengthening social services for persons with disabilities in Akhaltshikhe and Shuakhevi municipalities; establishing Social Inclusion Centers in Ambrolauri and Khobi; and setting up a rehabilitation centre for children with disabilities in Abkhazia. In addition, the Joint Programme supported the creation of favorable conditions for employment of persons with disabilities and to ensure their living independently, in partnership with state agencies, the private sector and local municipalities.
It is expected that discussions from the meeting will scale up engagement and implementation of the UN Disability Convention and Georgia’s Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (LRPD), including effectiveness of newly created Coordination Committee, better access to quality services in the areas of sexual and reproductive health and gender-based violence and transformation of the disability assessment and status determination system.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/182779-un-and-development-partners-recommit-support-transformation-social-protection-system-persons




Date: 20 May 2022
Title: Supporting sustainable development in the Ajara Autonomous Republic
Content: 20 May 2022
Good governance, green growth and inclusive economic development at the heart of the EU and UNDP programmes
BATUMI. 20 May 2021 – The Ajara Autonomous Republic (Ajara AR) is one of Georgia’s most vibrant and fast-growing regions where speedy economic growth benefits from the environmental and social agenda. The European Union and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have been supporting the Ajara AR for over a decade, assisting to promote strong, open and transparent regional governance and achieve sustainable rural development. The EU and UNDP support has also focused on piloting innovative approaches to development and creating enabling space for people and nature.
UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia Nick Beresford visited the Ajara Autonomous Republic on 18-20 May to launch new initiatives under the EU and UNDP-supported projects.
The UNDP Head met with the Chairperson of the Ajara AR Government Tornike Rizhvadze, Chairperson of the Ajara AR Supreme Council David Gabaidze, Batumi City Mayor Archil Chiqovani and representatives of municipal authorities, the private sector and local communities.
Beresford attended a public launch of the Ajara AR Supreme Council’s Strategy for Institutional Development and Communication, prepared with the EU and UNDP support.
He also signed a trilateral statement of intent with the Batumi City Hall and the Batumi Technopark of Georgia’s Innovation and Technology Agency (GITA) aimed at promoting new businesses and developing a startup ecosystem in Batumi. This initiative is part of the EU and UNDP support for Georgian municipalities in designing municipal transformation portfolios.
At the meeting with the Batumi Mayor, Beresford discussed emerging opportunities to promote sustainable waste management practices at the municipal level, explored by the UNDP’s Accelerator Lab in Georgia.
The visit continued in the Machakhela National Park and the highland villages where Beresford checked on the progress of rural development and ecosystem conservation projects rolled out with assistance from the EU, UNDP and the Ajara AR Government.
The EU and UNDP support for the Ajara  Autonomous Republic draws on the resources made available by several nationwide EU-funded initiatives, including the ‘European Neighbourhood Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development’ (ENPARD), the ‘Mayors for Economic Growth’ (M4EG), and the ‘Assistance to Parliamentary Democracy in Georgia’.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/182749-supporting-sustainable-development-ajara-autonomous-republic




Date: 18 May 2022
Title: Road Safet Week Encourages to Build Streets for Life
Content: 18 May 2022
More action needed to curb road deaths and injuries on Georgia’s roads
Despite the sobering statistics of Georgia’s road death and serious injury rates, the message of road safety doesn't appear to be sinking in for all.
According to National Statistics Office, in 2021 449 people were killed and 7705 injured in crashes across Georgia. The number of injured increased by 17 % compared to 2020.
Illegal maneuvering and other traffic movement violations, speed, alcohol, pedestrian-related dangerous behaviour and poor condition of vehicles contributed to road fatalities every year.
To counter these preventable deaths and injuries,  the Georgia Alliance for Safe Roads and the United Nations Office in Georgia in partnership with Tegeta Holding and Volvo Car Caucasus are running an annual Road Safety Week campaign from 16 to 22 May, 2022.
This year's theme is #CommittoACT and build #streetsforlife that will help achieve the SDGs.
To help Georgia move forward on sustainability and road safety path, the conference on road safety issues was organized on May 18. The agenda focused on the legislative and policy aspects of road safety.
Opening the conference on May 18, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia Sabine Machl noted that challenges are indeed severe not only in Georgia, but in the whole world. “Estimates by the World Health Organization suggest that road crashes kill nearly 1.3 million people every year and leave between 20 and 50 million injured or permanently disabled worldwide,” she said. “In line with our promise under the Sustainable Development Goals to halve global traffic deaths and injuries by 2030, we need a joint commitment by central and local government, Parliament, civil society and the private sector to renew pledge for road safety”.
This strong resolve to improve road safety was echoed in welcome remarks made by Georgia Alliance for Safe Roads Chair Eka Laliashvili, Deputy Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development of Georgia Guram Guramishvili, Chair of the Parliamentary Legal Committee Anri Okhanashvili, Head of the National Center for Disease Control Amiran Gamkrelidze and Director of Volvo Car Caucasus Gaga Kokhreidze.
Chair of the Legal Issues Committee of the Parliament of Georgia Anri Okhanashvili pointed out that the Georgian parliament amended the Law on Roads to bring it into line with best practice on one or more key risk factors for road traffic injuries. He noted that the work on  strengthening and harmonizing the supportive legal framework would continue.
Head of the National Center for Disease Control Amiran Gamkrelidze focused on road traffic crashes as a public health problem noting that road trauma continues to be a major issue. “With over a million people killed each year on the world’s roads, and tens of millions more injured, road traffic crashes are a leading cause of death across all age groups globally,” he said. He noted that bold steps forward in addressing road traffic injuries as a preventable health problem are needed.
Deputy Economy Minister, Guram Guramishvili  highlighted the importance of a twinning project on road safety that has come into effect in Georgia under the European Union (EU) assistance. He noted that the successful implementation of the project would have a positive impact on the process of overcoming the challenges in terms of road safety in Georgia.
One conference theme was in-car technologies that help feel safer on roads. "Innovative approaches, including  the 3-point safety belt invented by Volvo has saved hundreds of thousands of lives,” said Gaga Kokhreidze, Director of Volvo Car Caucasus.
Earlier, on May 16 the Georgia Alliance for Safe Roads has visited a St. George’s International School  to spread an important message when it comes to being safe on the roads.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/182487-road-safet-week-encourages-build-streets-life




Date: 17 May 2022
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL REMARKS TO THE GLOBAL FOOD SECURITY CALL TO ACTION
Content: 17 May 2022
Russia must permit the safe and secure export of grain stored in Ukrainian ports. Alternative transportation routes can be explored, reads the statement.
Two weeks ago, I visited the Sahel region of Africa, where I met families who do not know where their next meal is coming from. Severe acute malnutrition – a wasting disease that can kill if left untreated – is rising. Farm animals are already dying of hunger.
Leaders told me that because of the war in Ukraine, on top of the other crises they face, they fear this dangerous situation could tip into catastrophe.
They are not alone.
Global hunger levels are at a new high. In just two years, the number of severely food insecure people has doubled, from 135 million pre-pandemic to 276 million today.
More than half a million people are living in famine conditions – an increase of more than 500 percent since 2016.
As we will discuss in the Security Council tomorrow, these frightening figures are inextricably linked with conflict, as both cause, and effect.
If we do not feed people, we feed conflict.
The climate emergency is another driver of global hunger. Over the past decade, 1.7 billion people have been affected by extreme weather and climate-related disasters.
The economic shock caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has compounded food insecurity, reducing incomes and disrupting supply chains.
An uneven recovery from the pandemic has already put many developing countries on the brink of debt default and restricted access to financial markets.
And now the Russian invasion in Ukraine is amplifying and accelerating all these factors: climate change, COVID-19, and inequality.
It threatens to tip tens of millions of people over the edge into food insecurity, followed by malnutrition, mass hunger and famine, in a crisis that could last for years.
Between them, Ukraine and Russia produce almost a third of the world’s wheat and barley and half of its sunflower oil. Russia and Belarus are the world’s number two and three producers of potash, a key ingredient of fertilizer.
In the past year, global food prices have risen by nearly one-third, fertilizer by more than half, and oil prices by almost two-thirds.
Most developing countries lack the fiscal space to cushion the blow of these huge increases.
Many cannot borrow because markets are closed to them. Those that are able to borrow are charged high interest rates that put them at risk of debt distress and default.
If high fertilizer prices continue, today’s crisis in grain and cooking oil could affect many other foods including rice, impacting billions of people in Asia and the Americas.
High rates of hunger have a devastating impact on individuals, families, and societies. Children may suffer the lifetime effects of stunting. Millions of women and children will become malnourished; girls will be pulled from school and forced to work or get married; and families will embark on dangerous journeys across continents, just to survive.
Ending hunger is within our reach.
There is enough food in our world now for everyone, if we act together.
But unless we solve this problem today, we face the spectre of global food shortages in the coming months.
I see five urgent steps for governments, International Financial Institutions and others, to solve the short-term crisis and prevent long-term catastrophe.
First, we must urgently reduce the pressure on markets by increasing supplies of food and fertilizers. There should be no restrictions on exports, and surpluses must be made available to those most in need.
But let’s be clear: there is no effective solution to the food crisis without reintegrating Ukraine’s food production, as well as the food and fertilizer produced by Russia and Belarus, into world markets -- despite the war.
Russia must permit the safe and secure export of grain stored in Ukrainian ports. Alternative transportation routes can be explored – even if we know that by itself, they will not be enough to solve the problem. Russian food and fertilizers must have unrestricted access to world markets without indirect impediments.
I have been in intense contact on this issue with the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Turkey, the US, the European Union and several other key countries. I am hopeful, but there is still a long way to go. The complex security, economic and financial implications require goodwill on all sides for a package deal to be reached.  I will not go into details because public statements could undermine the chances of success.
Second, social protection systems need to cover everyone in need, with the right combinations of food, cash and support for water, sanitation, nutrition, and livelihoods.
Which in turn means, third: finance is essential. Developing countries must have access to liquidity so that they can provide social protection to everyone in need.
International financial institutions need to step in with generous investments to prevent a global debt crisis.
There is no answer to the food crisis without an answer to the finance crisis.
Official Development Assistance is more necessary than ever. Diverting it to other priorities is not an option while the world is on the brink of mass hunger.
Fourth, governments must bolster agricultural production and invest in resilient food systems that protect smallholder food producers.
At today’s prices, farmers cannot afford seeds, fuel and fertilizers. Governments must be able to support them with subsidies, and connect them to markets.
Fifth, humanitarian operations must be fully funded to prevent famine and reduce hunger.
Humanitarian organizations have a proven track record of preventing famine, most recently in South Sudan and Yemen.
But they need resources. And those resources must be used for maximum good, by exempting humanitarian food purchases from taxes, sanctions, and other restrictions.
We are closely monitoring the global food security outlook and using our convening power to push for immediate steps.
The Global Crisis Response Group on food, energy and finance is tackling the impact of the crisis on vulnerable people, identifying and pushing for solutions.
The food crisis has no respect for borders, and no country can overcome it alone. Our only chance of lifting millions of people out of hunger is to act together, urgently and with solidarity.
Thank you.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/182539-secretary-general%C2%A0remarks-global-food-security-call-action%C2%A0




Date: 16 May 2022
Title: Decisive action needed to protect LGBTQI+ rights in Georgia
Content: 16 May 2022
This joint statement is issued by the United Nations system in Georgia, the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, the Embassies to Georgia of Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, the Head of the EU Monitoring Mission in Georgia and the European Investment Bank's (EIB) Regional Representation for the South Caucasus.
Today, on the International Day against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia (IDAHOBIT), we reiterate our solidarity with the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and intersex (LGBTQI+) community in Georgia. LGBTQI+ persons remain among the least protected and most marginalized in Georgia. They face discrimination and violence, which often are underreported, while the protection and realization of their rights remain a challenge.
We regret that as in previous years, considerations of safety and security prevent people from openly showing their solidarity with the LGBTQI+ community and raising their voices against homophobia, biphobia and transphobia in Georgia.
We wish to stress that the Government of Georgia is responsible for safeguarding the right to peaceful assembly, preventing discrimination and violence, and ensuring that everyone in Georgia can commemorate IDAHOBIT openly and publicly in full confidence that their rights and safety are duly protected.
We take note that several individuals were sentenced to prison terms for their involvement in the shameful events of 5 July 2021 that led to the disruption of the March for Dignity and resulted in violence against LGBTQI+ persons and the media. We urge the authorities to bring all instigators and perpetrators of violence to justice.
At the same time, we welcome that a growing number of Georgian citizens support diversity and believe that protection of human rights of LGBTQI+ persons is important. A recent survey points towards a continued increase in the percentage of Georgians who consider restrictions of the right to assembly and expression for LGBTQI+ communities unacceptable and believe that the State does not respond adequately to acts of violence and discrimination against the LGBTQI+ persons.[1]
State policy and practice must align with Georgia’s international commitments and respond to these social changes by duly ensuring that LGBTQI+ rights are effectively protected, including through the forthcoming National Human Rights Strategy and Action Plan. Enhanced social protection measures are needed to support vulnerable LGBTQI+ persons struggling with food and housing insecurity, an elevated risk of homelessness and barriers in accessing healthcare.
We urge Georgian state, political, civic and religious leaders to spare no effort to fight discrimination, stigma and violence within their respective areas of responsibility, including by embracing respectful and compassionate public discourse and engaging in constructive dialogue with LGBTQI+ communities in seeking solutions to the most pressing challenges.
We stand united for the right of all people to live free and equal in safety and dignity and remain committed to supporting the people of Georgia in building an inclusive society that empowers and protects all its members.

[1] Women’s Initiatives Support Group (WISG)/SIDA/UNW/UNDP/UNFPA, (2022), ‘From Prejudice to Equality: Study on Public Knowledge, Awareness and Attitudes towards LGBT(Q)I Community and Legal Equality’, retrieved from: https://bit.ly/3yDd9XG

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/182031-decisive-action-needed-protect-lgbtqi-rights-georgia




Date: 11 May 2022
Title: Rights of Persons with Disabilities - Training of Trainers with Lawyers of the Legal Aid Service
Content: 11 May 2022
On April 27 - May 2, the Legal Aid Service (LAS) attorneys undertook the training of trainers course on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (PWDs) - International and National Standards.
The training was held with the support from the South Caucasus Field Presence of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), with the funds from the UN Sustainable Development Fund (SDG Fund) and the United Nations Partnership for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNPRPD).
After this training on these attorneys are eligible to build capacity of their fellow lawyers using the curriculum developed by OHCHR with the financial support from the UN SDG Fund.
Welcoming the training participants, OHCHR Program Manager Sophio Benashvili emphasized the importance of legal aid for PWDs for full realization of their rights. According to her, there is a need to focus on the continuing education of lawyers and human rights defenders in international and local standards of communication with PWDs.
"There is still a big need of raising public awareness on the need and rights of PWDs, as there are still discriminatory attitudes and stigma towards PWDs in the society. State institutions should take the term 'inclusiveness' in a broad sense, as a means by which any citizen can function in a society." – said the training participant, a lawyer of the LAS, Teona Kvernadze.
Ledi Kordzadze, a lawyer of the LAS believes that “PWDs are full-fledged members of society and they do not need morality from society and the state. Their right to full realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms is guaranteed. Therefore, it is our role as lawyers to protect PWDs’ rights by establishing proper communication with them."
"As a practicing lawyer, it was very important for me to get acquainted with the theoretical material and practice of international and national legislation on the rights of PWDs. This will help me to set a strategy on how to restore PWDs rights of labor, independent living and other basic rights. At the same time, my role as a future trainer is particularly responsible, to help my colleagues increase their knowledge about the rights of PWDs.” – LAS consultant Lela Euashvili pointed out.
"The right of access to justice gives any person the opportunity to protect another person and his/her rights. Consequently, the right to access to justice is a vital right for PWDs. We, the lawyers, have a special role to play in helping PWDs realize these important rights, without compromising their other rights, and it is important to constantly deepen our knowledge and pass it on to our colleagues.” Stated Tea Kaulashvili, a lawyer of the LAS.
The topics covered at the training included: Standards for the Relationship with Persons with Disabilities; the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; Practice of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in relation to specific rights; the National Legislative Framework for the Protection of Persons with Disabilities; techniques and methods of conducting the training. Among the trainers were experts: Ekaterine Tavartkiladze, Sopho Chachava, Giorgi Chkheidze, Ana Abashidze and Ana Arganashvili.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/181277-rights-persons-disabilities-training-trainers-lawyers-legal-aid-service




Date: 06 May 2022
Title: Public attitudes toward LGBTQI people in Georgia are changing, yet the protection and realization of their rights remain a challenge
Content: 06 May 2022
The United Nations and the Government of Sweden unveil research on human rights, legal protection and public attitudes toward the LGBTQI community in Georgia
The LGBTQI people remain one of the least protected and most marginalized social groups in Georgia. They face discrimination and violence, while the protection and realization of their rights remain a challenge. Yet, recent research reveals that negative public attitudes toward the LGBTQI community have been decreasing in the last five years.
A series of studies were conducted by Georgia’s Public Defender’s Office and the non-governmental organization ‘Women’s Initiatives Support Group’ (WISG) with assistance from the Government of Sweden and the United Nations through its three agencies – UN Women, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).
The research reviews international standards in protecting LGBTQI rights and Georgia’s commitments in this area. It analyses the legal environment and widespread practices and examines public attitudes toward LGBTQI people in Georgia. The research also includes recommendations for specific state agencies.
The research findings point out positive changes in public attitudes in the last five years. Since 2016, the number of respondents who think that the LGBTQI community is interested in propaganda, and not in achieving equality, has decreased by 20.6 percent (55.9 percent in 2021 compared to almost 78 percent in 2016). The number of people with an extremely negative attitude toward the LGBTQI community and its human rights defenders dropped by around 20 percent and now hovers around 56 percent.
However, the research also captures the negative perception of the LGBTQI community in Georgia’s society. 48.2 percent of the respondents believe that LGBTQI people are fighting for privileges. 39.5 percent are convinced that the rights of the LGBTQI community are fully protected. At the same time, 38.6 percent note inadequate state response to the acts of violence and discrimination faced by the LGBTQI people.
The research was conducted under the UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality, a Sweden-funded initiative implemented by UN Women, UNDP and UNFPA.
The reports are available on the UN, UNDP, UNFPA and UN Women websites.




UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/180750-public-attitudes-toward-lgbtqi-people-georgia-are-changing-yet-protection-and-realization




Date: 05 May 2022
Title: Joint statement on the Safety of Journalists  on the occasion of the World Press Freedom Day 2022
Content: 05 May 2022
Issued by the Presidents of the United Nations General Assembly, the UNESCO General Conference and the Human Rights Council.
Punta del Este, Uruguay - 3 May 2022 – Today, on the occasion of World Press Freedom Day, we wish to recall the paramount importance of ensuring journalists and media workers can work freely, independently and safely, without hindrances, threats, or violent reprisals. Each and every day, we are reminded of how vital the information they provide is for democracy, the promotion and protection of human rights, fighting corruption, sustainable development and preserving international peace and security.
Multiple resolutions, declarations, and commitments on the safety of journalists have been adopted by our respective bodies, including the 2021 UN General Assembly resolution on the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity (A/RES/76/173), the 2020 Human Rights Council resolution on the safety of journalists (A/HRC/RES/45/18), and the 2021 Windhoek+30 Declaration on information as a public good (UNESCO General Conference Resolution 41C.41). In addition, the wider UN system developed a multistakeholder coordination framework known as the UN Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity, adopted by the UN principals in 2012.
As we mark the 10th anniversary of the UN Plan of Action this year, we welcome the considerable progress made over the past decade in the implementation of the Plan. We applaud those governments which have made the safety of journalists a priority, within their borders and beyond, and highlight the significant contribution of civil society organizations that are committed to advancing media freedom and safety. Still, too many challenges prevail, including high levels of impunity for crimes against journalists, a rise in the number of journalists detained and an increased legal harassment against them, online violence, the use of surveillance tools to hinder the journalist’s work, increased attacks on women journalists, and the rise of killings in non-conflict environments.
As we embark on the last decade to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda, it is important to remember the contribution of freedom of expression, press freedom and access to information to all other rights, such as quality education, the eradication of poverty, and access to justice and healthcare.
This is why, as we look forward to 10 more years of progress in defending the safety of journalists, freedom of expression, and access to information for all, we call on Member States, the UN system, regional bodies, civil society, the judiciary and all concerned actors to join forces in furthering the objectives of the UN Plan of Action. By working together to strengthen its implementation and to reach SDG Target 16.10, we can continue to build a safer and more enabling environment for journalists and media workers, and protect the right of every citizen to reliable, and, often, lifesaving information.

H.E. Mr. Abdulla Shahid
President of the United Nations General Assembly

H.E. Mr. Santiago Irazabal Mourão
President of the General Conference of UNESCO

H.E. Mr. Federico Villegas
President of the Human Rights Council
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/180463-joint-statement-safety-journalists-occasion-world-press-freedom-day-2022




Date: 05 May 2022
Title: Building Capacity of Georgia’s Civil Society on Advocacy before the UN Human Rights Mechanisms
Content: 05 May 2022
Over 25 regional civil society organization (CSO) representatives attended an interactive training course held by the South Caucasus Field Presence of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Georgia under the Human Rights for All - Phase II project funded by the European Union (EU).
Over 25 regional civil society organization (CSO) representatives attended an interactive training course held by the South Caucasus Field Presence of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Georgia under the Human Rights for All - Phase II project funded by the European Union (EU). The training (2) covered the East and the West Georgia aiming to empower the civil society representatives in their efforts to strengthen the knowledge on how to advocate before UN Human Rights Mechanisms, prepare and submit individual alternative reports to UN Human Rights Treaty Bodies and Universal Periodic Review (UPR), thus taking part in shaping Georgia’s human rights policies and practices. The special focus was also drawn to the Special Procedures and their mandate.
Senior Human Rights Advisor for the South Caucasus Field Presence of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Vladimir Shkolnikov in his welcoming remarks to the training participants said: “CSOs play a prominent role in monitoring human rights policies, legislation and actions of decision-makers. When needed, they bring attention to shortcomings in certain practices to advocate for the needs of communities they represent. UN OHCHR values the important role played by the civil society in promoting and protecting human rights and continues to work for a strong civil society in Georgia.”
Last visits of Special Rapporteurs in Georgia and their latest recommendations, role of the civil society in this process was also reviewed at the training led by the UN OHCHR and UNDP Georgia representatives: Besarion Bokhashvili, Human Rights Officer at OHCHR, Sophio Benashvili, Program Manager at OHCHR and Nino Jomardidze, Human Rights Policy Coordinator at UNDP Georgia.
“The organization I represent works with children and youth, including on protecting their rights. In practice, we often encounter cases of human rights violations and we have to turn to various organizations for help. The given training enabled me to competently reflect the facts of human rights violations and purposefully select the addressees, thus this will help us to better protect the rights of our beneficiaries.” – said Natia Mekvabishvili training participant from the Association Umbrella.
Likewise, Nino Maisuradze from the Union Lampari - organization of parents of persons with disabilities - thinks that knowledge of procedures for submitting alternative reports to UN Human Rights mechanisms, review of technical and content requirements will help her to analyze to what extent the state fulfills its obligations under the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
Head of the Center for Civic Involvement and Activism (CEAC) in Marneuli Rashan Ziadaliev said: "There are international mechanisms to ensure that human rights and the democracy are not just on paper. The 3-days training course, involved a number of useful topics; however, I was particularly interested in the Universal Periodic Review of the UN Human Rights Council aimed to improve the human rights situation in the UN Member States. Involvement of civil society organizations in the mentioned process and submission of their individual or coalition reviews is very important. In future, we are also planning to share an overview of the problems faced by ethnic minorities in the field of human rights.”
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/180464-building-capacity-georgia%E2%80%99s-civil-society-advocacy-un-human-rights-mechanisms




Date: 03 May 2022
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL VIDEO MESSAGE FOR WORLD PRESS FREEDOM DAY
Content: 03 May 2022
New York, 3 May 2022
On World Press Freedom Day, we shine a spotlight on the essential work of journalists and other media workers who seek transparency and accountability from those in power, often at great personal risk.
Throughout the Covid-19 pandemic, many media workers have been on the frontlines, providing accurate, science-based reporting to inform decision-makers and save lives. At the same time, journalists who cover climate, biodiversity and pollution have succeeded in bringing global attention to this triple planetary crisis.
But the threats to the freedom of journalists and media workers are growing by the day.  From global health to the climate crisis, corruption and human rights abuses, they face increased politicization of their work and attempts to silence them from many sides.
Digital technology has democratized access to information. But it has also created serious challenges.
The business models of many social media platforms are based not on increasing access to accurate reporting, but on increasing engagement – which often means provoking outrage and spreading lies.
Media workers in war zones are threatened not only by bombs and bullets, but by the weapons of falsification and disinformation that accompany modern warfare. They may be attacked as the enemy, accused of espionage, detained, or killed, simply for doing their jobs.
Digital technology also makes censorship even easier. Many journalists and editors around the world are at constant risk of their programmes and reports being taken offline.
And digital technology creates new channels for oppression and abuse. Women journalists are at particular risk of online harassment and violence.  UNESCO found that nearly three in four women respondents had experienced online violence. Hacking and illegal surveillance also prevent journalists from doing their jobs.
The methods and tools change, but the goal of discrediting the media and covering up the truth remains the same as ever.
The results are also the same: people and societies that are unable to distinguish fact from fiction, and can be manipulated in horrifying ways.
Without freedom of the press, there are no real democratic societies. Without freedom of the press, there is no freedom.
The United Nations is working to support journalists and media workers everywhere. Ten years ago, we established a Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists, to protect media workers and end impunity for crimes committed against them.
On World Press Freedom Day, we honour the essential work of the media in speaking truth to power, exposing lies, and building strong, resilient institutions and societies.
We call on governments, media organizations and technology companies everywhere to support these crucial efforts.
Thank you.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/180461-secretary-general-video-message-world-press-freedom-day




Date: 14 April 2022
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL  PRESS CONFERENCE TO LAUNCH REPORT:   “GLOBAL IMPACT OF WAR IN UKRAINE ON FOOD, ENERGY & FINANCE SYSTEMS”
Content: 14 April 2022
13 April 2022
Ladies and gentlemen of the press. Thank you very much for coming.
Now, since the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine, the world’s attention has been focused on the war’s terrifying levels of death, destruction and suffering.
From the start, the United Nations has been actively engaged in delivering humanitarian support to the people in Ukraine, the people who are paying the highest price, and to the host countries of the fastest-growing refugee crisis in Europe since the Second World War.
But less attention has been paid to the global impact of the war in all its dimensions in a world that was already witnessing increased poverty, hunger and social unrest.
The war is supercharging a three-dimensional crisis — food, energy and finance — that is pummeling some of the world’s most vulnerable people, countries and economies.
And all this comes at a time when developing countries are already struggling with a slate of challenges not of their making — the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change and a lack of access to adequate resources to finance the recovery in the context of persistent and growing inequalities.
We are now facing a perfect storm that threatens to devastate the economies of many developing countries.
That is why, in the earliest days of this war, I established the Global Crisis Response Group on Food, Energy and Finance, facilitated by a Task Team in the UN Secretariat, reporting to a Steering Committee involving all UN agencies and international financial institutions.
Today, we are launching the Task Team’s first Report.
I am joined by the Secretary-General of UNCTAD, Rebeca Grynspan, who coordinates the Task Team, and by the Deputy Secretary-General, who presides over the Steering Committee.
Ms. Grynspan will go through the recommendations.
But I want to highlight two overarching points made crystal clear in this report.
First, the impact of the war is global and systemic.
As many as 1.7 billion people — one-third of whom are already living in poverty — are now highly exposed to disruptions in food, energy and finance systems that are triggering increases in poverty and hunger.
Thirty-six countries count on Russia and Ukraine for more than half of their wheat imports — including some of the poorest and most vulnerable countries of  the world.
Prices were already on the rise — but the war has made a bad situation far worse.
Wheat and maize prices have been very volatile since the war began but are still 30 per cent higher just since the start of the year.
At the same time, Russia is a top energy supplier.
Oil prices are up more than 60 per cent over the past year, accelerating the prevailing trends.
The same goes for natural gas prices, which have risen by 50 per cent in recent months.
And fertilizer prices have more than doubled.
As prices climb, so does hunger and malnutrition — especially for young children.
Inflation is rising, purchasing power is eroding, growth prospects are shrinking, and development is being stalled and, in some cases, gains are receding.
Many developing economies are drowning in debt, with bond yields already on the rise since last September, leading now to increased risk premiums and exchange rate pressures.
This is setting in motion a potential vicious circle of inflation and stagnation – the so-called stagflation.
The report also shows that there is a direct correlation between rising food prices and social and political instability.
Our world cannot afford this. We need to act now.
And that leads to the second point clearly demonstrated by this report: we can do something about this three-dimensional crisis.
We have the capacity to cushion the blow.
The report offers more than a dozen recommendations, but I would boil down the messages to three fundamental points.
First — we must not make things worse.
That means ensuring a steady flow of food and energy through open markets.
It means lifting all unnecessary export restrictions, and this is not the time for protectionism.
It means directing surpluses and reserves to those in need.
And keeping a lid on food prices and calming the volatility in food markets.
Second — we can maximize this moment to push for the transformational change our world needs.
Look no further than the energy crisis.
In the immediate-term, countries must resist hoarding, and release strategic stockpiles and additional reserves.
But now is also the time to turn this crisis into an opportunity.
We must work towards progressively phasing-out coal and other fossil fuels and accelerating the deployment of renewable energy and a just transition.
And third — we need to pull developing countries back from the financial brink.
The international financial system has deep pockets.
I have been strongly advocating for its reform.
But developing countries need help now, and the funds are there.
So, we need to make them available to economies that need them most so that governments can avoid default, provide social safety nets for the poorest and most vulnerable, and continue to make critical investments in sustainable development.
This is not a crisis that can be solved piecemeal, country by country.
This global and systemic emergency requires global and systemic solutions.
The report includes concrete recommendations for international financial institutions to increase liquidity and fiscal space.
As we approach the Spring Meetings of the World Bank and the IMF, we need political will and leadership.  Resources are available.
We must speak with one voice: action today will prevent suffering tomorrow.
Dear friends,
Above all, this war must end.
The people of Ukraine cannot bear the violence being inflicted on them.
And the most vulnerable people around the globe cannot become collateral damage in yet another disaster for which they bear no responsibility.
We need to silence the guns and accelerate negotiations towards peace, now.
For the people of Ukraine. For the people of the region. And for the people of the world. Thank you.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/177720-secretary-general%C2%A0%C2%A0press-conference-launch-report%C2%A0-%E2%80%9Cglobal-impact-war-ukraine-food-energy




Date: 08 April 2022
Title: Georgia to give forest management a boost
Content: 08 April 2022
With new climate financing support from Japan, UNDP will assist Georgia to protect forests, reduce emissions and explore environment-friendly solutions for creating sustainable livelihoods
Japan made a new contribution of over US$920,000 to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Georgia to fund the implementation of the country's climate action plans.
Japan’s contribution will support UNDP’s work on the transition to sustainable and climate-friendly forest management, aiming to protect forests from degradation and unsustainable lodging, and increase their capacity to capture greenhouse gas emissions.
UNDP will also implement a pilot initiative in the Mtskheta-Mtianeti region to engage local communities in sustainable forest management, create easy access to renewable energy sources, and assist 43,000 people to explore environment-friendly solutions that boost employment and create sustainable livelihoods.
The new partnership for climate action was launched today by visiting UN Assistant Secretary-General, UNDP Assistant Administrator, Director of the Regional Bureau for Europe and the CIS (RBEC) Mirjana Špoljarić Egger, Ambassador of Japan to Georgia Imamura Akira and Georgia’s Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture Nino Tandilashvili.
“Sustainable development is built on sustainable livelihoods. It offers people a means of making a living that does not lead to environmental degradation. Georgia is one of 23 countries and territories worldwide to join a UNDP-Japan partnership that contributes to our ambitious Climate Promise initiative and helps translate national climate pledges into high-impact action on the ground,” Špoljarić Egger said.
“Japan has set out an ambitious plan to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. As we pursue our national decarbonization goals, we also contribute to UNDP’s Climate Promise initiative and support countries to build low-carbon economies and bring about green economic growth,” Ambassador Imamura remarked. “The unique and rich forests of Georgia are vital, for environmental disaster prevention, apart from the economic development. At the same time, forests have a deeply meaningful connection to Georgia’s culture. We are happy to further build upon our history of partnership in human security and sustainable development in Georgia, helping safeguard forest ecosystems and assisting 43,000 people to explore green energy solutions for sustainable livelihoods.”
“It is our priority to introduce tools and mechanisms that blend environmental protection with economic benefits, like the increase in employment and incomes,” Deputy Minister Tandilashvili explained. “We thank our international partners for supporting sustainable development in Georgia. We also welcome that Georgia is one of the countries where Japan and UNDP are assisting to introduce sustainable solutions for forest management and protect ecosystems from the adverse effects of climate change. The Government of Georgia made an ambitious pledge to the Paris Agreement. This new initiative contributes to the fulfilment of these international obligations.”
In its revised Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC), Georgia committed to unconditionally reducing greenhouse gas emissions to 35 percent below the 1990 baseline level (an approximately 16 percent per capita reduction) by 2030. Georgia’s National Climate Change Strategy 2030 and its Action Plan 2021-2023, adopted by the Government at the same time as the NDC, outline the concrete actions the country will take to achieve these goals. Introducing sustainable forest management practices to reach a 10 percent increase in forest carbon capture capacity by 2030 from 2015 levels is part of this ambitious agenda.
At COP26, UNDP launched the next phase of the Climate Promise - From Pledge to Impact - scaling up its support to turn NDC targets into concrete action in at least 100 countries. Japan becomes the largest supporter of this phase of the pioneering and groundbreaking initiative, joining the longstanding funding partners Germany, Sweden, EU, Spain, Italy, as well as the new funding partners UK, Belgium, Iceland, and Portugal to accelerate these efforts.
More information about the Climate Promise can be found at climatepromise.undp.org
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/177725-georgia-give-forest-management-boost




Date: 07 April 2022
Title: UN JOINT STATEMENT -  WORLD HEALTH DAY 2022
Content: 07 April 2022
7 April 2022
“Our Planet, Our Health: Clean Our Air, Water and Food”

Our health and the health of our planet are inextricably linked. The imperative to focus on creating healthy societies on a healthy planet is crystal clear.
The 2022 World Health Day theme centres on the link between the health of our planet and the health of humans, animals, plants – all living creatures. Rising temperatures, floods and extreme rainfall are impacting the lives of millions of people, creating humanitarian emergencies, depriving people of homes and livelihoods and driving forced migration and displacement. Climate change will have a serious impact on sexual and reproductive health and rights. Heat worsens maternal and neonatal health outcomes, with research suggesting that an increase of one degree Celsius in the week before delivery corresponds with a six percent greater likelihood of stillbirth. When a climate-related disaster strikes, women and girls are also at greater risk of gender-based violence.
At the same time, human-caused health threats like air pollution, ecosystem degradation, and the production and consumption of tobacco are exacerbating damage to our planet. Tens of thousands of tons of extra medical waste from the response to the COVID-19 pandemic have put tremendous strain on health care waste management systems, threatening human and environmental health. Global food security faces the most severe challenges in years. Food loss and waste, pests and diseases, natural disasters, loss of biodiversity and habitat destruction, and conflict – are major impediments to meeting the world population’s ever-growing food needs.
As Georgia strives to address the economic and social crisis brought on by the pandemic, World Health Day serves as a reminder that innovative ideas and new ways of working are needed to ‘build back better’. We need to transform agri-food systems, promote sustainable agriculture, forestry and fishery practices, and make a systemic shift towards green energy and net-zero emissions. We need a world that is cleaner, healthier, and more sustainable.
Humans contribute to environmental degradation through unsustainable behavioural patterns.  We must be part of the solution in addressing the single biggest health threat that humanity faces – the climate crisis.
The United Nations reaffirms its strong commitment to assisting Georgia to build a resilient and healthier society. On this World Health Day, we are calling on everyone to reimagine a world where clean air, water and food are available to all, where economies are focused on planetary and human health and well-being, where healthy, people-centred cities, villages and communities create conditions for people to lead better lives.
Let us all protect our health – and our planet. There is no Planet B.

See Campaign web-site.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/176993-un-joint-statement-%C2%A0-world-health-day-2022




Date: 31 March 2022
Title: Statement by Michelle Bachelet, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
Content: 31 March 2022
49th Session of the Human Rights Council - Item 10: Oral update on the situation of human rights in Ukraine
Distinguished President,
Excellencies,
Colleagues and Friends,

The Council has received the report on Ukraine covering the period from 1 August 2021 to 31 January 2022 pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution 47/22. As the context has dramatically shifted since then, my statement today will focus on the human rights and humanitarian crisis that has unfolded since the Russian armed attack began on 24 February.

For more than one month now, the entire population of Ukraine has been enduring a living nightmare. The lives of millions of people are in upheaval as they are forced to flee their homes or hide in basements and bomb shelters as their cities are pummeled and destroyed.

I echo the Secretary-General’s words – and I will quote him - that “continuing the war in Ukraine is morally unacceptable, politically indefensible and militarily nonsensical.”

The hostilities must stop, without delay. Today, I call on the Russian Federation to heed the clear and strong calls of the General Assembly and of this Council, and immediately act to withdraw its troops from Ukrainian territory.

Excellencies,

In the five weeks since the conflict began, the UN Human Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine has recorded at least 1,189 deaths of civilian men, women and children and at least 1,901 injuries. We know the actual figures are likely far higher. In many places of intensive hostilities, such as Mariupol and Volnovakha, it is very challenging to obtain a comprehensive picture.

The persistent use of explosive weapons with wide area effects in populated areas is of immense concern. These weapons include missiles, heavy artillery shells and rockets, and airstrikes, causing massive destruction of and damage to civilian objects. In addition, my Office has received credible allegations that Russian armed forces have used cluster munitions in populated areas at least 24 times. We are also investigating allegations that Ukrainian armed forces have used such weapons.

Homes and administrative buildings, hospitals and schools, water stations and electricity systems have not been spared. To date we have verified 77 incidents in which medical facilities were damaged to various degrees, including 50 hospitals, 7 psycho-neurological facilities and 20 other medical facilities. Overall, 55 medical establishments were damaged, 10 destroyed, and two were looted. Actual numbers are again likely to be considerably higher, and reports of additional incidents are being corroborated by the Human Rights Monitoring Mission.

Indiscriminate attacks are prohibited under international humanitarian law and may amount to war crimes. The massive destruction of civilian objects and the high number of civilian casualties strongly indicate that the fundamental principles of distinction, proportionality and precaution have not been sufficiently adhered to.

Civilians are enduring immeasurable suffering, and the humanitarian crisis is critical. In many areas across the country, people urgently need medical supplies, food, water, shelter and basic household items.

Above all, they need the bombs to cease, and the weapons to fall silent.

In several besieged cities, my Office has noted a significant increase in mortality rates among civilians that can be attributed to disrupted medical care coupled with conflict-related deprivation and stress.

As one woman from Kyiv told my colleagues: “I cannot imagine the situation of people with diabetes, or those undergoing cancer treatment, for whom it is critical to regularly take medications.”

People with disabilities and older people face a particularly appalling humanitarian situation. Long-term care facilities are suffering a lack of food, heating, electricity, water and medication. Many residents who have chronic health conditions rely on others for care and are struggling to access bomb shelters or safe areas. At least one facility for bedridden patients and other people with disabilities, mostly older people, came under fire while its residents were inside, with dozens of alleged casualties. My colleagues in Ukraine are working to establish the fate and whereabouts of survivors. Moreover, displaced people with disabilities, now staying at poorly equipped temporary facilities, often lack access to health care and rehabilitation services.

Excellencies,

Since the beginning of the invasion, Russian armed forces have carried out attacks and military strikes on and near large cities, including Chernihiv, Kharkiv, Kherson, Mykolaiv, Sievierodonetsk, Sumy, and Mariupol, and the capital, Kyiv.

In the besieged city of Mariupol, people are living in sheer terror. The situation is worsening by the day, with constant shelling, fighting in the streets and people struggling to survive with the bare minimum of life’s necessities including food, water and medical supplies.

We are looking into allegations that some Mariupol residents have been forcibly evacuated, either to territory controlled by Russian-affiliated armed groups or to the Russian Federation.

Across Ukraine, the rights to life, liberty and security are under attack. Detention of civilians who are vocal about their pro-Ukrainian views in territories under control of Russian forces has become widespread. My Office has also received allegations of killings of two civilians considered to be affiliated with Russian armed forces or supporting pro-Russian views. There are reports of up to 350 conflict-related detentions by Ukrainian law enforcement officers including four cases where the individuals’ relatives received no information regarding their formal arrest, place of detention or their fate. Furthermore, I am very concerned by the abundance of videos available through open sources depicting interrogations of prisoners of war that have been taken by both Ukrainian and Russian forces.

We have also received some allegations of conflict-related sexual violence, including rape, and have been working to corroborate them.

Additionally, freedom of expression is under threat. Every day, many journalists are courageously fighting a crucial battle against mounting misinformation and propaganda, often putting their own lives at great risk. Seven journalists and media workers have been killed since hostilities began, and another 15 have come under armed attack, nine of whom were injured. We have also documented the arbitrary detention and the possible enforced disappearance of 22 journalists and civil society activists who have been vocal against the invasion in Kyiv, Kherson, Luhansk, and Zaporizhzhia regions.

I underscore that independent, objective reporting of the facts on the ground is absolutely vital to counter the harmful spread of misinformation and propaganda.

Excellencies,

The devastating consequences of this war are being felt far outside Ukraine’s borders.

Nearly a quarter of Ukraine’s population have been forced to flee - over 4 million people have fled the country since the attack began, and an estimated 6.5 million are internally displaced.

It is encouraging to see the outpouring of support offered to refugees by Ukraine’s neighbours and other countries around the world.  I reiterate that it is essential to extend such welcome to all who have fled, without discrimination. I also urge destination countries to provide particular protection to women and children, many of whom face risks of human trafficking, including sexual and labour exploitation.

Additionally, a rise in Russophobia has been observed in a number of countries. My Office continues to monitor all these events closely.

As the war approaches its sixth week, I reiterate my calls for States to respect and uphold international humanitarian and human rights law. I urge humanitarian assistance to be delivered safely and effectively. All civilians must be protected and those who wish to leave must be provided safe passage in the direction they choose. And prisoners of war must be treated with dignity and full respect for their rights.

The UN Human Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine will continue its vital monitoring role. Despite the very difficult security context, staff in various parts of the country continue to document civilian casualties, the impact of hostilities and violations of human rights. I take this opportunity to thank all who are working to assist the people of Ukraine.

Every day, my colleagues are listening to the heartbreaking stories of Ukrainians whose lives have been shattered by this conflict. Just last week, they asked a simple question to a displaced man from a town in eastern Ukraine – “where are you from?” His reply: “I am from Izium, a city that no longer exists.”

The terror and agony of the Ukrainian people is palpable and is being felt around the world. They want the war to stop, and to return to peace, safety and human dignity.

It is long past time to heed their call.

Thank you.

ENDS
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/176462-statement-michelle-bachelet-un-high-commissioner-human-rights




Date: 16 March 2022
Title: UN support to Georgia’s development in 2021
Content: 16 March 2022
United Nations agencies present annual progress  in delivering Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework
16 March 2022 –  The 2021 UN Country Annual Report on the progress achieved by Georgia in its first implementation year of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSCDF) 2021-2025, has been presented to the Government of Georgia at a high-level virtual meeting today.
Signed in 2020 by the UN and Georgian Government, the UNSDCF is the roadmap towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Georgia. It links the UN’s work in the country to Georgia’s development priorities.
The meeting took stock of  the important developments in areas of inclusive economy and human capital development, effective, transparent and accountable institutions, equal and inclusive access to quality services, human security and resilience, the environment and climate change.
Opening statements were delivered by the Head of Administration of the Government of Georgia Ilia Darchiashvili and the UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia Sabine Machl.
In his  speech, the Head of Administration of the Government of Georgia, Ilia Darchiashvili emphasized the importance of such annual reviews that help keep an eye on the dynamics and the progress of cooperation and assist  in moving to the right direction of the policy planning and implementation process.
“All five outcomes proposed by the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) are in full compliance with the Governmental program and strategic priorities,” said  the Head of Administration.
Ilia Darchiashvili thanked the UN for its constant support both in political and financial matters through all these years. “UN agencies are stable partners of the Georgian institutions, non-governmental organizations, business and Georgian people, ” he said.
In her speech, Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, thanked the Government for enhanced cooperation in taking forward an ambitious development agenda and national SDGs based on the Leave No One Behind principle.
“In close partnership with the Government and other partners, the UN Country Team has continued to promote innovative, integrated and sustainable solutions to current development challenges with a focus on the most vulnerable groups, communities, and regions,” said Sabine Machl. “We witnessed transformative developments in human rights, gender, human security and resilience, climate change. The UN is committed to further contribute to a more resilient recovery from the pandemic and to the acceleration towards achieving the 2030 Agenda.”
Sabine Machl noted that, at USD 59 million for 2021, the UN financial contribution to development efforts in Georgia was significant, and that total UN annual spending was likely to exceed in 2022.
The co-chairs of the UNSDCF results groups, Nick Beresford (UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia), Amy Clancy (UNICEF Deputy Representative in Georgia), Mamuka Meskhi (Assistant FAO Representative in Georgia) and Kemlin Furley (UNHCR Representative in Georgia) presented UN achievements in five results areas of the UNSDCF and outlined the strategic priorities for further action.
Organised by the United Nations Office in Georgia, the event brought together representatives of the Georgian Government, Parliament and other national stakeholders.
More information about the UNSDCF 2021-2025 as well as about the 2021 UN collective results can be found in the presentation accessible below.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/175034-un-support-georgia%E2%80%99s-development-2021




Date: 08 March 2022
Title: UN response to articles about the terminology used to describe the situation in Ukraine
Content: 08 March 2022
There is a mistaken impression that UN staff were told to avoid using certain words to describe the situation in Ukraine.
It is simply not the case that staff have been instructed not to use words like “war” and “invasion” to describe the situation. In fact, on Monday, the head of political affairs, Under-Secretary-General Rosemary DiCarlo, tweeted the following: “Nearly two weeks on, it is painfully clear that those suffering the most after Russia's invasion of #Ukraine are civilians - killed, wounded, displaced. This war is senseless. We are ready to support all good-faith efforts at negotiation to end the bloodshed.” (https://twitter.com/DicarloRosemary/status/1500982285142827008?s=20&t=pPJBbU-_GJ4-8fndLl05uQ)
Similarly, the Secretary-General has used a wide range of words in his statements and remarks to the press to describe what is going on.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/174535-un-response-articles-about-terminology-used-describe-situation-ukraine




Date: 08 March 2022
Title: Joint Statement - The United Nations Observance of International Women's Day
Content: 08 March 2022
8 March 2022
This joint statement is issued by the United Nations system in Georgia, the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, the Council of Europe Office in Georgia the Embassies to Georgia of Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States.
The world needs gender equality - today and every day. With new and ongoing conflicts, a climate crisis and shrinking democratic space, we are at risk of a major recession globally in gender equality.
This year, the theme for the United Nations observance of International Women’s Day is “Gender Equality Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow”. We want to recognize the contribution of women and girls all over the world who are leading the charge towards adaptation, mitigation, and response to climate change, in building a more sustainable future for all.
Women and girls are effective and powerful leaders and change-makers for effective climate action, participating in sustainability initiatives around the world and their leadership results in more effective climate action. We must expand the opportunities and help remove the constraints to empower women and girls to have a voice and be equal players in decision-making related to climate change.
In parallel to the global climate emergency, the world and humanity are challenged by conflicts and humanitarian disasters. A full-scale war in Ukraine increased risks to regional and global peace and security. Escalating violence has already resulted in many civilian casualties and deaths including women and children, has produced more than 1.7 million refugees, and has forced hundreds of thousands of others to flee their homes within the country. Civilians always pay the highest price.
While frontline soldiers and military personnel - both men and women - are risking their lives and families are torn apart, women and girls are impacted differently and disproportionately by war and conflict. That is why, in line with Women, Peace and Security Agenda, it is essential that women are included in the decision-making and peace-making processes. Here as everywhere, women are at the forefront of the humanitarian response. We must ensure that the specific needs and the health, rights and dignity of women and girls are safeguarded now and going forward.
The UN and the partners are committed to delivering life-saving support to all people affected by conflict, wherever they are, particularly women, children, older persons, those belonging to minorities, and those with disabilities, internally displaced, refugees, and stranded third country nationals at this time of greatest need. Partnerships with civil society, women’s rights activists and peacemakers are crucial.
On this International Women’s Day, we, the international community in Georgia, extend compassion and solidarity to people affected by conflicts, in this difficult time. Solidarity must be extended without any discrimination.  We join the UN Secretary General’s call for an immediate cessation of hostilities. This conflict must stop now. The people in Georgia and the world demand it. We must give peace a chance.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/174159-joint-statement-united-nations-observance-international-womens-day




Date: 07 March 2022
Title: Op-Ed for the Secretary-General: “A Sustainable Feminist Recovery”
Content: 07 March 2022
By UN Secretary-General António Guterres
As the world moves ahead to mark International Women’s Day, the clock on women’s rights is moving backwards. All of us are paying the price.
The cascading crises of recent years have highlighted how women’s leadership is more crucial than ever.
Women have heroically confronted the COVID-19 pandemic as doctors, nurses, and public health and social care workers.
But at the same time, women and girls have been the first to lose out on jobs or schooling, taking on more unpaid care work, and facing skyrocketing levels of domestic and cyber abuse and child marriage.
The pandemic has highlighted even more starkly an age-old truth: the roots of patriarchy run deep. We still live in a male-dominated world with a male-dominated culture.
As a result, in good times or bad, women are more likely to fall into poverty. Their healthcare is sacrificed and their education and opportunities are curtailed.
And in countries enduring conflict — as we see from Ethiopia to Afghanistan to Ukraine -- women and girls are the most vulnerable but also the most compelling voices for peace.
As we look to the future, a sustainable and equal recovery for all is only possible if it is a feminist recovery — one that puts progress for girls and women at its centre.
We need economic progress through targeted investments in women’s education, employment, training and decent work. Women should be first in line for the 400 million jobs we are called to create by 2030.
We need social progress through investments in social protection systems and the care economy. Such investments yield huge dividends, creating green, sustainable jobs, while supporting members of our societies that need assistance, including children, older people and the sick.
We need financial progress, to reform a morally bankrupt global financial system, so all countries can invest in a woman-centred economic recovery. This includes debt relief and fairer tax systems that channel some of the massive pockets of wealth around the world to those who need it most.
We need urgent, transformative climate action, to reverse the reckless increase in emissions and gender inequalities that have left women and girls disproportionately vulnerable. Developed countries must urgently deliver on their commitments on finance and technical support for a just transition from fossil fuels. The successful, stable economies of the future will be green, gender-inclusive and sustainable.
We need more women in leadership in government and business, including finance ministers and CEOs, developing and implementing green and socially progressive policies that benefit all their people.
We know, for example, that having more women in parliaments is linked with stronger climate commitments and higher levels of investment in healthcare and education.
We need political progress through targeted measures that ensure women’s equal leadership and representation at all levels of political decision-making, through bold gender quotas.
Gender inequality is essentially a question of power. Uprooting centuries of patriarchy demands that power is equally shared across every institution, at every level.
At the United Nations, we have achieved — for the first time in the organization’s history — gender parity in senior management at headquarters and around the world. This has dramatically improved our ability to better reflect and represent the communities we serve.
Every step of the way, we can take inspiration from women and girls pushing for progress in every sphere and every corner of our globe.
Young women climate campaigners are leading global efforts to pressure governments to live up to their commitments.
Women’s rights activists are bravely demanding equality and justice, and building more peaceful societies as peacekeepers, peacemakers and humanitarians in some of the world’s trouble zones and beyond.
In societies where women’s rights movements are vibrant, democracies are stronger.
When the world invests in expanding opportunities for women and girls, all of humanity wins.
As a matter of justice, equality, morality and plain common sense, we need to turn the clock forward on women’s rights.
We need a sustainable, feminist recovery centred around — and driven by — women and girls.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/174139-op-ed-secretary-general-%E2%80%9C-sustainable-feminist-recovery%E2%80%9D




Date: 04 March 2022
Title: OHCHR Supports Ministry of Internal Affairs to Advance its Staff Knowledge on the European Convention on Human Rights
Content: 04 March 2022
Two-day training on the right to life and the prohibition of torture was organized with the support from the European Union (EU) and the South Caucasus Field Presence of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR).
Officers of the Criminal and Patrol Police of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia participated in the training on the right to life and the prohibition of torture – organized with the support from the European Union (EU) and the South Caucasus Field Presence of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR).
The training was held based on the recently updated educational module and covered the Articles 2 and 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights.
“OHCHR fully supports the Government of Georgia and its efforts to improve protection of human rights. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is a key actor in ensuring respect for human rights and rule of law in the country. Therefore, the people presented here, at the training should work to safeguard fundamental human rights, including right to life and prohibition of torture,” said OHCHR Senior Human Rights Adviser for the South Caucasus Vladimir Shkolnikov. “Awareness raising on human rights is one of the key areas of OHCHR’s work in Georgia. It is noteworthy, that the training module on the right to life and prohibition of torture was revised and enriched with the support of the European Union and OHCHR.” Vladimir Shkonikov added.
“The training sessions covered very important and practical topics from our everyday activities, such as the case law of the European Court of Justice, which allows me, as an investigator to protect fundamental human rights and carry out restrictive measures in accordance with the Convention and European Court of Justice.” said one of the training participants, Investigator from Tbilisi Police Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Tamar Bakhia.
The sessions were led by the human rights expert – Levan Meskhoradze, OHCHR Human Rights Officer – Besarion Bokhashvili and Inspector of Especially Important Cases of the Human Rights Protection and Quality of Investigation Monitoring Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs - Mariam Balavadze.
Using practical examples and tips, participants were able to learn more about issues like the essence of the material obligation to protect the right to life, criteria for assessing the legitimacy and proportionality of the use of force, the rights of the victim in the investigation process, the concept and scope of hate crime and motive indicators, etc.
At the end of the two-day training (25-26 February 2022), OHCHR Senior Human Rights Adviser for the South Caucasus Vladimir Shkolnikov and Deputy Director of Human Rights Protection and Investigation Quality Monitoring Department at the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia Ekaterine Meshveliani awarded the participants with the certificates.
OHCHR in partnership with local and international partners actively supports Georgia to develop and implement national human rights strategies, create and adopt laws and policies corresponding the human rights principles, reach out to the most vulnerable and marginalized groups and take practical steps towards an inclusive, fair and just society.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/173872-ohchr-supports-ministry-internal-affairs-advance-its-staff-knowledge-european-convention




Date: 03 March 2022
Title: General Assembly resolution demands end to Russian offensive in Ukraine
Content: 03 March 2022
The UN General Assembly overwhelmingly adopted a resolution on Wednesday demanding that Russia immediately end its military operations in Ukraine.
Member States today overwhelmingly adopted a resolution demanding the Russian Federation immediately end its invasion of Ukraine and unconditionally withdraw all its military forces from that neighbouring country, as the General Assembly continued its emergency session on the crisis.
[The emergency special session — the eleventh called since the founding of the United Nations — opened on 28 February, meeting less than 24 hours after being mandated to do so by a vote in the Security Council, following its failure to adopt a resolution condemning the Russian Federation’s recent actions in Ukraine.  See Press Releases SC/14808 and SC/14809 for details.]
Deploring in the strongest terms its aggression against Ukraine in violation of the Charter of the United Nations, the Assembly also demanded the Russian Federation immediately and unconditionally reverse its 21 February decision related to the status of certain areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine.
The measure was adopted by a vote of 141 in favour to 5 against (Belarus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Eritrea, Russian Federation, and Syria) with 35 abstentions — a clear reaffirmation of the 193-member world body’s commitment to Ukraine’s sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity.
The Assembly demanded that the Russian Federation immediately cease its unlawful use of force against Ukraine and refrain from any further threat or use of force against any United Nations Member State, while also deploring Belarus’ involvement in this illegal action and calling on that country to abide by its international obligations.
The text urged the immediate peaceful resolution of the conflict through political dialogue, negotiations, mediation and other peaceful means, calling upon the parties to abide by the Minsk agreements and to work constructively in relevant international frameworks, including the Normandy Format and Trilateral Contact Group, towards their full implementation.
On the humanitarian front, the Assembly demanded that all parties allow safe and unfettered passage to destinations outside of Ukraine, facilitate rapid and unhindered access to those in need of assistance inside the country, and protect civilians and medical and humanitarian workers.  It further demanded that all parties fully comply with their obligations under international humanitarian law to spare the civilian population and civilian objects, condemning all violations in that regard and asking the United Nations Emergency Relief Coordinator to provide a report on the humanitarian situation in Ukraine and on the humanitarian response within 30 days.
Ukraine’s representative, who introduced the resolution, said that for almost a week, his country has been fighting missiles and bombs.  Half a million people have fled as the Russian Federation tries to deprive his country of the right to exist, carrying out a long list of war crimes.  The Russian Federation’s goal is not just an occupation, it is genocide.  “Evil needs more and more space to conquer” if tolerated, he said, adding that the current text is a building block for putting an end to evil.
The speaker for the Russian Federation, rebuking those claims, said:  “This document will not allow us to end military activities.  On the contrary, it could embolden Kiev radicals and nationalists to continue to determine the policy of their country at any price.”  Nationalist battalions are planning provocations with the participation of civilians that would then accuse his country of having carried them out.  Affirming that the Russian Federation will not conduct strikes against civilian facilities or civilians, he asked the international community to not believe “the large number of fakes spread around the Internet”.
Likewise, Syria’s representative said the draft clearly represents a prejudiced attitude based on political propaganda fuelled by political pressure.  Language against the Russian Federation attempts to belittle its right to protect its people and its security concerns.  Had the United States and its Western allies been serious, they would have fulfilled the promises made decades ago to refrain from transforming Ukraine into a threat to the Russian Federation and should have stopped Ukraine from not complying with the Minsk agreements.
The speaker for the United States, who urged countries to vote in favour of the draft, said her country is choosing to stand with the Ukrainian people and will hold the Russian Federation accountable for its actions.  Despite Ukraine’s courageous defence, the country has suffered devastating consequences, with up to a million people expected to flee their homes.  The international community must welcome them, she said, calling on the Russian Federation to stop its unprovoked war and on Belarus to stop allowing its territory to be used to facilitate that aggression.
The representative of the European Union, in its capacity as observer, added:  “This is not just about Ukraine, this is not just about Europe, this is about defending an international order based on rules.  This is about whether we choose tanks and missiles or dialogue and diplomacy.”  Today's historic vote clearly shows the Russian Federation’s isolation from the rest of the international community, he stressed.
Turkey’s delegate expressed concern about the illegal act of aggression against a founding member of the United Nations “by a permanent member of the very organ entrusted with preserving peace and security”.  It is still not too late to go back to the negotiating table, he said, adding that “as a neighbor and friend of both the Russian and Ukrainian people”, Turkey stands ready to support the peace process.
Also participating in the debate were the representatives of Solomon Islands, Myanmar, Pakistan, Djibouti, Bhutan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Cambodia and Azerbaijan, as well as the Permanent Observers of the Holy See and the Sovereign Order of Malta, and a representative of the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance.
Statements
NOEL MARTIN MATEA (Solomon Islands), stressing that the Russian Federation’s intervention in Ukraine is a violation of the rule of law, called for immediate de-escalation and restoration of Ukraine’s independence and territorial integrity. Welcoming the talks currently taking place, he stressed the need for diplomacy and dialogue instead of confrontation and hostile postures.  The Charter of the United Nations calls for “the open hands of friendship” and not clenched fists, he said.  The people of his country know the consequences a world war can bring, he said, underscoring that the world must not go through such brutality ever again.  The international community is already inundated with global challenges including the COVID—19 pandemic, climate change and sea level rise, he noted, pointing out that the situation in Ukraine is diverting much-needed attention from the global development agenda.
KYAW MOE TUN (Myanmar) condemned the invasion of Ukraine and the unprovoked attack against its people, calling for respect for the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine.  Noting that his country has been following with great concern the situation on the ground in Ukraine, he expressed regret that it had escalated, with intensified attacks by the Russian Federation.  Myanmar understands and shares the suffering of the people of Ukraine, he said, noting that they are facing similar suffering because of atrocities committed by the Myanmar military.  Hundreds of thousands have been displaced, including those with disabilities, elderly women and children.  He commended the neighboring countries of Ukraine, which have opened their borders.  “It is time for all of us to stand with justice and with the principles of the United Nations Charter,” he said.  Myanmar stands in solidarity with the people of Ukraine and has co-sponsored the draft resolution and will vote in favour of it.
MUNIR AKRAM (Pakistan), expressing commitment to self-determination, non-use of force or threat of force and peaceful settlement of disputes, said these principles must be consistently and universally applied.  The recent turn of events reflect a failure of diplomacy, he said, calling for sustained dialogue in order to avoid further escalation.  Military and political tensions pose an unprecedented threat to global security and economic stability, he said, pointing out that developing countries are the hardest hit by conflict anywhere.  Expressing hope that the talks initiated by the Russian Federation and Ukraine will bring about a cessation of hostilities, he voiced concern about the safety of his country’s students and citizens in Ukraine.  Those who remain will be evacuated soon, he said, acknowledging the cooperation of Ukrainian authorities and those of neighbouring countries
MOHAMED SIAD DOUALEH (Djibouti), noting the unprovoked aggression against Ukraine, expressed deep regret that the Council failed to act in unison after the veto cast by the Russian Federation.  “The refusal expressed by a majority of Member States to be paralyzed into inaction is a testament to the commitment of Member States to ensure that the United Nations remains relevant in the face of vexing and complex security challenges,” he said.  Unequivocally condemning the egregious breach of international law and most fundamental Charter principles, he urged that a country, if it has legitimate security concerns, prioritize the use of Charter tools.  He reiterated the African Union’s call to establish immediately a ceasefire and to start negotiations without delay under United Nations auspices, stressing that no argument or pretext can justify the use of force and brutal violence unleashed on Ukraine and its people.  In that regard, Djibouti will vote in favour of the draft, reaffirming its solidarity with the people of Ukraine.  He expressed alarm at the persistent “representations of negativity” towards Africans and statements by so-called experts who are drawing distinctions between refugees fleeing conflict in the Middle East and those fleeing conflict in Ukraine, stressing that wars are the same wherever they are.  “We are at a critical moment in the history of the United Nations and must put an end to conflict and do everything to prevent other conflicts.  It is within our reach […] let us mobilize our political will to put an end to them,” he said.
DOMA TSHERING (Bhutan), noting the significance of the current emergency session, said the provisions of the “Uniting for Peace” resolution must be invoked for the first time in 40 years due to the deadlock in the Security Council.  “Perched atop the Himalayas, even the folds of the mighty mountains cannot shield our country from the reverberations of this conflict,” she said, adding that international security is in danger far beyond the borders of Europe.  Whereas all Member States are beholden to the principles of the Charter, for small States such as Bhutan, they are the guarantor of peaceful existence and good-neighbourly relations, she said.  The threat or use of force against a sovereign State is unacceptable, she emphasized, declaring: “We cannot condone the unilateral drawing of international borders.”
ANOUPARB VONGNORKEO (Lao People’s Democratic Republic) said his country has previously suffered the scourge of war and knows only too well the endless negative consequences it causes to innocent lives.  While commending the United Nations and Member States that have offered humanitarian assistance to the affected people, he emphasized that his country remains sceptical of unilateral sanctions, cautioning that such measures could entail long-term impacts on innocent people, including the global community at large, especially during the pandemic.  In that regard, he called upon all parties concerned to refrain from any action that could further fuel the escalation of tension, seek peaceful solutions, and restore peace and security.  Expressing support for the ongoing effort to find a peaceful diplomatic settlement, he stressed the importance of taking into account the legitimate security concerns of all parties.  “It is our fervent hope that, through this diplomatic effort, peace can be restored, peace which constitutes the heart and soul of our Organization, the United Nations,” he said.
SOVANN KE (Cambodia), expressing great concern about the human suffering unfolding in Ukraine, emphasized the importance of peaceful dialogue and negotiation.  He also stressed the need to protect civilians and civilian infrastructure and to ensure the delivery of humanitarian assistance, reiterating the call by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) for peaceful resolution of the current dispute.  Cambodia is a co-sponsor of the draft resolution, he noted.
YASHAR T. ALIYEV (Azerbaijan) expressed deep regret that the ongoing crisis has caused significant casualties, among the civilian population in particular.  Calling for strict adherence to international humanitarian law, he emphasized that civilian lives and infrastructure must be protected and safeguarded at all times.  The evolving humanitarian crisis on the ground requires expedient measures to alleviate the impact of the current situation on civilians, he noted.  In that regard, Azerbaijan has rendered, on a bilateral basis, humanitarian assistance in the form of medicine and medical equipment as well as other needs essential to the people of Ukraine.  The situation must be settled through diplomatic means, in full compliance with international law, he stressed, reiterating calls for dialogue without delay to prevent further escalation and direct negotiations between the parties.
VALENTIN RYBAKOV (Belarus), noting that his country will vote against the draft resolution, said the international community must bear its share of responsibility for what is currently happening in Ukraine.  Recalling the signing of the Minsk agreements eight years ago as well as the relevant resolutions adopted by the Council and the Assembly, he said the international community was unable to convince the Ukrainian authorities to abide by these documents.  Ukraine has found itself in a state of civil war for years and civilians have been dying in the Donetsk and Luhansk provinces.  Noting that operative paragraph 8 of the draft text hypocritically calls on all parties to fulfil the Minsk agreements, he asked its sponsors where they had been for the past eight years.
The United States, Canada and the European Union, who believe themselves to be the gold standards of democracy, could not find the strength to respond to the criminal activities of the Ukrainian authorities, he said.  Their double standards have already led to hundreds of thousands of victims in the former Yugoslavia as well as Iraq, Libya and Afghanistan.  “I will let you in on a secret.  Yes, we are involved,” in the conflict, he said, adding that the President of Belarus is sparing no effort to organize negotiations between the Russian Federation and Ukraine.  Cautioning against the imposition of sanctions, for example, against Belarussian potassium fertilizers, he said that will lead to economic and social problems and increased hunger in countries located hundreds of kilometres from his.  “Russians and Belarussians are essentially being held hostage” in Ukraine, he said, also highlighting the cases of racism and discrimination towards foreign citizens at the borders as well as the “rampant plundering” and uncontrolled distribution of weapons in Ukraine.
LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD (United States) called on the Russian Federation to stop its unprovoked, unjustified, and unconscionable war, and to respect Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and on Belarus to stop supporting the war and stop allowing its territory to be used to facilitate that aggression.  The international community stands together in holding the Russian Federation accountable for its violations of international law and to address the unfolding horrific human rights and humanitarian crisis.  She noted that this is the first time in 40 years that the Security Council has convened an emergency special session of the General Assembly, recalling the invasion that caused a war so horrific that it spurred the United Nations into existence.  “If the United Nations has any purpose, it is to prevent war, to condemn war, to stop war.  That is our job here today. It is the job you were sent here to do not just by your capitals but by all of humanity,” she said.
Although Ukraine has defended itself with great courage and vigor, the brazen and indiscriminate nature of the Russian Federation’s attack has had devastating and horrific consequences for the entire country.  Detailing acts of aggression that have caused many to flee their homes, she said the latest United Nations estimates are marching towards a million people.  She thanked countries for opening their borders, hearts and homes to those fleeing Ukraine and called on the international community to welcome all those fleeing conflict without regard to race or nationality.  Pointing to protests for peace that have sprung up around the world in solidarity with Ukraine, she said the United States is choosing to stand with the Ukrainian people, and, in coordination with its allies and partners, to impose severe consequences and hold the Russian Federation accountable for its actions, urging Member States to vote in favour of the resolution.
GABRIELE CACCIA, Permanent Observer of the Holy See, echoing calls to end the violence, said the United Nations was founded to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war and live together in peace with one another as good neighbours.  It is the duty of all States to seek to resolve disputes through negotiation, mediation or by other peaceful means, even when war has commenced.  Expressing appreciation to States which are offering humanitarian assistance to those in need both in Ukraine and in neighbouring countries in which many have sought safety, he said Pope Francis has called on believers and non-believers alike to observe this 2 March as a “day to be close to the sufferings of the Ukrainian people, to feel that we are all brothers and sisters, and to implore of God the end of the war”.  There is always time for goodwill, still room for negotiation and still a place for the exercise of a wisdom that can prevent the predominance of partisan interest, safeguard the legitimate aspirations of everyone and spare the world from the folly and horrors of war, he said, stressing: “may this Emergency Special Session advance efforts that help attain this end”.
PAUL BERESFORD-HILL, Permanent Observer of the Sovereign Order of Malta, highlighting his organization’s mission to serve the sick and the poor, expressed sadness about the ongoing conflict which has impacted the lives of so many citizens of Ukraine and has created an unprecedented flow of refugees.  The Sovereign Order’s embassy to Ukraine has provided considerable support and material help to that country’s citizens residents, he said, adding that a refugee exodus of over 6 million persons might be the outcome of this situation.  Noting that some nations have gone out of their way to welcome these individuals and to help them through the trauma, he said the Order’s staff are working along the Ukrainian border, doing everything from serving hot food and drink to caring for injured people.
AMANDA SOUREK, a representative of the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance, strongly condemned the unprovoked war of aggression waged by the Russian Federation with Belarus’ involvement against Ukraine.  She called on the international community to “spring into action” to protect the people of Ukraine and mitigate the invasion’s humanitarian consequences.  Ukraine has successfully reached democratic standards over the past two decades.  As such, this is a pivotal moment for democrats all over the world to stand in support of Ukraine, as well as the moment to counter and prevent the rise of authoritarian regimes elsewhere.  She called on the Russian Federation to immediately withdraw its military forces and fully respect Ukraine’s sovereignty.  She encouraged the Secretary-General to make use of his good offices to advance ceasefire talks, humanitarian access to the war-affected areas, and the protection of civilians.  She urged Member States to adopt and enforce sanctions against the Russian Federation until withdrawal of the forces from Ukraine and the restoration of its territorial integrity, and to “do whatever it takes in compliance with the principles of the Charter” to stop the war and prevent any further escalation of conflict.  Her Institute and its member States will do their part in collaboration with the United Nations and other democratic Governments and organizations to protect the principle that every country has the right to freely determine its own fate based on the freely expressed will of its people.
Action
The representative of Ukraine, introducing the draft resolution titled “Aggression against Ukraine” (document A/ES-11/L.1), said the United Nations was created to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, but it falls to the current generation to save the world yet again from war.  Regardless of a nation’s grievances, aggressive warfare is never a solution, he said.  For almost a week, his country has been fighting missiles and bombs, he said, adding that the Russian Federation is trying to deprive Ukraine of the right to exist.  Expressing gratitude for all expressions of support and solidarity and thanking those Member States who accepted Ukrainian refugees, he said that half a million have fled his country.  The list of the Russian Federation’s war crimes is very long, he said, pointing to widespread use of indiscriminate weapons such as aerial bombs in residential areas.  Many cities and towns have faced sustained shelling that killed civilians, including children and a student from India.  Also noting that a missile was dropped on a holocaust memorial, he said, “What an irony.”
The Russian Federation’s goal is not just an occupation, it is genocide, he said, adding that later this month, the International Court of Justice will hold public hearings concerning allegations of genocide against that country.  “Evil needs more and more space to conquer” if tolerated, he said, adding that the current text is a building block for putting an end to evil.  Voting in favor of the resolution is a reaffirmation of the Charter, he said, inviting delegates to also sign a copy of the Charter after the vote.  Playing a video recording of Benjamin Ferencz, he said this “fragile gentleman” was an investigator of war crimes and a chief prosecutor at the trials of Nuremberg.  Echoing Mr. Ferencz’s call for law over war, he called on all Member States to support the draft.
The representative of the Russian Federation, calling on Member States to not support the draft resolution, said his country knows of the unprecedented pressure that Western partners are exerting on a large number of countries.  “This document will not allow us to end military activities.  On the contrary, it could embolden Kiev radicals and nationalists to continue to determine the policy of their country at any price,” he cautioned.  The Russian Federation is aware that nationalist battalions are planning provocations with the participation of civilians that would then accuse his country of having carried them out.  In addition, military hardware are being placed in residential areas, as well as rocket launchers and artillery, he said, adding that the Russian Federation would provide examples to the United Nations leadership in that regard.  “The refusal to support the draft resolution is a vote for a peaceful Ukraine that is free from radicalism and neo-Nazism, living in peace with its neighbors,” he said.
That is the aim of the Russian Federation’s special military operation, which has been presented as aggression by the resolution’s sponsors, he continued.  Affirming that his country will not carry out strikes against civilian facilities or civilians, he asked the international community to not believe “the large number of fakes spread around the Internet”.  He noted that the draft does not mention the “illegal coup in Kiev in February 2014 with the connivance of Germany, France and Poland and with the support of the United States, where the legitimately elected president of their country was overthrown”.  The draft also does not mention new nationalist authorities that are limiting the rights of citizens to use the Russian language, he said, adding that that was a stark green light for a chain of events and violations of the basic rights of those living in the east of the country.  “This draft is a clear attempt of those who over the last decades have committed huge numbers of aggressions — illegal under international law, as well as coups, one of which was the Maidan coup in Ukraine — and who present themselves as champions of international law,” he said in conclusion.
The representative of Serbia said his delegation is committed to the principles of sovereignty and the territorial integrity of all nations and will vote in favour of the draft.  Recalling that the first major attack in Europe after the Second World War occurred in 1999 in the former Yugoslavia, he said that there had been no United Nations reaction with regard to Serbia, and the consequences are still felt today.  For its part, Serbia will continue to advocate for ending conflict, he said, expressing hope the parties will create peace through dialogue.
The representative of Syria said the draft clearly represents a prejudiced attitude based on political propaganda fuelled by political pressure.  Language against the Russian Federation attempts to belittle its right to protect its people and its security concerns, and Belarus has been affected by the draft, which represents a flagrant political hypocrisy.  Had the United States and its Western allies been serious, they would have fulfilled its promises made decades ago to refrain from transforming Ukraine into a threat to the Russian Federation and should have stopped Ukraine from not complying with the Minsk agreements.  Instead, weaponry has been supplied, reflecting the clear-cut desire of those countries to worsen and not de-escalate the current situation.  At the same time, an enormous media campaign is spreading lies that are aimed at defaming the Russian Federation and not at resolving the conflict.  Such attempts ignore the real reason for tensions and the eruption of hostilities.  Those showing support for the draft should have shown the same eagerness related to Israel’s occupation of Arab territories and Turkey’s action against Syria.  Syria will vote against the draft because, among other things, it promulgates anarchy, imposes sanctions and will only worsen the situation.
Also speaking in explanation, the representative of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines said her delegation will vote in favor of the text in accordance with its steadfast commitment to the Charter.  Strict adherence to international law and international humanitarian law is not optional, she said.
The Assembly then adopted the draft by a recorded vote of 141 in favor to 5 against (Belarus, Democratic Republic of Korea, Eritrea, Russian Federation, Syria), with 35 abstentions.  Delegates greeted the results with a standing ovation.
The representative of Rwanda said his delegation voted in favour of the resolution in support of, and with respect for, the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of any country.  Emphasizing that military actions should cease immediately, he said the Russian Federation and Ukraine have the key to resolving the conflict and external intervention will only exacerbate the situation.  Expressing serious concern over the extent of humanitarian devastation, and the peace and security challenges caused by the war, he noted reports that Africans are being racially segregated and denied safe exit and admission to neighbouring countries.  Rwanda calls upon all those involved to allow unhindered evacuation without looking at individuals’ colour or origin, he stressed.
The representative of China said any action taken by the United Nations and relevant parties must prioritize the security concerns of all actors while playing a positive role considering the current situation.  Unfortunately, the draft has not undergone full consultations with the full membership nor has it considered all issues related to the situation.  As these elements are not in line with China’s principles, his delegation had to abstain from voting.  Resolving the conflict requires abandoning the cold war logic and the approach of expanding military blocs to ensure security.  Instead, talks must focus on collective security.  Calling on the international community to take a responsible approach, he said efforts must be sought to ensure parties engage in dialogue.
The representative of India expressed deep concern over the rapidly deteriorating situation in Ukraine and the ensuing humanitarian crisis, noting that an Indian national was tragically killed in Kharkiv on Tuesday due to ongoing hostilities.  He demanded safe and uninterrupted passage for all Indian nationals, including students still stranded in Ukraine, noting that this remains his country’s top priority and it has instituted special flights to bring back Indians home from conflict zones.  Moreover, his Government has deployed senior ministers as special envoys to countries neighboring Ukraine to facilitate evacuation, he said, thanking all those countries for opening their borders and extending all facilities to India’s embassies.  India has already dispatched humanitarian assistance to Ukraine, including medicines, medical equipment and other relief material, and will be sending one more tranche in the coming days.  Supporting the call for an immediate ceasefire and safe humanitarian access to conflict zones, he stressed that differences can only be resolved through dialogue and diplomacy.  He underscored the urgent need for humanitarian access and movement of stranded civilians, expressing hope that the second round of talks between the Russian Federation and Ukraine will lead to a positive outcome.  Keeping in view the totality of the evolving situation, he said India has decided to abstain from the vote.
The representative of Iran reiterated his country’s principled position of respect for the Charter, international law and international humanitarian law.  Stressing the importance of avoiding double standards in the maintenance of peace, he pointed to the conflict in Yemen.  Expressing concern about the Council’s inaction, he noted that his delegation abstained from the vote.
Statements after Adoption
The representative of the European Union delegation, in its capacity as observer, recalling that last week, the Council was unable to act against the Russian Federation’s unprovoked act of aggression because of that country’s veto, said today countries around the world came together to speak against that aggression.  Calling on the Russian Federation to immediately stop the aggression, he added that the brutality of that country’s invasion, with the complicity of Belarus, has reached unimaginable levels.  Highlighting indiscriminate attacks against Ukrainian cities, he said “this is not just about Ukraine, this is not just about Europe, this is about defending an international order based on rules.  This is about whether we choose tanks and missiles or dialogue and diplomacy.”  Today's historic vote clearly shows the Russian Federation’s isolation from the rest of the international community, he stressed.
The representative of Denmark, speaking also on behalf of Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway and Sweden and associating himself with the European Union, said the international community had come together from all corners of the world to “send a resounding ‘yes’” to uphold international law and the United Nations Charter; the principle of sovereign equality of all United Nations Member States; and respect for their territorial integrity, sovereignty and political independence.  Moreover, the international community had come together to send a resounding message to Ukraine and all Ukrainians.  “You are not alone.  We stand with you.  Today, tomorrow and until peace is restored and Ukraine’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity are fully restored and respected,” he said, echoing the words of a colleague who had spoken on Tuesday.  He urged the Russian Federation and Belarus to “stop the aggression now”.  “What you are doing is unacceptable.  It is wrong.  Your unprovoked aggression against Ukraine is a violation of the core principles that you signed up to when you laid the foundation of this very organization, of this community of nations,” he said.
The representative of Turkey expressed concern about the illegal act of aggression against a founding member of the United Nations “by a permanent member of the very organ entrusted with preserving peace and security”.  The ongoing military offensive against Ukraine blatantly violates the fundamental rules of international law, he said, adding that the international community cannot remain spectators.  The current resolution emphasizes loudly and clearly that it stands against egregious violations of the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of fellow Member States.  It is still not too late to go back to the negotiating table, he said, adding that “as a neighbor and friend of both the Russian and Ukrainian people,” Turkey stands ready to support the peace process.
The representative of Poland, reading an open letter written by the spouses of the Presidents of Lithuania and his own country, called on politicians, clergy and concerned citizens across the world to show solidarity with Ukrainian children.  A large number of refugees are unaccompanied children fleeing the aggression, he said, adding that their everyday lives are no longer defined by school and time spent with their peers, but rather by bomb shelters.  An entire generation of young Ukrainians will bear the scars of this war on their bodies and souls.  Continuing to quote the open letter, he underscored that the war is being fought not only in the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic but also amid measles and polio epidemics among children.  Acknowledging the support received from States and international organizations around the world, he noted that the United Nations wants to allocate $1.7 billion worth of support and called on people of goodwill around the world to do everything possible to end this war.
Eritrea’s representative, who voted against the resolution as well, noted that his country’s experience has demonstrated that all forms of sanctions are counterproductive.
Representatives of several countries, among them Egypt, Nepal, Italy, Jordan, New Zealand and Colombia, expressed solidarity with Ukraine and stressed the crucial importance of peaceful settlement of disputes.  “We know what happens in wars,” the representative of Lebanon said, adding that the energy that went into this text should continue to be directed towards a meaningful peace.
The Assembly also heard explanations of vote from delegates that abstained from the vote, with many of them highlighting their misgivings about the resolution and the process of its negotiation.
For example, South Africa’s representative said the current text does not lead to an environment conducive to mediation and could lead to a deeper rift between the parties.  Her delegation would also have preferred an open and transparent process in the negotiations towards the text, she added, calling on the international community to go beyond gestures that merely appear to promote peace without ensuring meaningful action.
The representative of China voiced regret that the draft has not undergone full consultations with the entire United Nations membership.  He called on the international community to abandon the cold war logic as well as the approach of expanding military blocs to ensure security.  Highlighting the need for collective global security, he stressed the need to ensure parties engage in dialogue.
Also speaking during action on the draft resolution were the representatives of Serbia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Tunisia, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Thailand, Brazil, United Arab Emirates, India, Bahrain, Iran, Algeria, United Republic of Tanzania, Malaysia and Iraq.
Also making statements after the adoption were the representatives of the United Kingdom, Japan, Ireland, Australia, Costa Rica and Indonesia.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/175673-general-assembly-resolution-demands-end-russian-offensive-ukraine




Date: 24 February 2022
Title: Statement by the Secretary-General – on Ukraine
Content: 24 February 2022
New York, 24 February 2022
We are seeing Russian military operations inside the sovereign territory of Ukraine on a scale that Europe has not seen in decades.

Day after day, I have been clear that such unilateral measures conflict directly with the United Nations Charter.

The Charter is clear: “All members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state, or in any other manner inconsistent with the Purposes of the United Nations.”

The use of force by one country against another is the repudiation of the principles that every country has committed to uphold.

This applies to the present military offensive.

It is wrong.

It is against the Charter.

It is unacceptable.

But it is not irreversible.

I repeat my appeal from last night to President Putin:

Stop the military operation.

Bring the troops back to Russia.

We know the toll of war.

With deaths rising, we are seeing images of fear, anguish and terror in every corner of Ukraine.

People – everyday innocent people – always pay the highest price.

That is why the United Nations is scaling up our humanitarian operations in and around Ukraine.

Today I am announcing that we will immediately allocate $20 million from the Central Emergency Response Fund to meet urgent needs.

We and our humanitarian partners are committed to staying and delivering, to support people in Ukraine in their time of need.

United Nations staff are working on both sides of the contact line, always guided by the humanitarian principles of neutrality, impartiality, humanity and independence.

We are providing lifesaving humanitarian relief to people in need, regardless of who or where they are.

The protection of civilians must be priority number one.

International humanitarian and human rights law must be upheld.

The decisions of the coming days will shape our world and directly affect the lives of millions upon millions of people.

In line with the Charter, it’s not too late to save this generation from the scourge of war.

We need peace.

Thank you
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/173303-statement-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-ukraine




Date: 21 February 2022
Title: OHCHR in the South Caucasus and UNDP Georgia help the Ministry of Internal Affairs train its staff on the rights and communication standard with PWDs
Content: 21 February 2022
The two-day training equipped the future trainers with necessary skills to play a role of tutors for 2200 employees of a Patrol Police Department nationwide.
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the South Caucasus Field Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) supported the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia (MIA) by conducting training of trainers (ToT) for twenty-one staff members of the Ministry on the rights of persons with disabilities (PWDs) and standards of communication. The two-day training equipped the future trainers with necessary skills to play a role of tutors for 2200 employees of a Patrol Police Department nationwide.
Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Georgia Aleksandre Darakhvelidze, Deputy Resident Representative of the UNDP Georgia Anna Chernishova and UN OHCHR Senior Adviser for the South Caucasus Vladimir Shkolnikov welcomed the training participants.
“More attention should be paid to ensuring quality inclusive police services for persons with disabilities, which among other things requires extensive training for police personnel.  This training should aim at ensuring that persons with disabilities can exercise their rights as well as access police procedures on an equal basis with others.“ said OHCHR Senior Adviser for the South Caucasus of UN OHCHR Vladimir Shkolnikov and restated the Office’s support to assist the government of Georgia build a rights-based, inclusive and just society.
“Last year, for the first time, the Ministry of Internal Affairs approved the 2021 Action Plan on the Protection of the Rights of PwDs. Despite a certain progress made and a number of important measures taken for its implementation, we plan to take more proactive steps, which means equipping the law enforcers with proper knowledge on the rights of PwDs and the standards of communication with them. Accordingly, in 2022, the Ministry has made it a priority to conduct nationwide trainings in this direction. “ said the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Georgia Aleksandre Darakhvelidze.
Its notable that the ToT was conducted based on the module developed with the support of the UNDP Georgia and OHCHR in the South Caucasus.
“The training course covered the legal aspects of the rights of PwDs and communication standards with them, which helped us, the future trainers acquire knowledge and provide human rights education to the patrol officers on their special role in protecting and promoting rights of PwDs. Replicating this module of training throughout Georgia will also enable my colleagues in providing effective policing through compliance with international human rights standards.” said Inspector of Especially Important Cases at the Human Rights Protection and Investigation Quality Monitoring Department Tamar Mtchedlishvili.
The co-trainers of the ToT together with the qualified experts of the UN agencies were members of the Advisory Council on the Rights of PwDs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The training was made possible thanks to funding from the UN Sustainable Development Goals Fund (SDG Fund).
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/172842-ohchr-south-caucasus-and-undp-georgia-help-ministry-internal-affairs-train-its-staff-rights




Date: 08 February 2022
Title: 6 in 7 people worldwide plagued by feelings of insecurity, reports UN Development Programme
Content: 08 February 2022
The new UNDP report shows a growing sense of insecurity among people despite years of development growth prompting calls for solidarity and refocusing development efforts
8 February, New York – Global development progress does not automatically lead to a greater sense of security, according to a new United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) report on human security released today.
New data and analysis in the report, New Threats to Human Security in the Anthropocene, shows that people’s sense of safety and security is at a low in almost every country, including the richest countries, despite years of upwards development success. Those benefiting from some of the highest levels of good health, wealth, and education outcomes are reporting even greater anxiety than 10 years ago.
To tackle this disconnect between development and perceived security, the report calls for greater solidarity across borders and a new approach to development; one that allows people to live free from want, fear, anxiety and indignity.
“Despite global wealth being higher than ever before, a majority of people are feeling apprehensive about the future and these feelings have likely been exacerbated by the pandemic”, said Achim Steiner, UNDP Administrator. “In our quest for unbridled economic growth, we continue to destroy our natural world while inequalities are widening, both within and between countries. It is time to recognise the signs of societies that are under immense stress and redefine what progress actually means. We need a fit-for-purpose development model that is built around the protection and restoration of our planet with new sustainable opportunities for all.”
The imperative to act now has never been more clear, as new findings also show that global life expectancy at birth is falling for a second year because of COVID-19, and overall human development measures are also moving downward. Furthermore, climate change is likely to become a leading cause of death around the world.  Even with moderate mitigation of emissions, some 40 million people might die because of changes in temperatures before the end of the century.
The report examines a cluster of threats that have shifted to become more prominent in recent years including those from digital technologies, inequalities, conflicts, and the ability of healthcare systems to tackle new challenges like the COVID-19 pandemic.
Addressing these threats, report authors argue, will require policymakers to consider protection, empowerment, and solidarity alongside one another so that human security, planetary considerations and human development all work together and not despite each other. This means that solutions for one problem shouldn’t exacerbate other problems.
“A key element for practical action highlighted in the report is building a greater sense of global solidarity based on the idea of common security. Common security recognises that a community can only be secure if adjacent communities are too. This is something we see all too clearly with the current pandemic: nations are largely powerless to prevent new mutations of this coronavirus from crossing borders,” said Asako Okai, UN Assistant Secretary-General and Director, UNDP Crisis Bureau.
The report also notes the strong association between declining levels of trust and feelings of insecurity. People with higher levels of perceived human insecurity are three times less likely to find others trustworthy.
Other new findings in the report include:
The concept of human security, first introduced in UNDP’s milestone 1994 Human Development Report, signalled a radical departure from the idea that people’s security should be only assessed by looking at territorial security, emphasizing the importance of people’s basic needs, their dignity, and their safety to live secure lives.
For the full report, visit HERE.
About UNDP: UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality, and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries and territories, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and the planet. Learn more at undp.org or follow at @UNDP.

For media inquiries, please contact:
Victor Garrido Delgado | Media Specialist, UNDP | Mobile:1-917-995-1687 | Email: victor.garrido.delgado@undp.org
Jon Hall | Policy Specialist, UNDP Human Development Report Office| Email: jonathan.hall@undp.org
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/171416-6-7-people-worldwide-plagued-feelings-insecurity-reports-un-development-programme




Date: 25 January 2022
Title: Georgian women push for inclusive and gender-equal policies
Content: 25 January 2022
The Women Councillors Forum pledges to pay greater heed to women’s participation in public life
Women’s representation in municipal councils grew almost two-fold as a result of the 2021 local elections in Georgia, reaching a historical 24 percent. In the aftermath of elections, the Women Councillors Forum uniting over 490 women members of municipal councils gathered at an annual conference to discuss the new opportunities brought on by the increased number of women in elective self-government bodies and specific steps to be taken to bring women’s perspective to the local and national agenda.
The event brought together women members of local councils from all regions of Georgia, and representatives from the Georgian Government, Parliament, political parties, civil society and international organizations. It discussed women’s role in advancing local politics as well as cooperation between the Parliament’s Gender Equality Council and the municipal Gender Equality Councils.
The forum was organised by the Municipal Service Providers’ Association (MSPA) of Georgia and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). It was supported by the Government of Sweden and the International Republican Institute.
“Women politicians are bringing a range of experiences and perspectives to the table – be it on social services, poverty reduction, employment or protection of the environment. We hope that newly elected women will lead on those issues to deliver great results for the Georgian society,“ said UNDP Deputy Head Anna Chernyshova.
“The 2021 elections were a significant step towards more women in local politics. I hope this trend continues in future elections at all levels. It is equally important that the voices and perspectives of women politicians are heard in the public debate and impact the political decision-making on the same terms as for male politicians. Sweden has for over two decades been supporting women’s rights and empowerment in Georgia, including in politics, and will continue to do so. Gender-equal and inclusive participation in politics means a stronger democracy and better policies in all areas and is something that the Georgian voters are increasingly calling for. It also contributes to Georgia’s European integration,” noted Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia Ulrik Tideström.,” noted Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia Ulrik Tideström.
The other speakers at the Forum included Nino Tsilosani, Chair of the Parliamentary Gender Equality Council; Niko Tatulashvili, Advisor to the Prime Minister of Georgia on Human Rights Issues; Mzia Giorgobiani, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Infrastructure of Georgia; and John DiPirro, IRI Resident Program Director.
The Women Councillors’ Forum was established in 2013, with support from UNDP and Sweden. It serves as a cooperation platform encouraging Georgian women to become more active in public life and local decision-making. The work of the Forum responds to the aspirations of almost two-thirds of Georgia’s population that,  according to the UNDP’s survey, think that greater involvement of women in politics would benefit the country.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/169485-georgian-women-push-inclusive-and-gender-equal-policies




Date: 14 January 2022
Title: United Nations concerned over the decision of Georgian authorities to abolish the State Inspector’s Service
Content: 14 January 2022
The United Nations Country Team in Georgia expresses its regret over the decision of Georgian authorities to abolish the State Inspector’s Service.
The United Nations Country Team in Georgia expresses its regret over the decision of Georgian authorities to abolish the State Inspector’s Service. On 13 January 2022 the President has signed a new law abolishing the State Inspector’s Service and creating two separate institutions: Special Investigative Service and Personal Data Protection Service.
We are particularly concerned about the expedited manner and lack of inclusive and transparent discussions about the abolition of one of the most credible, independent and authoritative institutions in Georgia that is mandated to investigate alleged human rights violations committed by law enforcement officials and is entrusted with the oversight of personal data protection. The lack of convincing justification for abolishing the State Inspector’s Service and the absence of compelling rationale for stripping the State Inspector of her six-year mandate sends a chilling message to independent institutions of human rights protection.
We are concerned that the substantial broadening of the list of crimes falling within the mandate of a newly created Special Investigation Service entails a serious risk of overburdening the agency and distracting its team from fulfilling its primary mandate to combat impunity. We recall the recommendation by UN Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment on his mission to Georgia (2015) stating concerns ‘at the risk that unduly broad jurisdiction, whether exclusive or discretionary, may make the task of the [State Inspector] overly burdensome [if] ... offences committed by law enforcement agents that are not part of the core group of torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment… [fall within its mandate]’.
We call on the authorities to request the opinion of relevant international institutions on the compliance of these decisions with the international standards.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/168152-united-nations-concerned-over-decision-georgian-authorities-abolish-state-inspector%E2%80%99s




Date: 16 December 2021
Title: Partnership for Gender Equality – Joint Initiative of FAO, UNDP, UNFPA, and Liberty Bank
Content: 16 December 2021
A new series of meetings launched at the joint initiative of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and Liberty Bank in the regions of Georgia is in progress. The purpose of the meetings is to raise the awareness of gender equality, reproductive health and rights, community participation, women's economic empowerment, as well as of banking services among rural women, that will benefit women involved in agriculture.
On December 16, 2021, the next awareness meeting took place in Hotel Metekhara in Ambrolauri. Women living in Racha and Lechkhumi region and involved in the FAO Agriculture and Rural Development Project (sponsored by the Austrian Development Cooperation (ADC)) attended the meeting. They were informed about the issues such as family planning, prevention of uterine and breast cancer, domestic violence, harmful practices (early marriage, gender selection), the role of gender equality in the development of business and agriculture, financial planning and banking services offered to women involved in agriculture by Liberty Bank.


Photo: Mindia Charkseliani/UNFPA
The event was opened by representatives of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and Liberty Bank.
According to Ms Mariam Bandzeladze, Gender Analyst at the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Georgia Country Office, “Achieving gender equality remains a significant challenge for Georgia, so the joint effort of UN agencies to reach as many women and men as possible across the country is crucial. Ensuring women's reproductive health and rights, empowering women and adolescent girls, as well as increasing men's involvement in the process of building a more equal society remain among UNFPA's top priorities. We continue working actively to increase the number of our partners, both institutions and individuals.”


Photo: Mindia Charkseliani/UNFPA

The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) actively supports rural women in acquiring and developing the skills necessary for economic activities and active participation in the labour market. At the same time, we believe that such awareness meetings also play an important role in empowering women, as raising awareness and sharing experiences is important for strengthening their collective representation,” says Ms Natia Tsikvadze, Policy and Capacity Development Specialist at United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Georgia.
The meetings have been held in partnership with Liberty Bank for two years now. “Our new strategy “New Liberty for a New Life” involves offering a number of innovations to customers. We will continue to support women and create affordable products for their empowerment. In addition, one of the important directions of the new strategy of Liberty Bank is to use our largest banking infrastructure, offer services tailored to the needs of customers and develop agribusiness in the region,” says Mr Irakli Abashidze, Deputy Director in Direction of Small and Medium Business at Liberty Bank.


Photo: Mindia Charkseliani/UNFPA

At the same time, a training session “Men Talking to Men” was conducted as part of the cooperation between the UNFPA and FAO. “Men Talking to Men” is a campaign conducted by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) since 2016 to help increase the engagement of men in the process of achieving gender equality.  Integrating “Men Talking to Men” campaign in the joint initiative is a good opportunity for men, who are in business and agriculture, to understand the importance of gender equality in the field they are involved, which will have a positive impact on productivity, teamwork and output, and will reduce the risk of men stirring up gender stereotypes.
The partner organizations plan to continue organizing awareness meetings in new target regions in 2022.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/171620-partnership-gender-equality-%E2%80%93-joint-initiative-fao-undp-unfpa-and-liberty-bank




Date: 10 December 2021
Title: UN OHCHR in the South Caucasus United Law Students and Graphic Designers to Promote Human Rights
Content: 10 December 2021
Field presence of the United Nations Office of the Hight Commissioner for Human Rights (UN OHCHR) in the South Caucasus concluded the #HumanRightsDay2021 campaign with awarding twenty-five students and graphic designers who won competitions on creative work related to human rights.
The front-runners expressed their ideas and vision about the fundamental rights and freedoms guided by the thirty principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) through posters and articles. Equality, right to life and privacy, freedom of religion, belief, assembly, expression were the major highlights touched by the applicants in their work.
Special gifts with thematic branding of Human Rights Day 2021 – AllHumanAllEqual and certificates were presented to the winners by the Resident Coordinator a.i., United Nations in Georgia and the Senior Advisor for the South Caucasus Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) Dr. Vladimir Shkolnikov and the Head of the UN Resident Coordinator Office a.i. / Senior Economist Ms. Anna Platonova.
"This campaign amplified young people’s voices on the national level, encouraging them to share their ideas about the fundamental human rights of all people of this planet. I salute every participant for their interest and commitment to human rights related causes.” – said Resident Coordinator a.i., United Nations in Georgia and the Senior Advisor for the South Caucasus Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) Dr. Vladimir Shkolnikov in his welcome remarks.
“The contest encouraged us/students to acquire and examine current pressing human rights issues in Georgia and to consider their impact on the wider system of human rights and law. I have always been interested in women's rights, and the choice of profession was largely to this. The article I prepared for this contest is about equality and the sexual harassment of women in sports. “- said Mariam Abuladze, first-place winner/author of the best article of the Educational Programme on Human Rights.
Mariam is among fifteen students (selected from 95 applicants) who took an active part in the Programme aimed at increasing knowledge by youth about latest standards established by universal and regional human rights’ monitoring bodies and encouraging them to prepare articles about human rights topics.  The Educational Programme was made possible with the support of the United Nations in Georgia.
“The declaration guarantees our rights without distinction of nationality, place of residence, gender, national or ethnic origin, religion, language, or any other status. Sleepless Machines- this is how I called my submission/poster and it refers to Article 24 of the UDHR. The overworking is an emerging trend in Georgia as well as globally, therefore, my poster is dedicated to raise awareness about this issue, so that people can exercise their rights guided by UDHR – everyone has the right to rest and leisure.“ – said Mariam Mumladze, first place winner of the poster contest.
OHCHR received over one hundred and fifty posters. The main goal of this contest was to raise public awareness about the human rights and to inspire designers and public in general to learn about, reflect and express what human rights in general and UDHR in particular mean to them.
About Human Rights Day:
December 10, is observed worldwide every year to commemorate the day on which, in 1948, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the UDHR. This year’s Human Rights Day theme relates to “Equality” and the Article 1 of the UDHR – “All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights”. As we continue on the path towards the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and countries’ commitments to leave no one behind, we must strive for a world where a life of equality in dignity and rights is a lived reality for all.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/164553-un-ohchr-south-caucasus-united-law-students-and-graphic-designers-promote-human-rights




Date: 10 December 2021
Title: Human Rights Forum triggers debate on inequalities in Georgian society
Content: 10 December 2021
EU, UN and Public Defender are launching a discussion on human rights achievements and challenges
On Human Rights Day, the European Union, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the South Caucasus Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) and the Public Defender’s Office invited decision-makers and civil society leaders to discuss persisting inequalities that jeopardise democracy and hamper Georgia’s progress towards a fair and just society.
The Human Rights Forum created a discussion space for the authorities and human rights activists to talk about challenges Georgia faced in 2021 and agree on concrete steps to achieve greater equality and better human rights protection.
In the spirit of the Human Rights Day message – All Human, All Equal, it addressed three areas where disparities have been particularly deepened by social and economic challenges brought on by the pandemic – gender equality, the legal and social protection of the LGBTQI+ community, and the inclusion of ethnic and religious minorities.
Parliament Chairperson Kakha Kuchava set a tone for a discussion and highlighted that Georgia made strong legal commitments to safeguarding human rights for all citizens.
Other speakers included Public Defender Nino Lomjaria, Advisor to the Prime Minister on Human Rights Issues Niko Tatulashvili, Deputy Head of Political Section at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia Evija Kotan, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia Sabine Machl, UNDP Head in Georgia Nick Beresford, Senior Adviser for the South Caucasus of the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) Vladimir Shkolnikov, Members of Parliament and representatives of public agencies and leading civil society organizations.
“In 2021, the state of equality continued to be challenging. The protection of the rights of women, persons with disabilities, members of the LGBTQI+ community and representatives of religious and ethnic minorities have not improved significantly. Violent events surrounding Tbilisi Pride Week in July were especially alarming. Persons inciting and organizing violent acts against the LGBTQI+ community and journalists have not been brought to justice,“ said Public Defender Nino Lomjaria.
“The EU remains Georgia’s strong supporter in enhancing human rights protection and building an equal and just society. Human rights are at the heart of our relations with Georgia, and a key focus of our cooperation assistance. Today, on Human Rights Day, we have discussed many pertinent issues and the outstanding work needed to enhance the protection and promotion of equality, including gender equality, the rights of ethnic and religious minorities and the rights of the LGBTQ in Georgia,“ said Deputy Head of Political Section at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia Evija Kotan.
“The pandemic has deepened social disparities. As Georgia strives to emerge from the crisis, human rights must be at the core of the pandemic response and recovery,” said UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia Sabine Machl.
“Georgia has come a long way in enacting the principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That journey needs to continue towards an equal, just and fair society – especially for minorities and marginalized communities. We urge Georgian state, political and civic leaders to give high priority to fighting discrimination, ensuring legal response to human rights violations and protecting the rights of all citizens with no exception,” said UNDP Head in Georgia Nick Beresford.
“Principles of equality and non-discrimination lie at the heart of human rights. The adoption of significant legislative and policy documents in Georgia is very welcome.  However, there is still a need to practically protect the principle of equality, respect tolerance and diversity and thereby defend the cornerstone of human rights in Georgia,“ said OHCHR Senior Advisor for the South Caucasus Vladimir Shkolnikov.
The Human Rights Forum is part of Human Rights Day 2021 campaign that brought together a wide range of local and international supporters. The European Union, the United Nations and the Public Defender’s Office reaffirmed their commitments to promoting human rights and freedoms that are safeguarded by the Georgian Constitution and major policy documents. These strong commitments align with Georgia’s national priorities and international obligations under the EU Association Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/164554-human-rights-forum-triggers-debate-inequalities-georgian-society




Date: 02 December 2021
Title: High-profile meeting held on improved access to justice for victims of sexual violence
Content: 02 December 2021
The improvement of access to justice was a topic of the high-profile meeting held on 2 December 2021.
Sexual violence is one of the most hidden offences in Georgia. According to the 2017 National Survey on Violence against Women, 9 per cent of women experienced sexual violence in childhood, although the rate of reporting is low. For instance, in 2020, investigations were started for only 31 cases of rape, while the courts have heard only 22 of the cases.
One of the reasons behind such a grim reality is that the legislation of Georgia requires amendments, and access to justice requires improvement. In addition, women’s silence about rape is provoked by existing erroneous views and societal attitudes, which often blame victims for what happened to them.
Due to this challenge, the focus of the 2021 campaign for the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence is on combating sexual violence. The improvement of access to justice was a topic of the high-profile meeting held on 2 December 2021.
Representatives of the legislative and executive branches of the Georgian Government, the diplomatic corps and international and local non-governmental organizations attended the meeting, organized by UN Women and the UN Gender Theme Group.
H.E. Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, opened the event, stating: “We join an effort aimed at the elimination of violence against women and girls, and we support the Georgian Government in implementing international commitments in the area of human rights, including the obligations supporting gender equality and combating violence against women and girls.”
Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia Ulrich Tideström stressed the importance of the topic: “We need to speak about sexual violence. And we need to act. We owe it to the victims. And we owe it to all women and girls who shouldn’t have to become victims of sexual violence. A key part must be to improve the access to justice. This also contributes to prevention by sending crystal clear signals that sexual violence is unacceptable and that perpetrators will be brought to justice. This is a global fight. We are in it together. The time to act is now! Count on Sweden’s continued support.”
Participants noted that distinct political will and relevant regulations are required to improve access to justice. They discussed such issues as making the elimination of sexual violence a priority, harmonizing the national legislation with the Istanbul Convention and other international standards, and applying best practices for the prevention of sexual violence against women, among other important topics.
On behalf of the Parliament of Georgia, Chair of the Gender Equality Council Nino Tsilosani expressed support in the fight aimed at the elimination of violence against women and noted that provisions of the criminal law on rape require harmonization with the Istanbul Convention. “This, as well as other proposals against violence, will definitely be initiated by the Parliament,” she stated. “In cooperation with the non-governmental sector and with strong donor support, Georgia will continue progressing to combat this global challenge.”
The high-profile meeting was held within the framework of the UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality, implemented with the support of the Swedish Government.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/169510-high-profile-meeting-held-improved-access-justice-victims-sexual-violence




Date: 25 November 2021
Title: Time to end violence against women and girls in Georgia
Content: 25 November 2021
This joint statement on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women is issued by the United Nations system in Georgia, the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, the Council of Europe Office in Georgia, the EU Monitoring Mission in Georgia and the Embassies to Georgia of Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Croatia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States.
On this International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, we express our support for and solidarity with women and girls who have experienced violence. We call for further resolute action to prevent and eventually eliminate violence against women and girls once and for all.
Violence against women and girls is a global scourge and, unfortunately, still one of the most serious human rights violations in Georgia and worldwide.
Georgia can rightfully claim notable progress achieved in recent years, including the adoption of comprehensive legislative framework and gender quotas, and strengthening institutions to enforce these laws, tackling some of the discriminatory social stereotypes, providing specialized services for victims/survivors and raising public awareness on the need to combat gender-based violence.
Despite these efforts, Georgian women and girls still face violence in their private and public lives due to pervasive social and economic inequality, limited political participation of women, entrenched discriminatory social norms, stigma and deeply rooted harmful stereotypes.
Sexual violence in Georgia persists, not least due to slow shifts in public attitudes. Almost one third of the Georgian population still blame women rape victims for inviting the attacks by their behavior.  This is preventing many women from seeking help. Reporting of sexual violence crimes remain extremely low.
Women and girls from vulnerable social groups, including communities affected by conflict and people with disabilities, are facing an increased risk of violence, deepened by the economic and social crisis brought on by the pandemic.
Women’s political participation and their influence on critical decision-making remain low. The latest parliamentary and local elections showed improvements in increasing women’s political representation but still left Georgia with a men-dominated political landscape.
Government authorities at all levels in Georgia need to work to uphold the rights of women and girls in all areas of their lives, and to promote women’s economic and political participation and empowerment that are key factors to preventing gender-based violence against women. Georgia needs to take concrete action to fully implement the Istanbul Convention - including the legal definition of rape - given its commitment to the Gender-Based Violence Action Coalition of Generation Equality global movement in 2021. Effectively investigating and prosecuting incidents of violence against women and girls must be given high priority by the police and judicial institutions. Prevention strategies, which address the root causes of violence against women and girls need to be stepped up, including actions that engage men and boys to challenge harmful stereotypes. We all have crucial roles to play in ending gender-based violence against women and building a future in which everyone has a real and fair chance at success, safety and well-being.
We stand ready to support the Government of Georgia, civil society and other partners in this vital work.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/160140-time-end-violence-against-women-and-girls-georgia




Date: 24 November 2021
Title: 16 Days of Activism Campaign launched
Content: 24 November 2021
The global theme for this year’s 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence (GBV) is “Orange the world: End violence against women now!
On Thursday, November 25, 2021 together with international and national partners, the UN agencies launch its 16 Days of Activism campaign in Georgia to raise awareness around violence against women and girls and to support moves towards gender equity.
Despite the tremendous amount of resources and amount of time invested in the prevention of Gender-Based Violence (GBV), significant challenges remain and some forms of GBV remain insufficiently addressed. Sexual violence in Georgia persists as one of the most latent human rights violations. According to UN recent studies, at least 9% of women in Georgia have experienced some form of sexual violence in childhood and one in every 11 married women in Georgia is subjected to physical, sexual and other forms of violence from her husband or partner.
From November25 to December 10 2021 several events are  planned, including a movie screening that tells stories of women with disabilities who experienced GBV, sexual violence and abuse; Men Talking to Men training sessions; a presentation of the research on Gender Equality; a presentation of the book "Luna and the planet of Firelflies"; workshops for rural women’s groups, healthcare professionals and reproductive health care professionals;  and high-level meetings on harmonizing Georgian legislation to Istanbul Convention and on the importance of economic empowerment in preventing gender-based violence.
TV companies TV1, Mtavari Arkhi and Euronews joined the campaign. TV hosts also joined the campaign and took a stand against gender-based violence in Georgia by wearing a campaign pin for one day - November 25, 2021.
On November 25 the UN system in Georgia, international organizations and diplomatic missions issued the joint statement and called for further resolute action to prevent and eventually eliminate violence against women and girls once and for all.
The 16 Days of Activism is an international campaign to eliminate gender-based violence in all forms. It kicks off on 25 November, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, and runs until 10 December, Human Rights Day.
The global theme for this year’s 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence (GBV) is “Orange the world: End violence against women now!
The 16-Days of Activism campaign echoes the United Nations’ global call to take urgent action to fund women’s rights organizations, support for health and social services,  make services to address gender-based violence services essential in order to prevent and eliminate violence against women and girls (VAWG).
The full calendar of events is available below.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/160351-16-days-activism-campaign-launched




Date: 24 November 2021
Title: Visiting Georgia’s regions   to discuss local needs and set out cooperation plans
Content: 24 November 2021
During the visit, the UN team led by the UN Resident Coordinator, Sabine Machl, looked at the opportunities and development needs in the regions.
The UN team made up by the UN Head in Georgia, Sabine Machl, the UN Women  Country Representative, Kaori Ishikawa,  the UNFPA Head, Lela Bakradze, the IOM Georgia Program Officer,  Natia Kvitsiani, the FAO project staff,  Shahar Pincovici, Alessandra Guidotti, and Temo Kiguradze, the UNFPA Communications Specialist, Salome Benidze, the UN Women Program Coordinator, Ana Pashalishvili, and the Communications Specialist, Gvantsa Asatiani, toured the Guria and Imereti regions between November 22 and 24, 2021.
The UN team met with local authorities and stakeholders to discuss the challenges and opportunities in the regions  and  to have a firsthand experience of different aspects of the UN’s work on the ground.
The trip kicked off with a visit to IOM beneficiaries Lamara Iobidze in Kutaisi and Jumber Lomtadze in the Didvela Village, Baghdati municipality.
Lamara Iobidze and Jumber Lomtadze have spent nearly two years in Greece and returned to Georgia in 2021 to open the toy shop  and  the carpentry workshop respectively, under IOM reintegration assistance. In Imereti, as well as in other regions, IOM provides different types of reintegration assistance – mainly income-generating projects in the field of agriculture, medical assistance and vocational training. This year (October inclusive) IOM has assisted 144 returned migrants living in Imereti district.
The UN team also visited the successful nursery  LTD “Akhali Vazi” run by  Paata Makhatadze and Zurab Ghviniashvili. The nursery is supported by FAO through the EU Innovative Action for Private Sector Competitiveness in Georgia Joint Programme. EU and FAO, under the EU4Business programme, are jointly working to improve the quality and the phytosanitary conditions of the seeds and saplings produced in Georgia. The nursery produces 200 000 grapevine saplings per year on average.
The team then met with a local farmer Vepkhvia Tsagareishvili, who benefited from the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) support. Owning 300 sq. m. greenhouses in Vartsikhe, Bagdati municipality, Vepkhvia grew vegetables and found that modern agriculture had a lot to offer for successful off-season production of onions, herbs and other vegetables. The demonstration plot is one of the recent ones established by FAO and EU under the ENPARD programme. New agricultural approaches and solutions introduced with FAO and EU support allowed the farmers  to get better harvests and save more money.
In Imereti, the UN team met with the State Representative in Imereti region Mr. Zviad Shalamberidze. Discussion focused on the opportunities and development needs of the region, co-operation established between the UN and the Imereti region. The sides also touched upon the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for 2020-2025 providing opportunities for improving well-being of people in regions and fostering local development.
At the meeting with the Mayor of the Kutaisi municipality Iosef Khakhaleishvili, the parties exchanged thoughts related to programs implemented in the region by the UN agencies in Georgia. Discussion also focused on ways to expand existing cooperation and efforts in the field of education, innovation, jobs, gender, youth development, agrotourism, waste separation and environmental protection.
In Kutaisi, the UN team also met with refugees  and the Community Group Facilitators  (CGFs) at the  World Vision office in Kutaisi. It has been three years since UNHCR and World Vision Georgia started a project “Community Mobilization and Participation”  to contribute to the realization of the fundamental rights of refugees in Georgia. At the meeting the Community Group Facilitators and refugees focused  specifically on the current situation, needs and priorities of the refugee communities in the country.
The visit to the Imereti region  was capped by the information meeting on vaccination  at the Kutaisi 60+ club for Healthy and Active Ageing. "60+ Clubs" is an initiative of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Georgia Office, which promotes an active aging policy and improves the quality of life of the elderly. The club is very important for engagement and remaining connected and provides real meaningful pursuits to look forward to. Maia (Maka) Rukhadze, a representative of the Center for Allergy and Immunology, spoke about the importance of vaccination to defeat the Covid-19 pandemic.  The 60+ club members also had a chance to take their cooking skills to the next level with Chef Keti Bakradze's most comprehensive cooking class  in a new kitchen space arranged by the Liberty Bank.
While in Guria, the UN team held consultations with the Mayor of the Ozurgeti Municipality Avtandil Talakvadze.  Discussion focused on ways to expand existing cooperation and efforts in the field of agrotourism, tea production, education, health and the environment.
In the course of the visit, the team visited the Ozurgeti Domestic Violence crises centre administered by the State Social Care Agency. The team members were particularly interested to see the steps taken by crises centre to assist vulnerable women.
This was followed by a catch-up with women entrepreneurs at the social café „Ketostan” in Lanchkhuti, who have benefited from the UN Women assistance. The team members also met with the local community members in the Nasakirali and Laituri villages  to discuss the importance of community mobilization initiatives for the development of the region as well as  to present a book ‘Once there was a Girl’.  Their feedback on areas needing attention remains a valued source of information for the UN.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/161138-visiting-georgia%E2%80%99s-regions-discuss-local-needs-and-set-out-cooperation-plans




Date: 11 November 2021
Title: Georgia failed to protect woman from gender-and honour-based violence, UN women’s rights committee finds
Content: 11 November 2021
GENEVA (11 November 2021) — Georgia’s failure to investigate and prosecute gender and honour-based violence against a woman, who was severely beaten by family members in front of her young children, contributed to her death, the UN women’s rights committee has found.

In the Views published today, the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) deplored both the failure of the Georgian authorities to arrest and prosecute family members who had beaten the victim, Khanum Jeiranova, senseless and their decision to return her to her relatives.  She was subsequently found dead.

The Committee issued its findings after considering a complaint filed by Jeiranova’s two children, who were 11 and 7 when their mother died.

Jeiranova, an ethnic Azerbaijani and a Georgian national, was accused of having an extramarital affair by her husband’s relatives. On 16 September 2014, three of her husband’s relatives rounded on her, dragged her along the village, beating her so hard that she lost consciousness several times.

That night, the village governor and police officers were called to the victim’s father house where they saw her crying and begging for help as her family members wanted her to take a jar of rat poison. They didn’t make any arrest and didn’t send her to hospital.  The village governor took her away for the night but returned her to her mother the next morning. One day later, Jeiranova’s mother found her dead, her body hanging by a rope in the garden shed.

The mullahs who prepared Jeiranova’s body said that her clothes were covered in blood and that her body had been “beaten to a pulp”, according to a witness statement.

However, police did not conduct a forensic examination of the location after the family refused to allow it.

An investigation was opened but quickly closed, the prosecutors concluded that the victim had committed suicide as a result of her, what they described as, "shameful" and “dishonourable” behaviour.

“Ms. Jeiranova was a victim of intersecting discrimination related to ethnicity and stereotypical attitudes of the police and judicial authorities,” said Committee member Genoveva Tisheva.

“Had the Georgian authorities adequately protected Ms. Jeiranova against the gender-based violence inflicted on her, she would still be alive today,” she added.

The Committee found that Georgia had failed to provide effective protection and had not taken all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against Jeiranova. It also concluded that Georgia had violated its obligation to investigate and punish those responsible for the assault on the victim and her death.

The Committee urged Georgia to conduct a prompt, thorough and independent investigation into Jeiranova’s death and to prosecute those responsible. It requested Georgia to provide appropriate reparation, including adequate compensation, as well as an official apology to Ms. Jeiranova’s children. It urged George to ensure that all legislation, policies and measures that address domestic violence also include honour-based violence. In addition, it asked the State party to strengthen measures to ensure the right to life of women and their freedom from torture, with special attention to communities that are isolated, closed and where honour-based norms apply.

ENDS

For more information and media requests in Geneva, please contact:
Vivian Kwok at +41 (0) 22 917 9362 / vivian.kwok@un.org or the UN Human Rights Office Media Section at +41 (0) 22 928 9855 / ohchr-media@un.org

Background:
The Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women monitors States parties’ adherence to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, which to date has 189 States parties. The Committee is made up of 23 members who are independent human rights experts in women’s rights drawn from around the world, who serve in their personal capacity and not as representatives of States parties. The Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women allows the Committee to receive and examine complaints by individuals or groups of individuals under the jurisdiction a State party to the Optional Protocol, claiming to be victims of a violation of any of the rights set forth in the Convention. To date, 114 States have ratified or acceded to the Optional Protocol. The Committee’s views and decisions on individual communications are an independent assessment of States’ compliance with their human rights obligations under the Convention.

Learn more with our videos on the Treaty Bodies system and on CEDAW
Follow the UN Treaty Bodies on social media!
We are on Twitter @UNTreatyBodies
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/158019-georgia-failed-protect-woman-gender-and-honour-based-violence-un-women%E2%80%99s-rights-committee




Date: 01 November 2021
Title: Youth-focused vaccination campaign We Need “You” Decide!  launched
Content: 01 November 2021
Young people to help strengthen vaccine messaging and increase vaccine uptake
The COVID-19 pandemic is having an unprecedented impact on almost all countries across the world, including Georgia.
In an effort to achieve the breakthrough in vaccination process, on 1 November the Kant’s Academy and the United Nations in Georgia have kicked off the youth-focused vaccination campaign We Need “You” Decide! in Rustavi.
This two-month new campaign was developed with a specific focus on youth in the 18-29 demographic to increase vaccine uptake and acceptance.
“COVID-19 has shown that if  individuals are acting in solidarity to ensure that their own actions do not jeopardize others we see most benefits for all. Looking ahead, this spirit needs to continue in Georgia, in the interest of building a healthy and resilient society after the crisis,” said Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia. ”By taking on shared responsibility for fighting the pandemic, we can advance the Sustainable Development Goals and build a better future for all”.
The campaign aims at connecting youth with accurate information about COVID-19, and the available vaccines, invoking a sense of responsibility to get vaccinated and motivating them  to engage with older age groups where they live, work, and socialize for increasing vaccination rates.
“We, the founders of Kant’s Academy always believed in the power of young generation. More specifically, the role of youth in global challenges and substantial changes. And today, more than ever their role in post pandemic recovery is crucial,“ said Giorgi Taktakishvili, the founder of Kant’s Academy. ”We've had many examples of how the youth have made their voices be heard. In Georgia, fairly recently, on the 13th of June, we saw unified, powerful young generation acting for their peers and their country. This showed that action does matter, that putting in the effort can lead to change.”
“In order to live in a healthier environment, we must first acknowledge a  number of facts, then analyze the existing realities, challenges and opportunities and finally we need to act. Communicating the benefits of vaccination, helping others and raising their awareness, learning new skills and cognition, these are all actions to keep ourselves and others safe. Ask a lot of questions and I believe that each of us will inevitably come to the conclusion that my actions matter," said Nino Gogokhia, Georgia’s Youth Representative to the UN.
Throughout the campaign, whether it's the university, the social media or the  classroom, it is planned to reach young people in different parts of the country. The more people who get vaccinated and protect one another, the closer we will be to moving on from this pandemic and getting economies and livelihoods quickly back on their feet.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/156355-youth-focused-vaccination-campaign-we-need-%E2%80%9Cyou%E2%80%9D-decide-launched




Date: 24 October 2021
Title: United Nations Day 2021
Content: 24 October 2021
Today, October 24, we mark the United Nations Day.
The United Nations was created on June 26, 1945, in San Francisco, at the conclusion of the United Nations Conference on International Organization. United Nations Day, on 24 October, marks the anniversary of the day in 1945 when the UN Charter entered into force.
The UN was founded to maintain international peace and security, develop friendly relations among nations and promote social progress, better living standards and human rights. Currently, the UN has 193 member states.
“The values that have powered the UN Charter for the last 76 years — peace, development, human rights, and opportunity for all — have no expiry date,”- underlines UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres in this video message on the United Nations Day.
The UN Day is also a celebration of the close relationship between the UN and Georgia. Georgia became the 179th member of the United Nations on 31 July 1992. The Office of the United Nations in Georgia was established in 1993. Since then, the country has been home to UN agencies, funds, and programmes that work as a team to respond to national development needs and improve the human wellbeing, capabilities and social equality in Georgia. The Sustainable Development Goals remain our roadmap and we work towards all people benefitting from Georgia’s progress and development gains.
The UN-Georgia relationship is based on the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework that was signed  between the Government of Georgia and the UN on October 2,2020 and came into force on 1 January 2021. The cooperation framework’s main five streams are to help the country develop an inclusive economy and human capital; create effective, transparent and accountable governance institutions; provide all citizens equal and inclusive access to quality services; enhance human security, and protect the  environment and address the consequences of climate change. The ongoing pandemic and its related socio-economic impact remain a primary focus area of our work here in Georgia.
UN Day 2021 Activities:
UN Day 2021 will be marked in Georgia under the theme “Together for Global Goals”, underlining the need to continue joint efforts in response to Covid-19 pandemic and other challenges.
The COVID-19 pandemic is having an unprecedented impact on almost all countries across the world, including Georgia. To help speed up the vaccination process, the UN agencies support the National Centre for Disease Control and Public Health (NCDC) in implementing the mobile vaccination campaign//marathon to reach hard-to-reach populations, including ethnic minorities, who have not yet been reached or have not responded to traditional public health communications in regions. Mobile vaccination teams made up of doctors and representatives of the NCDC continue to visit 49 villages for communicating the benefits of vaccination and vaccinating people. For this campaign, over 100,000 brochures in Georgian, Armenian and Azerbaijani languages have been printed as well as posters and banners.
The youth campaign ‘’We Need “You” Decide!  to be launched in Rustavi on November 1 aims to counter misinformation and vaccine myths,  increase vaccine confidence and motivate young people to increase their role in the vaccination process.
A new learning space ‘’SDG Open Zone’’ opened at the National Parliamentary Library of Georgia by the UN Resident Coordinator, Sabine Machl and the Director of the National Library, Giorgi Kekelidze will enable library visitors to deepen their knowledge and understanding of the Sustainable Development Goals. It will become a space for various meetings, lectures and discussions.
In addition, the UN Resident Coordinator, Sabine Machl and the Heads of UN Agencies in Georgia released the joint video message on the United Nations Day.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/152924-united-nations-day-2021




Date: 19 October 2021
Title: UN OHCHR Helps Activists and Representatives of Organizations of Disabled Persons to Learn and Apply Amicus Curiae Mechanism
Content: 19 October 2021
Amicus curiae is an outstanding instrument that allows any person who is not a party to the case submit his/her written arguments or opinion to the court, and thus assist the judge in deciding the case under consideration.
On 15-18 October 2021, the Field Presence of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) in the South Caucasus in partnership with the Ombudsman of Georgia organized a training for the representatives of the organizations of persons with disabilities (PWDs) and PWDs activists. The training held with the financial support from the UN Sustainable Development Goals Fund enabled the participants to learn about the amicus curiae, the importance of using this instrument in practice, technical skills and methods of writing it.
"In a democratic state, public involvement in the administration of justice plays an important role. Accordingly, the OHCHR joined forces with the Ombudsman of Georgia to support a dynamic and effective use of the amicus curiae mechanism by Georgian human rights defenders, including the ones working on the issues of PWDs. " - said UN OHCHR Senior Human Rights Advisor in the South Caucasus, Vladimir SHKOLNIKOV.
Institution of amicus curiae was first introduced in the English law and then spread to other common law systems, followed by other legal systems and is now successfully applied in the legal systems of continental Europe. It is also actively used by the European Court of Human Rights.
Head of the Public Ombudsman’s Equality Department, Ketevan SHUBASHVILI believes that "the amicus curiae institute is an important support tool for advocacy, which, unfortunately, is not actively used in Georgia."
"The voice of PWDs must be heard in the judiciary, not only as plaintiffs and defendants, but also as amicus curiae. This training is my first opportunity to learn about the procedures and practices of preparing and submitting opinions at the international and local level courts. I think preparing opinions is a very time-consuming task, therefore, this training will significantly help us, human rights defenders to conduct this process properly and achieve the desired result." – said training participant, PWDs activist Esma GUMBERIDZE.
Another PWDs activist and the training participant Koba NADIRADZE said that the topic of amicus curiae is likewise a novelty to him, in terms of practice.
"Indeed, I am planning to prepare and submit amicus curiae to the court and observe how the judge will discuss my opinion and what outcome will be. I believe that active use of this mechanism will help to increase the quality of court decisions, as the court will rely on more sources. In addition, it will increase public involvement in the administration of justice and the degree of trust in court decisions,” he said.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/152261-un-ohchr-helps-activists-and-representatives-organizations-disabled-persons-learn-and-apply




Date: 15 October 2021
Title: Empowering rural women is key to post-pandemic recovery
Content: 15 October 2021
On International Rural Women’s Day, national partners and donors highlight the role that women play in local economic and social development
Marking International Day of Rural Women, UNDP joined efforts with the Government of Georgia, the Austrian Development Cooperation (ADC), the Swedish Agency for Development Cooperation (Sida) and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) to reiterate support for women living in rural areas and stress their crucial role in the process of rebuilding the economy after the pandemic-driven crisis.
“Women bear a greater share of the hard times during this pandemic – and that's especially true of women living in rural areas. But we also know with the right support they can be the agents of change that can help improve the lives of their families and their communities,“ UNDP Head Nick Beresford noted.
On 15 October, UNDP announced the winners of a grant contest for women entrepreneurs. The competition was carried out in partnership with Georgia’s Government Administration and the Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure with financial support from the governments of Austria, Sweden and Switzerland.
The winners were selected from nearly 600 applications by a competent jury completed by representatives of UNDP, Government Administration, Parliament, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture and the Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure.
Winning business ideas cover a wide range of economic and social areas, including the production of solar heaters, eco-tourism, publishing fabric books for children and 24 more projects contributing to local development and women’s participation.
Each winner will receive up to GEL 5,000 to implement their projects and will benefit from business consultations that will help them develop and expand their enterprises.
UNDP assistance draws on the resources made available by the two robust programmes focused on advancing gender equality and fostering regional and local development in Georgia. Supporting rural women has been a cornerstone of both initiatives though it gained particular importance during the pandemic crisis.
As a UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) report found, rural women are disproportionally affected by health and economic crises in a number of ways, including food security, access to health facilities, services and economic opportunities. Georgia is not an exception.
According to the 2021 Rapid Gender Assessment of the COVID-19 Situation in Georgia, the pandemic deepened existing gender inequalities in Georgian society. The pandemic increased women’s already uneven domestic care burdens due to the closure of schools and the additional care needs of elderly and sick household members.
To address these challenges, UNDP has introduced a robust set of initiatives focused on supporting vulnerable women from rural communities.
Over the past year, UNDP supported 31 rural women-led family business projects with a total of US$25,000. To help alleviate the pandemic’s impacts on the most vulnerable households, UNDP distributed US$90,000 worth of agricultural support packages (including electric-powered backpack sprayers, fertilizer, pesticides and other agricultural tools and inputs) to 620 women farmers in seven regions of Georgia.
Together with national partners and donors, UNDP supports women-led economic initiatives and fosters gender equality in politics and public life. Making all levels of decision-making processes more representative will lead to more fair and equitable national and local policies and will help Georgia ‘build back better.’
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/171018-empowering-rural-women-key-post-pandemic-recovery




Date: 11 October 2021
Title: UN Statement on Batumi Tragic Incident
Content: 11 October 2021
The United Nations in Georgia  expresses its heartfelt  condolences to all those affected by the collapse of the apartment building in Batumi.
The United Nations in Georgia  expresses its heartfelt  condolences to all those affected by the collapse of the apartment building in Batumi.  Our thoughts are with the families and loved ones of the victims of this unfathomable tragedy. We wish speedy recovery to all injured. We salute the rescuers who worked tirelessly to save lives.
The flag of the United Nations will  be flown at half-mast today in Georgia, in memory of those who lost their lives in this tragedy.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/150936-un-statement-batumi-tragic-incident




Date: 30 September 2021
Title: EU and UNDP release pre-election media monitoring reports
Content: 30 September 2021
In the run-up to local elections, media research registers mounting tensions across all media sectors
Deep partisan divisions have defined the electoral media environment in Georgia throughout all recent elections. Findings of the media monitoring research, released today by the European Union (EU) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), show that tensions between media camps have only increased between the parliamentary elections in 2020 and the local elections in 2021.
In the pre-election monitoring period (July through September 2021), polarization was pronounced across all sectors of the national and, to a lesser degree, regional and local media. Some of the media outlets, which were relatively balanced last year, are now showing clear signs of political preference.
Political divisions on television were most evident in July when homophobic pogroms and violent attacks on journalists dominated the media agenda. Although all national televisions closely followed the events, most of them manipulated their audiences by spreading political bias and negatively portraying political forces they did not favour. Facebook pages of the national televisions mirrored this trend by backing certain political forces and demeaning others.
Regional and local televisions were more focused on covering national news than local developments but failed to provide their audiences with high-quality information. News programmes were irregular and, in some cases, had to be suspended for several weeks for technical reasons.
Polarization and political bias have increased on national radios, a traditionally balanced and neutral media sector. Regional radios, though less biased in their reporting, did not provide critical analysis of the events and often used unverified information. Both national and regional radios tried to follow journalistic standards and refrained from discriminatory or abusive language.
As in previous years, unverified sources of information and offensive language remained an issue in national print media. In contrast to that, regional and local newspapers offered a relatively impartial account of events and a diversity of opinions.
The situation was different in the digital media sector. National publications were less polarized and more informative and balanced, while regional and local digital media outlets lent to political favouritism and used untrustworthy information sources. However, compared to television, political pressures and polarization were notably less evident across the entire digital media sector.
Compared to the 2020 electoral cycle, fewer cases of gender-discriminatory language were registered during the monitoring period across all media sectors.
The EU and UNDP media monitoring also studied how political players communicate with their constituencies on social media. The research focused on the contents of Facebook pages of political parties, politicians, mayors’ offices and public agencies, as well as open Facebook groups. Over 500 social media resources were monitored in total. Findings show that in the pre-election period, Facebook pages of the municipalities and mayors’ offices refrained from unethical political propaganda and electoral confrontations. Politicians and political parties used their Facebook pages to spread critical information about political opponents but, in most cases, stayed within the ethical frames of an election campaign. Although electoral news reached open Facebook groups and social media pages of the state agencies, their traction on these channels was relatively low.
As in 2020, the EU and UNDP commissioned specialised research on media coverage of the role of foreign actors in Georgian elections. In the pre-election monitoring period, the EU, Russian Federation (RF) and the United States of America (USA) were mentioned most frequently with the EU and the USA portrayed in a positive light across all media sectors. The media agenda was dominated by political developments, including a so-called ‘Charles Michel agreement,’ situation in Afghanistan and Georgia’s bilateral relations with Belarus and Ukraine. Depending on their editorial preferences, media outlets would either interpret these developments as examples of Georgia’s foreign policy success or, on the contrary, as proofs of the government’s anti-Western stance.
“The media landscape mirrors polarization in the Georgian society which becomes especially evident at a time of elections,” said Evija Kotan, Deputy Head of Political Section at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia. “Media research serves as a critical tool for journalists, politicians and the public in fulfilling their civic duties during elections.”
“Voters place their trust in the media to make an informed choice at the ballot boxes,” said Anna Chernyshova, UNDP Deputy Head in Georgia. “The Georgian media can be praised for featuring a wide range of opinions and party options. However, political bias, unethical reporting and unverified sources of information remain a problem in many parts of the media.”
The EU-funded monitoring of media coverage of local elections in Georgia is implemented by UNDP in partnership with three Georgian civil society organizations: the Georgian Charter of Journalistic Ethics, Internews Georgia and CRRC-Georgia. This year, it covers 54 media outlets (27 national and 27 regional).
Media research will continue throughout the electoral cycle, covering an election campaign, election day and a post-election period (from July 2021 through March 2022). All reports are available on the website: mediamonitor.ge

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/146748-eu-and-undp-release-pre-election-media-monitoring-reports




Date: 28 September 2021
Title: New Approaches to Reintegration of Returning Migrants in Georgia
Content: 28 September 2021
Mirroring the accelerated rate of emigration from Georgia, the scale of returns to Georgia has been growing significantly in over the last decade.
Over 23,000 Georgian migrants are known to have returned home during the first six months of the COVID-19 pandemic alone, in face of insecurity abroad. The pandemic and related restrictions on public and economic life significantly disrupted the ongoing reintegration process of earlier returnees. IOM surveys show that in 2021 returnees struggle more than previously to readapt and rebuild their lives in Georgia, especially because many of the same economic, social, and psychosocial factors that prompted them to migrate in the first place have remained unchanged or even took a turn for the worse during the ongoing crisis.
On 27 September 2021 IOM invited its partners and national stakeholders to present new surveys conducted among returned migrants in Georgia, and discuss innovative approaches to migrant reintegration, as well as efforts to foster linkages and synergies between reintegration and sustainable development programming in the county.
The participants were welcomed by Ms. Sanja Celebic Lukovac, IOM Georgia Chief of Mission, who stated that “Depopulation and loss of human capital have contributed to market deterioration in the vulnerable regions in Georgia and further destabilize local communities already affected by poverty and lack of opportunity. The households in the most affected parts of Georgia rely extensively and often exclusively on remittance income, pushing additional individuals to consider emigration as a means of supporting their families. We are excited to share with you the new direction on which IOM is embarking globally in linking reintegration and development programming. These efforts aim at making the environment of return more supportive of reintegration and giving returnees the chance to become agents of progress and development in their communities.”
Already prior to the pandemic, the Government of Georgia has made reintegration of returning citizens its key priority, especially in light of its efforts to curb irregular migration from Georgia and decrease the number of applications for asylum lodged by Georgian citizens in the Member States of the European Union (EU). Indeed, return and reintegration figure prominently in the Government’s Migration Strategy and for 2021-2030. The effectiveness and availability of reintegration support have become even more critical to Georgia in face of local economic developments. IOM’s recent surveys show, however, that over 30 per cent of the beneficiaries of reintegration programmes in Georgia feel they will need to leave the country again, nearly unanimously pointing to lack of jobs; lack of security; low earnings; lack of essential services or family pressure as their motivations for re-migration. This and other findings of IOM’s recent surveys among the returnee population indicate clearly that an even more robust approach to supporting returnees and their households is needed to contribute to community revitalization in regions of return, boost local recovery from the effects of the pandemic, and address the remaining adverse drivers of migration in communities of return.
Mr. Giorgi Chavchavadze, Head, Policy Department, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Social Affairs of Georgia also delivered opening remarks and stressed importance of reintegration, which is included in the country strategy for 2021 – 2030: “We believe it is important to focus on reintegration of returnees to be managed not our via government prgramme, but through uniform approaches, which will take into account all those opportunities, which are currently available in the country. These include development programmes, social protection, education and health programmes.”
In her opening remarks Ms. Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia spoke about returning migrants as opportunity for Georgia’s future: “Returnees bring back skills, experience and entrepreneurship abilities which can help Georgia’s recovery. At the same time, many returnees are at the risk of becoming vulnerable to poverty and social marginalization due to travel restrictions, growing unemployment and lack of access to services. The Government of Georgia has recognized the need to take active steps to enable successful reintegration of Georgian returnees and has pursued a range of policy, strategic and institutional efforts in the past years. Return and reintegration of migrants are reflected as key priorities in the Government’s Migration Strategy for 2021-2030, and on the agenda of the United Nations and development partners in Georgia and globally.”
The online event hosted by IOM brought together stakeholders and partners with an interest in fostering sustainable migrant reintegration and local development in Georgia to jointly reflect on new findings and pilot approaches and chart a path forward. Reflections by partners and donors will also serve to inform the development of IOM Georgia’s Country Strategy for 2022-2025.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/146278-new-approaches-reintegration-returning-migrants-georgia




Date: 23 September 2021
Title: Know Your Rights - Poster Contest
Content: 23 September 2021
The main goal of this contest is to raise public awareness about the human rights and inspire people to learn about, reflect and express what human rights in general and UDHR in particular means to them.
United Nations Office of the Hight Commissioner for Human Rights (UN OHCHR) in the South Caucasus calls for designers (professionals and beginners) to participate in the open contest of posters on the subject of Know Your Rights.
By participating in the contest – you can get participate in the OHCHR information campaign and contribute to the process of raising public awareness about human rights in Georgia.
The main goal of this contest is:
Who can participate?
How to participate?
By sending your works to this competition, you agree that:
Evaluation Process and Prizes
The jury members representing the UN OHCHR in the South Caucasus will review submitted applications/posters and reveal the winners of the contest.
Posters will be judged on creativity, originality, appropriateness and relationship to the theme of the UDHR Article. Submitted poster should be easily understandable to a wide audience.
Prizes
1st place winner – GEL 5000 gift card for a technology store;
2nd place winner – GEL 3,500 gift card for a technology store;
3rd place winner – GEL 2,000 gift card for a technology store;
10 best posters will be published on UN Georgia social media pages. Printed posters will be distributed and/or displayed at various human rights related campaigns/events of UN OHCHR in South Caucasus.
Submission Guidelines
Deadline for submissions is 20 November 2021.
For additional information about competition please contact:
Meri Makharashvili, UN OHCHR, 599 500 137

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/145679-know-your-rights-poster-contest




Date: 22 September 2021
Title: EU, UN and Government of Georgia launch a new digital health project
Content: 22 September 2021
The project aims to minimize the COVID-19 pandemic's negative impact on people’s health through quality telehealth and telemedicine services.
A new joint project on digital health: Minimizing the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak in Georgia through telemedicine and digital health solutions was launched today at Mukhrovani Ambulatory. This three-year project is funded by the European Union (EU) and implemented by four UN agencies  (WHO, UNFPA, UNICEF, UNOPS), working in close cooperation with the Ministry of IDPs from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia.
Under this new EU-UN initiative, 200 rural facilities will receive basic equipment and another 50 will receive telemedicine equipment to support the safe management of COVID-19. At the same time the new equipment will be used to ensure uninterrupted access to health care for persons with chronic conditions and provision of routine health services for children. Health care providers will also be invited to participate in online training to improve and expand their capacity to provide quality primary health care (PHC) services.
Carl Hartzell, Ambassador of the European Union to Georgia stated, “Helping the people of Georgia to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic has been a key priority for the European Union from the very first day. With this innovative project that we are launching together with our UN partners, we hope to reach even more citizens throughout Georgia with healthcare services. Proper access to healthcare should be for everyone, and we hope to contribute to this goal.”
“COVID-19 once again showed us the importance of a strong primary health care system; effective utilization of existing resources has enabled us to manage home care for a large number of infected patients,” said Ekaterine Tikaradze, Minister of IDPs from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia. “Introducing telemedicine in primary health care clinics in the regions will significantly improve the system, bringing positive results to both the population and to doctors. The capacity of village doctors will improve, as they will be provided with the newest diagnostic technologies. This has been made possible through our loyal partners, for which I am sincerely grateful.”
"Development through digital transformation is part of building forward better globally as well as in all regions of Georgia,“ said Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator. “Through this joint telemedicine project four UN agencies together with the EU support Georgia with digital health solutions.”
“Apart from supporting the immediate response to COVID-19 at the PHC level, this project is going to build a solid and sustainable foundation for digital health and telemedicine in Georgia, by supporting the development of the necessary legal and regulatory frameworks, clinical guidelines, provision of specific trainings for PHC personnel and promoting the use of telemedicine services among health care providers and the population,” said Silviu Domente, WHO Representative and Head of Country Office in Georgia.

Digital solutions for health protect and promote health and well-being, improve access to essential health services and reduce the burden on the health care system during the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond. In the immediate-term this project will contribute to reducing the negative impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the health of the population and health care system in Georgia and increase access to health care regardless of location.
In the long-term, EU and UN support under this project will help build a more resilient primary health care system with telemedicine capacities in Georgia and increase equitable access to health care services regardless of location and contribute to progress towards universal health coverage (UHC).

About the project
The project, “Minimizing the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak in Georgia through telemedicine and digital health solutions,” aims to harness the potential of digital tools for advancing telehealth services and promoting health in Georgia. This assistance is an integral part of the EU’s and UN’s support to the COVID-19 response in the country, as well as ongoing WHO technical assistance under the UHC-Partnership to support the commitment of national authorities to primary health care reform and the advancement of UHC in Georgia.
The project will be implemented by four UN partners (WHO, UNFPA, UNICEF, UNOPS) under WHO leadership, bringing their respective areas of expertise and added-value to contribute to the overall action’s objective to minimize the COVID-19 pandemic's negative impact on people’s health and the health system through quality telehealth and telemedicine services and to build back better by supporting a sustainable and resilient recovery in Georgia after the COVID-19 pandemic.
This assistance is part of a wider support package provided by the EU and Team Europe consisting of GEL 1.5 billion of new and reallocated assistance to help Georgia address the COVID-19 pandemic, including support to vulnerable groups and economic recovery. That is one of the highest levels of EU assistance per capita to any country in the world and demonstrates the EU’s strong solidarity with Georgia at this time of unprecedented crisis.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/145499-eu-un-and-government-georgia-launch-new-digital-health-project




Date: 21 September 2021
Title: Every Human Being Has the Right to .....
Content: 21 September 2021
The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (UN OHCHR) in South Caucasus is announcing a contest for students from regional higher educational institutions to participate in educational program on Human Rights.

The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (UN OHCHR) in South Caucasus is announcing a contest for students from regional higher educational institutions to participate in educational program on Human Rights.
The program aims at:
Who can participate in the program?
Third- and fourth-year law (or international law) students from private and public higher education institutions throughout the regions of Georgia.
Educational program consists of two phases:
The training will be conducted in Georgian language, and includes both theoretical and practical simulations.
Authors of top 3 articles will be awarded on the International Human Rights Day (December 10).
How to participate in the program
Interested students are kindly asked to send their complete CVs and Cover Letters (in Georgian) to the following e-mail address: thea.ketishvili@un.org
***Please Note!
The number of words given in the cover letter should not exceed 400 and its content should clearly explain the following: Why do you want to participate? On what topic /human right would you like to write an article and why is this topic important?
In the subject field of the letter, please indicate the name of the program: Every Human Being Has the Right to .....
The deadline for applications is October 17, 2021.
Students will be selected to participate in the program based on the submitted documents (CV and cover letter).

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/145212-every-human-being-has-right




Date: 11 September 2021
Title: Our Common Agenda – Report of the Secretary-General
Content: 11 September 2021
Our Common Agenda, a landmark new report was released on Friday by the UN Secretary-General, setting out his vision for the future of global cooperation.

Mr. Guterres launched the report at a meeting of the General Assembly on Friday, prefacing his remarks with a scathing overview of the parlous state of a world he described as being under enormous stress, and warning that the world risks a future of “serious instability and climate chaos”.
From the climate crisis to our suicidal war on nature and the collapse of biodiversity, our global response is too little, too late”, declared the Secretary-General. “Unchecked inequality is undermining social cohesion, creating fragilities that affect us all. Technology is moving ahead without guard rails to protect us from its unforeseen consequences.”
The UN chief went on to describe the extensive consultations that fed into its development, a listening exercise that led the UN to the conclusion that enhanced multilateralism is seen as the way to deal with the world’s crises.

Breakdown or breakthrough?
Two contrasting futures are laid out in the report: one of breakdown and perpetual crisis, and another in which there is a breakthrough, to a greener, safer future.
The doomsday scenario describes a world in which COVID-19 is endlessly mutating, because rich countries hoard vaccines, and health systems are overwhelmed.
In that future, the planet becomes uninhabitable due to rising temperatures and extreme weather events, and a million species are on the brink of extinction.
This is coupled by a continuous erosion of human rights, a massive loss of jobs and income, and growing protests and unrest, which are met by violent repression.
Or, we could go the other way, sharing vaccines equitably, and sparking a sustainable recovery in which the global economy is retooled to be more sustainable, resilient, and inclusive.
By decarbonizing the economy, global temperature rises would be limited, countries heavily affected by climate change would be supported, and ecosystems would be preserved for future generations, the report says.
This approach would herald a new era for multilateralism, in which countries work together to solve global problems; the international system works fast to protect everyone in emergencies; and the UN is universally recognized as a trusted platform for collaboration.

Goals and solutions
The importance of protecting vulnerable groups is recognized in commitments to gender equality and leaving no-one behind, which include reinforcing social protections and promoting gender parity.
Ensuring a more sustainable global economy is identified as a goal, with support for the poorest, and a fairer international trading system.
Climate action gets a special mention, with commitments to the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial levels, and net zero carbon emissions by 2050, and end to fossil fuel subsidies, a transformation of food systems, and a package of support for developing countries.
And, noting the ongoing health crisis created by the COVID-19 pandemic, the report calls for a $50 billion vaccination plan, to at least double vaccine production, ensuring that they reach at least 70 per cent of the global population in the first half of 2022.

Summit of the Future
In order to achieve these aims, the Secretary-General recommends a Summit of the Future, which would “forge a new global consensus on what our future should look like, and how we can secure it”.
The Summit would address the perennial issues of peace and security, setting out a “New Agenda for Peace”, with more investment for peacebuilding, support for regional conflict prevention, a reduction of strategic risks such as nuclear weapons and cyberwarfare - and a dialogue on outer space to ensure that it is used peacefully and sustainably.
The application of human rights online would also be covered at the Summit, in a Global Digital Compact, to ensure that new technologies are a force for good. Other tracks would include; the peaceful and sustainable use of outer space, and the management of future shocks and crises.
The Summit, said Mr. Guterres, should take account of today’s more complex context for global governance…our goal should be a more inclusive and networked multilateralism, to navigate this complex landscape and deliver effective solutions.
On top of the Summit of the Future, the report proposes biennial high-level meetings at the level of Heads of States and Government, between the G20, ECOSOC, the heads of International Financial Institutions, and the UN Secretary-General, aimed at creating a more sustainable, inclusive and resilient global economy.
The report also calls for better partnerships between governments, multilateral organizations, the private sector, and civil society; and an emergency platform to better prepare for global crises, with stronger global health security.
One example is the creation of a Futures Lab, which would work with partners including governments, academia, civil society, and the private sector, to issue regular reports on megatrends and catastrophic risks.
In addition, measures on education, skills training and lifelong learning are proposed, including a Transforming Education Summit planned for 2022, to address the learning crisis and expand opportunities and hope for the world’s 1.8 billion young people, and a a Global Social Summit, to be organized in 2025, which would coordinate international efforts to create peaceful, secure societies based on human rights and dignity for all.
These meetings would coordinate efforts to bring about inclusive and sustainable policies that enable countries to offer basic services and social protection to their citizens. “Governments should never again face a choice between serving their people or servicing their debt”, said Mr. Guterres.

UN upgrade
One of those institutions is, of course, the UN itself, which, says the report, is due an upgrade, with a more participatory and consultative approach, gender parity by 2028, the re-establishment of the Secretary-General’s Scientific Advisory Board, and a policy that puts people at the centre of the UN System, taking into account age, gender and diversity.
Other UN-related proposals concern the improved participation of youth in the political process and efforts to cut youth unemployment. The reports recommends the appointment of a Special Envoy for Future Generations, to give weight to the interests of those who will be born over the coming century, and a new UN Youth Office to strengthen engagement with young people across the work of the Organization.
As the UN embarks on the Decade of Action – 10 years to make real progress to deliver the promise of a sustainable, fairer future by 2030 – there is an opportunity to reshape the world for the better, with multilateralism at the heart of the process.
However, as the “breakdown scenario” shows, failure to work effectively together risks significant, irreversible damage to the planet and even, life itself: In his speech to the General Assembly, Mr. Guterres underlined that Our Common Agenda is driven by solidarity, “the principle of working together, recognizing that we are bound to each other and that no community or country, however powerful, can solve its challenges alone.”
The fact that the 75th anniversary came during a global health emergency, highlights the importance of multilateral thinking: 2020 saw the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic, which came amid growing concern over the climate crisis, another urgent issue that does not respect national borders.
In early 2020, 1.5 million people took part in a year-long global UN initiative to listen to people’s priorities, and expectations of how international cooperation can impact the future.
They shared their hopes and fears, calling for a more transparent, inclusive UN, and identifying climate change and environmental issues as the number one long-term global challenge.
Our Common Agenda builds on the findings from that initiative – as well as input from thought leaders, eminent groups such as The Elders, diplomats and other partners – offering suggestions and solutions, ideas for action, and looking ahead to the next 25 years of the UN.
The report calls for the core values of the UN to be reaffirmed, whilst acknowledging that the foundations of the Organization, need to be reshaped to better reflect today’s world.
It also recognized the urgent need for action: the climate crisis poses an existential crisis to all human life, and can only be solved if the international community works effective together, across borders, to end accelerated heating of the planet caused by human activity, and adapt to the damage it has already caused.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/143982-our-common-agenda-%E2%80%93-report-secretary-general




Date: 06 September 2021
Title: Promoting vaccination to save lives
Content: 06 September 2021
UNDP and the Georgian National Centre for Disease Control and Public Health address vaccine hesitancy by kicking off the ‘Vaccines for Life’ campaign with the support of Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom
Georgia is struggling through a severe upsurge in COVID-19 virus cases that takes people’s lives and devastates the economy. Even though four different vaccines are available in the country, vaccination levels are still far below the 60 percent goal the government set as a target for 2021 — as of 6 September, only 17 percent of the adult population in Georgia have been fully vaccinated.
To help speed up the vaccination process and debunk vaccine myths, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the National Centre for Disease Control and Public Health (NCDC) kicked off the ‘Vaccines for Life’ campaign. This awareness-raising and educational initiative will reinforce and strengthen ongoing national and international efforts to raise vaccination levels in the country.
“The death toll has exceeded 80 cases daily. Nothing is more important than saving lives. Vaccination is the only way to ensure that people stop facing a mortal threat and that the country can move from emergency response to recovery,” said UNDP Acting Head Anna Chernyshova. “UNDP stands by the Government of Georgia and its people to promote life-saving vaccination, to counter misinformation and to reach out to the most vulnerable groups, including minorities and people living in regions that are difficult to reach.”
The UNDP-led campaign draws on financial resources made available by a range of UNDP donors and partners, including Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United Nations’ Fund for the Sustainable Development Goals.
The campaign will be implemented in close partnership with the Government Administration, the Ministry of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health and Social Affairs, and with regional and municipal authorities, public and private agencies and civil society organizations.
“Public awareness is the key to reducing the spread of the virus and keeping people safe from its most severe effects,” said NCDC Head Amiran Gamkrelidze. “Our goal is to reach a 60 percent vaccination rate by the end of 2021 and to ensure that protective measures, such as social distancing and wearing face masks, are strictly followed everywhere. These goals can be achieved only if people and the government take on shared responsibility for fighting the pandemic.”
According to a 2021 survey commissioned by the National Democratic Institute, 42 percent of Georgians lack accurate information about vaccination. This number is even higher — 47 percent — in rural areas. The survey also revealed that vaccine hesitance reaches 47 percent of the entire population, while 35 percent are ready to vaccinate.
The ‘Vaccines for Life’ campaign spreads pro-vaccination messages and provides people with the opportunity to immediately register and vaccinate. UNDP and NCDC will organize mobile ‘vaccination squads’ that will conduct information meetings, administer vaccines or arrange transportation to the vaccination sites. The vaccination squads will be active across Georgia (in the Ajara Autonomous Republic and the Guria, Imereti, Kvemo-Kartli, Mtskheta-Mtianeti, Racha-Lechkhumi-Kvemo Svaneti, Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti, Samtskhe-Javakheti and Shida Kartli regions).
The campaign will address the least informed social groups, including ethnic and religious minorities, farmers, internally displaced persons, rural women and youth, people with disabilities and older people.
In addition, UNDP and NCDC, in partnership with the Government Administration and the Civil Service Bureau, will reach out to civil servants across Georgia to increase vaccination levels in the public sector.
The ‘Vaccines for Life’ campaign will continue throughout 2021, bringing together a wide range of actors, including the national and local public agencies, the Georgian Railway, leading insurance companies, civil society and community organizations and the media.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/143298-promoting-vaccination-save-lives




Date: 01 September 2021
Title: All schools in Europe & Central Asia should remain open and made safer from COVID-19, say WHO and UNICEF
Content: 01 September 2021
As millions of school children return to school across the European Region where the highly transmissible SARS-CoV-2 Delta variant is dominant, the WHO Regional Office for Europe and UNICEF Europe and Central Asia Regional Office call for schools to stay open and made safer by adopting measures to minimise transmission of the virus.
COPENHAGEN & GENEVA, August 30 – These measures include offering teachers and other school staff the COVID-19 vaccine as part of the target population groups in national vaccination plans, while ensuring vaccination of vulnerable populations. In addition, children aged 12 years and above who have underlying medical conditions that significantly increases their risk for put that at greater risk of severe COVID-19 disease must be vaccinated; improvements to the school environment through better classroom ventilation, smaller class sizes where possible, physical distancing and regular testing of children and staff, are other important actions.
“The pandemic has caused the most catastrophic disruption to education in history. It is therefore vital that classroom-based learning continues uninterrupted across the European Region. This is of paramount importance for children’s education, mental health and social skills, for schools to help equip our children to be happy and productive members of society”, Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe explains.
“It will be some time before we can put the pandemic behind us but educating children safely in a physical school setting must remain our primary objective, so we don't rob them of the opportunities they so deserve. We encourage all countries to keep schools open and urge all schools to put in place measures to minimize the risk of COVID-19 and the spread of different variants.”

Scaling up vaccination to protect from the Delta variant

The highly transmissible  SARS-CoV-2 Delta variant has added an additional layer of concern and complication to this year’s school opening season. The high incidence of COVID-19 in the community make transmission in schools much more likely. Therefore, we must all commit to reduce the transmission of the virus.
Data clearly shows that receiving a full COVID-19 vaccination series significantly reduces the risk of severe disease and death. Therefore, when called to take the vaccine please do so and make sure you complete the full vaccine dose series.
“Vaccination is our best line of defence against the virus, and for the pandemic too end we must rapidly scale up vaccinations fairly in all countries, including supporting vaccine production and sharing of doses, to protect the most vulnerable, everywhere. We must also continue to follow the public health and social measures we know work, including testing, sequencing, tracing, isolation and quarantine,” Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge said.
Making schools safer is a whole-of-society responsibility

Shorena Khmaladze is a teacher of the civic education from Akhaltsikhe, Georgia, who has been fully vaccinated against COVID-19. She said, “Nowadays, we, teachers, are responsible not only for transferring knowledge, but also for protecting the health of our students. For a quality education, it's crucial to feel safe and to return to classrooms”.
“I believe that every teacher understands this and will decide to engage in the vaccination process.” - Shorena Khmaladze
Philippe Cori, Deputy Regional Director, from UNICEF Europe and Central Asia said, “The pandemic is not over. We all have a part to play to ensure that schools remain open across the Region. Children and youth cannot risk having another year of disrupted learning. Vaccination and protective measures together will help prevent a return to the darkest days of the pandemic when people had to endure lockdowns and children had to experience disruption of learning.
“Children have been the silent victims of the pandemic, and the most marginalized have been amongst the hardest hit. Prior to COVID-19, the Region’s most vulnerable children were already out-of-school, or in school, but not learning at the same level as their classmates.
“A school is so much more than a building. It's a place of learning, safety and play at the heart of our communities. When they are closed, children, miss out on learning, being with their friends and may be exposed to violence in the home. The pandemic worsened an already unacceptable situation - we must ensure that schools reopen, and they stay open safely.”

Expert recommendations

To help keep schools open and safe, WHO, UNICEF and UNESCO have endorsed a set of eight expert recommendations developed by the WHO European Technical Advisory group for schooling during COVID-19.  For use by the 53 Member States in the WHO European Region they are:
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/142961-all-schools-europe-central-asia-should-remain-open-and-made-safer-covid-19-say-who-and




Date: 27 July 2021
Title: UNESCO to protect Colchic Rainforests and Wetlands
Content: 27 July 2021
Colchic Rainforest and Wetlands granted World Heritage Status by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has added the Colchic Rainforests and Wetlands to the World Heritage List. This new status provides these unique ecosystems with international protection and technical assistance to ensure that they are sustainably managed, monitored and conserved.
The Colchic Rainforests and Wetlands, known as a ‘slice of the Amazon in Eurasia’, is a temperate broadleaf and mixed forests ecoregion located along the southern shore of the Black Sea. It sheltered heat-loving plants during the previous glacial period and is abundant in relict and endemic species.
The Colchic Rainforests and Wetlands are located within the boundaries of four protected areas in Georgia: the Kolkheti and Mtirala National Parks and the Kintrishi and Kobuleti Protected Areas. Georgia applied for the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2019. The final decision to list the Colchic Rainforests and Wetlands as a UNESCO natural world heritage site was made in July 2021 at the extended 44th session of the World Heritage Committee in Fuzhou (China).
President of Georgia Salome Zourabishvili and Deputy Prime Minister/Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture Levan Davitashvili announced this decision at an event held in Kolkheti National Park on 27 July.
“UNESCO’s decision to add Georgia’s unique natural site to the World Heritage List is important not just for Georgia. It’s important for the entire region, for the Black Sea basin. It’s international recognition,” said Levan Davitashvili. “Georgia has once again appeared on the world map as a country of distinctive biodiversity. UNESCO has confirmed that Georgia's unique nature belongs to the whole world."
The UNESCO decision follows years of biodiversity protection and conservation led by the Georgian Government and supported by the European Union, Germany, the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United States and other international partners.
To support protected areas associated with Colchic Rainforests, UNDP helped develop ten-year management and biodiversity monitoring plans, introduced SMART patrolling technology (Spatial Monitoring and Reporting Tool) and established e-learning platforms for staff. UNDP is also helping to assess and counter the risk of plant diseases (like Chestnut blight) that endanger the entire ecosystem.
“The Colchic Rainforests and Wetlands — which survived a glacial period — present us with the opportunity (and privilege) to admire a magnificent natural system that goes back 15,000 years. Cherishing and protecting this unique ecoregion is our shared responsibility,” said UNDP Acting Head Anna Chernyshova. “UNDP assists Georgia to integrate ecosystem services into the country’s economic and social development and introduce new models and approaches to protecting biodiversity.”
UNDP’s decade-long support to Georgia’s protected areas draws on GEF funding and on close partnerships with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture, the Agency of Protected Areas and the Caucasus Nature Fund. UNDP support focuses on assisting Georgia to expand its protected areas, improve their management and ensure their financial sustainability. UNDP also helps make it possible for communities surrounding national parks to play an integral role in environmental protection and to benefit from green economic opportunities.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/137550-unesco-protect-colchic-rainforests-and-wetlands




Date: 21 July 2021
Title: EU and UNDP kick-off the Mayors for Economic Growth Facility in Georgia
Content: 21 July 2021
Georgian municipalities explore new ways and tools to enhance inclusive economic growth and create jobs
The European Union, together with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), launched the new Mayors for Economic Growth Facility (M4EG) in Georgia. Over the next four years, the M4EG Facility will build on and integrate lessons learned from the first phase of the M4EG (2017-2021) that saw high interest in Georgia among local authorities.
The current stage of the M4EG Facility will focus on intermediate cities in the Eastern Partnership countries (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine), assisting them to emerge from the pandemic crisis and discover new opportunities for sustainable growth and economic prosperity. Working closely with local authorities and communities, it will explore innovative approaches to development and will seek new ways to expand its network. The Facility will serve as a platform to empower municipalities, cities, towns and rural settlements through learning, exchange and strategic innovation.
“The pandemic is challenging cities around the world with the cascading impacts of the economic and social crisis. This new context highlights a ‘radical uncertainty’ that affects local authorities and citizens,” said Evija Kotan, Deputy Head of Political Section at the EU Delegation to Georgia. “The EU is supporting the M4EG initiative to assist cities and urban settlements in the Eastern Partnership countries to better adapt to this fast-changing reality and find effective solutions to the emerging challenges.”
“In Georgia, municipal centres and settlements are facing multiple challenges associated with unemployment, underdevelopment and environmental threats,” UNDP Acting Head in Georgia Anna Chernyshova noted. “Our new initiative will help them better understand complex issues they are dealing with, set out development goals and take bold steps to achieve them. The EU and UNDP approach tackles complex issues from multiple angles and creates space for exploring innovative solutions to development challenges.”
Cities and settlements to join the M4EG network will benefit from learning and knowledge exchange activities focused on the development of innovative growth strategies adapted to the local context. The EU and UNDP will support them in developing a new generation of local economic development plans (LEDPs), promoting strategic thinking, and building urban resilience. Local authorities will benefit from access to new capabilities and funding, including the upcoming Annual Portfolio Call for Interests and Annual Innovation Call for Proposals.
Background:
The Mayors for Economic Growth (M4EG) Facility is part of the M4EG initiative, launched and funded by the European Union since 2017. The M4EG Facility is run by UNDP, starting from 2021, in close cooperation with the EU, local authorities and a range of other partners.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/136869-eu-and-undp-kick-mayors-economic-growth-facility-georgia




Date: 19 July 2021
Title: UNICEF, EU, support the Government in developing an action plan to move children from institutions to a family environment
Content: 19 July 2021
A two-day working meeting to discuss next steps was held.
TBILISI, Georgia, 19–20 July 2021 – UNICEF, in partnership with the Government of Georgia and with the support of the European Union, convened all partners at a two-day working meeting to discuss next steps for how to ensure a family environment for every child still residing in large-scale institutions. The meeting was organized as part of the UNICEF and EU joint project “Strengthening Systems and Services for Child Protection in Georgia”.
The objective of the technical workshop was to discuss the situation, to support the Government in developing the joint strategy and action plan to accelerate deinstitutionalization reform, and to define next steps. Participants in the meeting included Government agencies, civil society organizations, the Public Defender’s Office, independent experts, religious leaders, and international organizations.
The topics discussed at the meeting included: an overview of the deinstitutionalization reform and the situation in existing institutions (managed by the State, non-governmental organizations, local governments, as well as faith-based groups including the ones under the Patriarchate of Georgia and those managed by the Muslim community); the situation in boarding schools under the Ministry of Education and Science; an overview of alternative care (e.g. foster care and small group homes) and family support services; the monitoring of children in institutions and in alternative care; and the main directions of the deinstitutionalization reform and next steps.
"We need to consider the children’s best interests in this process and understand what is the best solution for a particular child." - Ghassan Khalil
“In partnership with the European Union, we stand ready to facilitate a constructive dialogue and to support the government in developing specific plans on how can we provide every child in an institution with a family environment,” says Ghassan Khalil, UNICEF Representative in Georgia. “We need to consider the children’s best interests in this process and understand what is the best solution for a particular child. We are ready to support in the assessment of children in institutions and to support the transition to family-based care. It is essential that as large institutions close down, community-based and family support services are introduced to guarantee further support for children leaving institutional care, [and that] their families and professionals are working with them,” Khalil added.
The Code on the Rights of the Child mandates the State to carry out all necessary legislative and administrative measures which involve the gradual substitution of the residential care of children, including children with disabilities, by foster care and other family and community-based services. For the purpose of deinstitutionalization, the Government of Georgia shall develop and implement a single national strategy and an action plan to ensure that large residential care facilities are gradually closed.
It is essential that the safety, well-being, and development of any child placed in institutions be thoroughly supervised by specialists, and that regular review of the appropriateness of the care arrangement is provided. The Code on the Rights of the Child puts an emphasis on the importance of family support services at the central as well as municipal levels. Strong family support services are required to ensure a family environment for every child, and to avoid the separation of a child from a family. Social welfare staff at central and municipal levels are key to providing quality social services.
Where the preventive and family support services do not prevail, the quality of the alternative care for children should adhere to international and local standards of childcare. The State’s monitoring and support capacity for the alternative care services should be strengthened in line with the CRC, the Code on the Rights of the Child, Guidelines for Alternative Care of Children, and other international and local childcare standards.
UNICEF, in partnership with the EU and USAID, has been supporting the deinstitutionalization process and child welfare reform in Georgia since 2005. Even though the reforms undertaken have had significant impacts on the lives of many children and their families, there are still challenges remaining in the process of deinstitutionalization.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/136725-unicef-eu-support-government-developing-action-plan-move-children-institutions-family




Date: 14 July 2021
Title: Seeking pandemic solutions ‘by the people, for the people’
Content: 14 July 2021
UNDP Accelerator Lab announces its Solutions Safari winners!
ver 60 deeply engaged entrepreneurs submitted creative ideas to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Accelerator Lab’s ‘Solutions Safari’, a call for inventions that can ease the pandemic’s burden on citizens and businesses. The competition was funded by the governments of Germany and Qatar. Submissions included a dazzling array of simple and effective solutions that were created ‘by the people, for the people’ to address everyday challenges brought on by the pandemic.
The Accelerator Lab created the Museum of Georgian Inventions website and Facebook page to profile participants and to promote the idea of people-driven solutions.
To find the most standout proposal from among all submitted ideas, UNDP gathered an esteemed jury composed of Accelerator Lab members and representatives from the private sector, civil society and academic institutions. The jury chose two winners: Davit Mizandari and Anna Ghviniashvili. They will each will receive GEL 10,000 equivalent support to improve or upgrade their ideas and to put them into practice.
Davit Mizandari invented and patented the MizMask, a reusable and rechargeable respirator that creates a seal around the face to filter out harmful particles. MizMask is an N99 respirator that provides five levels of protection (including an ultraviolet diode sterilizer). It will be particularly useful for frontline medical personnel, emergency crews and hospital staff who face an outbreak. A COVID-19 hospital in Tbilisi has successfully tested a MizMask prototype.
Anna Ghviniashvili developed an online model for an inclusive dance class. Her class supports people with disabilities during the pandemic and helps them cope with the isolation, sense of loneliness and other psychological issues stemming from the pandemic. The online teaching methodology is based on findings from Ghviniashvili’s research and her earlier practical experience teaching face-to-face inclusive dance classes. The Azdak inclusive theatre and the Youth for Social Equality organization are already using her model to great success; currently, over 70 people with disabilities participate in online dance classes thanks to Ghviniashvili’s innovation model.
“Business as usual does not work during a pandemic. We are experiencing extraordinary times that require innovative approaches,” said UNDP Acting Head Anna Chernyshova. “Our competition helps map out and support creative solutions to everyday challenges — solutions that come from people directly.”
“Smart use of innovative methods will help Georgia recover from the pandemic crisis,” said Head of Cooperation at the Embassy of Germany Lidija Christmann. “Germany is pleased to partner with UNDP to help unlock people’s potential to withstand the crisis.”
UNDP Accelerator Labs are now working in 116 countries. Each Accelerator Lab is focused on applying new insights and technologies to solve protracted development challenges. Georgia joined this fast-growing network of innovators and experimenters this year. Georgia’s Accelerator Lab initiatives are focused on supporting the National Centre for Disease Control and Public Health to overcome vaccine hesitancy in Georgia, transforming public attitudes towards recycling and waste separation and translating climate data into narratives to transform people’s behaviours.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/136024-seeking-pandemic-solutions-%E2%80%98-people-people%E2%80%99-%C2%A0




Date: 07 July 2021
Title: UN OHCHR Supports Cooperation between and Strengthening of Independent Human Rights State Institutions in Georgia
Content: 07 July 2021
The State Inspector’s Service and Public Defender of Georgia are independent state institutions that play a critical role in protection of human rights and freedoms within their jurisdiction in Georgia.
The State Inspector’s Service and Public Defender of Georgia are independent state institutions that play a critical role in protection of human rights and freedoms within their jurisdiction in Georgia.
Strengthening the cooperation between these two institutions was the main purpose of the meeting organized by Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UN OHCHR) in the South Caucasus within the framework of the Human Rights for All programme. It is a joint initiative of the European Union (EU) and the United Nations (UN), implemented by UN OHCHR and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
The meeting enabled the participants to analyze legal and practical aspects of the activities under the mandate of the State Inspector, in particular, the investigation of crimes committed by the representatives of the state law enforcement bodies. Issues related to an effective information exchange about detention cases, situation in the detention facilities and individual complaints were broadly discussed.
Furthermore, the exchange of points touched upon the mandate of the inspector, the issues and challenges identified in the Annual Report submitted to the Parliament by the Public Defender that are relevant to the State Inspector’s mandate.
Public Defender Nino Lomjaria emphasized the importance of an effective cooperation between the Public Defender’s Office and the State Inspector's Service in the context of eliminating ill-treatment in the country.
“Support from an international organization is vital for an independent oversight body at an early stage of its development. I would like to thank UN OHCHR for all the support it has provided to the State Inspector’s Service in Georgia. I am glad that the relationship between the State Inspector’s Service and the Public Defender is a good example of cooperation and I am sure that through joint efforts, we will certainly achieve common goals.”  -  said the State Inspector, Londa Toloraia.
The participants of the meeting also discussed the legislative amendments that will ensure the effective implementation of the investigative function by the State Inspector's Office and the solution of the existing challenges.
"UN OHCHR is pleased to support close cooperation and coordination between these two key state institutions. We hope that they will be able to make tangible progress in terms of torture prevention and effective investigation of human rights violations in Georgia.” - said UN OHCHR Senior Human Rights Adviser for the South Caucasus, Vladimir Shkolnikov.
The European Union (EU) and the OHCHR in the South Caucasus have been supporting the strengthening of state human rights institutions and the refinement of their legal framework since 2016. Amongst them is the Office of the State Inspector, which with an active support of the UN OHCHR (as well as other international and local organizations) was given a function of an independent investigative mechanism in 2019.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/134908-un-ohchr-supports-cooperation-between-and-strengthening-independent-human-rights-state




Date: 06 July 2021
Title: Election media monitoring is on
Content: 06 July 2021
EU and UNDP are monitoring local election coverage in the Georgian media
The European Union (EU) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) kicked off election monitoring of the Georgian media, covering the entire cycle of the 2021 local elections – an election campaign, election day and a post-election period (from July 2021 through March 2022).
The EU-funded monitoring is implemented by UNDP in partnership with three civil society organizations: the Georgian Charter of Journalistic Ethics, Internews Georgia and CRRC-Georgia. This year, it covers 54 national and local media outlets, including:
The monitoring will provide quantitative data and qualitative analysis to capture the main trends in election reporting. It will also look into the ways that Georgian media organizations connect with their readers on Facebook, analysing what kind of electoral news gets most of the social media outreach, including through the Facebook pages associated with political parties, officials and politicians.
A separate report prepared by CRRC-Georgia will examine how Georgian television stations are covering foreign influences on Georgian elections.
All reports will be available on the website: mediamonitor.ge
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/135596-election-media-monitoring




Date: 05 July 2021
Title: Joint Statement on Violence in Tbilisi
Content: 05 July 2021
Joint Statement of the Embassies of Austria, Bulgaria, Estonia, the European Union Monitoring Mission, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom, UN system in Georgia, the United States, and the EU Delegation to Georgia concerning violence in Tbilisi
We condemn today’s violent attacks on the civic activists, community members and journalists, as well as the failure of the government leaders and religious officials to condemn this violence.  Participation in peaceful gatherings is a human right guaranteed by Georgia’s Constitution.  Violence is simply unacceptable and cannot be excused.  Those who incite or threaten violence or commit violent acts are interfering with the efforts of Georgia’s law enforcement professionals to uphold a safe and secure environment.  They should be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.   We call on all Georgia’s leaders and law enforcement to act swiftly to protect those exercising their Constitutional rights to freedom of expression and assembly, to protect journalists exercising freedom of the press, and to publicly condemn violence.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/134614-joint-statement-violence-tbilisi




Date: 30 June 2021
Title: Protect the right to freedom of assembly at 2021 Pride Week in Tbilisi
Content: 30 June 2021
This joint statement is issued by the United Nations system in Georgia, the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, the Embassies to Georgia of Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Israel, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States, and the Head of the EU Monitoring Mission in Georgia
In support of equality and human rights for everyone in Georgia, we express our solidarity with the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex and queer (LGBTIQ+) community and urge the Georgian authorities to secure the right to peaceful assembly for all people in Georgia without exception, and to enable these events to take place without participants having to fear becoming victims of hatred and violence.
The Constitution of Georgia guarantees everyone’s right to assemble publicly and to the freedom of expression. This includes the right of LGBTIQ+ people to organize manifestations, public events, and their right to speak publicly about matters of their interest or concern. Georgia’s landmark Law on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination [1] of 2014 rests on the principle of equality as enshrined in the Constitution and prohibits all forms of discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity and expression.
All States have a duty to facilitate and protect the exercise of the right to freedom of peaceful assembly. It includes a duty to facilitate assemblies at the organizers’ preferred location and to protect assembly organizers and participants from those who may seek to undermine their rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights affirm that no human right may be invoked to destroy another human right.
The COVID-19 pandemic has amplified social and economic dividing lines, and deepened marginalization and invisibility of many people in Georgia. Exercising the rights to freedom of assembly and of expression are essential in empowering people to overcome their exclusion from political, economic and social life. Public assemblies are at the heart of a functioning democracy. We reiterate our prior call on the Georgian state, political, civic and religious leaders to fight all forms of discrimination and prejudice, to take all possible measures to prevent violence and to instead embrace a respectful and compassionate public discourse.
We stand together for the right of everyone to live free and equal.
[1] The Law of Georgia on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination, (2014), retrieved from https://bit.ly/3bcThhv
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/133808-protect-right-freedom-assembly-2021-pride-week-tbilisi




Date: 23 June 2021
Title: Business and Human Rights - UN OHCHR Online Training
Content: 23 June 2021
The training will take place on 20-24 September 2021.
United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (UN OHCHR) in South Caucasus is announcing an open competition for participants of the Online Training on Business and Human Rights that will take place on 20-24 September 2021.

The training programme will primarily explore obligations of states and business sector in human rights area in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Participants will also have an opportunity to examine states` and private sector`s human rights obligations amidst fight against Covid-19 pandemic.
Training covers both theoretical aspects and practical simulations. Online training will be conducted in Georgian language.

Following persons can apply for the training:
Knowledge of English language is highly desirable.

Interested candidates shall submit their CV and Letter of Motivation, preferably in English (250 words maximum), via the following email: tbekauri@ohchr.org  by indicating Business and Human Rights in the subject line.
The deadline for applications is 3 September 2021.
UN OHCHR is the leading UN entity on human rights that represent the world's commitment to the promotion and protection of the full range of human rights and freedoms set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. OHCHR provides capacity development actions to students and civil society representatives in Georgia to support the implementation of international human rights standards on the ground.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/132843-business-and-human-rights-un-ohchr-online-training




Date: 22 June 2021
Title: Protecting the Rights of People with Disabilities
Content: 22 June 2021
Rights of people with disabilities (PWDs), challenges for their protection, ways to combat stigma, addressing mental health issues as well as methods for clearly communicating with PWDs.
These and other topics were covered by the capacity building training conducted by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in South Caucasus (UN OHCHR) for lawyers of the Legal Aid Service of Georgia (LAS) on 19-20 June 2021.
Participants were welcomed by the UN OHCHR Senior Human Rights Adviser for the South Caucasus Vladimir Shkolnikov who said, “UN OHCHR continues its efforts for promoting and protecting rights of PWDs and establishment of an inclusive society in Georgia. Over the past years, Georgia has made significant progress, especially with regard to safeguarding the rights of PWDs; however, we all see that more issues still remain unresolved in practice. That is why it is important to make sure that the rights of these persons are fully realized and protected. The implementation of the new Law on the Rights of PWDs recently adopted by Georgia as well as the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its Protocol are essential in fulfilling this objective.”
The capacity building programme enabled the participants to learn more about the ethics of communicating with PWDs. Through interactive role-playing they thoroughly analyzed details of working with their beneficiaries and the ways/processes of providing them with effective assistance in stressful situations.
According to the First Deputy of Legal Aid Service, Nino Meladze, this training will help practicing lawyers in their daily work of providing legal assistance to PWDs.
“From the 1st of January 2021, the mandate of the Service has been extended to cover working with the PWDs. Our lawyers are authorized to represent these persons in court and in the administrative bodies in case of an appeal. The persons who attended the training have daily contact with beneficiary PWDs and thus mastering communication skills will help my colleagues effectively protect rights of service beneficiaries.” said Nino Meladze.
This capacity building training was held within the framework of the joint programme on Transforming Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Georgia, implemented by six UN agencies (OHCHR, UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO, UNDP, UN Women) with the support of the United Nation’s Fund for Sustainable Development Goals.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/132539-protecting-rights-people-disabilities




Date: 21 June 2021
Title: Safeguarding Human Rights in Georgia
Content: 21 June 2021
The field presence of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UN OHCHR) in the South Caucasus has been promoting the culture and spirit of human rights amongst the representatives of all public and non-governmental sector bodies  in Georgia, inter alia on: prohibition of torture and other forms of ill-treatment, hate crimes, discrimination primarily on the grounds of religious belonging, ethnicity and sexual orientation.
To serve this very end, on 12 – 21 June 2021, within the framework of European Union (EU) and United Nations (UN) Joint Program Human Rights for All - Phase Two a series of trainings and workshops were held, in which over 200 representatives from various institutions participated (Parliament of Georgia; Ministry of Justice of Georgia; Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia; Prosecutor’s Office of Georgia; Ministry of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Labor, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia;  Public Defender (Ombudsman) of Georgia; Legal Aid Service; State Inspector’s Service; Georgian Bar Association).
Interactive training programme for the doctors of the Special Penitentiary Service of Georgia covered a wide range of issues, including the standard for documentation of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, in-depth study and analysis of the Istanbul Protocol, methodology for conducting interviews of accused/convicts in penitentiary institutions according to international standards and documenting injuries.
One of the participants of this training, Rusudan believes that such events are very important, especially for practicing doctors. "At the training we talked a lot about the importance of using different methods of interviewing the accused/convicts. Once again analyzed the international standards and shared an experience of documenting cases of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, which we will actively use in practice.” – she said.
During the training of lawyers representing the Georgian Bar Association, international human rights standards and grievance mechanisms were discussed in detail, as well as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism (mediation) and the role of a lawyer in this process.
Using video material and case studies, representatives of various structural divisions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs were trained on prohibition of discrimination with special focus on  hate crimes committed on the different discriminatory grounds (including religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender, political or other belief) and its indicators, hate speech, international as well as national  standards and tools related to the given issues.
"In order to fully implement anti-discrimination measures imposed on the state, it is very important for us, the practitioners, to act in accordance with the law and international standards. Therefore, the knowledge acquired during the training will serve to  equip us in determining the specific qualifications of various crimes and conducting investigative actions accordingly, ” said one of the training participants from the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
"Necessary precondition for a democratic state is to ensure full realization and protection of human rights. Accordingly, UN OHCHR helps to strengthen the human rights protection systems and policies, to raise professional skills and awareness in the field of human rights for representatives of Georgian authorities, civil society and the media," - said UN OHCHR Senior Human Rights Adviser for the South Caucasus, Vladimir Shkolnikov.
EU and UN joint programme Human Rights for All - Phase Two aims to assist the state with the protection the rights of all citizens and social groups living in Georgia in accordance with the country's Constitution, legislation and international obligations.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/132464-safeguarding-human-rights-georgia




Date: 17 June 2021
Title: Georgia assesses climate change impact, plans next steps in building climate-proof society
Content: 17 June 2021
UNDP assists Georgia to report its progress in addressing climate change
To accelerate climate action and to fulfil international commitments in addressing climate change, the Government of Georgia submitted a national report to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The ‘Fourth National Communication of Georgia under the UNFCCC’ describes the country’s progress in implementing its commitments to the Convention, adapting to climate change and mitigating its adverse effects. The report includes an updated greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory that provides a detailed account of emissions from 1990 to 2017.
Among the most striking findings:
The ‘Fourth National Communication’ was revealed to the public today at an online event organized by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture with support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Global Environment Facility (GEF).
The event brought together government representatives (the Environmental Information and Education Centre, the National Environmental Agency) , academics, national climate change experts and representatives from civil society organizations that were involved in preparing the report  World Experience for Georgia and Georgia’s Environmental Outlook).
“Reporting to the UN Convention helps us assess the progress made over the years and plan the next steps towards a climate-resilient society,” said Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture Nino Tandilashvili.
“National climate reports are useful documents for policymakers and the public at large,” said UNDP Acting Head Anna Chernyshova. “To address the climate emergency, we need trustworthy information on where we stand based on reliable data and scientific research.”
Georgia is a signatory to key international agreements on climate change, including the 1994 UNFCCC, the 1999 Kyoto Protocol (Georgian joined in 1999) and the 2016 Paris Agreement. As part of its international commitments, Georgia submits National Communications to the UNFCCC every four years. Earlier in 2021, Georgia updated its Nationally Determined Contributions to the Paris Agreement, pledging to unconditionally reduce its GHG emissions to 35 percent below its 1990 baseline level.
UNDP is supporting Georgia’s climate commitments and efforts to build a climate-resilient society by working closely with the Government and international partners, such as the European Union, the GEF, the Green Climate Fund and the Governments of Sweden and Switzerland.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/131830-georgia-assesses-climate-change-impact-plans-next-steps-building-climate-proof-society




Date: 16 June 2021
Title: UN General Assembly passes Georgia IDP resolution
Content: 16 June 2021
The United Nations General Assembly adopted on June 16 a resolution reiterating the right of return of all displaced persons and refugees to Georgia’s Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia by a vote of 80 in favor, 14 against, and 70 abstentions. Alongside Georgia, which has initiated the resolution since 2008, it was co-sponsored by 57 other states.
The UN General  Assembly discussed the draft resolution “Status of internally displaced persons and refugees from Abkhazia, Georgia, and the Tskhinvali region/South Ossetia, Georgia” (document A/75/L.99).  By its terms, the Assembly would recognize the right of return of all internally displaced persons and refugees and their descendants, regardless of ethnicity, to their homes throughout Georgia, including in Abkhazia and the Tskhinvali region/South Ossetia.  It would stress the need to respect the property rights of all internally displaced persons and refugees affected by the conflicts in Georgia, reaffirm the unacceptability of forced demographic changes and underline the urgent need for unimpeded access for humanitarian activities.  It would also call upon all participants in the Geneva discussions which began on 15 October 2008 to intensify their efforts to establish a durable peace, to take immediate steps to ensure respect for human rights and to create favourable conditions for the safe and voluntary return of all internally displaced persons and refugees.
[The GUAM area refers to Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and the Republic of Moldova.]
The Assembly also had before it the report of the Secretary-General titled “Status of internally displaced persons and refugees from Abkhazia, Georgia, and the Tskhinvali region/South Ossetia, Georgia” (document A/75/891).
The representative of Georgia, introducing “L.99”, emphasized that the current situation is hampering the development and livelihoods of the affected people.  Drawing attention to the situation in Georgia, he recalled the history of the conflict and recent developments, including the Russian Federation’s use of its veto power in the Security Council to block the United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG).  The Russian Federation has yet to fulfil its commitments to the August ceasefire agreement and withdraw its military from the area.  Instead, its occupying authorities have been carrying out the policy of creeping annexation through installing razor-wire fences, “border” signs and other artificial barriers.
Citing findings in the most recent report of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), he said ethnic Georgians face various forms of discrimination and a climate of impunity has prevailed and only worsened due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The practice of illegal detentions and kidnappings of Georgian citizens intensifies every year, with the latest example being a recent decision of the authorities exercising effective control in the Tskhinvali region to illegally detain and imprison the Georgian citizen, Zaza Gakheladze.  The European Court of Human Rights ruling on 21 January in the case of Georgia v. Russia (II), legally established the responsibility of the Russian Federation — the authority exercising effective control over the region — for the violation of the right of internally displaced persons and refugees to return to their homes, and concluded that it has an obligation to enable inhabitants of Georgian origin to return to their respective homes.
Turning to the draft resolution, he said “L.99” relates only to the humanitarian and human rights aspects of the issue.  Almost 400,000 forcibly displaced persons still anticipate and hope for their safe, dignified and sustainable return to their places of origin, and they expect the international community to act in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law.  While “L.99” refers to the situation in a single country, Georgia, the issue at stake is an integral part of a global challenge — forced displacement.  “We should all recognize the utterly humanitarian nature of the principle of return,” he said, appealing to Member States to apply the same principle to internally displaced persons from Georgia.  They too are the part of a global endeavour to “leave no one behind”, he said, urging Member States to vote in favour of “L.99”.
The representative of Syria, in an explanation of position, said that the draft resolution is a politicized text based on narrow points of view which lack objectivity.  It also ignores the true concerns of the inhabitants of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.  He urged Member States not to become involved in the politicization of this issue.
The representative of the Russian Federation said that his delegation will vote against “L.99”.  It is another attempt to undermine the normalization process in the region by applying pressure on the sovereign States of Abkhazia and South Ossetia.  It will also harm ongoing humanitarian efforts and the Geneva process, he said, encouraging the sponsors of “L.99” to stop their baseless attacks in international forums and work instead towards peaceful existence.  He then requested a vote on the text.
The representative of Ecuador said his delegation supports compliance with the United Nations Charter and international law and condemns all human rights violations.  He noted that the regions of concern have been recognized by some countries.  Expressing support for all displaced persons and refugees, he urged all States to respect their human rights.  Reiterating the need to replace accusatory language for more constructive words, he also urged all parties involved with the conflict to abstain from unilateral actions.
The Assembly then adopted “L.99” by a recorded vote of 80 in favour to 14 against, with 70 abstentions.
The representative of Ukraine, speaking also on behalf of Azerbaijan, Georgia and the Republic of Moldova, said that hundreds of thousands of ethnically cleansed internally displaced persons and refugees from Georgia’s regions of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali/South Ossetia are still being deprived of their fundamental right to return to their homes in safety and dignity.  Warning of the imminent threat of more forced displacements, he added that the COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the human rights and humanitarian situation.  He also expressed regret that the Geneva International Discussions on humanitarian issues are being constantly undermined by some of the participants.  Speaking in his national capacity, he urged the Russian Federation to end its illegal practices, respect its obligations as an occupying Power under international humanitarian law and to stop its temporary occupation of the Abkhazia and Tskhinvali/South Ossetia regions of Georgia.
The representative of Lithuania, speaking on behalf of Baltic and Nordic States, reiterated strong support for Georgia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.  Unfortunately, the Russian Federation continues to violate Georgia’s territorial integrity by occupying the Georgian regions of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali/South Ossetia, and to breach the 2008 ceasefire agreement with its illegal military presence and activities.  The January ruling of the European Court of Human Rights, which found that the Russian Federation is responsible for grave human rights violations, is a reminder that, so far, more than a decade after the first adoption of the resolution on internally displaced persons and refugees from Abkhazia and Tskhinvali/South Ossetia regions in Georgia, no progress has been achieved related to their voluntary, safe, dignified and unhindered return.  The resolution tabled today commits all Member States to continue working for the protection of and assistance to affected populations, and to ensure that they are able to exercise their fundamental right to safe and dignified return.  However, the continuously deteriorating human rights situation in these occupied regions of Georgia, further affected by the pandemic, remains a cause of serious concern.  Voicing support for recent efforts to address this matter, he called for the United Nations’ continuous engagement, given the lack of progress on the ground.  As in previous years, his delegation will vote in favour of the draft resolution, he said, calling on all Member States to do the same.
The Deputy Head of Delegation of the European Union, in its capacity as observer, reaffirmed the bloc’s firm support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia within its internationally recognized borders.  Committed to supporting peacebuilding and conflict resolution in Georgia, he expressed the European Union’s deep concern about the state of play in the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, and the continuous deterioration of human rights in these regions.  Underlining the importance of the right of refugees and internally displaced persons to choose a durable solution, he expressed regret that, so far, no progress has been achieved on these issues.  Welcoming the progress made by the Government of Georgia on housing solutions and socioeconomic integration of internally displaced persons, he encouraged further action to address difficulties around access to drinking and irrigation water, heating and livelihoods, as well as social and medical infrastructure.
Source: https://www.un.org/press/en/2021/ga12338.doc.htm

...
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/131828-un-general-assembly-passes-georgia-idp-resolution




Date: 14 June 2021
Title: The Future is Inclusive
Content: 14 June 2021
UNDP opens a social inclusion centre that provides vital services to people with disabilities and to local communities of the mountainous Racha region
A new social inclusion centre with the capacity to provide vital services to over 50 people with disabilities opened in the village of Sadmeli, Ambrolauri Municipality. At the centre, people with disabilities can develop learning and employment skills and take part in physical rehabilitation programmes. The entire community at large will benefit from the centre’s cooperation and partnership spaces.
Centre facilities include a specialized gym, a library, a vocational training classroom and a combined print shop and bookbinder. These will provide much-needed jobs, training, counselling, physiotherapy and inclusive outdoor space for people with disabilities. The centre will also serve as a social space for the elderly and local youth. Its unique facilities and colourful murals created by renowned social artist Musya Qeburia have already turned the centre into a local landmark.
The social inclusion centre was established by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in partnership with Together For Real Change, a Georgian civil society organization. The Governments of Bulgaria and Poland also contributed by equipping the centre with disability-friendly technology and by building a greenhouse to grow vegetables and create additional employment opportunities for beneficiaries and staff.
The centre was opened on 12 June by UNDP Acting Head Anna Chernyshova; Ambassador of Bulgaria Dessislava Ivanova and Ambassador of Poland Mariusz Maszkiewicz. They were joined in the ceremony by Governor of Racha-Lechkhumi-Kvemo Svaneti Papuna Margvelidze; Ambrolauri Mayor Zviad (Davit) Mkheidze; Deputy Public Defender Ekaterine Skhiladze and Head of Together For Real Change Nana Lomadze.
The enjoyable and entertaining outdoor event brought together residents of Ambrolauri and nearby villages, including people with disabilities and local civil society representatives.
“Despite Georgia’s notable progress in recent years, people with disabilities remain one of the most excluded and marginalized groups of society.  In our quest for an inclusive society, we must ensure that they enjoy equal rights and equal opportunities in all areas of life,” Chernyshova said. “In Ambrolauri, we are presenting a unique model of social inclusion that serves the needs of people with disabilities and the local community and opens space for integration and partnership.”
“Georgia still has a long way to go to build an inclusive environment and infrastructure and to ensure that people with disabilities receive all the support they need to fully integrate into society,” Skhiladze said. “The social inclusion centre in Ambrolauri is setting an example that should be followed by all municipalities across the country.”
UNDP support to the Ambrolauri centre for social inclusion draws on a joint, six-UN agency programme to improve social protection for persons with disabilities. Resources from the US$2 million initiative are available through the United Nation’s Fund for Sustainable Development Goals.
For over a decade, UNDP has been supporting Georgia’s efforts to protect the rights of persons with disabilities and to build a more inclusive society. To reach these goals, UNDP has worked in partnership with the government, other UN agencies and a wide array of national and international actors.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/131312-future-inclusive




Date: 11 June 2021
Title: UN calls for greater protection for children and deinstitutionalization
Content: 11 June 2021
United Nations Country Team Statement
The United Nations Country Team in Georgia condemns any form of violence and other abuses against children.
Safety, well-being, exercise of rights by and development of any child placed in care settings should be thoroughly monitored by relevant national actors, including by the Public Defender’s Office. Limiting a constitutional entity, such as the Public Defender’s Office, in implementing its mandate contradicts Georgia’s aspirations and obligations towards human rights and ensuring the rule of law. Hence, we condemn any attempts to prevent the Public Defender’s Office and relevant state monitoring institutions from exercising their constitutional duties [and in line with the United Nations Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or Punishment (OPCAT)].
We note the judicial decision to move children with disabilities from the Ninotsminda boarding school to their biological families, foster care or small group homes. We recommend that the court decision be extended to all children in institutions, mindful of the right of children to live in a family environment and the right of children to be heard, as per the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and noting the need for the preparation and readiness of the children for the transition to family- and community-based care. Moreover, considering the best interest of a child, we urge all actors to respect the right of all children and their families to privacy at all stages of the deinstitutionalization process in line with Article 16 of the Convention.
The UN General Assembly Resolution on the Rights of the Child adopted on 18 December 2019, by all of the 193 member states of the United Nations, including Georgia, reaffirms the state’s responsibility to end the institutional care of children and to provide high-quality, family and community-based alternative care for children.
Immediate and stringent measures are necessary from the state to develop and approve a detailed deinstitutionalization action plan in order to enhance childcare services and to ensure that quality alternative care services for children are provided with a focus on family- and community-based care.
We recommend the creation of an appropriate mechanism to oversee the deinstitutionalization process in line with international standards to ensure that children’s well-being and rights are fully guaranteed. In addition, we recommend the creation of a case management team of social workers and health professionals, including psychologists and therapists, to support the development and implementation of individual case management plans so that children are fully supported throughout this process.
We also call for dedicated efforts to improve family support mechanisms, including the child protection system and social welfare protection procedures.
Finally, we call for immediate action to eliminate all forms of interference with relevant state monitoring institutions’ constitutional mandate and implement the interim measure of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child.
The UN in Georgia remains committed to work with the Government institutions, the Public Defender, civil society groups, international NGOs and all interested religious denominations to address systemic challenges in all care settings.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/131030-un-calls-greater-protection-children-and-deinstitutionalization




Date: 08 June 2021
Title: EU4Environment to launch industrial waste mapping in Rustavi and Zestaponi municipalities in Georgia
Content: 08 June 2021
In June, EU4Environment launches Industrial Waste Mapping (IWM) in two municipalities of Georgia – Rustavi and Zestaponi.
The two municipalities -  Rustavi and Zestaponi - will benefit from piloting a robust industrial waste mapping exercise to outline the lifecycle of industrial waste.
The waste mapping exercise aims to identify, assess, and map the waste streams of local manufacturing enterprises, from inception at the production site until final disposal. Its main goal is to develop options for an improved resource efficiency and introduction of circular economy principles and practices.
The stakeholders of the IWM activity, including the Georgian government, local government representatives, private companies, international experts and staff members from UNIDO and its national partners, will meet at the beginning of June. They will discuss IWM opportunities in Zestaponi and Rustavi to plan further steps and agree on the appropriate mapping methodology, available waste streams and industries in the region.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/130590-eu4environment-launch-industrial-waste-mapping-rustavi-and-zestaponi-municipalities-georgia




Date: 08 June 2021
Title: Children should grow up in a family environment, UNICEF says
Content: 08 June 2021
UNICEF Statement
UNICEF is ready to support the Government in moving children from large-scale institutions to family- and community-based care.
The removal of children from institutions should be carried out carefully. The best interests of the child should be prioritized to minimize traumatization of children. Assessment of children in institutions should be used to inform the transition to family-and community-based care, with focus on reuniting children with their own families where possible. Only those specialists who possess relevant knowledge and skills to work and communicate with children should be allowed to participate in the process.
Pending investigations regarding the physical and sexual abuse of children or any kind of violence should be finalized in an urgent and child-friendly manner. Children who participate in the relevant investigative proceedings should be protected: traumatization and victimization of children should be avoided at all costs. Legal aid should be provided and other guarantees fully applied in the process.
Meanwhile, social workers and specialists of the relevant state monitoring institutions should conduct regular visits to all institutions to provide professional assessment on the safety and well-being of children.
Children placed in the institutions should have access to a complaint mechanism to report abuse and misconduct.
Individual plans for children placed in institutions should be formulated to determine relevant alternative care services and professional support required. Relevant alternative care and family support services should be strengthened to support these children after leaving the institution, their families and professionals working with them.
Relevant actors should respect the right of all children and their families to privacy at all stages of the deinstitutionalization process.
UNICEF stands ready to support constructive dialogue between different partners around deinstitutionalization and effective family support services. Any support should be directed towards strengthening families and keeping children in families rather than funding the large-scale care facilities.
In a long-term perspective, UNICEF will support evidence generation of the push and pull factors for children’s institutionalization, assist relevant actors in the development of the de-institutionalization action plan, its implementation and will support the strengthening of family support services.
UNICEF has been supporting the deinstitutionalization process and child welfare reform in Georgia since 2005. UNICEF will continue to assist relevant stakeholders to finalize the deinstitutionalization process and facilitate family- and community-based care for all children.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/130589-children-should-grow-family-environment-unicef-says




Date: 05 June 2021
Title: Time to recreate, reimagine and restore ecosystems for generations to come
Content: 05 June 2021
The United Nations Country Team written message for the World Environment Day
5 June 2021


As we celebrate World Environment Day, the flagship day of the United Nations for promoting worldwide awareness and action for the environment, the UN family in Georgia joins hands to call for bold steps and practical measures aimed at preserving fragile ecosystems and at protecting people and the planet from the adverse effects of climate change.
The United Nations General Assembly has declared the years 2021 through 2030 the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration. This theme underlines the urgency of action needed to address multiple harms to the natural environment mainly caused by human activity.
It also serves as a reminder that our lives, well-being, economy and social development all depend on critical services provided by ecosystems, such as oxygen and freshwater.
By restoring and preserving ecosystems, conserving biodiversity, protecting the environment and introducing sustainable natural resource management, we can save the planet for future generations and ensure sustainable long-term economic growth that does not destroy our natural habitat.
These issues will be discussed at the COP26 summit in Glasgow on 1-12 November 2021, when all countries, including Georgia, will present their vision of greener and more sustainable development for the years to come.
Georgia has taken important steps to fulfill climate commitments undertaken under the EU Association Agreement, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)and the Paris Agreement and EU Energy Community membership. It has declared to apply eco-friendly principles of sustainable development while transitioning to the green economy and new, innovative solutions for low-emission investments.  Georgia is progressing on this pathway as climate policies and strategies, related laws are being elaborated, adopted and applied.  As part of nature-based solutions to fight climate change, Georgia is progressing on the  ban of  harmful single-use plastic, has increased the area of protected territories to conserve its unique biodiversity and has pledged to unconditionally reduce national Green House Gas (GHG) emissions by 35 percent below its 1990 baseline by 2030, to name a few.
Georgia faces significant environmental challenges caused by both direct human activity and global consequences of climate change.
To mitigate the impact of climate change by limiting global warming to 1.5°C, we need to decarbonize fossil fuel-based energy system and cut anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 45% by 2030 compared to 2010 levels. However, doing so would require rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in every sector; devising low carbon supply and value chain models for a sustainable growth; restoration of ecosystems; introducing adaptive measures for changing climate patterns and reduce risk of climate-driven disasters, including use of climate information for forecasting and early warning systems; promotion of  healthy, active and safe mobility and transport; healthy urban design; investment in renewable energy; the reduction of pollution by building circular economies that drive down waste; boosting access to sustainable consumption and production; the development of incentive mechanisms for waste prevention, reuse, recycling and recovery; reducing the loss, fragmentation and degradation of the pasturelands and conventional tillage practices; using more organic fertilizers and integrated pest management; and  taking stronger steps towards protecting Georgia’s rich and diverse forests, freshwater and sea areas.
We are confident that Georgia will further address climate change and preserve the environment. Its long-term sustainable environmental management and disaster risk reduction commitments will be matched by climate-sensitive policies and immediate actions aimed at reversing the decline of nature while protecting Georgia’s people, their properties and livelihoods.
Underlining our shared commitment to a low-carbon, cleaner, healthier, and more sustainable post-pandemic future, we pledge our support to the Government, civil society and other partners in expanding access to green solutions and making environmental issues an integral part of the development, thus fulfilling the UNFCCC Paris agreement targets and Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/130013-time-recreate-reimagine-and-restore-ecosystems-generations-come




Date: 05 June 2021
Title: Climate Change and Land / Pasture Degradation
Content: 05 June 2021
Training course in Kakheti, Kvemo Kartli, Mtskheta-Mtianeti, Imereti, Guria and Racha-Lechkhumi and Kvemo Svaneti regions
June 5 is World Environment Day. To commemorate this day, from 27th of May to 4th of June, within the format of FAO Georgia’s project “Achieving Land Degradation Neutrality Targets of Georgia through Restoration and Sustainable Management of Degraded Pasturelands” and Georgia Climate Action Project (GEO-CAP), CENN conducted an intensive online training courses on "Climate Change and Land / Pasture Degradation".
The training courses was interactive, attended by 90 people from different municipalities of Kakheti, Kvemo Kartli, Mtskheta-Mtianeti, Imereti, Guria and Racha-Lechkhumi and Kvemo Svaneti regions.
The training courses were dedicated to building participant’s capacity on climate change, promoting the introduction of sustainable pasture management practices and, in general, creating opportunities at the local level.
The Project “Achieving Land Degradation Neutrality Targets of Georgia through Restoration and Sustainable Management of Degraded Pasturelands” is initiated by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia and is financed by Global Environment Facility (GEF). The project is implemented by Food and Agriculture Organization. An executive organization is the Regional Environmental Centre for the Caucasus (REC Caucasus). Project partner - Caucasus Environmental NGO Network (CENN)
The Georgia Climate Action Project (GEO-CAP), financially supported by the EU, is implemented by CENN, in cooperation with KRDF, ACU, YPU and RLS-ADA. The project aims to strengthen the civil society of Georgia and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, with a particular focus on the rights to water and a healthy environment.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/130012-climate-change-and-land-pasture-degradation




Date: 04 June 2021
Title: World Environment Day 2021
Content: 04 June 2021
The theme of the World Environment Day 2021 is “Ecosystem Restoration” under the campaign “Reimagine. Recreate. Restore.”
This year, the Day will also serve as the formal launch of the United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration 2021-2030.
This theme underlines the urgency of action needed to address multiple harms to the natural environment mainly caused by human activity. It also serves as a reminder that our lives, well-being, economy and social development all depend on critical services provided by ecosystems, such as oxygen and freshwater.

CALENDAR OF WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY EVENTS IN GEORGIA:
June 5
Trainings on the topic of restoration of the degraded pasturelands and climate change issues to be conducted by FAO under the project Achieving Land Degradation Neutrality Targets of Georgia through Restoration and Sustainable Management of Degraded Pasturelands (MSP), in partnership with CENN.
June 5, 14:00, Mziuri Park
Public event dedicated to the World Environment day to be organized by the UN in Georgia in partnership with Georgia Alliance for Safe Roads, with participation of govt officials, eco-activists, experts,  civic education teachers and youth. The main topic of the meeting - air pollution and sustainable transport.
June 5, Tbilisi Gallery Mall (Rustaveli ave.)
Photo exhibition dedicated to the World Environment Day. Photos by FAO, UNDP and UNO to be displayed.
June 5
UN Women awareness raising  activities with the participation of grassroots women. Women  will plant trees in their villages as their windshield/ windbreak line.
June 7, 15:00, Zoom meeting
UN Dialogue Series meeting about the environmental challenges facing Georgia.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/130011-world-environment-day-2021




Date: 25 May 2021
Title: A Number of Events Focused on Empowering Women and Girls Held
Content: 25 May 2021
On May 21, 2021, a number of events focused on the topic of empowering women and girls were held in Zugdidi Municipality.
The events were organized jointly by the Human Rights Secretariat of the Administration of the Government of Georgia, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Georgia Country Office and the publishing house “Intelekti Publishing” with the support of the UN Resident Coordinator Office in Georgia. The events were attended by Ms. Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Ms. Lela Bakradze, Head of the UNFPA Georgia Country Office, Mr. Malkhaz Toria, Governor of Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti and Mr. Zviad Kvaratskhelia, writer and Editor-in-Chief of the publishing house “Intelekti Publishing”.
As part of the initiative, an Equality Corner was opened in the public school of the village of Koki in Zugdidi Municipality. Opening Equality Corners at schools and libraries in various regions of Georgia is an initiative of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), which has been implemented together with partner organizations since 2018. This initiative enables adolescents and youth to learn more about the concept of equality through contemporary literature. The Equality Corner at the public school in the village of Koki, which is the ninth Equality Corner in Georgia, was opened by a famous writer Ms. Nino Haratischwili.
At the Zugdidi Botanical Garden, a meeting was held with Ms. Nino Haratischwili, owner of several literary awards and one of the favourite authors of Georgian and not only Georgian readers; the meeting was jointly organized by the publishing house “Intelekti Publishing” and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). During the meeting, the author of world-famous bestsellers, which have been translated into many languages, spoke about her work and life and present-day issues of interest and high relevance; she also answered readers’ questions. The meeting with Ms. Nino Haratischwili was moderated by Ms. Gvantsa Jobava, Deputy Chairperson of Georgian Book Publishers and Distributors Association.
Within the same space, the exhibition “Girls from the Future” by the photographer Dina Oganova was organized. The photo project, through photos as well as texts, tells the stories of girls aged 10 to 16 living in different cities and villages of Georgia. The project aims at emphasizing to the public that unlocking the full potential of girls, creating equal conditions and equitable environment for them and ensuring their access to education and health care is crucial for the progress and development of every country, that every girl should enjoy the opportunities to complete education and make informed decisions about her life and health. The photo project was initiated by the UNFPA Georgia Country Office within the UN Joint Project for Gender Equality and is part of the large-scale advocacy work undertaken by UNFPA to address harmful practices of early marriages and to respect the reproductive health and rights of adolescents and youth.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/130601-number-events-focused-empowering-women-and-girls-held




Date: 21 May 2021
Title: Children’s rights should be monitored everywhere by the national relevant authorities, UNICEF says
Content: 21 May 2021
UNICEF statement
All the remaining institutions with children should be monitored by national relevant authorities to make sure that children's rights are fully respected. UNICEF advocates for a family environment for children, based on the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Code of the Rights of the Child of Georgia.
The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states that for the full and harmonious development of the child, he or she should grow up in a family environment, in an atmosphere of happiness, love and understanding. State Parties shall ensure that a child shall not be separated from his or her parents against their will, or due to poverty, except when competent authorities determine, in accordance with applicable law and procedures, that such separation is necessary for the best interests of the child.  The Code on the Rights of the Child mandates the State to take appropriate measures to prevent the abandonment or the separation of the child by his/her family and, if it is necessary to separate a child from the family, alternative care in any form shall be in conformity with the best interests of the child and with alternative childcare standards.
Where large residential care facilities remain, alternatives should be developed in the context of an overall deinstitutionalization strategy, with precise goals and objectives, which will allow for their progressive replacement with family and community care. UNICEF Georgia shares the understanding that the deinstitutionalization process serves the best interest of a child and is a means for achieving a better quality of life for a child. First and foremost, deinstitutionalization entails a significant shift from institutional to family and community-based care of the child.
Meanwhile, all relevant state authorities should be allowed to monitor the situation of children in all institutions to ensure their rights are protected.
UNICEF recommends the following to ensure a family environment for every child:
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/127387-children%E2%80%99s-rights-should-be-monitored-everywhere-national-relevant-authorities-unicef-says




Date: 21 May 2021
Title: UN Resident Coordinator becomes familiar with UN Women initiatives in Samegrelo
Content: 21 May 2021
UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl, who visited Zugdidi Municipality from 19 to 21 May 2021, became familiar with the initiatives implemented by UN Women together with local partners in Samegrelo.
On 20 May, Ms. Machl met with the representatives of local NGOs, IDP and conflict-affected women in Anaklia. UN Women, with the support of the Government of the United Kingdom, is actively working with the IDP and conflict-affected women on peace and security issues to strengthen their participation in the decision-making at the local level.
The participants discussed the UN Security Council resolutions on Women, Peace and Security, the localization of the 2018-2020 National Action Plan and the participation of IDP and conflict-affected women in the decision-making and peace and security processes.
Ms. Nona Bukia, representative of the Women’s Support Center of the Cultural-Humanitarian Fund “Sukhumi” in the village of Khurcha, spoke about the needs, as well as security of the people living in the villages along the Administrative Boundary Line. “We had online meetings with the community members,” Ms. Bukia explained. “As a result of these meetings, it became clear that more active cooperation is needed between the community leaders and the at-risk groups. It is necessary to create a database of the problems, which can then be shared with the relevant organizations for further response.”
The meeting was held in Anaklia at the family hotel of Ms. Maia Pipia, an entrepreneur supported by UN Women. Before that, Ms. Machl also visited the office of the community fund “NEFA”. NEFA was founded by the local women activists who have been voluntarily participating in a UN Women community mobilization initiative since 2010. Now, they are successfully leading a number of interesting projects supported by a variety of donor organizations. The community mobilization and entrepreneurship support initiative is implemented by UN Women with the assistance of the Government of Norway.

Ms. Machl held a meeting with local women entrepreneurs and farmers. Photo: UN/Vladimir Valishvili
On the same day, Ms. Machl held a meeting with local women entrepreneurs and farmers. Participants provided information about the current economic situation in the region, the impact of the pandemic on small and medium-sized enterprises, the challenges they face and their needs. The attendees of the meeting who manage such enterprises developed their business with the support of the UN Women project “A Joint Action for Women’s Economic Empowerment in Georgia”, funded by the Norwegian Government.
The UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia also visited the crisis centre for the victims and survivors of domestic violence and violence against women in the village of Tsaishi, Samegrelo.
The crisis centre was launched in 2019 as a result of cooperation between the NGO “Sakhli” and the local municipality within the framework of the UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality, supported by the Government of Sweden. The crisis centre offers psychological, social and economic assistance, as well as provides rehabilitation, medical, legal and referral services to the victims and survivors of domestic violence and violence against women.

The Un Resident Coordinator in Georgia also visited the crisis centre for the victims and survivors of domestic violence and violence against women in the village of Tsaishi, Samegrelo. Photo: UN/Vladimir Valishvili
Ms. Machl also met with the head of Sakhli, Ms. Rusudan Pkhakadze, and the crisis centre’s beneficiaries, who gave her direct information about the assistance provided to them by the centre as well as the additional needs for the day-to-day functioning of the centre.
“Women’s participation in decision-making processes and the economic development of [Georgia’s] regions is extremely important,” Ms. Machl noted after the meeting. “The UN and UN Women in Georgia will continue its intensive work in this direction.”
It is noteworthy that UN Women, together with the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, recently launched another project in Samegrelo that aims to promote the economic empowerment of women farmers engaged in dairy sector. The project is implemented with the financial support of the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/130602-un-resident-coordinator-becomes-familiar-un-women-initiatives-samegrelo




Date: 17 May 2021
Title: Time to stand up for equal rights and fair treatment of LGBTIQ+ persons in Georgia
Content: 17 May 2021
This joint statement is issued by the United Nations system in Georgia, the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, the Embassies to Georgia of Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Japan, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States, the Head of the Council of Europe Office in Georgia, and the Head of the EU Monitoring Mission in Georgia.
On the International Day against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia (IDAHOBIT), we express our support for and solidarity with the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex and queer (LGBTIQ+) community in Georgia, and stand united for the right of all to live free and equal in safety and dignity.
LGBTIQ+ people in Georgia continue to face bias, stigma, diminished opportunities in political, social and economic inclusion, as well as experience violent hate incidents and crimes. The COVID-19 pandemic has further increased the vulnerability of LGBTIQ+ people by amplifying prior injustices and obstacles in accessing healthcare, social protection and decent work.[1] Recognizing that LGBTIQ+ rights are human rights, we call on all relevant actors in Georgia to take resolute action to put an end to all forms of discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity and expression.
Georgia has shown progress in combating discrimination and homophobia towards LGBTIQ+ persons. In May 2014, Georgia adopted a landmark Law on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination,[2] which builds upon the principle of equality enshrined in the Constitution and prohibits all forms of discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity and expression. In this context, we commend the Georgian authorities for issuing the first-ever legal recognition for a transgender person in 2021. The Public Defender’s Office, as anti-discrimination mechanism, makes laudable efforts to draw attention to the need to address violence against LGBTIQ+ people in private and public spaces, to facilitate dialogue with the LGBTIQ+ community to prioritize concerns and to monitor investigation of discrimination cases and hate crimes. We also welcome the steps taken by the Georgian law enforcement agencies to improve institutional capacity to investigate hate crimes,[3] high-level policy discussions on improving protection of LGBTIQ+ persons’ rights and statements of support to this cause by some political parties and leaders.
Many actors have vital roles to play to ensure that the comprehensive human rights protections enshrined in law effectively address routine prejudice and violence that LGBTIQ+ persons, organizations and allies encounter in their everyday reality in Georgia. We urge Georgian state, political, civic and religious leaders to give high priority to fighting discrimination and stigma through education and leadership within their respective areas of responsibility, including by vigorously preventing violence, adopting and embracing respectful and compassionate public discourse,[4] investigating attacks and prosecuting offenders, and ensuring proper legal response to and protection from violent acts that hinder LGBTIQ+ organizations from operating freely.
This year Georgia continues to ensure that its people are shielded from the worst impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and starts the road towards recovery. In its response to the pandemic, Georgia has seen first-hand the benefits of social solidarity. We are confident that the same spirit can help Georgia eliminate discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity and expression, and embrace diversity, tolerance and empowerment of all people in Georgia as a source of strength. Underlining our shared commitment to equal rights for all, we pledge our support in this effort.
--------------------------------------------------------
[1] For information from the Office of the UN High Commissioner on Human Rights on the risks faced by LGBTIQ+ persons in the COVID-19 crisis, see : https://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/LGBT/LGBTIpeople.pdf.
[2] The Law of Georgia on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination, (2014), retrieved from https://bit.ly/3bcThhv
[3] Special Annual Report of the Public Defender on “the State of Equality”, (7 May 2021), retrieved from https://bit.ly/3tyxbwp
[4] “The right to freedom of religion or belief and the right to live free from violence and discrimination based on SOGI are both built on a promise of human freedom, LGBT persons deserve that promise fulfilled”; Statement by human rights experts on the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia (to be held on 17 May 2021), retrieved from https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=27091…



UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/126933-time-stand-equal-rights-and-fair-treatment-lgbtiq-persons-georgia




Date: 28 April 2021
Title: United Nations Country Team presents annual progress report for Georgia
Content: 28 April 2021
The review of the UN-Georgia Partnership for Sustainable Development for 2016-2020 showcases the many ways in which UN supported the country in 2020 to turn the aims of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development into results.

The United Nations Country Team in Georgia today organized a presentation of its achievements in 2020 to report progress in pursuing the joint UN-Georgia strategy “Partnership for Sustainable Development” agreed with the Government for 2016-2020. The event was designed to underscore the commitment by the UN agencies to “Deliver as One” in alignment with national priorities and the Sustainable Development Goals.
Ilia Darchiashvili, Head of the Administration of the Government of Georgia, in his speech at the virtual presentation stressed the effective and efficient cooperation with the UN.
“Next year marks the 30th anniversary of Georgia’s membership in the UN. Over these decades, UN support and engagement have been instrumental to the success of our country and today I would like to, once again, thank the UN on behalf of our government. It has been a long journey with growing cooperation to achieve a world where no one is left behind. Throughout this time Georgia has become more actively engaged within the important ongoing processes at the UN, often playing a leading role in different intergovernmental negotiations and consultations across all three pillars of the UN,” said Ilia Darchiashvili. “We look forward to continuing our partnership and remain open and ready for further active cooperation with the UN Country Team. We believe that with joint efforts in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, we can make the world a better place for everyone.”
Mr. Darchiashvili outlined some areas of fruitful UN-Georgia cooperation: advancement of the sustainable development agenda, strengthening human rights and improvement of socio-economic conditions in Georgia, including the improved resilience of conflict-affected communities. He expressed particular appreciation to the UN Country Team for the dedicated efforts and continued support rendered to Georgia’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl underlined the shared commitment to leave no one behind, the overarching motto of the Sustainable Development Goals. She noted that, at USD 57.5 million for 2020, the UN contribution to development efforts in Georgia represented a significant financial mobilization.
“In 2020, the UN Country Team in Georgia continued to closely work with the Government, Parliament, civil society as well as many other partners to provide assistance in the areas of socio-economic development, protection of the environment, strengthening the rule of law, human rights, gender equality and democratic values, reinforcing social justice, making quality education and healthcare available to all," said Sabine Machl.
She noted that because of the COVID-19 pandemic the UN Country Team has repurposed over USD 20 million to strengthen institutions at the national and local level to prevent and address the socio-economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and to mitigate the impact of the coronavirus outbreak on human lives and livelihoods, with the main focus on the most vulnerable.
Both, Mr. Darchiashvili and Ms. Machl highlighted their expectation that the new UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework – which was signed after intensive consultations throughout last year – will yet give new impetus to the Georgia-UN cooperation for the coming five years.
Marine Chitashvili, Team Leader of the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office, presented the UN’s achievements in five main areas: 1) Democratic governance; 2) Jobs, livelihoods and social protection; 3) Education; 4) Health; and 5) Human security and community resilience. Among the main achievements in 2020, she outlined: support to the elaboration and adoption of the Code on the Rights of the Child, the 2021-2030 Migration Strategy and the National Youth Policy for 2020-2030; supporting improvements in preschool and primary teaching; support to the government’s implementation of the Decentralization Strategy for 2020-2025; developing the system for vocational education and training to diversify rural occupations and help professionalize farming; assistance to vulnerable groups in conflict-affected communities, and formulating climate change policies and supporting the reduction of the risk of floods and other climate-driven disasters benefitting up to 1.7 million people (40% of population).
Organised by the United Nations Country Team in Georgia, the event brought together representatives of the Georgian parliament and government ministries.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/125855-united-nations-country-team-presents-annual-progress-report-georgia




Date: 23 April 2021
Title: Post-election media monitoring: Georgian media stays pluralistic and polarized
Content: 23 April 2021
EU and UNDP research examines post-election media trends

The European Union (EU) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) released key findings of post-election monitoring of the Georgian media that covered eight weeks following the 2020 parliamentary elections (from February to March 2021).
The findings show that media polarization continued to grow after the election cycle officially ended; political developments dominated all media sectors. This included the parliamentary boycott, EU-led mediation between the parties and the detention of the opposition leader Nika Melia.
As in the previous monitoring period (June to December 2020), polarization was most evident on television. Some TV stations manipulated their audiences by spreading unverified information; the use of abusive language was also observed. By openly demonstrating their political preferences, some news anchors and talk show hosts tried to discredit the electoral subjects they did not favour. The research registered alarming cases with talk show hosts using psychiatric terms to demean political actors, thus not only violating journalistic standards but also contributing to the stigmatization of persons with mental disabilities.
Accuracy remained a problem in print media. Further, some newspapers used offensive language and published discriminatory photos of politicians. However, researchers found fewer instances of gender-insensitive language compared to the previous monitoring period.
In contrast to television and the press, digital publications were less polarized and more balanced. Most monitored online publications refrained from discriminatory language, covered a wide range of electoral activity and provided a relatively impartial account of the events.
“Georgian society has gone through the very challenging few months after the elections,” noted Evija Kotan, Deputy Head of Political Section at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia. “The research showed that the vicious circle in which the political polarisation was feeding the media which, in turn, was feeding the political tensions, continued, strongly affecting the society. The unhealthy domination of politics over many crucial topics for society has been well reflected in the report. We very much hope that with the successful conclusion of the months-long political stand-off, the media will play its role in reducing the polarisation through resorting to more journalistic ethics and better standards.”
“The quality and impartiality of media coverage are essential for a democratic process,” said UNDP Acting Head Anna Chernyshova. “Media monitoring by civil society organisations gives a professional and objective assessment of political diversity and serves as a critical tool for journalists, politicians and the public.”
The EU-funded monitoring of media coverage of parliamentary elections in Georgia is implemented by UNDP in partnership with three Georgian civil society organizations: the Georgian Charter of Journalistic Ethics, Internews Georgia and CRRC-Georgia. The post-election research covered 33 media outlets, including 12 television stations, 8 print newspapers and 13 online editions, while the previous monitoring in June-December 2020 also included 10 radio stations and a social media network Facebook. All reports are available on the website: mediamonitor.ge


Study and Research on
Election Media Coverage for
2020 Parliamentary Elections in Georgia

Funded by the European Union (EU)
and implemented by the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)


Dates:
1 February – 31 March 2021

Media monitors:

Media outlets:

Television channels
Media monitor:
Georgian Charter of Journalistic Ethics

Print media
Media monitor:
Internews-Georgia
Online publications
Media monitor:
Georgian Charter of Journalistic Ethics


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/125625-post-election-media-monitoring-georgian-media-stays-pluralistic-and-polarized




Date: 23 April 2021
Title: UN Network on Migration Supports Georgia’s Engagement in the Global Compact for Migration Processes
Content: 23 April 2021
On April 22, IOM Georgia and the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office, in coordination with the UN Network on Migration Secretariat, organized a webinar “Lessons Learned, Good Practices, and Network Resources to Inform the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration (GCM) Implementation” for the officials of the State Commission for Migration Issues (SCMI).
Topics such as lessons learned from the 2020 GCM regional review processes; Migration Network Hub; the Champion Country Initiative; and the Migration Multi-Partner Trust Fund (M-MPTF) were covered by the representatives of the governments of Moldova, Sweden and Portugal together with the UN Network for Migration Secretariat experts, representatives of UN Agencies and M-MPTF. The event included a peer-to-peer discussion on the experiences during various steps and stages of the GCM process. The aim of the Webinar was to facilitate Georgia’s active participation in GCM processes and provide additional resources and information.
Introductory remarks were delivered by Dr Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Sanja Celebic Lukovac, IOM Georgia Chief of Mission and George Jashi, Executive Secretary of the SCMI.
The UN Network on Migration was established in Georgia on 30 June 2020 to maximize the support the UN system can bring to Georgia migration management, to enhance coordination and “whole of society approach” and offer additional tools for successful migration governance. April 22 meeting is 2nd  in a series of activities that IOM Georgia and UN Resident Coordinator’s Office (RCO) have organized in cooperation with the Government of Georgia in 2021 to operationalize the network and promote GCM. According to the Georgian State Migration Strategy 2021-2030 launched in January: “… the UN Migration Network can play a significant role that would contribute to effective coordination in-between the UN agencies on the ground, and through this, maintain regular communication with the SCMI.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/125624-un-network-migration-supports-georgia%E2%80%99s-engagement-global-compact-migration-processes




Date: 21 April 2021
Title: A joint visit of International Development Partners to Pankisi Gorge
Content: 21 April 2021
A delegation of Ambassadors, representatives of 13 countries, UNICEF Regional Director for Europe and Central Asia Ms. Afshan Khan, UN Resident Coordinator Dr. Sabine Machl and UNICEF representative in Georgia Dr. Ghassan Khalil had a two-day visit to Pankisi Gorge.
The visit to Pankisi is being organized by UNICEF Georgia to provide international development partners with an account of the current needs of children and their families whose lives have been affected by complex challenges. The delegation consists of Ambassadors and High Representatives of Austria, Bulgaria, Estonia, France, Germany, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Sweden, Spain, Turkey, United States and the UN Resident Coordinator.

"Along with our partners we are looking forward to make sure that these barriers for children are removed and young people of Pankisi reach their full potential." - Ghassan Khalil

“UNICEF has been actively working with communities in remote areas and ethnic minorities and I am glad that, together with UNICEF Regional Director for Europe and Central Asia we have invited our international friends and partners to visit and  discuss how the international community can support children and their families in Pankisi,” said Ghassan Khalil, UNICEF Representative in Georgia.   “We are learning about the challenges that children and families face in the region, such as quality of education, lack of internet access, scarcity of social services and a lack of youth opportunities. Along with our partners we are looking forward to make sure that these barriers for children are removed and young people of Pankisi reach their full potential.”



"Without sustained action, we risk an irreversible decline in progress on child rights and the Sustainable Development Goals." - Afshan Khan
“The younger generations have been hard hit by the COVID-19 pandemic.” said the UNICEF Regional Director for Europe and Central Asia Ms. Afshan Khan. “A secure, fair and inclusive future in the Pankisi region will depend on boosting the competence, confidence and resilience of young people and their families. Without sustained action, we risk an irreversible decline in progress on child rights and the Sustainable Development Goals.”
The programme of the visit consists of meetings with the local Council of Elders, the Women’s Council, parents, teachers, and religious leaders, as well as discussions with local youth, and the provision of education supplies to the schools of Pankisi.  The delegation members will also learn about the region and discuss the child-oriented development plan for Pankisi.



Similar to elsewhere in Georgia, at least one in four children in Pankisi lives in poverty with low levels of household income. Education has been impacted significantly by the COVID-19 Pandemic, with schools closed for the majority of the year. The poorest children do not have access to online learning. Informal education opportunities for youth in Pankisi are not sufficient, this includes physical infrastructure for cultural activities as well as sport facilities.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/125505-joint-visit-international-development-partners-pankisi-gorge




Date: 20 April 2021
Title: Georgia prepares for the UN Food Systems Summit
Content: 20 April 2021
The working meeting, conducted online, was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia, FAO, as well as other organization and experts in the field.
Georgia is getting ready for the UN Food Systems Summit, scheduled for September 2021. UN agencies, represented in Georgia, including FAO, support Georgian government in the preparation process for the summit. The Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia, Giorgi Khanishvili and the UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Sabine Machl participated in the working meeting, dedicated to the summit.
“COVID-19 pandemic posed numerous challenges to Georgia and the whole world. Considering the situation, the Secretary-General’s decision to take the food security issues under his control and convene World Food Systems Summit, is very important. Georgia, as the UN member country, will be actively involved in the summit and will contribute to the solutions of challenges the world faces,” Khanishvili stated.
The UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Sabine Machl highlighted the need to unite forces and find the ways to transform global food systems.
“We need to think how to get healthier, more sustainable and equitable food systems. Our dialogue will define Georgia’s path in achieving these goals. All countries participating in the summit are expected to develop recommendations for establishing sustainable global food systems,” Sabine Machl stated.
The working meeting, conducted online, was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia, FAO, as well as other organization and experts in the field.
UN Food Systems Summit is a global event, which will be hosted by the UN Secretary-General in September 2021. Prior to the summit, all participant countries will conduct preparation dialogue meetings, which should lead to the development of the recommendation towards the development of sustainable food systems for the global community. The participant countries are expected to present the recommendations during a meeting scheduled for July 2021. The Summit will bring together key players from the worlds of science, business, policy, healthcare and academia, as well as youth organizations, environmental activists, and other key stakeholders. These actors will come together to work out positive changes to the world’s food systems, to make healthy food, produced with environmental impact accessible for all and make global sustainable food systems a reality by year 2030.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/125630-georgia-prepares-un-food-systems-summit




Date: 19 April 2021
Title: UNICEF Regional Director for Europe and Central Asia visits Georgia
Content: 19 April 2021
Ms. Afshan Khan, together with Dr. Ghassan Khalil, the UNICEF Representative in Georgia, will meet with senior government officials, community representatives, and young people in both Tbilisi and in Pankisi Gorge.
UNICEF Regional Director for Europe and Central Asia, the UNICEF Representative to the UN in Geneva, and the Special Coordinator for the Refugee and Migrant Response in Europe, Ms. Afshan Khan pays her second official visit to Georgia from 19 to 21 April 2021.
Ms. Afshan Khan, together with Dr. Ghassan Khalil, the UNICEF Representative in Georgia, will meet with senior government officials, community representatives, and young people in both Tbilisi and in Pankisi Gorge, to discuss the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on children and families, and the Government of Georgia’s efforts to address the needs of the most vulnerable communities.
The Regional Director will have meetings with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Georgia - Mr. Lasha Darsalia, the Minister of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health, and Social Affairs - Ms. Ekaterine Tikaradze, and the Director General of the National Centre for Disease Control and Public Health - Dr. Amiran Gamkrelidze, to discuss the long-standing partnership and ongoing cooperation on vaccination and support in responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.

"I am glad to be back in Georgia in these challenging times when the COVID-19 pandemic has upended the essential services that secure the health, education, and protection of children and young people." - Afshan Khan

“I am glad to be back in Georgia in these challenging times when the COVID-19 pandemic has upended the essential services that secure the health, education, and protection of children and young people,” said the UNICEF Regional Director for Europe and Central Asia Ms. Afshan Khan. “Children, especially the poorest and most marginalized, are amongst the hardest hit; and UNICEF is closely working with the Government of Georgia to prioritize children in their response plans to avert a lost COVID Generation. We need to protect our children now, and help to reimagine a better future.”



The Regional Director will also visit the Pankisi Gorge together with the UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia and UNICEF’s international development partners, a group comprised of Ambassadors and international development organizations from Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Sweden, Spain, Turkey, and the United States.
The visit to Pankisi is being organized by UNICEF Georgia to provide international development partners with a holistic account of the current needs of the people whose lives have been affected by these complex challenges. In line with the government decentralization strategy, UNICEF will facilitate meetings with local community organizations to learn about the needs of children, young people, and families, to expand engagement in the region, through a child-oriented development plan.
The two-day visit to Pankisi Gorge will include meetings with the local Council of Elders, the Women’s Council, and religious leaders; it will also include discussions with the local youth, a meeting with parents, and a handover of educational resources to the Pankisi schools.
During her visit to Pankisi, the UNICEF Regional Director will stress the importance of providing all children, especially children living in ethnic minority communities, the opportunities to fully participate in shaping the future of their families and communities.
Maya Kurtsikidze
Communication Officer
UNICEF Georgia
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/125508-unicef-regional-director-europe-and-central-asia-visits-georgia




Date: 02 April 2021
Title: Special report by Public Defender assesses child labour risks
Content: 02 April 2021
The risks of child involvement in labour have increased in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, says the Special Report On Child Labour During the New Coronavirus Pandemic and Beyond, prepared by the Public Defender's Office.
The report analyzes the pandemic’s impact on child labour, gaps in legislation, and problems identified in practice. The report was prepared with the support of UNICEF.
Public Defender Nino Lomjaria, Head of the Permanent Parliamentary Child Protection Council Ana Buchukuri, Head of the Human Rights Secretariat at the Government of Georgia Maka Peradze, and UNICEF Representative in Georgia Ghassan Khalil, all participated in the event to present the special report.
The report is based on the findings of the legislative and practical study implemented by the Public Defender's Office carried out in the country's four regions: Adjara, Guria, Kakheti, and Samtskhe-Javakheti.

"The study clearly revealed the need for the harmonization of the current national legislation and norms with international standards." - Nino Lomjaria

"The mechanisms to eradicate child labour in the country are inefficient and fail to identify the cases in a timely manner. Despite the pressing nature of the issue, the responsible agencies have still not developed proper mechanisms to react to or prevent cases, or to develop risk assessment. On top of that, the study clearly revealed the need for the harmonization of the current national legislation and norms with international standards," said Public Defender Nino Lomjaria.

"UNICEF continues its cooperation with the Government and the Public Defender's Office in effecting systemic changes, the prevention of child labour, and the empowerment of families to address the issue." - Ghassan Khalil

"UNICEF has been actively cooperating with the Public Defender's Office and supporting it in child rights monitoring," said Ghassan Khalil, UNICEF Representative in Georgia. "Georgia ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and many other international instruments, which establish Government responsibility for protecting every child from hazardous labour. The Code on the Rights of the Child of Georgia that came into force several months ago envisages child protection from harmful forms of labour and the development of specific mechanisms for the eradication of child labour on both national and municipal levels. UNICEF continues its cooperation with the Government and the Public Defender's Office in effecting systemic changes, the prevention of child labour, and the empowerment of families to address the issue,” Khalil added.
The study has shown the following:
The study was conducted in the second half of 2020, focusing on child labour in households, formal and informal sectors, working on the streets, and labour migration. Interviews were conducted with various actors from organizations working on child labour and human rights issues, governmental institutions, local self-government bodies, as well as schoolteachers and adolescents.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/125626-special-report-public-defender-assesses-child-labour-risks




Date: 30 March 2021
Title: Only half of domestic violence victims call police for help, study says
Content: 30 March 2021
UNDP survey examines police responses and use of 112 emergency hotline
As the world sees an increase in domestic and gender-based violence amid the pandemic, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the UK Government are working with the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Georgia to assess the effectiveness of state services provided to victims.
“Human rights protection is our priority, supported by the ongoing reforms in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the measures undertaken during the pandemic,” said Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Aleksandre Darakhvelidze. “We are working with public agencies and international partners to ensure efficient response to domestic violence in pandemic conditions.”
Research carried out by the Georgian non-governmental organization “Sapari” in March-June 2020 suggests that nearly half of all victims of domestic violence refrained from seeking help from the police.
The quantitative part of the research was based on phone interviews with 76 women victims of domestic violence from Tbilisi and the regions. Respondents were selected randomly from a database maintained by civil society organizations. The qualitative part of the research draws on focus group discussions with ten lawyers and ten police officers, and 15 in-depth interviews with beneficiaries of three NGOs: Sapari, the Anti-Violence Network and the Georgian Young Lawyers’ Association.
Among the main findings:
Those who did not call 112 cited a variety of reasons: lack of trust (35 percent), lack of awareness (30 percent); and long wait times (18 percent). The slow response times reported in the survey may stem from use of the 112 emergency number as a COVID-19 hotline. The survey was conducted before additional 112 extensions were added in November 2020 for urgent medical assistance (112); fire and rescue (112/1), which covers assistance to victims of domestic violence; and COVID-19 support (112/2), which may have reduced wait times.
Of those who called the patrol police, 42 percent say it took 10-15 minutes for police to arrive and 58 percent said it took longer. 39 percent observed that police officers were not considerate to the victims, with some quoted as saying that “the pandemic situation is not the right time to worry about domestic violence.”
Half of all respondents thought that pandemic lockdowns had a negative impact on police operations. Many cited difficulties in getting to the police station owing to limits on public transportation imposed to control the virus. 88 percent of all respondents were convinced that police do not provide online investigative services – something that the MIA noted was impossible given current regulations governing the collection of evidence.
“Around the world we are seeing that gender-based violence is a shadow pandemic,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “Our research is designed to help the responsible authorities identify and remedy weaknesses in the systems set up to prevent violence, assist survivors and prosecute offenders, despite pandemic limitations.”
The Ministry of Internal Affairs reports that the number of restraining orders issued to protect victims of domestic violence increased from 5,521 in February-July 2019 to 5,699 in the same period of 2020. 85 percent of survey respondents who requested restraining orders against perpetrators said they were granted.
„The UK is proud to be supporting work to improve services for victims of domestic abuse. The nature of the pandemic has created particular challenges to ensuring widespread awareness of and access to confidential support, advice and refuge,” said British Ambassador Mark Clayton. “I am pleased to see that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the CSO Sapari collaborated effectively on this research. The evidence provided from the research should help policy-makers design improved services for victims of domestic violence.”
A Rapid Gender Assessment of the COVID-19 situation in Georgia conducted last year by UNDP in partnership with UNFPA and UN Women showed that awareness of survivors regarding available support services is low.
Research on police effectiveness in providing services to victims of domestic violence is part of a broader UK-funded programme supporting public administration reform in Georgia that UNDP implements in partnership with the Government and public agencies.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/123731-only-half-domestic-violence-victims-call-police-help-study-says




Date: 21 March 2021
Title: The Secretary-General message on the International Day of Nowruz
Content: 21 March 2021
As the world comes together to defeat COVID-19, Nowruz serves as an inspiration to recover and rebuild in a more just and durable way, in harmony with nature. -- UN Secretary-General António Guterres
Dear friends,
Each year, Nowruz marks a new beginning.
Last year, the Nowruz celebration coincided with the early days of an unprecedented and devastating global pandemic.
This year, the Nowruz spirit is more vital than ever.
Solidarity between communities and generations is more crucial than ever.
Our promise in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development to leave no one behind is more essential than ever.
Today, we can start to see light at the end of the tunnel.
As the world comes together to defeat COVID-19, Nowruz serves as an inspiration to recover and rebuild in a more just and durable way, in harmony with nature.
I offer my best wishes to everyone marking Nowruz.
May this day advance happiness, health and harmony to all.




UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/122761-secretary-general-message-international-day-nowruz




Date: 19 March 2021
Title: Women’s History Month Celebrated in Zugdidi Municipality
Content: 19 March 2021
Through the joint efforts of the Human Rights Secretariat of the Administration of the Government of Georgia, Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia and the UNFPA Georgia Country Office, Women’s History Month was celebrated in Zugdidi Municipality in cooperation with the Office of the Governor of Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti.
The events were attended by the UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia Sabine Machl and the Head of UNFPA Georgia Country Office Lela Bakradze.
There was a meeting held with Malkhaz Toria, Governor of Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti to discuss future cooperation in the field of human rights, promotion of gender equality and youth empowerment.
On the same day, the exhibition Girls from the Future by photographer Dina Oganova was opened at Rukhi Public School. The photo project tells the stories of girls aged 10 to 16 living in different cities and villages of Georgia through photos as well as texts. The project aims at emphasizing to the public that unlocking the full potential of girls, creating equal conditions and equitable environment for them and providing access to education and health is crucial for the progress and development of every country, that every girl should have an opportunity to complete education and make informed decisions about their life and health. The photo project was initiated by the UNFPA Georgia Country Office and it is a part of the large-scale advocacy work undertaken by UNFPA to address harmful practices of early marriages and to respect the reproductive health and rights of adolescents and youth.
Within the framework of the event, the Equality Corner was opened at the library of the same school in partnership with the publishing houses Intelekti and Artanuji. The Equality Corner will enable the adolescents and youth living in Rukhi to learn more about the idea of ​​equality through contemporary fiction. The Equality Corner was opened by Zviad Kvaratskhelia, a writer and an active supporter of the MenCare Campaign. He delivered a public lecture to the students and spoke about the idea and importance of gender equality.
“Samegrelo region is and will remain the priority region for UN Agencies, including UNFPA Georgia Country Office, within the framework of the UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality. This project is being implemented by UNDP, UNFPA and UN Women since 2012 with the support of the Government of Sweden. We believe that initiatives like today’s do support young people’s healthy and sustainable development. It is pivotal for adolescents to have safe spaces for receiving non-formal education, spend time meaningfully and share ideas with each other.” – Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia.
“We are glad that despite the situation created by the pandemic, we celebrated the Women’s History Month today at Rukhi Public School. It has been a priority for UNFPA to empower adolescents and the youth, to equip them with knowledge about their rights, because we believe that it is the youth who has a final say about how to achieve sustainable development. It is necessary to have frequent talks with the adolescents and youth about all the issues that matter for them, as well as for the progress of the society,” - said Lela Bakradze, Head of the UNFPA Georgia Country Office.
“I am glad that we have opened a space imbued with the idea of ​​freedom, equality and tolerance in Rukhi, a village located near the occupation line. The Equality Corner will enable young people to learn more about the universal values ​​through contemporary literature. This project aims at realizing the potential of the youth and adolescents. It is important that there is as much space in our region as possible for adolescents to receive additional non-formal education, discuss and share ideas with one another.” - said Malkhaz Toria, Governor of Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti.
The UNFPA Georgia Country Office, together with partner organizations, plans to open several more Equality Corners in different regions of Georgia in 2021.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/122922-women%E2%80%99s-history-month-celebrated-zugdidi-municipality




Date: 18 March 2021
Title: Georgia explores new funding opportunities to protect biodiversity
Content: 18 March 2021
UNDP helps enhance finance management for biodiversity, forestry and agriculture
Ten initiatives, covering energy efficiency, forestry, eco-tourism and sustainable agriculture, were presented at a fund-raising forum on 12 March for international and private-sector partners. The event was organised by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture (MEPA) as part of BIOFIN, a global initiative launched in response to the urgent need to channel more funding into biodiversity protection.
“Global disasters such as the pandemic and climate change are the results of human encroachment on the nature,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “The BIOFIN initiative helps countries find creative and practical solutions to try to reverse this destruction. The rich catalogue of projects prepared for Georgia will help protect the country’s natural treasures and build a greener and more sustainable economy.”
Georgia is among the first 30 countries to launch a national BIOFIN process, aiming at closing funding gaps in biodiversity conservation and mobilising resources needed to develop and implement biodiversity policies and carry out practical steps in the energy, agriculture and other sectors.
In 2020, in partnership with MEPA’s Biodiversity and Forestry Department, the National Forestry Agency and the Agency of Protected Areas, UNDP identified over 40 projects to address urgent biodiversity issues, including energy efficiency in the public sector, eco-tourism, forest management, certification for non-timber forest products and sustainable management of natural resources in protected areas. The top ten priority initiatives were selected by MEPA in a consultative process, based on their compliance with national priorities, sustainability, environmental benefits, funding potential and other criteria.
The 12 March discussion was organized to present these initiatives to the Government, civil society, environmental experts and potential donors, seeking resources needed for their implementation.
Additionally, the event summarised a five-year collaboration under the BIOFIN project, led by UNDP in partnership with MEPA and other biodiversity actors in Georgia.
Since the launch of BIOFIN in 2016, Georgia’s state funding allocated for biodiversity conservation has grown 24-fold, from GEL 30,000 to GEL 720,000. UNDP also helped to adopt the national biodiversity finance plan in 2019, develop an ecotourism development plan for the National Forest Agency, design a crowdfunding platform and a fundraising strategy for the Tbilisi Zoo to save endangered species and captive bear cubs, develop biodiversity-related guidelines for the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and create a calculation methodology for non-timber forest products.
Based on these achievements, Georgia was recognised as a 2019 champion among BIOFIN countries.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/122502-georgia-explores-new-funding-opportunities-protect-biodiversity




Date: 17 March 2021
Title: UN Engages Georgian Civil Society Organizations in Discussion on the Global Compact for Migration
Content: 17 March 2021
Under the Auspices of the UN Network on Migration, UN Agencies held an online workshop.
On March 16, UN Agencies together with the Georgian government representatives held an online workshop titled “United Nations Network on Migration and Georgian Civil Society Organizations (SCO)’ Engagement on the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration (GCM) Process”.
Introductory remarks were delivered by Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Sanja Celebic Lukovac, IOM Georgia Chief of Mission, Nino Shekriladze, Head of the UN Division of the Department of International Organizations, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia and George Jashi, Executive Secretary of the Secretariat of the Georgian State Commission for Migration Issues.
In her opening remarks, Ms. Machl stated that “in recent decades, Georgia has often been experiencing multiple and simultaneous migration-related challenges and opportunities. Being the country of origin of thousands of migrants working and living abroad, with many families relying on remittances, Georgia is now also a country of transit, and a country of hope and safe haven for a growing number of foreign nationals. “
After the opening remarks, the UN Network on Migration Secretariat representatives - Ms. Monami Maulik, Civil Society Liaison Officer and Mr. Abdel Diop, Policy Officer – spoke to the participants about the structure of the network, regional review process, whole-of-society approach, and stakeholder engagement. Champion Countries Initiative aimed at showcasing the best practices in GCM implementation and building awareness around GCM and the Networks at regional and country levels, were also presented.
After the presentations, the participant civil society organizations had a chance to engage in a discussion and receive clarifications.
According to IOM Georgia Chief of Mission, Ms. Sanja Celebic Lukovac “The year 2021 will be the year of the Network operationalization: its ambitious 2021 plan includes a series of GCM-related events and initiatives.”
IOM expressed readiness to continue the efforts, aimed at active engagement of CSOs in the GCM implementation and the activities of the Georgia UN Network on Migration, which is coordinating  the UN collective contribution to migration governance in Georgia by facilitating, supporting and complementing the 2021-2030 Migration Strategy of Georgia based on the provisions of the GCM.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/122230-un-engages-georgian-civil-society-organizations-discussion-global-compact-migration




Date: 15 March 2021
Title: Support of Women Human Rights Defenders and Their Work
Content: 15 March 2021
UN Country Team Statement, 15 March 2021
Women human rights defenders are women who act to promote or protect human rights and all individuals who defend the human rights of women or work for gender equality. We have unfortunately, witnessed intense aggression and stigmatization of the work of women human rights defenders through social media in the past few days in Georgia, along with the threats and condemnation expressed against individual women human rights defenders.
Women human rights defenders are at the forefront of social justice and feminist movements that advocate for the realization of gender equality, women’s empowerment, and human rights for all, the UN Country Team in Georgia would like to reaffirm its solidarity with women human rights defenders, who are leading the fight for the equal enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
We underline that women human rights defenders are subject to the same types of risks as any human rights defender, but as women, they are also targeted for or exposed to gender-specific threats and gender-specific violence. Often, the work of women human rights defenders is seen as challenging traditional notions of family and gender roles in the society, which can lead to hostility by some groups. Their families also become targets for threats and violence, aiming to discourage women human rights defenders from pursuing their work. Women defenders are more at risk of being subject to certain forms of violence and other violations, prejudice, exclusion, and repudiation than their male counterparts. Prompt investigation of all threats of violence against women human rights defenders should be launched.
In the times of COVID-19, when we see significant risks and drawbacks to the achievements made in the field of gender equality and signals of rise of misogyny are alarming. In this context the work of women human rights defenders is more important than ever so that we continue to build back better and collectively contribute to irreversible progress towards gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls, everywhere.
We condemn, any forms of intimidation, threats, violence, and other abuses against women human rights defenders, as well as attempts to subject women human rights defenders to stigmatization and ostracism and call on the Government to take appropriate, robust, and practical steps to protect women human rights defenders and to integrate a gender perspective into their efforts to create a safe and enabling environment for the protection of human rights.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/116427-support-women-human-rights-defenders-and-their-work




Date: 13 March 2021
Title: Georgia receives a first batch of 43,200 doses of COVID-19 vaccine through COVAX Facility
Content: 13 March 2021
One year after the country’s first confirmed COVID-19 case, Georgia  received a first batch of 43,200 doses of AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine produced by the AstraZeneca-SKBio (Republic of Korea) via COVAX Facility on 13 March. WHO, UNICEF and international partners are supporting the Government of Georgia in procuring these vaccines.
The vaccines will be distributed by the Government to all districts over the weekend and vaccinations are scheduled to start on 15 March. Administration of the vaccines will be based on the priority groups identified by the Government, with medical workers among the first priority group. The 43,200 doses will be fully utilized for the first dose. This decision was taken based on the information that the next delivery of 86,400 doses will take place in April and the recommended interval between the injections is 8 to 12 weeks.
In the coming weeks, Georgia will receive 129,600 doses from AstraZeneca. Recently, UNICEF has been asked to support the Government in procuring the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, with delivery expected later in March.
“Today is a historic day in Georgia as we are expecting the first batch of COVID-19 vaccines to arrive. UNICEF, along with other partners such as WHO and GAVI, are delighted to support the Government of Georgia in COVID-19 vaccine procurement. Immunization of front-line health workers and vulnerable groups will allow a gradual return to normality. Children have been seriously impacted by the pandemic and we do hope that vaccination will contribute to safe and full access to the services they need. At the same time, we need to continue compliance with prevention measures such as handwashing, physical distancing and the use of masks”, said UNICEF Deputy Representative Amy Clancy.
UNICEF Georgia has been supporting the Government of Georgia in carrying out routine immunization programmes and has facilitated engagement with COVAX on COVID-19 vaccines upon the request of the Government.
As the largest vaccine buyer in the world, procuring more than 2 billion doses annually for routine immunization and outbreak response on behalf of nearly 100 countries, UNICEF is coordinating and supporting the procurement, international freight, and in-country distribution of COVID-19 vaccines for COVAX Facility.
COVAX is part of the Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator, a ground-breaking global collaboration to accelerate development, production, and equitable access to COVID-19 tests, treatments, and vaccines. COVAX is co-led by the Vaccine Alliance (Gavi), the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), working in partnership with UNICEF as a key implementing partner for vaccine procurement and delivery.
The goal of the COVAX initiative is to provide nations with equitable and affordable access to safe and effective vaccines against COVID-19, regardless of their income level. It is an international solidarity mechanism set up for the benefit of 92 low- and middle-income countries to collectively and effectively combat the COVID-19 pandemic.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/116170-georgia-receives-first-batch-43200-doses-covid-19-vaccine-through-covax-facility




Date: 12 March 2021
Title: Answering a call of the future
Content: 12 March 2021
UNDP launches Accelerator Lab to help Georgia solve development puzzles
Challenging conventional wisdom to solve protracted development challenges was in focus today, as UNDP launched its Accelerator Lab in Georgia. The new facility joins a global network of 92 UNDP Accelerator Labs covering 116 different countries, seeking to apply new insights and technologies to solve protracted development challenges.
“UNDP is taking a fresh look at how we do business,” said UN Assistant Secretary-General and UNDP Regional Director Mirjana Spoljaric Egger. “The Accelerator Labs give us the agility and aptitude to apply new approaches to help countries to unlock development challenges that often seem to defy solution.”
Each Accelerator Lab combines three functions: scanning the horizon for grassroots solutions that may have gone unrecognized by experts; using unconventional sources to generate real-time data to detect emerging trends; and conducting small-scale experiments to test the potential of different approaches.
Georgia was selected this year to join this fast-growing network of innovation and experimentation.
“The choice of Georgia as the home for our newest Accelerator Lab was for me an obvious one,” said Spoljaric Egger, citing the country’s impressive track record of innovation in public service delivery and its achievements in applying digital technologies to reach vulnerable groups in the pandemic response.
“The Accelerator Lab enriches our work by giving us a team of ‘mad scientists’ to turn to when we lack ready answers,” said Louisa Vinton, UNDP Head in Georgia. “They can tap into the collective intelligence of an impressive global brain-trust and come back to us with real-world solutions tested in other contexts. We see opportunities both to enhance ongoing programming and to generate exciting new initiatives.”
The three-person Accelerator Lab team is currently completing a first 100-day cycle aimed at seeking practical answers to three queries chosen as a starting point: how to extend municipal services to hard-to-reach regions in pandemic conditions; how to change public attitudes towards recycling and waste separation; and how to translate climate data into narratives that can transform people’s behaviour.
The Lab has also launched an exploration into how best to overcome vaccine hesitancy in Georgia, joining a broad coalition supporting the National Center for Disease Control and Public Health (NCDC) in trying to ensure the swiftest possible uptake once COVID-19 vaccines start to arrive in the country.
The UNDP Accelerator Lab network is funded by the Governments of Germany and Qatar.
“Germany is pleased to have this opportunity to support Georgia in harnessing innovative solutions and to work with UNDP in incorporating fresh insights into development efforts,” said German Ambassador Hubert Knirsch. “Most of all, we want to help Georgia to recover from the pandemic and regain momentum towards the Sustainable Development Goals. Through smart use of data and other innovative methods, the Accelerator Lab can make important contributions to our shared efforts.“
The online launch of the Accelerator Lab in Georgia was attended by UNDP partners from Government, civil society, the private sector and academia. It featured a lively discussion on science and digitalization among DirectorGeneral of the National Centre for Disease Control and Public Health Amiran Gamkrelidze, Vice-Rector at Ilia State University Nana Dikhaminjia, and Senaki Mayor Levan Kupreishvili.
The early achievements of Accelerator Labs elsewhere were shared by network pioneers from Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Argentina, while the Georgia team – Sesili Verdzadze, Elena Darjania and Zurab Nabakhteveli – presented their own ideas and plans. The AccLab team also shared the results of an interactive quiz aimed at validating the priorities they have selected for their first months with UNDP and invited interested participants to join in a more focused partner workshop to be held in two weeks.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/122506-answering-call-future




Date: 09 March 2021
Title: Pandemic deepened gender inequalities in Georgian society, study reveals
Content: 09 March 2021
Large shares of respondents report job and income losses and rising psychological stress
Restrictions imposed to halt the COVID-19 pandemic in Georgia cost jobs, slashed incomes and undermined mental health. There are also signs of an increase in domestic violence. But the impact was differentiated and varied by location, occupation, ethnicity and gender. To understand the differences, three United Nations agencies conducted a Rapid Gender Assessment of the COVID-19 situation, in partnership with Sweden and Norway.
“As Georgia is seeking to recover from the crisis and build a more sustainable and equal society, it is important to look into every aspect of this global and national emergency and assess how it affected equality, inclusive growth and social justice,” said UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl.
“The pandemic has prompted extraordinary decisions within politics, the public sector and the business community. The decisions affect everyone but are mostly shaped by men. As we strive to build back better, it is more important than ever to increase women’s political participation and representation in decision making,” said Ulrik Tideström, Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia.
Initiated by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the UN Population Fund (UNFPA) and UN Women, and carried out in October 2020 by the research agency CRRC-Georgia, the research builds on the results of a similar survey conducted in May, aiming to understand the lasting effects of the pandemic and inform a gender-sensitive response.
The two surveys reflect two very different phases of the pandemic. The first survey was conducted while strict restrictions on travel and commerce were in force but while COVID-19 prevalence remained low and fatalities were still in single digits. By contrast, the second survey, conducted in October 2020, took place after most social and economic restrictions had been relaxed but while the number of cases and deaths was soaring. This was reflected in the data: in October, 13 percent reported that a household member had fallen ill from COVID-19, up 9 percentage points from the earlier survey.
The surveys document the heavy economic toll of pandemic measures: in October, 17 percent (20 percent of employed women and 15 percent of employed men) reported having lost their jobs, and 43 percent (49 percent of men and 39 percent of women) reported losses in income. As stark as these results are, they reflect a dramatic improvement compared to May, when 32 percent of employed respondents reported job losses and 82 percent said they saw a drop in income.
Members of national minorities were three times more likely than ethnic Georgians to have lost their jobs.
These losses prompted a variety of coping strategies: 41 percent of respondents said they spent their savings to make ends meet; 36 percent bought cheaper or lower-quality food; 33 reduced spending on healthcare; 21 percent borrowed from family members; 19 percent took loans; and 15 percent spent less on education; and 7 percent sold off possessions.
Notably, 42 percent of respondents reported receiving government financial aid in October, a remarkable 35 percentage-point increase from the May survey. An additional 13 percent said they had received some form of in-kind assistance.
“The data show the dramatic economic impact of the pandemic in Georgia,” said UNDP Resident Representative Louisa Vinton. “But they also confirm that not everyone was affected equally. Our focus is to support a recovery that protects both lives and livelihoods while addressing the underlying inequalities that the pandemic has exposed or exacerbated.”
One area of concern is the unequal position of women on the labour market: before the pandemic, half of all women were defined as economically inactive (neither employed nor seeking work), whereas only 16 percent of men fit this category. One of the main reasons: the unequal burden of unpaid work shouldered by women in childcare, cooking and cleaning.
Both men and women reported spending more time on domestic tasks and childcare during the pandemic, but this was against a highly unequal starting point. Gender disproportions remained extreme during the pandemic. In the October survey, 47 percent of men said they never cleaned, 43 percent never cooked, and 33 percent never looked after children. This division of roles meant that mothers with small children saw a dramatic increase in workload during school closures.
The pandemic had a negative impact on perceptions of mental health. Nearly half of respondents acknowledged being affected psychologically, but with clear differences by gender: 57 percent of women compared to 40 percent of men.
“Unfortunately, the pandemic has further worsened women’s condition in the country. The disproportionate burden of household care and the closure of schools had a notable impact on women’s physical and psychological health. And women were more likely than men to make ends meet by reducing spending on healthcare. Therefore, the need to support women in emergencies acquires additional significance,” said Lela Bakradze, Head of the UNFPA Georgia Country Office.
The survey also tested perceptions of whether domestic violence had increased in pandemic conditions. Around 20 percent of respondents (23 percent of women and 17 percent of men) said they had sensed such an increase, but experts believe, as in non-pandemic times, that social stigma may lead to significant underreporting of violence against women.
The awareness of existing services for survivors of domestic violence remains low. 40 percent of women are aware of psychological support services and only one in three knows about shelters and crisis centres. Men know little about domestic violence relief services. Awareness is also low among ethnic minorities and people without higher education.
“Violence against women and girls is a shadow pandemic that needs to be addressed in all efforts aimed at the COVID-19 response and recovery,” said UN Women Country Representative a.i. Tamar Sabedashvili.
The work on the study was conducted under the Sweden-funded UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality and the Norway-funded project Good Governance for Gender Equality in Georgia implemented by UN Women.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/115406-pandemic-deepened-gender-inequalities-georgian-society-study-reveals%C2%A0




Date: 05 March 2021
Title: UN commends the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
Content: 05 March 2021
The United Nations Country Team commends the Parliament of Georgia for ratifying the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) and expresses its appreciation to all actors, including Persons with Disabilities and their representative organizations, whose work has been instrumental to the ratification of the Protocol.
UN Resident Coordinator Dr. Sabine Machl said that along with the adoption of the new Law on Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2020, the ratification of the Optional Protocol demonstrates Georgia’s efforts to align national policies and regulatory frameworks with the UN CRPD. It is a commitment to take another step towards creating a barrier-free and inclusive society.
The ratification of the Optional Protocol enables the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to consider complaints of violations of rights under the Convention, which is an important way to advance, strengthen and protect the human rights of Persons with Disabilities in Georgia. Moreover, the ratification will complement and strengthen existing domestic mechanisms designed to promote the rights of Persons with Disabilities, strengthen Georgia’s role within the international community and illustrate its commitment to constructive engagement with the UN human rights system. Last but not least, it will contribute to enhancement of public awareness and understanding of the rights of Persons with Disabilities.
The UN Country Team in Georgia stands ready to support the Government and Parliament of Georgia in translating commitments into tangible results and remains strongly committed to assist Georgia in building an inclusive society in which all citizens can exercise their human rights.
General Information
For more information please visit: https://www.ohchr.org/en/hrbodies/crpd/pages/crpdindex.aspx

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/114986-un-commends-ratification-optional-protocol-convention-rights-persons-disabilities




Date: 16 February 2021
Title: United Nations statement on the death of Kobuleti teenage girl
Content: 16 February 2021
16 February 2021
The United Nations family in Georgia expresses dismay at the recent suicide of a teenage girl from Kobuleti, extends its deepest condolences to the family and calls for a thorough investigation of the circumstances that led to her death.
This tragedy points to persistent stigma around rape, sexual violence and exploitation and gender inequality in Georgia,  shortcomings on the part of the child protection system, along with gaps in psycho-social assessment, provision of support services and child-friendly justice for children in contact with the law.
Wherever lapses are documented, we call for a dedicated effort at improvements, whether in legislation on sexual violence, law enforcement practices, social welfare protection, child protection referral procedures or child-friendly judicial processes.
In the justice system, specialized professionals should be assigned to work on child and sexual violence cases. We also recommend creation of an integrated service for child victims of sexual violence that provides a child-friendly justice process and child psycho-social rehabilitation in one space.
Social norms and attitudes that condone sexual violence against women and girls and blame the victims or prevent professionals from reporting on the cases of violence also need to be confronted.
Immediate and energetic measures are necessary to avoid a repetition of this tragedy and to ensure that the fundamental human rights of women and girls are fully respected at all times and in all situations and that women and girls are equipped with the right knowledge and skills and they are empowered to make decisions about their present and future.
The UN in Georgia stands in solidarity and remains committed to work with the Georgian government, civil society groups, and with the human rights activists to address systemic problems that contribute to such tragedies.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/112000-united-nations-statement-death-kobuleti-teenage-girl




Date: 12 February 2021
Title: In the COVID-19 vaccine race, we either win together or lose together
Content: 12 February 2021
NEW YORK/GENEVA, 10 February 2021 – “Of the 128 million vaccine doses administered so far, more than three quarters of those vaccinations are in just 10 countries that account for 60% of global GDP.
“As of today, almost 130 countries, with 2.5 billion people, are yet to administer a single dose.
“This self-defeating strategy will cost lives and livelihoods, give the virus further opportunity to mutate and evade vaccines and will undermine a global economic recovery.
“Today, UNICEF and WHO – partners for more than 70 years – call on leaders to look beyond their borders and employ a vaccine strategy that can actually end the pandemic and limit variants.
“Health workers have been on the frontlines of the pandemic in lower- and middle-income settings and should be protected first so they can protect us.
“COVAX participating countries are preparing to receive and use vaccines. Health workers have been trained, cold chain systems primed. What’s missing is the equitable supply of vaccines.
“To ensure that vaccine rollouts begin in all countries in the first 100 days of 2021, it is imperative that:
“We need global leadership to scale up vaccine production and achieve vaccine equity.
“COVID-19 has shown that our fates are inextricably linked. Whether we win or lose, we will do so together.”
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/111914-covid-19-vaccine-race-we-either-win-together-or-lose-together




Date: 11 February 2021
Title: EU and WHO Regional Office for Europe join forces to ensure deployment of COVID-19 vaccines and vaccination in six European countries, their largest collaboration in the European Region to date
Content: 11 February 2021
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine are to receive vaccines.
The European Union (EU) and the WHO Regional Office for Europe will work together in a major effort to support deployment of COVID-19 vaccines and vaccination in the six EU Eastern Partnership countries: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine. The project, funded by the EU and implemented by the Regional Office, will cover all phases – constituting “end-to-end” support – of COVID-19 vaccine deployment and vaccination. It will also serve as a major investment to strengthen routine immunization systems in the six countries.
With a total budget of €40 million over a three-year period, this is the largest EU and WHO joint action ever implemented in the European Region. It will complement ongoing and forthcoming work through global and regional solidarity initiatives, such as the WHO co-led COVAX Facility and the EU sharing mechanism, to ensure access to vaccines in these countries.
“Successful vaccination requires much more than vaccine development and dissemination. This comprehensive ‘end-to-end’ initiative, generously supported by the European Union, will allow the WHO Regional Office for Europe to ensure that Eastern Partnership countries are well prepared, immunization systems are in place, and personnel are trained to deliver the precious COVID-19 vaccines to those who need them most. And the work does not end there. Monitoring of uptake and vaccine safety must continue as more vaccines are rolled out across populations. All of us have a responsibility to make sure that no country is left behind in this complex process. I thank the European Union for their solidarity and commitment to work with us to stop this pandemic,” said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe.
The funds will initially be used to support the phases of preparedness and readiness in the six countries, with an emphasis on imminent needs in strategic programmatic areas such as planning, equipment/supplies, training of health workers and information campaigns. This will be followed with support for effective deployment and monitoring of vaccine roll-out.
The project builds on the EU’s and WHO’s ongoing support to countries’ responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the joint €35 million EU Solidarity for Health Initiative, aimed at providing an effective response to COVID-19 and strengthening the six Eastern Partnerships countries’ national capacities to effectively prevent, prepare for, and respond to public health emergencies. The planned actions are in line with ongoing implementation of the European Programme of Work, which is helping countries build future emergency preparedness while responding to the current COVID-19 pandemic.
Catharina de Kat
Communications officer
WHO Regional Office for Europe
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/125634-eu-and-who-regional-office-europe-join-forces-ensure-deployment-covid-19-vaccines-and




Date: 01 February 2021
Title: Helping conflict-affected communities cope with the pandemic
Content: 01 February 2021
UNDP provides equipment for clinic serving elderly along the administrative boundary line
Medical equipment worth USD 12,500 was donated by UNDP to the outpatient clinic in the village of Nikozi in the Shida Kartli region, as part of a broader effort to protect vulnerable groups from the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic.
UNDP Head Louisa Vinton delivered a portable X-ray machine and other supplies during a visit to the clinic last week.
During her visit, Vinton signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the clinic head, Nikoloz Dzamukashvili, to assist the medical facility in providing local communities with better access to essential health services. UNDP support will ensure that patients can get services they need either in the clinic or at home.
Located in close vicinity to the administrative boundary line with the South Ossetia/Tskhinvali region, the Nikozi clinic is the only medical service provider to a local population of 3,000, including 1,100 older people from internally-displaced and conflict-affected communities.
With the pandemic still causing illness and death in Georgia, affordable mobile healthcare services, such as radiological examinations and blood tests, are crucially important, especially for the elderly and people with underlying health conditions and disabilities, who often have mobility problems. Yet medical facilities in rural areas often lack the equipment needed to provide patients with adequate examination and treatment.
To fill in this gap, UNDP purchased modern medical devices for the Nikozi clinic in 2020, and assisted in furnishing and equipping a clinical and biochemical laboratory and an X-ray diagnostic room.
“Since the beginning of the COVID-19 crisis, UNDP has been working to protect vulnerable groups from pandemic shocks,” said Vinton. ”While tending to urgent needs, we are also exploring how we can help build more sustainable models to ensure that at-risk communities receive vital services during the pandemic and beyond.”
Assistance to conflict-affected communities is part of UNDP’s wider response to the pandemic, drawing on the organization’s experience in eradicating poverty, reducing inequalities and building resilience to crisis, with a focus on the elderly, women, ethnic minorities, IDPs and other vulnerable groups. Funding for this assistance comes from a UNDP-funded project to support conflict-affected women during the COVID-19 crisis, a UN-funded pandemic programme
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/111917-helping-conflict-affected-communities-cope-pandemic




Date: 29 January 2021
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL PRESS CONFERENCE FOLLOWING INFORMAL BRIEFING TO   MEMBER STATES  ON PRIORITIES FOR 2021
Content: 29 January 2021
New York, 28 January 2021
Good morning, good afternoon and good evening. I wish you all a happy and healthy start to the year.
My message today for 2021 is a message of hope and determination.
Hope, as I believe it is possible to change gear and put the world on the right track.
Determination, as we must all do everything we can to make it happen.
We have just lived through the most difficult year of my lifetime.
Our world was rocked on its axis in 2020.
The COVID-19 virus set off a global crisis that is still unfolding. This week, we passed the grim milestone of 100 million confirmed cases worldwide.
More than two million people have died. Behind those figures lies immeasurable loss and grief.
Some 500 million jobs have gone; trillions of dollars wiped from global balance sheets.
This human tragedy will reverberate for decades to come. Families, communities and countries are in mourning.
With some 600 thousand new cases every day, the future is still full of uncertainty.
But we must chart a course ahead.
In this spirit, earlier today I shared my ten priorities for 2021 with the General Assembly.
This must be the year when we put our world back on track towards peace, stability and opportunity for all.
Because it is clear that we have lost our way.
Those whose life chances were already reduced by inequality and injustice, based on income, race, gender and other forms of discrimination, are suffering most from the impact of COVID-19.
Meanwhile, this week’s report by Oxfam found that the money accrued by the world’s ten richest billionaires during the crisis would be more than enough to prevent anyone from falling into poverty as a result of the pandemic. It could also pay for COVID-19 vaccinations for everyone, everywhere – with change to spare.
If we fail to reverse these inequality trends, we are sowing dangerous seeds of discord, disunity and division for the future.
The red flags have been apparent for some time. I, and others, have issued a series of global warnings and alerts.
While the world has made enormous progress on poverty, hunger, health, education and gender equality over the past two decades, it has neglected critical global commons and global public goods: a healthy planet; a stable climate; universal health coverage; cyber security; effective global governance.
The impact of that neglect is now starting to overwhelm and undermine the hard-won progress that we have made.
Hunger and poverty are rising for the first time in decades.
Women’s rights are going into reverse.
Hundreds of millions of children are missing out on education.
Human rights are under assault.
Inequality is at obscene levels.
The global crisis triggered by COVID-19 is not some kind of Black Swan event.
It was predictable and predicted. It is a symptom of neglect.
A crisis was always coming – but the world was not prepared.
Crisis provokes change.
Our challenge during this pivotal year is to make sure the change goes deep enough.
We must prioritize inequality, geopolitical divisions, widespread violations of human rights, the misuse of technology and the stagnation of the nuclear non-proliferation regime for urgent, coordinated global action.
We need enhanced diplomacy for peace, and increased efforts for conflict prevention and resolution.
Dear friends,
Among the challenges we face, there are three global emergencies that demand immediate attention.
First, the distribution of vaccines for COVID-19.
More than 70 million doses have been administered. Less than twenty thousand of these were on the African continent.
A global immunity gap puts everyone at risk.
If the virus continues to circulate in the Global South, it will inevitably mutate. New variants – and we are already seeing it - could be more deadly and more transmissible and threaten the effectiveness of current vaccines and diagnostics, prolonging or risking to prolong the pandemic significantly.
Vaccine nationalism is an economic as well as a moral failure. The latest research by the International Chamber of Commerce shows that without support to the developing world, this crisis could cost the global economy up to US$9.2 trillion – almost half, including in the wealthiest countries.
That figure is 340 times more than the $27 billion funding gap that we have now in the ACT-Accelerator – our best tool to make vaccines available to everyone, everywhere and speed up a global recovery.
While every country has the right – and the duty – to protect its own people, no country can afford to neglect the rest of the world.
I thank the states and organizations that are supporting COVAX and the ACT-Accelerator and welcome the United States’ announcement that it will join them.
We must close the funding gap; ramp-up vaccine production by making licenses widely available and sharing technology; and get doses into the arms of all who need them – starting with health workers and those most at risk around the world.
We need a global vaccination campaign to deal with a global pandemic.
Dear friends,
The second area for urgent action is financial support for all countries that need it.
In today’s world, self-interest cannot be separated from solidarity.
The global economy is made up of an intricate web of transactions between developed and developing countries.
While the pandemic continues to disrupt supply chains, developed [economies] will not make a full recovery.
The implications are clear. For a fast and full recovery, the developed world should not only share vaccines equitably; it should support developing economies by ensuring continued liquidity, including through the issuance of Special Drawing Rights, and expanding debt relief to all developing countries and Middle-income countries in need of it.
We need a quantum leap in financing from all sources, including private creditors to developing countries in the world.
This is not an act of charity. It is economic common sense.
Ladies and gentlemen,
The third global emergency is the climate crisis.
The recovery from the pandemic must embrace renewable energy and green and resilient infrastructure.
We have an opportunity to end our senseless war on nature and start the healing process.
At five minutes to midnight, Governments are finally starting to listen to scientists, businesses, cities, academia and in particular, the young people who have been global leaders on this issue.
Now, we need to build on that momentum.
The central objective of the United Nations for 2021 is to build a global coalition for carbon neutrality by 2050.
Every country, city, financial institution and company needs to adopt credible plans for transitioning to net zero emissions by 2050, and take decisive action now to put themselves on the right path.
Countries must review their Nationally Determined Contributions before COP26 in Glasgow to cut global greenhouse gas emissions by 45 percent by 2030 compared with 2010 levels.
We need to raise ambition across the board: in mitigation, but also in adaptation and finance.
But this in itself will not end our planetary emergency.
This year is packed with different international meetings in which we must:
Halt the extinction crisis;
Approve a post-2020 global biodiversity framework;
Reduce energy waste and turbo-charge the shift to renewable energy;
End overfishing and drastically reduce maritime pollution including plastics;
Reduce food waste and dramatically transform the production and consumption of food.
Dear friends,
We are at the start of a pivotal year for people and planet.
We must use the recovery from COVID-19 to address global fragilities, strengthen global governance, and deliver global public goods.
We have the chance of a reset.
We must grasp it.
Thank you, and I am at your disposal for any question that you might be willing to ask.

Let me just put my glasses and pick the pen.
Spokesman:  I think they are willing to ask. [Laughter]

**Questions and Answers
Valeria, UN Correspondents Association.
Question:  Thank you, Secretary‑General, on behalf of UNCA (United Nations Correspondents Association), and it's always a pleasure to see you here and wish you all the best for a safe and healthy 2021.
So, my question is if you had contact with the [Joseph] Biden Administration. And if you do, what are the priorities for this new administration on the United Nation? And what are your expectations, if you are optimist with this new administration ‑‑ I don't know ‑‑ like, the Security Council can be more effective on some issues and dossiers that have been, like, difficult in the past years? Thank you so much.
Secretary-General:  Well, I had some initial contacts; there are different other contacts that are being scheduled. And, obviously, the United States is an absolutely central partner of the United Nations. And, so, the announcements of the new relevant foreign policy measures by this administration that are directly linked to the UN are extremely important:  joining the Paris Agreement, joining the World Health Organization (WHO) or not leaving the World Health Organization, what was announced in relation to the Middle East process and, in relation to funding, namely, humanitarian funding for the Palestinian people, what was announced in relation to the UNFPA (United Nations Population Fund) and other related decisions, and we could go on. So, all those things are creating a very positive expectation.
And I can tell you that we will be working closely to fully support these changes of policy that go in line with what has been our continued position in relation to strengthening multilateralism and the understanding that only international cooperation... only coming together is the way to address the challenges of the present world.
And of course, the unity of the Security Council and reduction of dysfunctionalities in the relations among the biggest powers is also extremely important for us.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Edie Lederer. If I could ask all of you just to stick to one question so we can get as many of your colleagues on. Thank you. Go ahead, Edie.
Question:  Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary‑General. It's hard to see you from behind that screen. [Laughter]
I have a follow‑up question on the new Biden Administration. The US President has made clear that the United States wants to resume a leadership role in the world on global affairs. How do you see this playing out? Is this welcome? And what obstacles do you see that his administration will face, given the "America First" policy of the [Donald] Trump Administration? Thank you.
Secretary-General:  Well, it's normal that the biggest economic and military power of the world... it's normal that it wants to have a leadership role. What I believe is important is [for] that leadership role to be exercised in an environment of international cooperation and in an environment of a multilateral approach to the solution of global challenges. And as I said, we are ready to cooperate with the United States Administration in this regard.
I think that there were a number of policies in the past that were not in line with this multilateral approach to the solution of global problems. They are now being corrected by a number of measures announced and others that are expected. And, of course, we welcome those measures, and we are ready to cooperate in their implementation.
Spokesman:  Thank you.
Question:  Are there obstacles? What are you... I mean, in terms of world reaction?
Secretary-General:  I believe that the international community wants a United States that is fully engaged and fully committed, namely, to the values of the United Nations and of the United Nations Charter, be it in development, be it in peace and security, be it in human rights.
Spokesman:  Thank you. We're going to go onto the screen. Alan Bulkaty, RIA Novosti. Alan?
Question:  Thank you very much, Stéphane. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary‑General for doing this press conference. I have a question regarding New START Treaty. You've already welcomed the decision by United States and Russia to extend it for five years, and you've said that that will provide time for reducing another [inaudible].
So, may I ask you, please, do you think that any other nuclear states, nuclear countries, should join this treaty in these five years? And could you name them, please? Thank you.
Secretary-General:  Now, one thing is the New START Treaty, and I believe the New START Treaty is what it is. It is a treaty between the Russian Federation and the United States. It was done in circumstances that are clear, and it is, I think, a very good decision that the two countries decided to renew it.
The other thing is a general perspective of non‑proliferation and disarmament. And in the general perspective of non‑proliferation and disarmament, I think there is progress to be made in many areas, and in this progress to be made in many areas, many other countries are relevant and, namely, all the countries that have nuclear weapons today.
I think that we have witnessed, in this 20th Century, a number of positive developments in arms control and in disarmament. Unfortunately, there was a reversal of this trend in the beginning of this century. I hope that that reversal would be finished, and I hope that, both in non‑proliferation and disarmament, we'll have enhanced cooperation. And as I said, there is a particular responsibility for the countries that have nuclear weapons today, all of them.
Spokesman:  Thank you. James Bays, Al Jazeera?
Question:  Secretary‑General, today, the Security Council was discussing Libya. It's almost ten years since the start of the uprising in that country. Your outgoing acting Special Representative described blatant foreign interferences continuing. Can you please, today, give us your message to those countries that are still involved militarily in Libya?
Secretary-General:  It is very clear that the Libyans are making a remarkable effort to come together. I mean, we have seen the Joint Military Committee making an agreement on a ceasefire. The ceasefire is holding. We have seen that the Libyan Political Dialogue Forum agreed on a number of key issues from elections to the nature of a transitional governance entity to the criteria to form that transition governance entity, and we see progress in several aspects of the economy and the economic reform.
So, the Libyans are doing their part. It's essential that all the others that are involved in the Libyan crisis also do their part. And one thing that is crucial and my strong appeal is that all foreign troops and all foreign mercenaries should withdraw from Libya.
There was a first time framework that has been exhausted. There is the intention of the Libyans to have a second time frame. I hope that this one will be respected. It's essential that all foreign troops and all foreign mercenaries move first to Benghazi and to Tripoli and, from there, move back and leave the Libyans alone, because the Libyans have already proven that, left alone, they are able to address their problems.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Frank Ucciardo and then Célhia.
Question:  Secretary‑General, it's great to see you. I wish you a healthy and happy year. Thank you for this press conference. I want to talk to you about conflict resolution and prevention and... excuse me, and in about a month... I guess about two months, 15 March, it will be another grim anniversary for Syria and the conflict there.
Where do you see this going this year and in the future it's... particularly considering the intractability of at least two members of the P5 on the Council that seem to be blocking any kind of UN progress on this issue?
Secretary-General:  I think, when one sees the situation in Syria, there is a positive thing that the ceasefire is more or less holding ‑‑ it's not perfect ‑‑ more or less holding, but the truth is that we are in a kind of a standstill. I mean, you have an area controlled by the Government with the support of the Russian Federation and of Iran. You have an area in which Turkish forces are present. You have an area in which the US and eventually other countries are supporting namely the YPG. And this created a kind of a standstill.
Now, we need to move out of the standstill, and the only way to move out of the standstill is for the Syrians to come together. The Syrians should look at the example of Libya. The Libyans are starting to seriously come together.
And my appeal to the Syrian Government, to the Syrian opposition and to the other forces involved in Syria is to understand that they need to come together, because that will be the only way to diminish the foreign influence in Syria.
There is the restart of the Constitutional Committee meeting in Geneva. I hope it will move forward, but it's not enough. I think the Syrians need to come together and seriously discuss the future, the future in relation to reconciliation, the future in relation to elections, the future in relation to the constitutional framework of the country, human rights and all the other dimensions for Syria to become again a normal country.
And I sincerely hope that Syrians understand that they need to move in that direction. The UN will do everything possible to support and facilitate it, and I hope that all those other countries that are involved in the Syrian crisis will understand that, if we can have a solution, that is to the benefit of everybody.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Célhia de Lavaréne. Célhia?
Question:  [Speaking French] Monsieur le Secrétaire général, parmi les Objectifs du Millénaire, la pauvreté était en première ligne à l’époque et devait avoir reculé en 2015. En 2021, et pas seulement à cause du COVID-19, la pauvreté a gagné du terrain un peu partout dans le monde, y compris dans les pays développés. Comment pensez-vous parvenir à convaincre les pays de réduire la pauvreté?
Secretary-General:  [Speaking French] Réduire la pauvreté, réduire la faim, réduire les inégalités doit être un aspect central d’une récupération inclusive de nos économies. On est en train de dépenser – je ne sais pas comment on dit en français trillions, je crois que c’est mille milliards – des milliers de milliards de dollars et de toutes les monnaies, pour la réponse au COVID et la récupération des économies.
On peut le faire de deux façons. La première c’est en agravant les inégalités, et ça veut dire aussi en agravant la pauvreté et en agravant la faim et en agravant tous les autres malaises de notre monde.
Ou on peut profiter de cette mobilisation gigantesque de fonds et utiliser ces fonds pour obtenir deux choses essentielles : un monde plus équitable d’un côté, des pays avec des sociétés plus équitables, des réductions des inégalités et des réductions de la pauvreté.  Et en même temps une réconciliation avec la nature, dans une perspective de récupération verte, capable d’adresser le défi du changement climatique, le défi de la perte de biodiversité, tous les autres défis qui viennent de cette guerre qu’on a menée contre la nature.
Spokesman:  Thank you. We'll go back to the screen. Philippe Rater, AFP. Philippe?
Question:  [Speaking French] Merci Stéphane. Bonjour M. Guterres. Il y a une impasse actuellement sur l’accord nucléaire avec l’Iran. Téhéran attend que Washington fasse le premier pas et Washington attend que Téhéran fasse le premier pas.
Est-ce que vous envisagez une médiation pour trouver une solution? Comment est-ce que vous voyez une issue à ce problème? Merci.
Secretary-General:  [Speaking French] Nous réaffirmons que le JCPOA (Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action) - je ne sais pas quelles sont les… comment mettre les lettres en français. Mais nous considérons que le JCPOA a été une grande victoire diplomatique et un élément essentiel pour la paix et la stabilisation du Golfe, et nous regrettons que l’Accord ait été remis en question.
A notre avis, c’est évident qu’il y a des difficultés et des obstacles. C’est évident qu’il y a une complexité accrue parce que les Etats-Unis sont sortis, ont pris des mesures additionnelles de rétaliation, comme vous savez. En même temps, l’Iran a pris quelques mesures en matière de développement de ses capacités nucléaires et il y a tout un travail à faire. Bon.
Je ne m’attends pas à une solution immédiate, mais je crois que tout le monde, tous ceux qui ont souscrit au JCPOA et les autres forces intéressées doivent travailler ensemble pour réduire les incertitudes, pour adresser les difficultés et les obstacles et pour progressivement faire que les choses s’acheminent vers une situation où l’on puisse avoir un accord qui est, à mon avis, essentiel, pour la paix et la stabilité du Golfe et du monde entier.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Abdelhamid Siyam. We'll stay on screen. Abdelhamid?
Question:  Thank you so much, Mr. Secretary‑General, and happy New Year, and good luck with your bid for a second term.
Mr. Secretary‑General, yesterday, there was a high‑level meeting on Palestine at the Security Council. The three things came across by all the speakers except the representative of Israel. The first point, they were all committed to the two‑state solution. They all called for halting of all settlement activities, and they all called for activating the Quartet.
How do you envision the situation this year? Can you take some initiatives? Is there something that the Palestinians can expect? How long they going to be hearing the same language again and again and again about the two‑state solution? And their land is being taken from their... themself... from them every single day. Thank you, Mr. Secretary‑General.
Secretary-General:  I think we were completely locked down in a situation in which there was no progress visible. I think that has changed. I think there are reasons to hope. We have tried for a long time to make the Quartet meet, but we never had the agreement of all the members for that to be possible. And we have tried to have inclusive other formulas - possible of an enlarged Quartet with several other important players in the region, and unfortunately, this has not been possible until now. I think it became possible now.
And you can count on us to explore all forms of initiative from the United Nations in order to facilitate the resumption of a true peace process and a true peace process that, in our opinion, can only be successful if it is based on the two‑state solution and if it is based on all the international agreements that already exist in this regard.
And we hope that both the elections in Palestine, in the State of Palestine, and the elections in Israel will also contribute to create a positive environment for the future of the peace process in the Palestinian‑Israeli situation and for the rights of the Palestinian people, namely, its right to self‑determination and its right to independence, to be fully respected.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Michelle Nichols, Reuters. Michelle?
Secretary-General:  Always, of course, with two states that we hope will live in peace and security with security guaranteed for both of them.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Michelle?
Question:  Hello, Sec... hi, Secretary‑General. Michelle from Reuters. A question for you on US‑China relations. The incoming US Ambassador said yesterday that China is driving an authoritarian agenda at the United Nations. Do you believe that China is driving an authoritarian agenda at the UN?
Secretary-General:  Well, in relation to the United Nations, I can guarantee that we are very strongly committed to make sure that the UN is a beacon of all the values related to peace, security, development, and human rights. But what for me is important is to say that I hope we will see a reset in the relations between the United States and China with different dimensions. It is clear that, in human rights, there are two completely different views, and it is clear that, in human rights, there is no scope for an agreement or a common vision.
There is an area where I believe there is a growing convergence of interests, and my appeal is for that area to be pursued by the two sides together with the whole of the international community, and that area is climate action. I think there are reasons to hope that the two countries will be strongly involved in the preparation of the COP26 (26th Conference of Parties) and in moving to carbon neutrality in the quickest possible way and in having forms of mobilisation, of capacities and resources that will lead to a positive outcome.
And then there is an area in which we might have competition or cooperation, which is more complex. It's trade and technology. And my appeal is for a serious negotiation on trade and technology in order to make sure that it is possible to preserve one global economy, one global Internet, cybersecurity and, at the same time, to have all that in support of the values that are our common values, of justice, of equality, of international cooperation, and also of the respect of human rights.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Betul, and then we'll go to Iftikhar. Betul?
Question:  Thank you, Steph. Thank you, Mr. Secretary‑General. Betul Yuruk, Turkish news agency Anadolu. Following your phone conversation with the Turkish Cypriot leader a few days ago and your recent report to the Security Council and your intention to bring the two parties together, when and where are you planning to convene a meeting among those two leaders?
And a follow‑up on the same issue, the newly elected Turkish Cypriot leader says that ‑‑ I quote ‑‑ "We deserve our own state." Is the UN open to new ideas, or you still support a federally unified Cyprus? Thank you.
Secretary-General:  Well, first of all, it is my intention to convene early March a meeting of the 5+1, which means United Nations together with the two communities in Cyprus and together with the guarantors - means Turkey, Greece, and United Kingdom.
And that meeting, we decided it will be an informal meeting without preconditions to allow for the parties, and there is this change, as know, in the administration of northern Cyprus, so it is important that there is a chance for people to, frankly, discuss among themselves how they see the future and how they see things moving forward.
Now, I have a mandate for the Security Council for UN involvement in relation to the negotiations, and that mandate refers explicitly the bi‑zonal, bi‑community solution, as you know.
Obviously, this does not... is not an impediment, for in the meeting that we are convening every... of the interlocutors to present the positions that they will present. And I am always ready to go to the Security Council and, if there is an agreement of the parties in enlarging the scope of negotiations, to be the interpreter to have a common agreement in this regard.
But as I said, the first step is to bring them together, to listen to them, and to see the result of that discussion. And the fact that I stick to the mandate I received doesn't mean that I'm not open to listen to everybody and to take the conclusions of that discussion, based on whatever the parties can come to a common view about the future.
Spokesman:  Thank you. We'll go to the screen. Iftikhar Ali, Associated Press of Pakistan.
Question:  Thank you, Steph. Mr. Secretary‑General, best wishes for your success in 2021. Sir, while you expressed strong hope in your opening statement for peace and stability in the world, tensions between nuclear‑armed India and Pakistan stemming from... as they do, from the dispute over Kashmir, where tensions are now at an all‑time high. In your landmark statement of 8 August 2019, you called for a resolution of the dispute based on UN resolution and the Charter, but there is no movement in that direction. Meanwhile, human rights abuses in Indian‑occupied Kashmir, across the Line of Control, violations have continued unabated since India ended the special status of the disputed territory. Sir, your thoughts on this deteriorating situation.
Secretary-General:  Well, what I said in the statement you mentioned is, unfortunately, the same that I can say today. I mean, I do believe that it is absolutely essential to have a de‑escalation of the situation, namely in the Line of [Control]. I think it's absolutely essential for the two countries to be able to come together and seriously discuss their problems, and I think it's essential that human rights are fully respected in all territories that you mentioned.
Now, things have not moved in the right direction. Our good offices are always available, and we will insist within it of finding peaceful solutions for problems that have no military solution. It is clear, when seeing Pakistan and India, any military confrontation between the two would be a disaster of unmitigated proportions for both countries and for the whole world.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Margaret Besheer, Voice of America. Margaret?
Question:  Hi, Secretary‑General. I would like to follow up on Michelle's question about China. You said in your answer that you're strongly committed to the United Nations being a beacon of human rights. So, following on to that, the US outgoing Administration on its last day designated the situation in Xinjiang as a genocide against the Uyghurs. The new Administration is looking to keep that designation. I'm wondering, do you agree with that? And if not, could you explain? Thank you.
Secretary-General:  Genocide is a technical expression with technical implications. It's not a matter for me to comment on that. It's a matter for the organization competent intergovernmental bodies and for the competent courts or tribunals to determine.
What is important is to say ‑‑ and I reaffirm ‑‑ the need for human rights to be respected, also in Xinjiang, and for the needs for policies to be in place that fully respect the identity of the communities there ‑‑ religious, cultural identity ‑‑ and simultaneously give the conditions for each community to feel that they are part of the nation as a whole. That is our position; it is maintained.
And we... as you also know, the High Commissioner for Human Rights has asked to visit the territory. That request was fully supported by me. Negotiations are taking place. There is a perspective of a technical mission, and I hope that all these will move forward.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Yoshita Singh, Press Trust of India. Yoshita?
Question:  Thank you. Thank you, Steph. Can you hear me?
Spokesman:  Yes.
Question:  Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary‑General. India is assisting countries in the South Asian neighbourhood and beyond with COVID‑19 vaccines. It has airlifted six million doses to nine countries and also plans to supply COVID‑19 vaccines to COVAX. Your thoughts on this initiative by India to help countries around the world in this fight against the global pandemic. Thank you.
Secretary-General:  Well, I would like to say how much we count on India. I mean, India has one of the most advanced pharmaceutical industries. India played a very important role in the production of generics for use that was outside... a very important element of democratisation of access to medicines all over the world.
I appealed once again today for licenses to be made available in order for companies around the world to be able to produce some of the vaccines that already exist. I know that, in India, there is a production, a very high level of production, both of Indian‑developed vaccines, and I think there is a perspective, very important perspective, of also others. And we are in contact with Indian institutions for that.
And we strongly hope that India will have all the instruments that are necessary to play a major role in making sure that a global vaccination campaign becomes possible.
I think that the production capacity of India is one of the best assets the world has today, and I hope the world understands that it must be fully used.
Correspondent:  Thank you.
Spokesman:  Thank you. We'll stay on the screen, and then we'll come back to the room. Rick Gladstone, New York Times. Rick?
Question:  Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary‑General. Happy New Year to you. I had a question I wanted to solicit your thoughts on, when you envision a return to what passes for normalcy at the United Nations headquarters. When do you see that happening?
And I'd like to get your view on whether you feel that there... that the person‑to‑person diplomacy that is inherent to the United Nations campus has now been permanently affected even after you return, or you and your staff return, to full time there.
Secretary-General:  Well, I believe that nothing will be exactly as before. I think we also have learned the potential news of digital capacities for many, many purposes. And, so, we will not be exactly as we were in the past, but I would say to have a normal environment for diplomatic action means, of course, the possibility of physical contact among people and, of course, a presence of many more members of staff and diplomats within the premises of the UN.
My hope is that if the vaccination campaigns become really global and if they are successful and if new mutations do not undermine the efforts that are being made, my hope is that things will improve substantially during the summer and that we'll have positive developments, progressive positive developments.
But, of course, there is a level of uncertainty that I don't think anybody can answer. I'm particularly worried with the risk... if there is not adequate vaccination in the global south, the risk of the... the more the virus spreads, the biggest risk of mutations, and mutations can, as we have already seen, increase the easiness of transmitting the virus. It can increase the mortality. And there is now an investigation being made, as you know, in relation to, namely, the South African variety, whether or not it increases the resistance of the virus to vaccines.
So, I mean, the idea that we can vaccinate half of the world and let the other half of the world not vaccinated is an idea that would be a disaster, because the risk of the half vaccinated all of a sudden seeing their vaccines no longer effective is there. So, we absolutely must have a global vaccination campaign.
And if that happens and there are conditions to do so, it's possible, if that happens, I sincerely hope that, from the summer onwards, we will progressively return to normality.
If this doesn't move as quickly as we would like and if more obstacles come, I mean, there are levels of uncertainty that nobody can predict now.
Spokesman:  Thank you. James...?
Question:  All right. But are you envisioning a normal General Assembly in September then? It sounds like you're not.
Secretary-General:  I think it will be difficult to have a normal General Assembly. I think that, from the summer onward, it will be possible to have progressively a more open way to... but to have a full‑fledged General Assembly like in the past in September seems to be difficult to foresee.
Probably, we can have something better or more advanced than the last one, but I don't think we will have... you will be in a condition to, all of a sudden, have thousands and thousands of people going around from all parts of the world. Probably, we will not be in that situation in September.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Back in the room, James Reinl in the back.
Question:  Yeah, thank you so much for the briefing, Secretary‑General. You've spoken a lot in the past to us about free speech, hate speech, and online social networks. It's a complicated area, for sure, but do you think that Twitter made the right move when it closed down the account of Donald Trump?
Secretary-General:  Well, I think that the question is not the right question, if I may. The right question is, should be a company, the entity, that has the power decision on these issues, or should we create mechanism in which there is a regulatory framework with rules that allow for that to be done in line with law?  And my clear answer is the second.
I mean, I do not think that we can live in a world where too much power is given to a reduced number of companies, and I must say that I'm particularly worried with the power that they already have. I mean, the volume of information that is being gathered about each one of us, the lack of control we have about our own... the data related to ourselves, the fact that that data can be used not only for commercial purposes to sell to advertising companies or to... but also to change our behaviour, and the risks of that to be used also from a political point of view for the control of citizens in countries, all this is something that I believe requires a serious discussion. And one of the objectives of our road map for digital cooperation is exactly to put these things on the table.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Back on the screen, Pam Falk, CBS News. Pam?
Question:  Thank you, Secretary‑General, for the briefing. It's very important to us. You said that the global pandemic or the global crisis related to COVID‑19 was predictable and predicted. What... do you think it was on this scale, that people knew it would come? And why did people... why did world leaders and UN agencies not know enough to warn everybody, or who's to blame?
And on that front, does the... do UN agencies do any contact tracing of either diplomats or staff at headquarters or around the world? Thanks so much.
Secretary-General:  Sorry. I didn't understand all the question.
Spokesman:  The last question was about diplomats and staff getting...
Secretary-General:  No, no, that one I understood. The first question. [Cross talk]
Spokesman:  Who is to blame...
Question:  The first question is just what... [Cross talk] How is it... [Cross talk]
Secretary-General:  Well, it is clear that... first of all, we do not have a multilateral system with teeth in this regard. The World Health Organization has the right to inform, to propose, to advise, but there's no enforcing capacity. So, there is a structural problem that I hope will be on the table of the panel that is looking for the future and we have already a first report that, I think, underlined also the situation. We need to strengthen our institutional framework of governance.
And then there is a problem in the absence of these multilateral, strong governance institutions, every country went by himself or by itself, and we had different strategies, different policies. And the virus benefited from the lack of coordination, the lack of solidarity.
But in addition to the second point, I'd like to tell you that we keep a very... I receive every morning a report in relation to the cases in the UN system, in the whole of the UN system, headquarters and field, agencies, programmes, peacekeeping operations, etc. Everything is being followed very closely.
There is a systematic approach to testing, tracing and quarantine. And I have to say I'm particularly proud that we were able to avoid the UN Headquarters in New York to become a spreading centre during all this period. I mean, there was no transmission in the UN Headquarters, and I'm particularly happy with that fact.
But in other parts of the world, it's, of course, more difficult, namely, peacekeeping operations, as you can imagine. But there is a permanent control, a permanent policy of systematic testing, tracing and quarantine. And as far as I know, it's being applied. We have systems of monitoring that are in place. And as I mentioned, I receive every day a report on the situation of every agency and every operation around the world, country by country, in relation to the number of cases, in relation to the number of deaths, in relation to the risks of spreading and, I mean... so, we are doing that control in the most possible effective way.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Mr. Sato, NHK?
Secretary-General:  Sorry, she's...
Spokesman:  Okay. Sorry, did you...
Question:  Just a clarification: Are you calling for the WHO to have more power?
Secretary-General:  I think we need a stronger governance system. I leave to the panel that is studying it the concrete proposals on how to do it, but I'm not going to replace the panel that is studying it. But my belief is that we need to strengthen our governance system.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Mr. Sato, Mr. Sato, NHK.
Question:  Good afternoon, Secretary‑General. My question is about nuclear disarmament, which you touched on in the morning session of the General Assembly. Do you have a will to visit Hiroshima this summer?
Secretary-General:  I have that intention, and I hope that the COVID situation will allow me. I wanted to go to Hiroshima in the... I mean in the... remembering session last year, because last year was particularly important. I was in Nagasaki the year before. I still strongly hope to be able to go to Hiroshima this year, and I really want to do it. So, I hope that the COVID situation will allow me to do so.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Thank you. Elena Lentza from Lusa. Elena?
Question:  Hello. Good afternoon. Thank you so much. I'll ask the question in English for the colleagues to understand. In your remarks to the General Assembly this morning, you said that terrorism in places like Mozambique is a major concern, and we need a more united Security Council, and we need a peace enforcement and counterterrorism operation mandate for Africa in the Security Council.
So, I wanted to ask, how do you envision this being implemented to help countries like Mozambique?
Secretary-General:  Well, we have several African forces operating at the present moment in Africa, in counterterrorism operations and peace‑enforcing operations. We have the G5 Sahel. You have the multi‑country force in the Lake Chad with the Cameroon, Niger, Chad and Nigeria. You have AMISOM (African Union Mission) in Somalia.
And I believe that these kind of forces... and eventually, if tomorrow Africans decide to have some form of cooperation, for instance, among SADC (Southern African Development Community) countries, in relation to the threat of terrorism in southern Africa, I'm a strong believer that African forces in peace‑enforcing operations - because these are not peacekeeping situations, they are peace‑enforcing operations, with a strong counterterrorism component - that those African forces should be able to act with a strong mandate, Chapter 7 of the Security Council, and with predictable funding, namely, the assessed contributions.
If you look at the G5 Sahel, the G5 Sahel or even worse, in the Lake Chad, there is no mandate under Chapter 7, and there is funding based on voluntary contributions, which creates a level of uncertainty that doesn't allow to have an effective security platform to deal with terrorist problems in these areas.
Having said so, I also said in my intervention that it's not only the question of the security capacity, it's also the question of the capacity to address the economic, the climatic, and the social root causes that facilitate the work of terrorist organizations.
Spokesman:  Thank you. Benno Schwinghammer, German Press Agency?
Question:  Thank you so much, Secretary‑General, for doing this press conference. Also, I apologise that my camera is not working today.
My question is about the news that you put your Technology Envoy, Mr. [Fabrizio] Hochschild, on leave as he's facing harassment allegations. Could you comment on this case?
Also, is it the first time allegations like this were made against Mr. Hochschild?
Secretary-General:  I only took notice of this, I think, the day before yesterday, and there are allegations, indeed. The allegations are being investigated, and that's the right thing to do, and we decided what is the precautionary measure that makes sense in this sense, which is that our envoy should be on leave.
So, I hope that the investigation will be quickly conducted. We have now a much more powerful system of investigation of all forms of harassment, and I hope that, based on conclusions, a due process will follow.
But one thing I can guarantee is that there is zero tolerance and, from my perspective, there will always be zero tolerance in relation to sexual harassment or other forms of harassment. I don't know yet exactly what is the nature of the accusations that were made. This is a process that it belongs to our investigation department to deal with.
Spokesman:  Thank you. One last question from Sylviane Zehil, L’Orient le Jour; Sylviane?
Question:  [Speaking French] Bonjour Monsieur le Secrétaire général. Merci. Ma question est au sujet du désarmement du Hezbollah au Liban. Selon le Président Macron, Joe Biden et l’administration américaine doivent adopter une attitude plus réaliste à l’égard du Hezbollah pour aider à mettre fin à l’impasse politique et économique au Liban.
La France considère que la question des armes du Hezbollah doit pour l’instant être mise au second plan, l’urgence étant de sortir le Liban de la faillite économique, tandis que Washington en fait l’axe principal.
Vous venez de dire que les Etats-Unis étaient un partenaire central des Nations Unies. Dans ce contexte, pensez-vous, comme le Président Macron, que les Nations Unies doivent montrer plus de souplesse vis-à-vis des armes du Hezbollah, faisant fi des différentes résolutions, notamment de 1559 et 1701 sur ce plan ?
Et quand pensez-vous nommer, Monsieur le Secrétaire général, le remplaçant de Ján Kubiš, qui prend ses fonctions très prochainement pour la Libye.
Merci beaucoup.
Secretary-General:  [Speaking French] J’espère que ce remplacement soit rapide. Vous savez que sa nomination pour la Libye est venue dans des circonstances inattendues, mais on va travailler rapidement dans cette direction.
Je crois qu’il faut savoir quels sont les principes, et les principes sont clairs. Dans un État, on doit avoir un monopole de l’utilisation de la force armée par l’État lui-même. Ça, c’est un principe essentiel. Et ça sera toujours très difficile pour un État d’être fonctionnel s’il y a à l’intérieur de l’État, plusieurs forces armées, et par l’unité qui est nécessaire.
Ce principe est clair. Et on dit ça et dans la réalité de la situation, nous avons toujours eu une approche qui est une approche en simultané, basée sur le principe et travaillant pour le principe, mais avec la capacité et le pragmatisme nécessaires pour conduire les négociations et les conversations, les mesures de la façon qui puisse le mieux contribuer pour que le Liban puisse adresser ses problèmes. Et puisse vaincre non-seulement la crise économique, mais aussi réaliser toutes les réformes qui sont nécessaires pour le succès du pays. Et naturellement, que dans le cadre de ces réformes, une question centrale, c’est naturellement la réforme du système de sécurité et le monopole par l’État de l’exercice de la force, au Liban, comme partout dans le monde.
Spokesman:  Thank you very much. Merci beaucoup. I'm sorry for those who did not get to ask a question, but we will hopefully see the Secretary‑General back here soon. Thank you.
Secretary-General:  Thank you very much.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/109823-secretary-general%C2%A0press-conference-following%C2%A0informal-briefing-%C2%A0-member-states%C2%A0-priorities




Date: 21 January 2021
Title: Georgia’s human rights record to be examined by Universal Periodic Review
Content: 21 January 2021
GENEVA (21 January 2021) – Georgia’s human rights record will be examined by the UN Human Rights Council’s Universal Periodic Review (UPR) Working Group for the third time on Tuesday, 26 January 2021 in a meeting that will be webcast live.
Georgia is one of the 14 States to be reviewed by the UPR Working Group during its upcoming session taking place from 18 to 29 January *.  Georgia’s first and second UPR reviews took place in January 2011 and November 2015, respectively.
The documents on which the reviews are based are: 1) national report - information provided by the State under review; 2) information contained in the reports of independent human rights experts and groups, known as the Special Procedures, human rights treaty bodies, and other UN entities; 3) information provided by other stakeholders including national human rights institutions, regional organizations and civil society groups.
The three reports serving as the basis for the review of Georgia on 26 January can be found here.
Location: Assembly Hall, Palais des Nations, Geneva [NB: Due to COVID-19 restrictions, the meeting will be held using a combination of in-person and remote participation, and media representatives are encouraged to follow the proceedings on webcast.
Time and date: 09.00 – 12.30, Tuesday, 25 January (Geneva time, GMT +1 hour)
The UPR is a unique process which involves a periodic review of the human rights records of all 193 UN Member States.  Since its first meeting was held in April 2008, all 193 UN member States have been reviewed twice within the first and second UPR cycles.  During the third UPR cycle, States are again expected to spell out steps they have taken to implement recommendations posed during their previous reviews which they committed to follow-up on, as well as to highlight recent human rights developments in the country.
The delegation of Georgia will be led by Khatuna Totladze, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Georgia.
The three country representatives serving as rapporteurs (“troika”) for the review of Georgia are: the Czech Republic, Denmark and Namibia.
The webcast of the session will be at http://webtv.un.org
The list of speakers and all available statements to be delivered during the review of Georgia will be posted on the UPR Extranet.
The UPR Working Group is scheduled to adopt the recommendations made to Georgia at 16.30 on 29 January.  The State under review may wish to express its positions on recommendations posed to it during their review.
* The UPR 37th session was originally scheduled to be held in November 2020, although was postponed due to COVID-19 measures.
ENDS
For more information and media requests, please contact Rolando Gómez, HRC Media Officer, at +41 (0) 22 917 9711, rgomez@ohchr.org , or Matthew Brown, HRC Public Information Officer, at mbrown@ohchr.org
To learn more about the Universal Periodic Review, visit: www.ohchr.org/hrc/upr

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/108775-georgia%E2%80%99s-human-rights-record-be-examined-universal-periodic-review




Date: 29 December 2020
Title: EU and FAO award GEL three million in agricultural grants
Content: 29 December 2020
The European Union (EU) and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) have awarded 84 matching grants with a total amount of three million GEL to Georgian farmers in 2020. As part of the country support programmes through the pandemic, grant support for the Georgian agriculture sector aimed at increasing production, creating extra jobs, and preventing instability in food supplies.
The awarded matching grants co-funded capital investments, such as mechanization for land processing and production; the purchase of cattle farming equipment; equipment for large-scale dairy and vegetable production; and many more. For promoting and supporting climate-smart, cost-reducing agricultural methods, the EU and FAO massively contributed in procuring and installing drip irrigation systems for farmers.
Apart from the three million GEL in those grants which have already been awarded by December 2020, 18 more grant applications previously approved are in the process of being delivered for a total value of additional  GEL 2.6 million.
This matching grant component under the ENPARD programme supports farmers, rural households, cooperatives and SMEs who operate in the municipalities of Akhalakalaki, Borjomi, Dedoplitskaro, Kazbegi, Keda, Khulo, Lagodekhi, Tetriskaro, Akhaltsikhe, Dusheti, Khelvachauri, Shuakhevi, Marneuli, Bolnisi, Dmanisi, Gardabani, Tsalka, Ninotsminda, Aspindza, Kvareli, Gurjaani and Sighnaghi.
Gabriel Dzebisashvili, a farmer from the Dusheti municipality, is one of the beneficiaries of the programme. He mainly works within livestock production, but along with his cattle, he also processes a 200-hectare plot to grow rye and barley. After being awarded with a matching grant from the EU and FAO, Gabriel was able to purchase a brand-new tractor.
“As a result, I was able to expand my business. I have already hired several people and will need more workers when the agricultural season begins. I actively advise all my fellow farmers around the country to apply for this FAO/ENPARD grant programme” the farmer says.
While Gabriel has big plans for the next season, Gocha Sujashvili from the Kazbegi municipality is happy to save a lot of energy and hard work with his new beekeeping equipment obtained under the grants programme. He and his family have spent decades making honey and other beekeeping products.
“I won’t have to physically work so hard anymore with these new tools. Having so much time and money saved I can spend more time with my family and consider expanding my production,” Sujashvili said.
EU and FAO grants are awarded to small, medium and large sale productions alike. The matching grant support ranges from 1000 up to 150,000 USD for large-scale producers, co-funding up to 60% of the investment costs.
EU and FAO support has come at a critical time for the agriculture facing challenges amid the COVID-19 pandemic. FAO-EU Programme Coordinator Javier Sanz Alvarez underlines the importance of the financial support to Georgian farmers: “We believe that EU and FAO grant support can grow local production, reduce farmers’ costs, and increase their profit while using environment-friendly, modern, climate-smart agricultural equipment. The matching grant programme is aimed at easing producers’ access to innovation and make farms and agricultural enterprises more sustainable and resilient in the times of the pandemic.”

The EU is supporting agriculture and rural development in Georgia through its European Neighbourhood Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development (ENPARD). Active since 2013 with a total budget of EUR 179.5 million, the main goal of ENPARD is to reduce rural poverty in Georgia. More information on ENPARD is available at www.enpard.ge


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/106483-eu-and-fao-award-gel-three-million-agricultural-grants




Date: 16 December 2020
Title: Sustaining reform momentum will help Georgia harness innovation to move up the value chain and reach its sustainable development objectives, new UNECE findings show
Content: 16 December 2020
Georgia went through a difficult first decade of transition after independence in 1991, facing one of the deepest economic slumps in recent history. 2003, however, marked a turning point, triggering reforms that turned Georgia into one of the most open, well-governed transition economies in the UNECE region.
The regulatory climate for doing business ranks among the best globally, and Georgia has become a vibrant trade hub, attracted significant investment, and clocked up strong, albeit volatile, growth over the past decade.
Sustaining this momentum, however, will be challenging. Georgia relies on a narrow range of resource and commodity exports, credit growth, and remittances from abroad – all subject to fluctuation that leave the economy vulnerable. Diversifying and upgrading economic activities will be central for long-term sustainable development. Central to this effort is to enable and encourage innovation – that is, experimenting with and absorbing ideas systematically to find out what works and scale it up. While there are several positive signs that this is taking place, such as innovative start-ups, the challenge for innovation policy and Georgia overall is to make this dynamic systematic throughout the economy, governance, and society.
Georgia is partnering with UNECE to respond to this imperative through, inter alia, two new flagship publications with concrete recommendations. The new Sub-regional Innovation Policy Outlook (IPO) of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) reviews and compares innovation performance and governance across Eastern Europe and the South Caucasus (EESC). Complementing quantitative composite indices, the IPO compares innovation ecosystems in six countries with similar economic, structural, legacy and institutional features, challenges, and opportunities.
The Innovation for Sustainable Development Review of Georgia (I4SD Review) takes a deeper, country-specific look at the actors and dynamics of the innovation system, mechanisms for innovation governance, and the range and effectiveness of support mechanisms in place or underway. This includes both a broad overview and an in-depth examination of specific areas: industry-science linkages, innovation-enhancing procurement, and private sector dynamics.
Several building blocks of a national innovation system are already in place in Georgia. The country shows a strong political and societal commitment to innovation – the term features prominently on the political agenda and several important steps, such as setting up the Georgia Innovation and Technology Agency (GITA), show the way.  Impressive reform over the past decades has radically improved the business environment and opened up the economy. This sparked strong investment in a range of new opportunities, which, together with rising consumer spending, drove strong, albeit volatile, trade and economic growth over the past decades and saw the rise of a growing start-up scene. Strengthening this momentum will allow Georgia to take full advantage of a range of economic opportunities, underpinned by its easy access to markets, strategic location, diaspora, and moderate wages.
Strengthening this system further to enable and promote a dynamic where actors consistently and continuously try out new ideas and diffuse them across society will be essential for sustainable development. Market seeking investment in sectors, such as banking, construction, and retail, underpinned much of the growth of the past decades – opportunities that are approaching diminishing returns as fiscal space decreases. Slowing and at times negative productivity growth show this clearly. To counteract this, Georgia must take steps to intensify innovation well beyond the realm of technology start-ups. This involves improving cross-sectoral and cross-border linkages and knowledge flow, improving educational quality and labour market skills, and investing into public research that can have catalytic effects.  Public procurement is a potentially potent but underused lever to catalyse experimentation, while improving managerial, technical, and organizational capacities through market support institutions in the private sector will be essential to absorb and put into practice new ideas.
Creating the policies, institutions, and processes for such an innovation system requires innovation in governance as well. Closer coordination and regular monitoring and evaluation of science, innovation and private sector development policies and instruments are important to ensure these measures play a catalytic role, making sure more experimentation takes place than otherwise. Policies, institutions, support mechanisms, and processes have to be flexible, able to respond to emerging opportunities, remove constraints, and provide support that is truly catalytic, that is makes sure that more experimentation with ideas that could have strong potential social return, such as employment and demonstration effects, than would be the case otherwise.
Some of the key policy challenges and recommendations for Georgia identified by the IPO and I4SD Review are summarized at Annex 1.
Annex 2 provides an executive summary of the I4SD Review of Georgia. Annex 3 provides an overview of the IPO approach to innovation benchmarking, and its application to Georgia.
An advance copy  of the Innovation for Sustainable Development Review of Georgia, may be found on:https://unece.org/economic-cooperation-and-integration/events/joint-launch-webinar-unece-sub-regional-innovation
For more information, please contact:
UNECE
Information Unit
Tel.: +41 (0) 22 917 44 44
Email: unece_info@un.org



UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/105341-sustaining-reform-momentum-will-help-georgia-harness-innovation-move-value-chain-and-reach




Date: 12 December 2020
Title: CARBON NEUTRALITY BY 2050: THE WORLD’S MOST URGENT MISSION OP-ED ARTICLE BY UN SECRETARY-GENERAL ANTÓNIO GUTERRES
Content: 12 December 2020
As the world marks the fifth anniversary of the adoption of the landmark Paris Agreement on climate change, a promising movement for carbon neutrality is taking shape.  By next month, countries representing more than 65 per cent of harmful greenhouse gasses and more than 70 per cent of the world economy will have committed to achieve net zero emissions by the middle of the century.
At the same time, the main climate indicators are worsening.  While the Covid-19 pandemic has temporarily reduced emissions, carbon dioxide levels are still at record highs – and rising.  The past decade was the hottest on record; Arctic sea ice in October was the lowest ever, and apocalyptic fires, floods, droughts and storms are increasingly the new normal.  Biodiversity is collapsing, deserts are spreading, oceans are warming and choking with plastic waste.  Science tells us that unless we cut fossil fuel production by 6 per cent every year between now and 2030, things will get worse.  Instead, the word is on track for a 2 per cent annual rise.
Pandemic recovery gives us an unexpected yet vital opportunity to attack climate change, fix our global environment, re-engineer economies and re-imagine our future.  Here is what we must do:
First, we need build a truly global coalition for carbon neutrality by 2050.
The European Union has committed to do so. The United Kingdom, Japan, the Republic of Korea and more than 110 countries have done the same.  So, too, has the incoming United States administration.  China has pledged to get there before 2060.
Every country, city, financial institution and company should adopt plans for net zero -- and act now to get on the right path to that goal, which means cutting global emissions by 45 per cent by 2030 compared with 2010 levels.  In advance of next November’s UN Climate Conference in Glasgow, Governments are obligated by the Paris Agreement to be ever more ambitious every five years and submit strengthened commitments known as Nationally Determined Contributions, and these NDCs must show true ambition for carbon neutrality.
Technology is on our side.  It costs more to simply run most of today’s coal plants than it does to build new renewable plants from scratch.  Economic analysis confirms the wisdom of this path.  According to the International Labour Organization, despite inevitable job losses, the clean energy transition will create 18 million net new jobs by 2030.  But we must recognize the human costs of decarbonization, and support workers with social protection, re-skilling and up-skilling so that the transition is just.
Second, we need to align global finance with the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals, the world’s blueprint for a better future.
It is time to put a price on carbon; end fossil fuel subsidies and finance; stop building new coal power plants; shift the tax burden from income to carbon, from taxpayers to polluters; make climate-related financial risk disclosures mandatory; and integrate the goal of carbon neutrality into all economic and fiscal decision-making.  Banks must align their lending with the net zero objective, and asset owners and managers must decarbonize their portfolios.
Third, we must secure a breakthrough on adaptation and resilience to help those already facing dire impacts of climate change.
That’s not happening enough today: adaptation represents only 20 per cent of climate finance.  This hinders our efforts to reduce disaster risk.  It also isn’t smart; every $1 invested in adaptation measures could yield almost $4 in benefits.  Adaptation and resilience are especially urgent for small island developing states, for which climate change is an existential threat.
Next year gives us a wealth of opportunities to address our planetary emergencies, through major United Nations conferences and other efforts on biodiversity, oceans, transport, energy, cities and food systems.  One of our best allies is nature itself: nature-based solutions could provide one-third of the net reductions in greenhouse gas emissions required to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement.  Indigenous knowledge can help to point the way.  And as humankind devises strategies for preserving the environment and building a green economy, we need more women decision-makers at the table.
COVID and climate have brought us to a threshold.  We cannot go back to the old normal of inequality and fragility; instead we must step towards a safer, more sustainable path.  This is a complex policy test and an urgent moral test.  With decisions today setting our course for decades to come, we must make pandemic recovery and climate action two sides of the same coin.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/106478-carbon-neutrality-2050-world%E2%80%99s-most-urgent-mission-op-ed-article-un-secretary-general




Date: 11 December 2020
Title: Building the resilience of mountain communities in the face of crisis
Content: 11 December 2020
On International Mountain Day, UNDP highlights the importance of highlands for people and the environment
Spectacular mountains occupy 65 percent of Georgia’s territory, providing the country with priceless resources of clean energy and water and ideal locations for farming, recreation and tourism. But highland residents face high rates of poverty and high risks from the devastating weather extremes that come with climate change. This year, International Mountain Day stresses the importance of highlands as a bountiful yet delicate shelter for both humans and nature.
Working closely with the Government, communities and development partners, including Switzerland and Austria, UNDP is helping to address the economic, environmental and social challenges faced by Georgia’s highlands and create policies and programmes aiming at preserving and developing these unique regions.
“Starting with majestic Kazbegi, mountains are the defining visual image for Georgia,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “The people who live in Georgia’s highlands are hardy and resilient by nature. But they need support to protect their livelihoods and their natural surroundings. UNDP is working to ensure that this distinctive feature of Georgian culture can survive and thrive.”
“Highland development is a priority for the Government of Georgia, building on successful examples from our partner countries,” said Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Infrastructure Mzia Giorgobiani. “We pay particular attention to ensuring access to services, economic activities and decision-making for people living in mountainous municipalities. Mountains are the natural, cultural, economic and social heritage of Georgia. They must be cherished and protected.”
Economic challenges and environmental hazards are some of the reasons behind depopulation and exodus of youth from the highlands - half of all settlements of Georgia are located in high mountain areas but only 9.7 percent of the country’s 3.7 million people live there. To counter the deprivation and boost economic growth, UNDP runs a robust USD 5.5 million regional and local development programme supported by Switzerland and Austria, with a special focus on mountainous regions.
“Switzerland, as a mountainous country itself, is very well aware of the challenges that highlanders face. This is the reason why we are eager to share our experience and support economic initiatives driven by the local communities,” said Dr. Danielle Meuwly, Regional Director of the Swiss Cooperation Office for the South Caucasus. “Local people know best what is needed for mountainous regions and have thus to be part of the decision-making process.”
“Systemic assistance to vulnerable and marginalized communities such as those living in the highlands, is at the heart of Austria’s assistance to Georgia”, said Alexander Karner, Head of the Austrian Development Cooperation (ADC)’s local office in Tbilisi. “A substantial part of our support is dedicated to community and municipal initiatives, including sustainable mountain tourism and organic agriculture. We firmly believe that lasting development can only be achieved with the active engagement of citizens.”
Georgia adopted a Law on the Development of High Mountainous Regions in 2015, paving the way for systemic policy efforts to address highland challenges. In 2019, with assistance from UNDP, the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) and ADC, the Government endorsed the country’s first four-year Strategy on the Development of High Mountainous Settlements, committing new funding of USD 240 million for the period of 2019-2020 to promote economic development, improve social welfare and expand access to people who live in Georgia’s highest mountain regions.
Since 2016, nearly 1,800 settlements in Georgia have received high mountain status and many have benefitted from UNDP projects that aim to support local entrepreneurship, renewable energy, waste management and environmental tourism.
With support from Switzerland and Austria, UNDP provides funding for community and municipal initiatives focused on local economic development. So far, seven highland municipalities were awarded the total of USD 195,000, with over 65,000 highlanders benefiting from the projects. In addition, community and civil society organisations in nine mountainous municipalities received USD 266,000 for local development initiatives, benefitting over 4,000 highland residents.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/104787-building-resilience-mountain-communities-face-crisis




Date: 03 December 2020
Title: An inclusive society is key to a robust COVID-19 recovery
Content: 03 December 2020
UNDP advocates for the rights of persons with disabilities during the pandemic and beyond
On the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) reiterates its strong commitment to assist Georgia in building an inclusive society in which all citizens – without exception – can exercise their fundamental human rights, enjoy equal access to public services and participate fully in the life of their communities.
Persons with disabilities form a sizable share of any society. Only 3 percent of the Georgian population is officially registered as having a disability, but the actual share is estimated at around 15 percent. Long stigmatized and pushed into the shadows, persons with disabilities are gaining voice and agency.
Georgia has made strong legal commitments to protect the rights of persons with disabilities. The country ratified the landmark UN Convention on disability in 2014 and passed a long-awaited national Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in July 2020. This legislation reflects a shift from the “medical model,” which views disability as an illness to be treated, to the “social model,” which shifts responsibility to societies to find ways to accommodate the needs of persons with disabilities.
“Promoting inclusion for persons with disabilities means recognizing and protecting their rights,” said the UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres in a statement for the International Day. “These rights touch on every aspect of life: the right to go to school, to live in one’s community, to access health care, to start a family, to engage in political participation, to be able to play sport, to travel – and to have decent work.”
The Georgian public is increasingly recognizing these rights. As documented in new UNDP research, large majorities of Georgians agree that persons with physical disabilities can perform well in education and employment and as decision-makers at all levels, for example in the Parliament. Unfortunately, acceptance drops dramatically for persons with mental or intellectual disabilities. Less than half would want someone with a mental or intellectual impairment as a co-worker, neighbour or classmate to their children. Most believe people with mental disabilities should not have children.
“We salute Georgia for its commitment to full social inclusion,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “But there is still a long way to go to translate this resolve into tangible improvements in the lives of persons with disabilities. COVID-19 has thrown up new obstacles on this road, and we call on the authorities and citizens alike to ensure that the pandemic does not put persons with disabilities into jeopardy. At UNDP, we strongly believe that a more inclusive society will see a swifter post-COVID recovery.”
UNDP has been helping to protect disability rights in Georgia for more than a decade. This work has included ensuring that persons with disabilities have access to public spaces such as the Public Service Hall and the Parliament and can make full use of public services. This effort has intensified during the pandemic. UNDP helped to customize COVID-19 information for persons with disabilities; ensured that all Government briefings were translated into sign language; provided online counselling and peer-to-peer support to staff and residents of institutions for persons with mental disability; and delivered care packages and provided home care to thousands of elderly people, many of whom have disabilities.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/103554-inclusive-society-key-robust-covid-19-recovery




Date: 01 December 2020
Title: 15 per cent of Georgia’s school-age children have no internet access at home, new UNICEF-ITU report says
Content: 01 December 2020
15 per cent of Georgia’s school-age children do not have internet connection in their homes, according to a new joint report from UNICEF and the International Telecommunication Union (ITU).
The report How Many Children and Youth Have Internet Access at Home? notes that globally two-thirds of school-age children have no internet access at home. There is a similar lack of access among young people aged 15-24 years old, with 759 million or 63 per cent of young people unconnected at home.
“Lack of connectivity prevents children and young people from competing in the modern economy.”, said Ghassan Khalil, UNICEF Representative in Georgia. “It isolates them from the world. And in the event of school closures, such as those currently experienced due to COVID-19, it causes them to lose out on education”. Khalil added.
Around 661,500 children are still affected by COVID-19 school closures in Georgia, forcing students to rely on virtual learning. For those with no internet access, education can be out of reach. Even before the pandemic, a growing cohort of young people needed to learn foundational, transferable, digital, job-specific and entrepreneurial skills to compete in the 21st century economy.
The digital divide is perpetuating inequalities that already divide countries and communities, the report notes. Children and young people from the poorest households, rural and lower income states are falling even further behind their peers and are left with very little opportunity to ever catch up.
Globally, among school-age children from richest households, 58 per cent have internet connection at home, compared with only 16 per cent from the poorest households. The same disparity exists across country income level as well. Less than 1 in 20 school-age children from low-income countries have internet connection at home, compared with nearly 9 in 10 from high-income countries.
There are also geographic disparities within countries and across regions. Globally, around 60 per cent of school-age children in urban areas do not have internet access at home, compared with around three-quarters of school-age children in rural households. School-age children in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia are the most affected, with around 9 in 10 children unconnected.

Region
School-age children 3-17 years old unconnected at home
West and Central Africa
95% - 194 million
East and Southern Africa
88%    - 191 million
South Asia
88% - 449 million
Middle East and North Africa
75% - 89 million
Latin America and the Caribbean
49% - 74 million
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
42% - 36 million
East Asia and the Pacific
32% - 183 million
Global
67% - 1.3 billion

Last year, UNICEF and ITU launched Giga, a global initiative to connect every school and its surrounding community to the Internet. Working with governments, Giga has now mapped over 800,000 schools in 30 countries. With this data, Giga works with governments, industry, civil sector, and private sector partners to craft compelling investment cases for blended public-private funding to build the connectivity infrastructure needed to deploy digital learning solutions and other services.
The initiative is now collaborating under the Reimagine Education initiative and in coordination with Generation Unlimited. Through its Reimagine Education initiative, UNICEF aims to address the learning crisis and transform education by giving children and young people equal access to quality digital learning. A key to achieving this is universal internet connectivity.
Building on these efforts and on the importance of youth engagement, Generation Connect is an initiative launched by ITU to empower young people to engage and participate in the digital world.
Although the numbers in the UNICEF-ITU report present an alarming picture, the situation is likely worse due to compounding factors, such as affordability, safety and low levels of digital skills. According to the latest ITU data, low digital skills remain a barrier to meaningful participation in a digital society, while mobile telephony and internet access remain too expensive for many in the developing world as the result of vast disparities in purchasing power.
Even when children have a connection at home, they may not be able to access it because of the pressure to do chores or to work, lack of sufficient devices in the households, girls being permitted less or no internet access, or a lack of understanding of how to access opportunities online. There are also issues related to online safety since parents may be inadequately prepared to keep their children safe.
Learn more from the report: How many children and young people have internet access at home
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/103552-15-cent-georgia%E2%80%99s-school-age-children-have-no-internet-access-home-new-unicef-itu-report




Date: 25 November 2020
Title: In Focus: 16 Days of Activism against Gender-based Violence
Content: 25 November 2020
The UN Secretary-General’s UNiTE by 2030 to End Violence against Women campaign is marking the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-based Violence (25 November to 10 December 2020) under the global theme, “Orange the World: Fund, Respond, Prevent, Collect!".
UN Women’s Generation Equality campaign is amplifying the call for global action to bridge funding gaps, ensure essential services for survivors of violence during the COVID-19 crisis, focus on prevention, and collection of data that can improve life-saving services for women and girls.
This year is like no other. Even before COVID-19 hit, violence against women and girls had reached pandemic proportions. Globally, 243 million women and girls were abused by an intimate partner in the past year. Meanwhile, less than 40 per cent of women who experience violence report it or seek help.
As countries implemented lockdown measures to stop the spread of the coronavirus, violence against women, especially domestic violence, intensified – in some countries, calls to helplines have increased five-fold. In others, formal reports of domestic violence have decreased as survivors find it harder to seek help and access support through the regular channels. School closures and economic strains left women and girls poorer, out of school and out of jobs, and more vulnerable to exploitation, abuse, forced marriage, and harassment.
In April 2020, as the pandemic spread across the world, the UN Secretary-General called for “peace at home”, and 146 Member States responded with their strong statement of commitment. In recent months 135 countries have strengthened actions and resources to address violence against women as part of the response to COVID-19. Yet, much more is needed.
Today, although the voices of activists and survivors have reached a crescendo that cannot be silenced or ignored, ending violence against women will require more investment, leadership and action. It cannot be sidelined; it must be part of every country’s national response, especially during the unfolding COVID-19 crisis.
For the 16 Days of Activism, UN Women handed over the mic to survivors, activists and UN partners on the ground, to tell the story of what happened after COVID-19 hit. Read and share stories, get inspired by activists who are making a difference every single day, and find out how you can take action.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/102412-focus-16-days-activism-against-gender-based-violence




Date: 25 November 2020
Title: UN SECRETARY GENERAL MESSAGE ON THE INTERNATIONAL DAY  FOR THE ELIMINATION OF VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
Content: 25 November 2020
Violence against women and girls is a global human rights challenge. The COVID-19 pandemic has further exposed this issue as a global emergency requiring urgent action at all levels, in all spaces and by all people.  The social and economic fallout from the pandemic is disproportionately pushing women and girls into poverty, and the risk of violence against them is rising.
In April this year, I urged the international community to work to end the shadow pandemic of gender-based violence once and for all.  I reiterate and relaunch that appeal today.
The global community needs to hear the voices and experiences of women and girls and take into account their needs, especially survivors and those who face multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination.  We must also prioritize women’s leadership in finding solutions and engage men in the struggle.
Action must involve predictable and flexible funding for women’s rights organizations, who so often act as first responders during crises.  It is critical that services for survivors of violence remain open, with adequate resources and measures in place to support health, social and justice responses.
These measures should not only focus on intervening once violence against women has occurred.  They should work to prevent violence occurring in the first place, including through addressing social norms and power imbalances, and police and judicial systems need to increase accountability for perpetrators and end impunity.
On this international day, let us redouble our efforts to eradicate gender-based violence forever.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/102415-un-secretary-general-message-international-day-elimination-violence-against-women




Date: 11 November 2020
Title: Rural women receive support to cope with COVID-19
Content: 11 November 2020
UNDP helps 480 women-headed households increase farm incomes during pandemic
Some 480 women farmers in seven regions will receive supplies and protective gear from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) as part of a programme to help vulnerable households improve farm incomes during the COVID-19 pandemic. Ten tons of fertilizers and plant protection products were distributed last week to 300 women-headed households in Imereti, Guria, Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti and Racha-Lechkhumi-Kvemo Svaneti regions, and another 180 women in Kakheti, Kvemo Kartli and Mtskheta-Mtianeti regions will soon receive similar support.
Most residents of rural areas in Georgia engage in some form of farming, but in most cases, this is on a subsistence basis and is supplemented by other forms of income. With the pandemic eliminating many wage-earning jobs, particularly part-time and informal positions that are mostly held by women, many rural families have sought to close the gap by seeking to expand cultivation. The UNDP initiative is designed to assist vulnerable households that may lack the resources to pursue this coping strategy effectively.
“Making a living from agriculture in Georgia is a challenging prospect in the best of times,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “The pandemic has not made it any easier, but for many families farming currently offers a more promising source of income than other sectors, where COVID-19 has undercut employment, especially for women. Our aim is to ensure that the poorest rural households stand a chance in this effort.”
Standard packages of agricultural inputs and basic equipment deemed most helpful to subsistence farmers were defined by the Rural Development Agency that works under the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture. They were distributed to women heads of households, single parents, IDPs, national minorities and families living in poverty. Recipients were selected in partnership with the Association of Women Farmers. The total value of the support provided amounts to USD 69,000.
The initiative is part of a USD 1 million programme designed to support national and municipal authorities and local communities in addressing the pandemic emergency. It is funded by the UN COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund and implemented jointly by UNDP, UNICEF and the UN Population Fund (UNFPA). The programme focuses on three main target groups: healthcare workers, civil servants and the vulnerable elderly – categories that are all dominated by women. Earlier this year, UNDP delivered aid to three municipal shelters in Tbilisi, Rustavi and Samtredia that together house 200 homeless and elderly people.
The initiative was managed under an ongoing USD 4 million Danish-funded local development programme that UNDP is implementing in partnership with the Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/100158-rural-women-receive-support-cope-covid-19




Date: 30 October 2020
Title: Information sharing meetings on Incident Prevention and Response Mechanism continue in online format
Content: 30 October 2020
With the support of UN Women, the Office of the State Minister of Georgia for Reconciliation and Civic Equality (OSMRCE) in cooperation with the State Security Service of Georgia conducted another information sharing meeting on the Incident Prevention and Response Mechanism (IPRM) with the representatives of women’s CSOs, internally displaced and conflict affected women.
Tea Akhvlediani, the State Minister for Reconciliation and Civic Equality, opened the information sharing meeting on IPRM. Then Marek Szczygieł, Head of the EUMM in Georgia; Zviad Zviadadze, Head of Department of Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia, Former Autonomous District of South Ossetia and Civil Integration at the OSMRCE; and Irakli Antadze, Deputy Head of Information-Analytical Department of the State Security Service, provided participants with information regarding the results of past IPRM meetings.
Following the main speeches, the representatives of women’s CSOs, as well as internally displaced and local women living in the villages adjacent to the ABLs, discussed in detail the issues related to human security, including the humanitarian situation in Gali and Akhalgori regions due to closure of the checkpoints, challenges related to the pandemic and the specific needs of the locals, including conflict-affected women. In particular, topics such as the access to medicines, primary health care and medical services in general during the COVID-19 pandemic, necessity to ensure provision of tools for online learning (including access to Internet and improved mobile connection), as well as freedom of movement across the ABLs were highlighted. Urgency and importance of opening the checkpoints amid pandemic has been also emphasized to enable Gali residents receive pensions and state benefits, as well as access other essential services and goods. Further, Ekaterine Gamakharia, Head of the Tbilisi Office of the Cultural-Humanitarian Fund “Sukhumi”, underlined that there is a need to introduce alternative arrangements to the checkpoints suggesting to the IPRM representatives to organize temperature screenings and rapid testing at the checkpoints allowing locals to move easily on both directions.
“It is very important to hold similar meetings so that we, as locals and IDPs living along the dividing line, can inform the decision makers of our needs through direct dialogue,” remarked Tamar Kantaria, a resident of Ganmukhuri village. “During such meetings, I become more convinced that women have in-depth knowledge of the community needs, and a good example of this is the specific set of needs that we have laid out. I can boldly state that the issues raised at these meetings are always addressed and considered seriously.”
IPRM information sharing meetings are organized within the framework of the 2018-2020 National Action Plan of Georgia for Implementation of the UN Security Council Resolutions on Women, Peace and Security, aimed at integrating the needs and interests of internally displaced and conflict-affected women.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/102414-information-sharing-meetings-incident-prevention-and-response-mechanism-continue-online




Date: 29 October 2020
Title: Election media monitoring: Tension mounts in Georgian media as election day approaches
Content: 29 October 2020
EU and UNDP research reveals growing polarization across media segments
As the clock ticks down to the parliamentary elections on 31 October, Georgian media is becoming more polarized and less balanced in their reporting, according to media monitoring reports released today by the European Union (EU) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
Comparing election reporting since 1 September with coverage from earlier in the summer, the research registers growing polarization on television and predominantly negative coverage of all political actors in the press. Accuracy remains problematic in newspapers, which often rely on unverified sources. Polarization is spreading to social media, including Facebook pages associated with political parties, officials and politicians.
Digital media are meeting a higher journalistic standard, covering a wider range of electoral players and refraining from abusive language. However, some online outlets favour the ruling party and discredit others.
Radio remains the most balanced and neutral medium, though it has the least influence of all media segments. It provides a relatively impartial account of events but fails to create exclusive editorial content.
All media segments are providing more diverse coverage of the electoral landscape, and less use is being made of abusive, discriminatory and gender-insensitive language. But analytical reporting of electoral programmes and social and economic issues of potential public interest remains a rarity.
All TV stations are following the role of foreign actors in the Georgian elections, with a focus on the European Union, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Russian Federation and the United States. Western countries and alliances are largely portrayed in a positive light.
“Research on media coverage serves as a critical tool for both journalists and the public in fulfilling their civic duties during elections,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “While we hope to see more in-depth analysis in the future, we see progress in that these elections have featured a calmer tone and more diverse party options.”
“The second  report  of election media monitoring published today finds increasing polarisation and a remaining scarcity of in-depth reporting. However, it is reassuring that hate speech and misinformation attempts do not seem to be getting traction, particularly on social media. It is also encouraging that the dissemination of gender stereotypes in online publications decreased significantly,” noted Asunción Sánchez Ruiz, Deputy Head of Delegation, Head of Political, Press and Information Section at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia.
The EU-funded monitoring of media coverage of parliamentary elections in Georgia is implemented by UNDP in partnership with three Georgian civil society organizations: the Georgian Charter of Journalistic Ethics, Internews Georgia and CRRC-Georgia. It covers 43 different media outlets, including 12 television stations, 10 radio stations, 8 print newspapers and 13 online editions. It also looks into the ways that Georgian media organizations connect with their readers on Facebook, analysing what kind of electoral news gets the most social media outreach, including through the Facebook pages associated with political parties, officials and politicians. A separate report prepared by CRRC-Georgia examines how Georgian TV stations see foreign influence on Georgian electoral processes.
Election media monitoring will continue through the end of the current electoral cycle. Final reports will be available at year-end. Interim reports will be published on the website: http://www.mediamonitor.ge/
Media monitors:

Media outlets:

TV channels
Media monitor:
Georgian Charter of Journalistic Ethics

Radio
Media monitor:
Internews-Georgia
Print press
Media monitor:
Internews-Georgia
Online media
Media monitor:
Georgian Charter of Journalistic Ethics



UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/98212-election-media-monitoring-tension-mounts-georgian-media-election-day-approaches




Date: 23 October 2020
Title: The United Nations at 75
Content: 23 October 2020
Georgia marking United Nations Day
The year 2020 marks the 75th anniversary of the United Nations and its founding Charter. To commemorate this milestone, the United Nations in Georgia in partnership with the Kant’s Academy launched a national campaign to promote dialogue on the country’s future and how the UN and its partners could support these aspirations. These events are part of a global The UN at 75 campaign that invites everyone to join the conversation.
“Today is United Nations Day! Let us join our efforts to leave no one behind” said Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia. “The UN at 75 global campaign is an opportunity for everybody to speak up. Share with us what you think about our future." This biggest-ever conversation is a great chance to for the United Nations and its partners in Georgia to design new targets based on people’s needs and priorities.
A launch event “Imagination Creates Future” was held in Rustavi on 20 October 2020. The Mayor of Rustavi Irakli Tabaghua and the Director of the Georgian National Library Giorgi Kekelidze discussed with the UN Resident Coordinator and representatives of civil society and Georgian youth representatives the major issues faced by the world and the future we imagine.

The campaign will continue with events the cities of Telavi, Gori, Kutaisi, Zugdidi, Batumi and Tbilisi, and opportunities to join The UN at 75 conversation online.
A UN75 video was produced  capturing a diverse set of people from different backgrounds sharing their ideas about hot button issues and the future they want by 2045.
"UN Talks" will take place on 27 October, at 15:30 p.m.  at the Sheraton Grand Tbilisi Metechi Palace. Nino Zambakhidze, Chairwoman of Georgian Farmers’ Association; Nikoloz Rachveli, Conductor, Director of the Georgian Philharmonic Orchestra andUNICEF National Goodwill Ambassador in Georgia; Giorgi Kekelidze, General Director of National Parliamentary Library of Georgia; Ia Sukhitashvili, Actress; Davit Gorgiladze, Author, Journalist; Giorgi Beridze, Founder of Edison Tech Solutions; Giorgi Targamadze, Founder of Georgian Strategic Analysis Centre (GSAC) will share their vision of the future for 2045.
A focused communication campaign on social media and outdoor advertising on public screens will be carried out over the coming weeks and we encourage all people living in Georgia to participate in the campaign by tagging the hashtags #UN75 #ShapingOurFutureTogether and #FutureWeWant
Throughout the campaign, an Idea Thone, meetings with local population and dialogues with young people are planned to ensure that Georgians will have a say in what development priorities world leaders should consider by 2045 by completing the UN75 Survey: https://un75.online/



UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/97143-united-nations-75




Date: 08 October 2020
Title: Electing more women is focus of youth social campaign
Content: 08 October 2020
UNDP and Sweden support awareness-raising among first-time voters
The upcoming parliamentary elections offer Georgia a chance to vote more women into office, overcoming a long-standing gender disparity in political representation. In support of greater openness to women in politics, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Government of Sweden are assisting civil society activists in Georgia’s regions to educate first-time voters about democratic elections and gender equality.
“There is no shortage of smart, capable women leaders in Georgia,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “But we can see that parties remain reluctant to put them on their electoral lists. Georgia’s new electoral gender quota, though still very modest in its ambitions for the Parliament, is one way to overcome this reserve, but we also need to work to combat negative stereotypes and prejudices, particularly among the younger generation.”
“The last parliamentary elections gave women only 15 percent of seats in the Parliament. This year, Georgia has a real chance to bring more women into the political process and generate a more representative legislature. This would advance Georgia’s democracy, development and European integration,” Ambassador of Sweden Ulrik Tideström said.  “Yet we see the need for continuous public discussion to dispel the gender clichés prevailing in society.”
With support from UNDP and Sweden, 45 young people from the Kakheti and Samegrelo regions took part in a series of workshops on Georgia’s current electoral system, the barriers to gender equality in politics and the participatory tools that can increase women’s representation. Ten selected participants received GEL 3,000 each to conduct civic education campaigns among their peers to send a message that women leaders are the norm.
Women's participation in Georgia’s parliament has been stagnating over the past 25 years, with the share of seats rising from 7 percent in 1995 to just 15 percent after the last elections in 2016. Women’s participation in elected local government bodies is even lower, hovering at 12 percent after the last local elections in 2017.
Globally the average is higher, at 25.1 percent, but still a long way from the 30 percent target set 25 years ago in the Beijing Declaration and later in Agenda 2030.
According to a recent UNDP survey, 60 percent of Georgians are confident that greater involvement of women in politics would benefit their country. More than half of all Georgians – 63 percent of women and 54 percent of men – think Georgia has yet to achieve meaningful gender equality. Yet 59 percent of men and 38 percent of women still believe that women’s primary duty is to take care of their families rather than seek a career.
UNDP supports the political and economic empowerment of Georgian women as part of the Sweden-funded UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality, an initiative working to promote gender equality in all spheres of life.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/94997-electing-more-women-focus-youth-social-campaign




Date: 22 September 2020
Title: UN75: The Future We Want, The UN We Need
Content: 22 September 2020
Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, the UN’s worldwide consultation reveals a strong call for
action on inequalities and climate change, as well as more solidarity.
In January 2020, the United Nations launched the global consultation to mark its 75th anniversary. Through
surveys and dialogues, it asked people about their hopes and fears for the future – representing the UN’s most
ambitious effort to date to understand expectations of international cooperation and of the UN in particular.
It is also the largest survey to date on priorities for recovering from the COVID-19 pandemic.
As of 21 September 2020, over a million people from all countries and all walks of life had taken part. Their
answers provide unique insights into what the public wants at this challenging time for the world. They are
released today to coincide with the UN General Assembly’s official commemoration of the 75th anniversary,
held under the banner: the future we want, the UN we need. Key findings include:
Priorities for action
• Across regions, ages and social groups, respondents were broadly united in their priorities for the future.
• Amid the current COVID-19 crisis, the immediate priority for most respondents is improved access to basic
services – healthcare, safe water, sanitation and education, followed by greater international solidarity
and increased support to those hardest hit. This includes tackling inequalities and rebuilding a more
inclusive economy.
• Looking to the future, the overwhelming concerns are the climate crisis and the destruction of our
natural environment. Other priorities include: ensuring greater respect for human rights, settling conflicts,
tackling poverty and reducing corruption.
Perceptions of the UN
• Over 87% of respondents believe global cooperation is vital to deal with today’s challenges, and that the
pandemic has made international cooperation more urgent.
• Seventy-five years after its founding, six in 10 respondents believe the UN has made the world a better
place. Looking to the future, 74% see the UN as “essential” in tackling the challenges.
• However, respondents want the UN to change and innovate: to be more inclusive of the diversity of actors
in the 21st century, and to become more transparent, accountable and effective.
“Across this anniversary year, we have engaged in a global conversation. And the results are striking.
People are thinking big – they are also expressing an intense yearning for international cooperation and global
solidarity. Now is the time to respond to these aspirations and realize these aims. In this 75th anniversary year,
we face our own 1945 moment. We must meet that moment. We must show unity like never before to
overcome today’s emergency, get the world moving and working and prospering again, and uphold the vision
of the Charter.” - United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres
Full report and press kit: https://www.un.org/un75/presskit Join the conversation: www.un75.online
Background
• In January 2020, the UN Secretary-General launched the UN75 initiative, not as a celebration, but as the world's largest conversation about current global challenges, and the gap between the future we want and where we are headed if current trends continue.
• The Secretary-General saw UN75 as an opportunity for the UN to listen to the people it serves and identify their priorities and suggestions for enhanced global cooperation. UN75 was initiated to better understand people’s hopes and fears for the future, inviting people everywhere to imagine the future they want and contribute ideas on how to make it a reality, building a better and more sustainable world, for all.
• Through formal and informal surveys, and dialogues held across the world, the exercise was intended to take stock of global concerns and gain views from across the world on what sort of global cooperation is required. It was also intended to re-imagine what role the United Nations might play in helping to address our global challenges.
• After the pandemic made in-person gatherings challenging in many parts of the world, the initiative increased its efforts to reach people online, expanding the one-minute survey and social media outreach to shift the dialogues to online settings, where possible. At the same time, it put more emphasis - and resources - on reaching those without internet access: working with UN offices and other partners on the ground, and through telephone and SMS communications.
• By adding questions on building back better from the pandemic, it was able to conduct the largest and most diverse global survey to date on post-COVID priorities.
• To date, over 1 million people have taken the one-minute survey in all UN Member and Observer States and more than 1,000 dialogues have been held in 82 countries across the world. In addition, 50,000 in 50 countries took part in independent polling by Edelman and the Pew Research Center, and artificial intelligence analysis of social and traditional media was conducted in 70 countries, along with academic and policy research mappings in all regions.
• Together, they represent the UN's most ambitious attempt to undertake a global reality check and hear from “we the peoples” on their priorities and suggested solutions to global challenges, providing unique insights into the future we want and the UN we need.
For further information and/or to request an interview, please contact Lisa Laskaridis (lisa.laskaridis@un.org)
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/91987-un75-future-we-want-un-we-need




Date: 22 September 2020
Title: THE SECRETARY-GENERAL ADDRESS TO THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
Content: 22 September 2020
22 September 2020
Excellencies,
In a world turned upside down, this General Assembly Hall is among the strangest sights of all.
The COVID-19 pandemic has changed our annual meeting beyond recognition.
But it has made it more important than ever.
In January, I addressed the General Assembly and identified “four horsemen” in our midst — four threats that endanger our common future.
 
First, the highest global geo-strategic tensions in years.
Second, an existential climate crisis.
Third, deep and growing global mistrust.
And fourth, the dark side of the digital world.
 
But a fifth horseman was lurking in the shadows.
Since January, the COVID-19 pandemic has galloped across the globe – joining the four other horsemen and adding to the fury of each.
And every day, the grim toll grows, families grieve, societies stagger, and the pillars of our world wobble on already shaky footings.
We face simultaneously an epochal health crisis, the biggest economic calamity and job losses since the Great Depression, and dangerous new threats to human rights.
COVID-19 has laid bare the world’s fragilities.
Rising inequalities.  Climate catastrophe.  Widening societal divisions.  Rampant corruption.
The pandemic has exploited these injustices, preyed on the most vulnerable and wiped away the progress of decades.
For the first time in 30 years, poverty is rising.
Human development indicators are declining.
We are careening off track in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
Meanwhile nuclear non-proliferation efforts are slipping away — and we are failing to act in areas of emerging danger, particularly cyberspace.
People are hurting.
Our planet is burning.
Our world is struggling, stressed and seeking real leadership and action.
Excellencies,
We face a foundational moment.
Those who built the United Nations 75 years ago had lived through a pandemic, a global depression, genocide and world war.
They knew the cost of discord and the value of unity.
They fashioned a visionary response, embodied in our founding Charter, with people at the centre.
Today, we face our own 1945 moment.
This pandemic is a crisis unlike any we have ever seen.
But it is also the kind of crisis that we will see in different forms again and again.
COVID-19 is not only a wake-up call, it is a dress rehearsal for the world of challenges to come.
We must move forward with humility — recognizing that a microscopic virus has brought the world to its knees.
We must be united.  As we have seen, when countries go in their own direction, the virus goes in every direction.
We must act in solidarity.  Far too little assistance has been extended to countries with the fewest capacities to face the challenge.
And we must be guided by science and tethered to reality.
Populism and nationalism have failed.
Those approaches to contain the virus have often made things manifestly worse.
Too often, there has also been a disconnect between leadership and power.
We see remarkable examples of leadership; but they are not usually associated with power.
And power is not always associated with the necessary leadership.
In an interconnected world, it is high time to recognize a simple truth: solidarity is self-interest.
If we fail to grasp that fact, everyone loses.
Excellencies,
As the pandemic took hold, I called for a global ceasefire.
Today, I appeal for a new push by the international community to make this a reality by the end of this year.
We have exactly 100 days.
There is only one winner of conflict during a pandemic:  the virus itself.
My original appeal was endorsed by 180 Member States along with religious leaders, regional partners, civil society networks and others.
A number of armed movements also responded —from Cameroon to Colombia to the Philippines and beyond —even if several of the ceasefires they announced were not sustained.
Enormous obstacles stand in the way: deep mistrust, spoilers and the weight of fighting that has festered for years.
But we have reasons to be hopeful.
In several situations, we have seen new ceasefires holding better than in the past — or in their absence, a standstill in the fighting.
Even where conflict is raging, we will not give up the search for peace.

Excellencies,
In areas where terrorist groups are particularly active, the obstacles to peace will be much more difficult to overcome.
In the Sahel and the Lake Chad region, we see the pandemic’s over-lapping health, socio-economic, political and humanitarian impacts at play.
I am particularly concerned that terrorist and violent extremist groups will exploit the pandemic.
And we must not forget the dramatic humanitarian cost of war.
In many places, the pandemic coupled with conflict and disruption is dealing crippling blows to food security.
Millions of people in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, northeast Nigeria, South Sudan as well as Yemen face the risk of famine.
Now is the time for a collective new push for peace and reconciliation.
I appeal for a stepped-up international effort — led by the Security Council — to achieve a global ceasefire by the end of this year.
We have 100 days.  The clock is ticking.
The world needs a global ceasefire to stop all “hot” conflicts.  At the same time, we must do everything to avoid a new Cold War.
We are moving in a very dangerous direction.  Our world cannot afford a future where the two largest economies split the globe in a Great Fracture — each with its own trade and financial rules and internet and artificial intelligence capacities.
A technological and economic divide risks inevitably turning into a geo-strategic and military divide.  We must avoid this at all costs.
Excellencies,
In the face of the all-encompassing challenge of the pandemic, the United Nations has mounted a comprehensive response.
The UN system, led by the World Health Organization, has supported governments —  particularly in the developing world — to save lives and contain the spread of the virus.
Our global supply chains have helped to provide personal protective equipment and other medical supplies to more than 130 countries.
We have extended life-saving assistance to  the most vulnerable countries and people – including refugees and those internally displaced --  through a Global Humanitarian Response Plan.
We have mobilized the full UN system in development emergency mode, activated our UN country teams and rapidly issued policy guidance to support governments.
The “Verified” campaign is fighting misinformation online —a toxic virus shaking the democratic underpinnings in many countries.
We are working to advance treatments and therapies as a global public good – and backing efforts for a people’s vaccine available and affordable everywhere.
Yet some countries are reportedly making side deals exclusively for their own populations.
Such “vaccinationalism” is not only unfair, it is self-defeating.
None of us is safe, until all of us are safe.
Likewise, economies cannot run with a runaway pandemic.
Since the beginning, we have pushed for a massive rescue package worth at least 10 per cent of the global economy.
Developed countries have provided enormous relief for their own societies.  They can afford it.
But we need to ensure that the developing world does not fall into financial ruin, escalating poverty and debt crises.
We need a collective commitment to avoid a downward spiral.
One week from today, we will bring world leaders together to find solutions at a Meeting on Financing for Development in the Era of COVID-19 and Beyond.
And in all we do, we are putting a special focus on women and girls.
Half of humanity is bearing the brunt of the social and economic consequences of COVID-19.
Women are disproportionately represented in the sectors hit hardest by job losses.
Women do most of the unpaid care work generated by the pandemic.
And women have fewer economic resources to fall back on, because their wages are lower, and they have less access to benefits.
At the same time, millions of young girls are losing their chance of an education and a future, as schools close and child marriage is on the rise.
Unless we act now, gender equality could be set back by decades.
We must also stamp out the horrifying increase in violence against women and girls during the pandemic, from domestic violence to sexual abuse, online harassment and femicide.
This is a hidden war on women.
Preventing and ending it requires the same commitment and resources that we devote to other forms of warfare.
Excellencies,
Beyond the immediate response, recovery efforts must lead to a better future starting now.
Recovery is our chance to re-imagine economies and societies.
We have the blueprints: the United Nations Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 2030 Agenda and Paris Agreement.
Recovery needs to build resilience.
That requires a New Social Contract at the national level and a New Global Deal at the international level.
A New Social Contract is about building inclusive and sustainable societies.
Inclusivity means investing in social cohesion and ending all forms of exclusion, discrimination and racism.
It means establishing a new generation of social protection – including Universal Health Coverage and the possibility of a Universal Basic Income.
It means providing access to education for all and harnessing digital technology —the two great enablers and equalizers of our time.
It means tax systems in which everyone – individuals and corporations – pays their fair share.
It means ensuring the centrality of human rights in all we do — in line with my Call to Action on Human Rights launched earlier this year.
It means equal rights and opportunities for women and girls.
The pandemic has demonstrated more clearly than ever the effectiveness of women’s leadership.
Twenty-five years since Beijing, today’s generation of girls must be able to realize their unlimited ambitions and potential.
Excellencies,
A sustainable New Social Contract means transitioning towards renewable energy to achieve net zero emissions by 2050.
I am asking all countries to consider six climate positive actions as they rescue, rebuild and reset their economies.
First, we need to make our societies more resilient and ensure a just transition.
Second, we need green jobs and sustainable growth.
Third, bailouts of industry, aviation and shipping should be conditional on aligning with the goals of the Paris Agreement.
Fourth, end fossil fuel subsidies.
Fifth, take climate risks into account in all financial and policy decision-making.
Sixth, work together, leaving no one behind.
But to truly reduce fragilities and risks, and to more effectively solve shared problems, we need a corresponding New Global Deal at the international level.
A New Global Deal is about ensuring that the global political and economic systems deliver on critical global public goods.
Today, that is simply not happening.
We have huge gaps in governance structures and ethical frameworks.
To close these gaps, we need to ensure that power, wealth and opportunities are broadly and fairly shared.
A New Global Deal must be rooted in a fair globalization, based on the rights and dignity of every human being, on living in balance with nature, and on our responsibilities to future generations.
We need to integrate the principles of sustainable development into all decision-making, to shift the flow of resources towards the green, the sustainable and the equitable.
Global financial systems must move in that direction.
Trade needs to be free and fair, without perverse subsidies and barriers that tilt the playing field against developing economies.
And a New Global Deal must address historical injustices in global power structures.
More than seven decades on, multilateral institutions need an upgrade to more equitably represent all the people of the world, rather than giving disproportionate power to some and limiting the voice of others.
We don’t need new bureaucracies.
We need a multilateral system that constantly innovates, delivers for people, and protects our planet.
21st century multilateralism must be networked — linking global institutions across sectors and geographies, from development banks to regional organizations and trade alliances.
21st century multilateralism must be inclusive — expanding the circle of engagement, drawing on the capacities of civil society, regions and cities, businesses, foundations and academic and scientific institutions.
That is how we ensure effective multilateralism that meets the test of the 21st century.
Dear friends across the world,
We cannot respond to this crisis by going back to what was or withdrawing into national shells.
To overcome today’s fragilities and challenges we need more international cooperation — not less; strengthened multilateral institutions — not a retreat from them; better global governance — not a chaotic free-for-all.
The pandemic has upended the world, but that upheaval has created space for something new.
Ideas once considered impossible are suddenly on the table.
Large-scale action no longer seems so daunting; in just months, billions of people have fundamentally changed how they work, consume, move and interact.
Large-scale financing has suddenly proven possible, as trillions of dollars have been deployed to rescue economies.
In commemorating the 75th anniversary of the United Nations, the General Assembly has invited me to report on our common agenda for the future.
I welcome this opportunity for a process of profound reflection.
I will report back next year with analysis and recommendations on how we can reach our shared aims.
Let us draw inspiration from our achievements across the history of the United Nations.
Let us respond affirmatively to the movements for justice and dignity.
And let us vanquish the five horsemen and build the world we need: peaceful, inclusive and sustainable.
The pandemic has taught us our choices matter.
As we look to the future, let us make sure we choose wisely.
Thank you.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/91979-secretary-general-address-general-assembly




Date: 21 September 2020
Title: Statement by President Zourabichvili at the high-level meeting of the UN General Assembly to commemorate the seventy-fifth anniversary of the United Nations
Content: 21 September 2020
Celebrating its 75th anniversary, UN is at a crossroads: Global threats from terrorism to climate change and now pandemic require more unity and solidarity, while they increase tensions and multiply factors of division. Multilateralism itself is put in question.
While presenting the world with new and huge challenges, global threats force us to take a fresh look at the existing practices of management in our lives, our societies and our governance systems. This means new opportunities if we are able to see and seize them. If we can look outwards and not inwards.
“The future we want” is based on four pillars:
First, Peace. The Secretary General’s call for a global cease-fire has not been heard …yet. While seeing every day the cost of isolation in its territories occupied by Russia, Georgia is not ready to simply stand by the damages caused by occupation to human lives and to human rights. Time has come for a fresh look, out of an intolerably frozen situation, at the opportunities that the new world paradigm opens and be ready for testing new solutions. Peace and development being the only way forward.
Second, a viable planet.  We all witnessed how lockdowns positively affected our environment and changed our approach, compelling us to look more thoroughly at sustainable energy transition and resource management. We as a small country think that even if our actions do not impact the global picture, we can still play an experimental role, albeit an exemplary one, for designing common strategies.
Thirdly, an inclusive and healthy society. Coronavirus spread was a wake-up call for all. Georgia has responded to the pandemic in a timely manner and managed to minimize the impact on the vulnerable populations. This was made possible by the “triangle of trust” established between society, medical authorities and government, and through close cooperation with international actors. Trust and solidarity will be key for our societies to develop the necessary resilience for tomorrow.
Last but not least, educated citizens in a culturally developed society.  Internet development has shown new opportunities for education, culture and creative growth, despite threats to information reliability and security. Citizens with knowledge and skills are the only key to future growth and the main resource. Tolerance, which we Georgians view as our centuries old cultural heritage, together with intellectual and moral solidarity, are the values that have to guide us in these times of uncertainty.
For such a future to take form, we need to respect our principles and treat the Charter and the SDG’s, not as words on paper, but as concrete goals that need political will and commitment.
The “UN we need” is one that will inspire our citizens, create trust and bring effective leadership.
Our future and that of our “old but young” organization is in our hands.

Watch: https://www.facebook.com/UNWebTV/videos/634301107458442/ [4:20:00]
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/91978-statement-president-zourabichvili-high-level-meeting-un-general-assembly-commemorate-seventy




Date: 20 September 2020
Title: World Car Free Day: Georgia Joins Global Campaign
Content: 20 September 2020
On the occasion of World Car Free Day (22nd Sept 2020), and the European Mobility Week (16-22 Sep 2020), a bicycle ride from Vake Park to the First Republic Square was held in the Georgian capital.
Organized by  the UN in Georgia and the Georgian Alliance for Safe Roads with the support of  Tbilisi City Hall and the EU Delegation in Georgia the event aimed to promote zero-emission mobility.
“Getting to a zero-emissions future sounds hard and is. But it is up to us to create permanent change to make our cities more livable and benefit pedestrians, cyclists, and other people who do not drive cars,” said UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Sabine Machl.
Air pollution is a hidden killer. Breathing polluted air has been linked to the major health concerns of our time, such as cancer, asthma, and cardiovascular diseases. An estimated 7 million people die worldwide and 11,000 in Georgia every year due to air pollution. According to the World Health Organization, Georgia ranks 70th among 194 countries by the indicator of mortality.
“We have a huge challenge on our hands. Air pollution levels across Georgia consistently break legal limits,” said Eka Laliashvili, Executive Director of the Georgian Alliance for Safe Roads.
The Georgian capital of Tbilisi is among 2,700 towns and cities from nearly 60 countries that have joined European Mobility Week’s ‘clean and sustainable transport campaign’ today. This year’s campaign focuses on car-free streets, walking tours, and interactive workshops promoting ‘zero-emission mobility for all’.
Georgia has  joined this global action for the third time; however, this year the event was not as large-scale as before due to the global pandemic and current regulations on social gatherings.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/91767-world-car-free-day-georgia-joins-global-campaign




Date: 18 September 2020
Title: Strategic cooperation framework validated by stakeholders
Content: 18 September 2020
A new United Nations Sustainable Cooperation Framework outlines strategic areas of joint cooperation
On September 18, 2020 the United Nations in Georgia and stakeholders have unanimously validated the United Nations Sustainable Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) for 2021-2025.
Organised jointly by the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator and the Georgia’s Government Administration, the validation workshop on the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for Georgia brought together representatives of the Georgian Government, Parliament, development partners, IFIs, civil society and academia, to validate the draft Cooperation Framework and its alignment with Georgia’s national priorities and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
In her opening remarks, Ms. Natia Mezvrishvili, the Head of Administration of the Government of Georgia, expressed appreciation to all partners, especially to the UN family, who worked on the new Cooperation Framework.
“The Covid-19 pandemic has exposed socio-economic challenges,” said Natia Mezvrishvili. ”Therefore it is very important that this document was resolved to end the common threat of the COVID19 pandemic and help “build forward better”.
Opening the virtual validation workshop, UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl thanked the Government of Georgia and all other partners for their continued support to UN’s work and for giving their time and feedback to this strategic document of the UN system.
“This framework of our partnership between the United Nations and Georgia refers to the gigantic work that has led to many successes and shows what has been done right,” said Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia. “It also identifies areas where we want to continue our joint work towards improvements. One red thread running through the entire document is the need to put the principle of ‘Leaving No One Behind’ into practice and to make a real difference in the lives of disadvantaged and vulnerable people.”
Head of the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office, Marine Chitashvili highlighted the one overarching priority of enhancing wellbeing, human capabilities and social equality of the Cooperation Framework and how the UN will contribute to Georgia’s development process over the next five years. She noted that a distinctive feature of the Cooperation Framework is its vivid focus on the development of comprehensive partnerships. Particular attention will be paid to building partnerships with civil society and the private sector, whose innovative potential will be useful to achieve the objectives of the Cooperation Framework.
The new Cooperation Framework is a vehicle to support sustainable development in the social and economic areas to make a difference in the lives of Georgians, especially the marginalized and the poor, fostering environmental resilience and good governance as well as  inclusive and sustainable long-term development. It also represents the reinvigorated ambition of the UN System to achieve greater coordination and Deliver as One.
After the presentation, three agencies (UNDP, UNFPA and UNICEF) also presented their Country Programme Documents (CPDs) that are directly derived from this Cooperation Framework.
UNICEF Deputy Representative, Amy Clancy, stated that the overall goal of the UNICEF Country Programme (2021 -2025) is to support the Government in meeting its commitments to respect, protect and fulfil the rights of children, as stipulated by the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Sustainable Development Goals.  She noted that despite Georgia’s continued commitment in key child rights areas, demonstrated by its progressive legislative and policy initiatives, significant disparities persist. Therefore, the focus will be on addressing key barriers and bottlenecks to ensure that all children in Georgia, particularly the most disadvantaged, have their rights fulfilled and have improved opportunities and support to develop to their full potential.
Presenting the new UNPFA country programme document for 2021-2025, UNFPA Head, Lela Bakradze outlined key areas for joint work with the government of Georgia and the civil society partners, including improvement of the quality of sexual and reproductive health services for all, especially for those left behind, to reduce preventable maternal deaths; tackling gender-discriminatory social norms, gender-based violence  and harmful practices; empowering youth and boosting innovative solutions for increased awareness and better access to information and services, especially for vulnerable and marginalized groups, and increasing availability of reliable population data and analysis for improved understanding and monitoring of the Sustainable Development Goals to address inequalities.
UNDP Resident Representative Louisa Vinton stated that  UNDP’s new Country Programme has four priority areas, all of which have expanded to support “building forward better” in the COVID-19 pandemic context: Good governance and sealing a new social contract; Sustainable economy and social protection that uproots inequalities; Environmental resilience and rebalancing nature, climate and economy; and Crisis prevention and recovery, aimed at enhancing human security and building bridges across conflict divides. In addition, UNDP will next month open an “accelerator lab” in Georgia – one of 90 globally – to promote digital solutions to development challenges.
Participants appreciated the consultative process in the lead up to formulating the Framework and found the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) comprehensive and well aligned to national development goals.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/91597-strategic-cooperation-framework-validated-stakeholders




Date: 17 September 2020
Title: Stakeholders to validate a new United Nations Sustainable Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF)
Content: 17 September 2020
Identifying strategic areas of joint cooperation in Georgia for the next five years
On 18 September 2020 at 10:00 a.m., the United Nations in Georgia and stakeholders will meet virtually to validate the United Nations Sustainable Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) for 2021-2025.
This framework, aligned to national development priorities of the country, is the strategic planning document of the United Nations.
The preparation of a new United Nations Sustainable Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) has undergone a thorough participatory process, consisting of consultative workshops with  government at all levels, civil society, academia and the scientific community, private sector and donors/development partners.
The UNSDCF reaffirms the commitment of the United Nations to work  for the “Enhancement of Human Wellbeing, Capabilities and Social Equality.” The framework sets out the strategic priorities for partnership between the UN and the government of Georgia from 2021 to 2025  in five priority areas: effective, transparent and accountable institutions; equal and inclusive access to quality services; inclusive economy and human capital development (jobs/livelihoods); human security and resilience; and environment and climate change.
Head of Administration of the Government of Georgia, Natia Mezvrishvili and UN Resident Coordinator, Sabine Machl will address the participants. Head of the Resident Coordinator’s Office, Marine Chitashvili will present the strategic document.
The representatives of UNICEF, UNFPA and UNDP will also present their Agencies’ Country Programme Documents (CPD) for 2021-2025.
The meeting will be webcast live in English and Georgian on UN Georgia social media channel (https://www.facebook.com/UNGeorgia/)
Journalists are invited to register and join the webinar on Friday, 18 September, at 10:00 am: https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_vGUTGxibS1C_lQMyD37d5A

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/91246-stakeholders-validate-new-united-nations-sustainable-cooperation-framework-unsdcf




Date: 07 September 2020
Title: EU and FAO support young Georgian agronomists with the Agronomy Internship Programme
Content: 07 September 2020
To give best agricultural knowledge and hands-on experience to the future agronomists in Georgia, EU and FAO provide agronomy students with a remunerated internship opportunity.
Young agronomists from four different Georgian universities practice agricultural hands on work in support to farmers under the EU-funded ENPARD programme that supports agricultural and rural development in the country.
Young agronomists from Akhaltsikhe, Batumi, Kutaisi and Tbilisi capitalize on the unique chance to work and study at FAO’s agricultural demonstration plots all over Georgia. Working closely with the FAO international and national experts and local farmers, interns enrich their knowledge in the areas of Climate Smart Agriculture, Integrated Pest Management, Conservation Agriculture and Good Agriculture Practices.
The students spend several days per week in the farms, working and learning more productive and sustainable methods of growing such crops as broccoli, lettuce, tomato, cucumbers, eggplant, cabbage and others, under open field, as well as greenhouses. During the season, they support farmers to set up the gardens and plots and to organize Farmers Field Days to share the acquired knowledge with the farmers from neighbouring communities.
“The future of the agriculture in Georgia depends on young specialists who will be able to teach farmers and adapt the newest technologies in the field. FAO and EU will continue to put all efforts to train agronomists and farmers in Georgia to reach better harvests and use the best practice available”, said Javier Sanz Alvarez, FAO-EU project coordinator.
In the frame of the Agronomy Internship Programme, FAO also cooperates with Georgian private agriculture companies, like Agromotors, holding trainings in utilizing modern agricultural machinery. Specialists from the company, together with the FAO experts provide classes on the use of mechanisation with practical exercises. Other private companies like Mziani Mosavali and Cartlis have also supported the programme teaching these, young soon to be Agronomists.
“I have spent six months living on a farm, within the frames of this program. I have learned so much from FAO specialists and local farmers, attended crucially important theoretical and practical trainings which definitely will help me in my future career,” said Meri Bekauri, one of the FAO interns.
One-year internship will be open to the new candidates from the beginning of the next year.
The EU is supporting agricultural and rural development in Georgia through its ENPARD Programme. Implemented since 2013 with a total budget of EUR 179.5 million, the main goal of ENPARD is to reduce rural poverty in Georgia. The first phase of ENPARD in Georgia focused on developing the potential of agriculture. The second and third phases of ENPARD focus on creating economic opportunities for rural population that go beyond agricultural activities. More information on ENPARD is available at: www.enpard.ge.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/90443-eu-and-fao-support-young-georgian-agronomists-agronomy-internship-programme




Date: 12 August 2020
Title: Youth for Social Changes - UNFPA celebrated the International Youth Day in the framework of the Regional Youth Forum
Content: 12 August 2020
On August 12, the International Youth Day, the Youth Agency, launched a cycle of Regional Youth Forums in Batumi; one of the supporters of the event was the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Georgia Country Office.
The forums shall be organized in all regions of Georgia with the aim to involve young people, youth organizations and other stakeholders in the process of development of 2025 State Strategy for Youth.
The event was opened by Ana Buchukuri, Head of the Human Rights’ secretariat of the administration of the Government of Georgia, Rezo Charkviani, Head of the Youth Agency, Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Lela Bakradze, Head of the United Nations Population Fund Georgia Country Office, Nino Samvelidze, Program Manager of the EU Delegation to Georgia, Ghasan Khalil, Representative of UNICEF Georgia and Nino Tsulaia, Head of the National Secretariat of Georgian Youth Organizations.
“This Forum which unites you here offers an excellent opportunity to discuss prospects, aspirations and ideas of young Georgian women and men.  It is a chance to deliberate about topics and issues you would like to be reflected in the 2020-2025 Youth Strategy. “For Youth and with Youth” is the central message”,- said Sabine Machl in her address to the forum participants.
“Youth empowerment is and has always been one of the main priorities of the United Nations Population Fund.  With due regard to the Sustainable Development Goals, we have to create an environment where all young people have opportunities for full self-realization.  During the pandemic we all have witnessed again and again that young people, at their own initiative and effort actively joined the COVID-19 response activities making their own communities and regions stronger, which highlights that the youth is an invaluable human capital for our society.     That’s why we are closely cooperating with the Youth Agency to ensure that our joint efforts make the voice of the youth heard everywhere”, - said Lela Bakradze, Head of the UNFPA Georgia.
Rezo Chikovani, Head of the Youth Agency: "Youth is the main renewable resource of human capital of any country.  We believe that construction of a modern, competitive country is possible only with active participation of a new generation, young people, as they are the ones to feel the spirit of an epoch better than others, they have innovative vision, skills, attitudes and ambitions.  The goal of the Youth Agency is to create a “European style” Georgian youth ecosystem to help young people to become competitive citizens capable of meeting modern demands, who will be able to actively participate in the country’s economic and social life.  Support of our partner organizations in this regards is of the utmost importance.”
In the framework of the forum, the United Nations Population Fund hosted a side event “Youth for Social Changes” dedicated to the International Youth Day.   The event offered a multimedia project by photographer Dina Oganova and ForSet.  The project presents seven young persons from different regions of Georgia who dedicate their actions and enthusiasm trying to drive positive changes in the society, achieve gender equality and contribute to creation of a healthier environment.
As part of the event, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and the Youth Agency have concluded a Memorandum of Understanding to further expand and deepen their cooperation aimed at development of youth.
Youth for Social Changes Project is elaborated by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Georgia Country Office with the support of the following programs: “EU 4 Gender Equality: Together Against Gender Stereotypes and Gender-Based Violence”, funded by the European Union, implemented jointly by UN Women and UNFPA, and UN Joint Programme “Transforming social protection for persons with disabilities in Georgia” implemented with the support of Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Fund.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/87489-youth-social-changes-unfpa-celebrated-international-youth-day-framework-regional-youth-forum




Date: 03 August 2020
Title: First Working Meeting Held on the Study of COVID-19 Management and Impact of the Pandemic
Content: 03 August 2020
The Government Administration of Georgia held the first working meeting on the Study of COVID-19 Management and Impact of the Pandemic with an engagement of international partners and experts.
Natia Mezvrishvili, Head of the Government Administration reiterated the significance of the study for the Government of Georgia at the working meeting and expressed gratitude to international partners for their active engagement.
Study covered such important topics as crisis management, analysis of the legal framework under the pandemic and human rights. Study is aimed at the identification of challenges witnessed during the pandemic to make sure that the country responds to the potentially repeated wave of the pandemic and similar disasters more effectively.
Following will be analyzed within the scope of the referred independent study: what impact has been made by the crisis in social and legal terms; what has been its impact on human rights; what is the degree of resistance and sustainability demonstrated by public institutions.
Actions taken by the Government of Georgia in the State of Emergency and within the process of crisis management will be judged, along with the existing challenges and impact of COVID-19 on the vulnerable groups. Recommendations are also being developed within the scope of the Study for a repeated wave of the crisis and better preparedness of public institutions. Study, which will be carried out by experts commissioned by international partners, will be completed by the end of 2020.
Study, which also ensures the crisis management during the pandemic, along with an assessment of the legal system and system for the protection of human rights will be jointly implemented by 8 agencies from within the UN system and United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
/Press Service of the Government Administration/
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/86448-first-working-meeting-held-study-covid-19-management-and-impact-pandemic




Date: 30 July 2020
Title: World Day Against Human Trafficking Marked in Tbilisi on 30 July 2020
Content: 30 July 2020
To mark World Day Against Trafficking in Persons, IOM Georgia presented its art installation "Invisible in Plain Sight" in Mziuri park in the capital Tbilisi for the whole day.
This year we focus on children living and working in the streets, which is why IOM decided to partner with Gagosh, Tbilisi-based street artist, whose work raises awareness on social issues, including forced begging and lack of access to education for children.
The painting will be transformed into murals and will be displaced in the cities of Tbilisi, Batumi and Kutaisi, where child begging is particularly visible in the summer season. According to child-care workers and NGOs interviewed by IOM for its situation analysis in May 2019, families with children travel from all over Georgia and even from abroad to the seaside region of Ajara and other touristic places to engage in begging. Unlike most local children begging on the street, children coming from other provinces and countries often have no place to spend the night and sleep on the street.
IOM is working together with the Government of Georgia and partners in the field of counter trafficking to address the issue of forced begging and other forms of labour exploitation of children through multidisciplinary, well-coordinated action. With the support of international donors, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Norway, the Bureau for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL) of the U.S. Embassy and the European Union, IOM continues to raise public awareness and encourage efficient responses to the crime of human trafficking and forced begging of children. This year's even was supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Norway.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/87492-world-day-against-human-trafficking-marked-tbilisi-30-july-2020




Date: 25 July 2020
Title: European Union and WHO deliver critical supplies for COVID-19 frontline health workers in Georgia
Content: 25 July 2020
A shipment of medical respirators, masks, goggles, face shields and gowns to enable health-care workers in Georgia to continue to respond effectively and safely to the COVID-19 pandemic arrived in the country this week.
The delivery of up to 1.5 million pieces of personal protective equipment, funded by the European Union and procured by WHO, includes 5,000 faceshields, 13,200 protective goggles, 30,000 isolation gowns, 1,000,000 medical masks and 328,000 respirator masks.
This is one of the largest cargos of protective equipment to arrive in Georgia with donor support. These supplies will safeguard those in the frontlines of the COVID-19 response, and ensure that the health system is well prepared in case of additional needs in the near future.
All items of equipment delivered have been checked to ensure they meet quality and safety standards for health-care workers on the frontline. Lugar Center for Public Health Research, 9 regional labs of National Center for Disease Control, Emergency Situations Coordination and Urgent Medical Assistance Center with 4,200 crew members of ambulances and village doctors across Georgia will receive personal protective equipment.
Vincent Rey, Head of Cooperation at the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, and Silviu Domente, WHO Representative in Georgia, handed over the equipment to the Ministry of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia.
“The EU, as part of Team Europe, continues to stand by Georgia in combatting the COVID-19 crisis.  This medical equipment delivery is one of the largest provided by any donor and will further strengthen Georgia’s medical capacities and protect front line workers throughout the country, both today and for possible developments in the future.  It’s a part of our wider package supporting vulnerable groups and economic recovery and a further indication of our strong partnership with Georgia,” Mr. Rey noted.
“In the fight against the pandemic, the support of both the European Union and WHO is crucial. This 15 tons of cargo is one of the largest contributions that Georgia has received during this difficult period. This assistance is of strategic importance and is intended to protect health of doctors and medical staff who make a vital contribution to the fight against coronavirus. It is for their commitment that Georgia stands where it does today and is one of the most successful examples of fighting the virus. Of course, this would have not been so easy without the help from our strategic partners,” – says Ekaterine Tikaradze, Minsiter of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia.
Silviu Domente, said: “Health-care workers are at the frontline of our response to COVID-19, which is placing them at higher risk of exposure to the virus. They are our heroes, but they are not superhuman. This protective equipment delivered, thanks to the generous contribution of the European Union, will reduce the risks they face in their daily work and will help protect them and their patients alike” he added.
The donation of the personal protective equipment with WHO is part of the European Union’s response to the outbreak of COVID-19 in Georgia.  Further medical based support, implemented with WHO, will include training for health-care workers and frontline responders and a strengthening the health sector’s overall preparedness and response capacities.
This assistance is part of a wider package of EU support for Georgia of over €400 million (almost GEL 1.5 billion) which includes support to vulnerable groups and economic recovery.  In total, the EU has committed over €15 billion globally to support partner countries combat COVID-19.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/54492-european-union-and-who-deliver-critical-supplies-covid-19-frontline-health-workers-georgia




Date: 14 July 2020
Title: Georgian businesses seek opportunities despite pandemic losses
Content: 14 July 2020
EU and UNDP survey provides insights to guide packaging companies in Georgia
As Georgia’s economy struggles to restart after pandemic shutdowns, private-sector companies are seeking analytical insights to help them assess challenges, recognise emerging opportunities and find ways out of the economic and business crisis caused by the health emergency. To address this need for the packaging sector, the European Union (EU) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) today released a survey that assesses the impact of COVID-19 lockdowns and advises on next steps.
“The EU is committed to assisting Georgia in its economic recovery and helping to put Georgian companies back in business,” said Vincent Rey, Head of Cooperation of the EU Delegation to Georgia. “To this end we work with promising value chains in Georgia, including packaging. Understanding what is happening in the sector is key to helping it recover in this crisis and save jobs. With the EU’s engagement in the sector, we promote a green and innovate climate recovery, in line with the circular economy concept. Waste and resource use are minimised, and when a product reaches the end of its life, it is used again to create further value.”
“As our survey makes clear, Georgia’s economy has taken a big hit during the pandemic, with half of the companies in the packaging sector losing at least half of their income,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “But it is heartening to see that 70 percent of the same group of companies are exploring new business opportunities.”
Based on interviews with over 500 companies, the new research reveals that over half of the enterprises that make up Georgia’s packaging value chain lost more than 50 percent of their income to lockdown and 83 percent consider the pandemic a significant threat to their continued operation. 88 percent of companies had no business-continuity insurance, and 58 percent say they lack the financial resources needed to survive the crisis.
Company workforces have also been hurt, but 54 percent of packaging companies managed to avoid firing or laying off staff. 17 percent put staff on unpaid leave while 17 percent temporarily laid off their employees.
Yet, despite these sobering results, more than 70 percent of packaging companies see business opportunities emerging alongside pandemic challenges. Most of them aim to develop new products and services, enter new markets and explore online business tools to modernise their operations. Some have already taken bold steps to repurpose their business on short notice, adapting products and services to the emerging market needs.
The assessment of the pandemic impacts on the packaging supply chain in Georgia was commissioned by the EU and UNDP and carried out in May 2020 by the Georgian research agency ACT.
The packaging value chain is one of the business fields supported by the EU and UN as part of the wider EU4Business programme, which promotes private sector development in Georgia.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/53090-georgian-businesses-seek-opportunities-despite-pandemic-losses




Date: 14 July 2020
Title: Georgia presents second Voluntary National  Review of progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 14 July 2020
The second Voluntary National Review highlights the key areas of progress,  challenges ahead as well as areas where further work is needed.
On July 13, 2020 Georgia presented the second Voluntary National Review (VNR) of Sustainable Development Goals implementation at the virtual United Nations High-Level Political Forum (HLPF) on Sustainable Development, which took place under the auspices of the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC).
The theme of this year's the largest annual UN meeting was "accelerated action and transformative pathways: realizing the decade of action and delivery for sustainable development”. This year 47 UN member states participated and highlighted their progress towards achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Georgia, Mr. Lasha Darsalia presented the Voluntary National Review and addressed questions from other Member States.
The report focuses on Georgia’s three priority directions: economic growth; human capital development and social welfare; and democratic governance. In addition to achievements the report also highlights challenges ahead and areas where further work is needed.
At the HLPF two side events were organized with Georgia’s participation. One on “Regional Mechanisms for Peer Support to Voluntary National Reviews: The VNR Twinning Experience” was co-organized July 13 by the UN Economic Commission for Asia and the Pacific with the Governments of Armenia, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan, to share experiences and learn from each other, in the spirit of South-South cooperation.
The second side event on “Education and innovation: partnerships for accelerating action to provide quality education for everyone” was co-organized by Georgia and the Estonia. It focused on children receiving quality education. Esma Gumberidze, Georgia's Youth Representative to the United Nation, also took part in the meeting and spoke about the challenges faced by adolescents and young people in Georgia and highlighted the areas defined by the reform of the Youth Agency, which will serve to create an ecosystem of support and knowledge  to help young people progress along their educational journey.
The  full Voluntary National Review is accessible in English: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/memberstates/georgia
You can watch the full video of the VNR presentation here (starts at 17:25): https://bit.ly/2ZrQOdI
More information on the Forum: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/hlpf/2020


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/53104-georgia-presents-second-voluntary-national%C2%A0-review-progress-towards-sustainable-development




Date: 13 July 2020
Title: UNICEF launches large-scale youth volunteering programme for adolescents amid COVID-19 pandemic in Georgia
Content: 13 July 2020
The volunteer project is supported by UNICEF Georgia in partnership with the State Youth Agency and non-governmental organization Helping Hand.
Over 150 adolescent volunteers will take part in a newly launched project to gain professional experience and knowledge, develop fundamental skills, create new friendships and, most importantly, plan and implement effective volunteer activities in their communities.
The project “Youth Volunteering Engagement in COVID-19 Response in Georgia” will unite the young volunteers from all over the country and offer them online trainings and skill-sharing exercises, after which each volunteer will plan a specific activity in his or her community, to help others. “Volunteerism is a powerful tool for young people to gain a strong sense of civic engagement and drive positive change in their communities”, says Dr. Ghassan Khalil, UNICEF Representative in Georgia. “We hope that as a result of this new initiative, young people will acquire new skills and knowledge and become leaders and agents of change in their communities. UNICEF, in cooperation with the Youth Agency of Georgia and other partners, will also support the development of the national youth volunteering strategy and contribute to establishing a culture of youth volunteerism in Georgia”, Khalil added.
Part of the project is the establishment of a new web-based platform, youthvolunteering.ge, allowing young people to learn about volunteering. At the final stage of the project, the most successful volunteers will receive the National Volunteer Award in two age categories (adolescents and young people), according to the thematic areas.  The project will last until the end of 2020.
Georgia does not have a well-developed and institutionalized culture of volunteerism. Although there are a number of examples where young people have acted as volunteers in crises - such as floods in Tbilisi a few years ago - they have not, as of yet, been able to harness their full potential and contribute to the democratic development of their country.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/53091-unicef-launches-large-scale-youth-volunteering-programme-adolescents-amid-covid-19-pandemic




Date: 09 July 2020
Title: Georgia ranks 58 according to the global assessment of countries' progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 09 July 2020
Published by the United Nations annually since 2016, the report tracks progress by countries towards the SDGs and highlights areas where more action needs to be taken to ensure no one is left behind.

Georgia ranks 58 of the 166 countries, according to the Sustainable Development Report 2020 that presents the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Index and Dashboards for all UN member states.
“In light of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), concrete measures are to be taken to address the impacts of the pandemic and to keep Georgia on course for strong results in SDG achievement in 2030. This year’s report is a call to action to adopt policies for building back better, leaving no one behind,” commented Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia.
Georgia’s SDG index score is 71.9 and the regional average goal is 70.9.
Georgia improved its ranking from 73th last year to 58th this year, but major challenges remain.
Georgia is on track to achieve SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy) and SDG 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions). Georgia is moderately improving in other SDGs, but  faces challenges in SDG 5 (Gender Equality); SDG 10 (Inequalities) and SDG 3 (Health).
As in previous years, the SDG index is topped by three Nordic countries — Sweden, Denmark, and Finland — but no country is on track to reach all 17 SDGs by 2030.
According to the Sustainable Development Goals Report 2020, the world had been making progress—although uneven and insufficient — to meet the Goals. Now, the COVID-19 pandemic is likely to have severe short-term negative impacts on SDG 1, SDG 2, SDG 3 and SDG 8. And the pandemic gravely amplifies inequalities in many forms.
The SDG report and rating are prepared by teams of independent experts at the Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN) and the Bertelsmann Stiftung. Several national statisticians, experts from civil society and academia also contribute to the report.
For more information, please visit: https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/
https://dashboards.sdgindex.org/profiles/geo
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/52540-georgia-ranks-58-according-global-assessment-countries-progress-towards-achieving-sustainable




Date: 09 July 2020
Title: EU, MEPA and FAO award over GEL 2 million in agricultural grants
Content: 09 July 2020
The grants are part of the second cycle of applications under the ENPARD III programme, which supports food production in Georgia amid the Covid-19 crisis.
The European Union (EU), the Ministry of Environment Protection and Agriculture of Georgia (MEPA) and Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) have awarded 35 matching grants with a total amount of more than GEL 2 million, covering 40 to 75 percent of farmers’ initial investments in agricultural initiatives.
Awards included:
Earlier this year, under the first cycle, agricultural grants with a total value exceeding GEL 2.2 million had already been approved. The next cycles of applications starts in the middle of July. Information about the application cycles, application submission, procedures and promoted investments, is available at the website: WWW.FAOGRANTS.GE.  In total, over GEL 18 million in grants will be provided over the next three years.
FAO Programme Coordinator, Javier Sanz Alvarez encouraged farmers, cooperatives and small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to participate in the next matching grant application cycle in July. “We see this project as a great opportunity for producers to improve their businesses. The FAO/ENPARD matching grant component allows for small, medium and large producers to apply and targeted investments are proving to be very effective to increase the dynamism of the full value chain”, Sanz Alvarez said.
The EU is supporting agriculture and rural development in Georgia through its ENPARD Programme. Active since 2013 with a total budget of EUR 179.5 million, the main goal of ENPARD is to reduce rural poverty in Georgia. The first phase of ENPARD in Georgia focused on developing the potential of agriculture. The second and third phases of ENPARD focus on creating economic opportunities for rural populations that go beyond agricultural activities. More information on ENPARD is available at: www.enpard.ge

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/52774-eu-mepa-and-fao-award-over-gel-2-million-agricultural-grants




Date: 03 July 2020
Title: Climate video game Mission 1.5 hits Georgia’s public television
Content: 03 July 2020
UNDP launches an educational TV programme for youth to support climate action
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Environmental Information and Education Centre (EIEC) of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture, in partnership with the Georgian Public Broadcaster, are launching a TV series to educate young people about climate change. Shaped around UNDP’s mobile game Mission 1.5, released earlier this year, the TV series offers Georgian schoolchildren an entertaining way to learn about climate change and make decisions to keep global warming below the crucial threshold of 1.5 degrees Celsius.
“Educating young people is our chance to make sure that future decision-makers will opt for greener and more sustainable solutions,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “Mission 1.5 is a game, but climate change is not. If young people learn to understand both the threats and the solutions in a virtual setting, maybe we stand a chance of thwarting climate disaster in the real world.”
“Mission 1.5 is a good way to understand the challenges we are facing,” said EIEC Director Tamar Aladashvili. “Play-based learning is one of the best methods to turn knowledge into action and fulfil our mission to respond to the climate change challenge.”
The weekend TV show Break Time is aired as part of Channel-1’s TV School, an educational project launched by the Georgian Public Broadcaster to support school education during the COVID-19 pandemic when all schools in Georgia moved classes online. The TV School did not cease classes even after the academic year officially ended in June and continues offering schoolchildren extracurricular learning opportunities, including language classes and educational programmes, such as Break Time.
Seeking to help young people understand the threats and opportunities associated with climate change, Break Time is focusing on the key areas of climate action – renewable energy, green economy, sustainable transport, climate-induced disasters, sustainable agriculture and nature protection. Six programmes of the series will be aired on TV School and its YouTube channel in June and July. The programmes are produced jointly by UNDP and EIEC together with the creative group DemLab.
Mission 1.5
Mission 1.5 is a UNDP global campaign that aims to bridge the gap between people and governments on ambitious climate action and give millions worldwide a chance to inform their governments what measures to limit climate change they want.
It is built around a video game in which players take on the role of climate policymakers. After playing the game, players can vote on key climate actions they want to see adopted. This data will be analyzed and delivered to governments, which often lack access to reliable information on public opinion on climate action.
UNDP Georgia was among the first UNDP offices to sign on to the global campaign to enable citizens to cast their votes on how they want the Georgian Government to address climate change. A Georgian language version of the game became available to the public in May 2020.
Georgia and climate change
Georgia is among the countries most engaged in climate action. In addition to emission-reduction commitments undertaken under the Paris Agreement, the Government has launched a USD 72 million programme centred around risk reduction, prevention and preparedness through improved monitoring, nationwide early warning systems and new infrastructure. The seven-year initiative, implemented by UNDP with support from the Green Climate Fund, Sweden and Switzerland, covers 11 river basins and will protect 1.7 million, or 40% of the population, from climate-induced hazards.
As part of this programme, UNDP is partnering with EIEC to spread the message on climate change, inform people about threats and solutions, and promote public engagement in climate action.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/52050-climate-video-game-mission-15-hits-georgia%E2%80%99s-public-television




Date: 03 July 2020
Title: As Georgia begins to ease lockdowns, reopening of schools needs to be prioritized, UNICEF says
Content: 03 July 2020
The statement reads that the longer children stay out of school, the more exposed they are to various risks.
Schools should be among the first to re-open when safety measures are put in place. The longer children stay out of school, the more exposed they are to various risks. This is especially true for children who are already vulnerable. As the situation improves and lockdowns are being eased, it's time to put children back on the learning track. Strict measures were taken to help contain the spread of COVID-19 and flatten the curve. There is increasing evidence that children and schools are not the main drivers of the epidemic across countries. In fact, there is no known evidence on the correlation between the rate of disease transmission and whether schools remain open or closed. On the other hand, there is overwhelming evidence of the negative impact of school closures on children’s physical and mental health, nutrition, safety and learning. When children are out of school for prolonged periods of time, their exposure to physical, emotional and sexual violence increases. Their mental health deteriorates. They are more vulnerable to child labour and less likely to break out of the cycle of poverty. For the most marginalized, missing out on school -- even if only for a couple of weeks -- can lead to negative outcomes that last a lifetime. Children who lack education have a lower life expectancy and poorer health outcomes. The decision of when to reopen schools should be made in the best interest of children and overall public health. The decision must be based on an assessment of the associated benefits and risks and informed by cross-sectoral and context-specific evidence, including education, public health and socio-economic factors. School operations will need to align with public health measures, and adjustments will need to be made when new information on risks or changes in local transmission and conditions arises.
UNICEF has released guidance to help governments re-open schools safely. Some of the recommendations include:
● Adequate water and hygiene facilities that are critical to the safe reopening of schools;
● Implementing physical distancing measures, including prohibiting activities that require large gatherings;
● Staggering the start and close of the school day;
● Staggering school mealtimes;
● Moving classes to temporary spaces or outdoors;
● Lessons provided in shifts, to reduce class size.
We must ensure that when schools reopen, every child is included and learns; every child has access to school-based health, hygiene and nutrition services; and every child is connected to the internet. This global disruption can be a catalyst for a once-in-a-lifetime transformation in our schools, so that every child learns the skills they need to succeed in life, school and work.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/51853-georgia-begins-ease-lockdowns-reopening-schools-needs-be-prioritized-unicef-says




Date: 02 July 2020
Title: Boosting Georgia’s public healthcare with digital solutions
Content: 02 July 2020
New learning system will enable thousands of medical staff to improve their skills in treating infectious diseases
Building on a successful response to the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, Georgia is taking urgent steps to ensure that its frontline medical personnel are prepared to respond to any potential second wave and other future health emergencies. As part of this effort, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is joining hands with the Government of Sweden to support the National Center for Disease Control and Public Health (NCDC), the lead agency in Georgia’s pandemic response, in training 4,000 medical personnel across the country in enhanced infection prevention and control. The initiative relies on USD 150,000 in Swedish funding.
“Georgia has managed the first wave of the pandemic well, but the crisis is far from over,” said NCDC Head Amiran Gamkrelidze. “We must spare no effort to improve public healthcare and increase the professionalism of our medical staff to ensure full preparedness for future health emergencies. Not only will this new initiative enable us to continue coping with COVID-19; it will also benefit our disease prevention and control system well beyond the current crisis.”
The first wave of the pandemic showed that public health systems around the world need to be better prepared for health emergencies and more efficient in crisis response. In Georgia, the NCDC has taken a lead in educating medical personnel and staff throughout the country, drawing on the experience gained during the crisis.
With Swedish funding, UNDP will assist the NCDC in establishing an e-learning platform to provide doctors, nurses and administrative staff with an opportunity to attend training courses and certification programmes, communicate, exchange experience and receive practical advice from NCDC experts.
“Georgian doctors deserve respect and admiration for their professionalism and dedication during the pandemic,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “The new learning system will improve their ability to respond to health emergencies and also help close the gap between big cities and rural areas, where medical staff tend to have fewer resources.”
The new initiative covers 37 medical institutions and the NCDC’s 60 regional centres across Georgia. 3,000 medical workers from the clinics designated for COVID-19 treatment and 1,000 medical staff from regular healthcare institutions will be trained in health emergency response.
The training will also extend to the operators of a specialised hotline for medical professionals who will be trained in infection prevention and control.
The e-learning platform will operate through desktop and mobile applications, with a built-in chatbot and search engine, allowing for real-time consultations and exchange.
In addition, the NCDC will develop guidelines and manuals covering critical areas of public healthcare, such as infection prevention and control in medical institutions and everyday life, the environment and health, and the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases.
“Investments in public health are investments in development,” said Eric Illes, Head of Development Cooperation and Deputy Head of Mission at the Embassy of Sweden to Georgia. “We are proud to support the Georgian Government and enhance public healthcare in very tangible ways that will save lives in emergencies.”
Assistance to the NCDC is just one component of a broader six-year programme of governance reforms in Georgia that UNDP is implementing with USD 5 million in funding from Sweden.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/52051-boosting-georgia%E2%80%99s-public-healthcare-digital-solutions




Date: 01 July 2020
Title: UN Launches the Network on Migration to support coordination and cooperation on migration
Content: 01 July 2020
The Network on Migration will provide coordinated and coherent United Nations system-wide support to the Government of Georgia
The United Nations Network on Migration was launched in Georgia by the UN Country Team in order to provide coordinated and coherent United Nations system-wide support to the Government of Georgia for strengthening migration policies and enhancing migration management efforts, in line with the Migration Strategy of Georgia 2016-2020 and 2021-2030, which is in the finalization stage.
“I wish to thank the Government for the traditionally excellent cooperation on migration,” said Dr. Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia.” We are committed to work alongside the Government of Georgia to promote migration policies that are beneficial to all and in line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.”
Ms. Nino Tsatsiashvili, Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Georgia and Ms. Khatuna Totladze, Deputy Foreign Minister of Georgia welcomed the establishment of the Network and thanked the UN agencies, especially IOM, for their support in helping to strengthen the benefits of migration and to address its many challenges.
It was also noted that this Network will become a platform for cooperation on migration and will leverage the impact of the United Nations’ considerable expertise and capacity.
“We establish this Network in order to strengthen the coordination among the UN agencies and enhance the coherence of our common work and our impact on migration management in order to provide to the Government of Georgia the support in more effective way in the future,” said Sanja Celebic Lukovac, IOM Chief of Mission.
Ms. Dyane Epstein, Regional Director a.i. of the  IOM Regional Office for South-Eastern Europe, Eastern Europe and Central Asia (SEEECA) Region and Mr. Jonathan Prentice, Head of the UN Network on Migration Secretariat in Geneva congratulated Georgia for the establishment of the Network and highlighted its importance for advancing the guiding principles and objectives spelled out in the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration (GCM). With the UN Network on Migration launch today, Georgia joins over 50 national and regional networks which have already been established globally to advance implementation on the ground and ensure that GCM is a living document, Prentice noted.
Coordinated by the International Organization for Migration (IOM) – the UN Migration Agency - the Network will work closely with the governmental institutions and agencies, international, non-governmental organizations, private sector and other stakeholders to foster a better understanding of migration dynamics and enhance information exchanges and coordination within the UN system and with the Government of Georgia entities and other stakeholder at the national level.
The Network will be open for membership to those UN entities in Georgia who express readiness to join and for whom migration is of relevance to their mandates.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/51577-un-launches-network-migration-support-coordination-and-cooperation-migration




Date: 30 June 2020
Title: Femicide prevention and monitoring: Public Defender’s five-year report presented
Content: 30 June 2020
Supported by UN Women, the Public Defender’s Office of Georgia held an online conference on 30 June on the prevention and monitoring of femicide.
The purpose of the event was to discuss the report produced by the Public Defender’s Office that highlights the main trends of justice policy, achievements and challenges in regard to the violence against women between 2014 and 2018.
The report contains an analysis of 83 cases of femicide and attempted femicide in Georgia during the aforementioned five-year period. According to the analysis, preventing femicides still remains a problem in the country. The femicide figures did not decrease much during the five-year period, while the number of attempted femicide cases increased. In addition, the report makes it clear that most often this crime is committed by husbands or partners, ex-husbands or ex-partners.
The absence of a common methodological standard for collecting and processing the administrative data on the cases of violence against women and domestic violence, as well as the identification of the gender motive in femicide or attempted femicide cases, still represents a challenge. At the same time, the report points out that now prior history of violence - preceding the femicide or attempted femicide - is better examined during the investigation stage. Starting from 2018, the practices of plea bargaining and imposing disproportionately lenient sentences are no longer applied to femicide and attempted femicide cases.
“Although certain mechanisms for combating violence against women and domestic violence have been developed and refined in recent years, the gender-based killing of eight women and five attempted femicides committed since 1 January 2020 indicate that the current system, which is mostly reactive and implies [law enforcement’s response] to the already committed acts of violence, is ineffective,” said Public Defender Nino Lomjaria in a speech during the conference.
UN Women Country Representative in Georgia Erika Kvapilova; Adviser to the Prime Minister of Georgia on Human Rights and Gender Equality Lela Akiashvili; Deputy Prosecutor General Natia Merebashvili; and Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Nino Tsatsiashvili also attended the conference.
The Office of the Public Defender of Georgia has been engaged in femicide monitoring since 2016, with the support of UN Women. The monitoring process aims at assessing the real scope of the problem, in addition to evaluating the gaps in regard to the applied protection and prevention measures.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/52792-femicide-prevention-and-monitoring-public-defender%E2%80%99s-five-year-report-presented




Date: 30 June 2020
Title: UNDP supports conflict-affected communities in COVID-19 response
Content: 30 June 2020
Assistance provided to internally displaced persons and local healthcare facilities
As part of a broader effort to protect vulnerable groups from the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is assisting conflict-affected communities. This work includes helping internally displaced persons (IDPs) living in collective centres and providing medical supplies and protective equipment to local healthcare facilities.
This assistance draws on USD 270,000 in funding from the UNDP’s global Rapid Response Facility, which was launched in the first days of the COVID-19 outbreak to help countries address emergency needs, strengthen crisis management and mitigate the socio-economic impact of lockdowns and border closures.
As part of this effort, UNDP Head Louisa Vinton delivered 300 liters of disinfectant, 300 liters of hand sanitizer, 4,000 surgical masks and 1,200 medical gowns to Shida Kartli Governor Giorgi Khojevanishvili on 26 June 2020. The supplies will be distributed to healthcare facilities located along the conflict divide.
Vinton also delivered hygienic and sanitary supplies to a collective centre for IDPs in Gori, a residential care home for the elderly in the village of Khurvaleti and a community clinic in the village of Nikozi. Vinton visited these facilities together with the Head of the Charity Humanitarian Centre “Abkhazeti” (CHCA) Nukri Milorava. Food parcels were also distributed to IDP households with strained financial resources.
“In seeking to protect vulnerable people from COVID-19, we are seeing that the challenges they face require a longer-term approach extending beyond the immediate pandemic threat,” said Vinton. “IDP families living in collective centers face a high risk of social exclusion and marginalization, and UNDP is committed to working with our national partners in the quest for more humane and equitable solutions.”
With UNDP funding, CHCA is providing support to 4,000 vulnerable IDPs living in 100 collective centres. This support includes regular disinfection of the premises; provision of information on how to prevent COVID-19; and distribution of food parcels, cleaning supplies and protective equipment to residents. In addition, CHCA is organizing home care for frail elderly residents who need personalized services.
UNDP and CHCA organized a similar visit to Zugdidi on 25 May 2020 to distribute supplies at the “Vector” collective center for IDPs. This visit included a stop at Rukhi Hospital, where UNDP delivered pulse oximeters, digital thermometers, hand sanitizer and other medical supplies. Rukhi Hospital is a designated COVID-19 treatment facility that was opened earlier this year adjacent to the conflict divide. Vinton visited the facility together with Nino Vibliani, Deputy Governor of Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti Region.
Assistance to conflict-affected communities is part of UNDP’s wider response to the pandemic which aims to help societies prepare for, respond to and recover from the crisis, drawing on UNDP’s experience in eradicating poverty, reducing inequalities and building resilience to crises and shocks.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/51396-undp-supports-conflict-affected-communities-covid-19-response




Date: 26 June 2020
Title: Cooperation among the UNFPA, Georgian Football Federation and “Locomitive” continues
Content: 26 June 2020
Memorandum of Understanding among the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Georgia Country Office, Georgian Football Federation and FC Locomitive Tbilisi was renewed on June 26, 2020.
The Memorundum was signed by Lela Bakradze, Head of the United Nations Population Fund Georgia Country Office, Levan Kobisahvili, President of Georgian Football Federation and Giorgi Kipiani, Technical Director of FC Locomotive Tbilisi.   The first Memorundum among these organizations was signed in 2018.  Renewal of the Memorandum based on trilateral agreement highlights the importance of the longstanding cooperation among the United Nations Population Fund Georgia Office (UNFPA), Georgian Football Federation and Locomitive Tbilisi football club.
According to the Memorandum, football players supported by the Football Federation and Tbilisi Locomotive shall participate in the UNFPA activities aimed at gender equality and healthy lifestyle promotion and increasing of men’s participation in MenCare campaign.
The cooperation also envisages creation of incentives for involvement of girls into football, equality of genders in sports and equal opportunities for young girls and boys.   Trainings based on the UNFPA developed and tested methodology shall be offered to trainers, referees and players in order to increase their gender sensitivity and awareness.
“Cooperation with the Georgian Football Federation and FC Locomotive Tbilisi gives the UNFPA a unique opportunity to further strengthen our work in several priority directions,”- says Lela Bakradze, Head of UNFPA Georgia.  “Football continues to be one of the most popular sports in Georgia and, therefore, footballers are the roles models for many young people.  We think that their involvement and support to gender equality, partnership and allying of our organizations shall play its crucial role in the process of building a more equal society.”
“Together with the UNFPA we are implementing a number of important social projects.  I have mentioned repeatedly that football is a great social event.  This cooperation creates an opportunity to facilitate equal involvement of girls and boys in football, to promote girls’ football and increase involvement of men in advancement of gender equality.  I am convinced that together we shall implement many more interesting projects in future”- says Levan Kobiashvili.
According to Giorgi Kipiani, “FC Locomotive Tbilisi is prepared to continue its active support to gender equality and promotion of girls’ football.  Locomotive Academy trains girls and boys together until they achieve a certain age which we believe is a strong precondition for bringing up persons free of stereotypes and equal in life and on the field.”
Cooperation among the United Nation’s Population Fund (UNFPA) Georgia CO, Georgian Football Association and FC Locomotive Tbilisi resulted in many interesting initiatives. Since 2017, they jointly organize now traditional “Fathers’ Cup”.  In 2018, in cooperation with the UNFPA, Levan Kobiashvili, in the framework of an Guest of Horoe Official Programme at Frankfurt Book Fair, introduced MenCare Georgia campaign, while in 2019, Giorgi Kipiani made a relevant speech as a member of the Georgian official delegation at Nairobi Summit.  Since 2018, the Federation and club managers together with their football players actively participate in the UNFPA events and campaigns.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/53092-cooperation-among-unfpa-georgian-football-federation-and-%E2%80%9Clocomitive%E2%80%9D-continues




Date: 26 June 2020
Title: GPS dashboards boost efficiency of Georgia’s COVID-19 helpline
Content: 26 June 2020
New technology provided by UNDP improves response time of emergency services
Twelve GPS dashboards were installed today at the premises of Georgia’s COVID-19 helpline service to assist its operators in responding to emergency calls and questions from the public. The 144 service operates 330 ambulance crews and manages up to 4,500 calls for help every day. The new dashboards were provided by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) with USD 30,000 from the UN COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund as part of a USD 1 million allocation to the UN agencies in Georgia.
“Fighting the pandemic requires accurate information and quick responses,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “Installing the new technology will enable the 144 helpline to run more efficiently and reduce response times, with the benefits to Georgia extending far beyond the current crisis.”
The 144  helpline of the LEPL Emergency Situations Coordination and Urgent Assistance Center was launched by the Georgian Government in the first weeks of the pandemic, soon after the country declared a state of emergency. The service consolidates information from different agencies involved in crisis management and coordinates their work, ensuring that every call for help triggers a prompt and effective response. Helpline staff also provide people with up-to-date information about the rules and regulations introduced to counter the pandemic.
The new GPS dashboards will allow the 144 operators to pinpoint the locations of callers and emergency crews, ensuring that assistance reaches those who need it as fast as possible. The dashboards can also determine which medical facility is closest and offers the appropriate care.
New tools for the COVID-19 helpline are just one component of the assistance the UN agencies are providing to help the Government and local communities manage the emergency. It is provided through the UN COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund, an inter-agency mechanism established by the UN Secretary-General to support countries in weathering the COVID crisis. Georgia was one of the first 46 countries named eligible for this funding, and the UN team in Georgia has received USD 1 million to protect vulnerable groups from the COVID-19 impact.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/51198-gps-dashboards-boost-efficiency-georgia%E2%80%99s-covid-19-helpline




Date: 26 June 2020
Title: UN concludes consultations with partners on strategic areas of joint cooperation in Georgia for the next five years
Content: 26 June 2020
Information collected through this consultation process will enable to design the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025
The UN system concluded online consultations to ensure coordination and alignment of a new UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025 with the country’s development priorities.
The last consultation held on June 24  focused on the UNSDCF Outcome 5: Environment and Climate Change: Enhanced resilience through improved environmental governance, climate action and sustainable management and use of natural resources.
Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, opened the meeting and  introduced the UNSDCF 2021-2026 roll-out process.
Nino Antadze, the co-chair of the fifth outcome group, Energy and Environment Portfolio Team Leader at UNDP,  highlighted the UN’s  integrated commitment to enhance environmental governance and institutional capacity in order to  ensure rational and sustainable use of natural/land resources,  conserve and protect ecosystems and make communities more resilient to environmental shocks for achieving sustainable development for Georgia.
Key priorities for the 2021/25 will also be strengthening the climate-sensitive, resilient and risk-informed development  in AFOLU, health, water safety, construction, energy and food production sectors  and enhancing the use  of  innovative and climate-friendly technologies for inclusive green economy, energy efficiency and clean energy production.
The consultation participants outlined a need for more systemic approach towards research and development of climate friendly technologies, support to capacity development at local level in terms of qualifications and skills, and gender mainstreaming in environmental management.
Over 44 representatives of the Georgian Government, civil society, academia and international organizations took part in the consultation.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/52102-un-concludes-consultations-partners-strategic-areas-joint-cooperation-georgia-next-five-years




Date: 23 June 2020
Title: The United Nations Human Rights Council adopts Resolution on Cooperation with Georgia
Content: 23 June 2020
On June 22, the United Nations Human Rights Council adopted a Resolution on Cooperation with Georgia, highlighting human rights abuses in breakaway  Abkhazia and Tskhinvali region/South Ossetia.
In a resolution (A/HRC/43/L.7) on cooperation with Georgia, adopted by a vote of 20 in favour, 2 against and 24 abstentions, the Council, welcoming the cooperation of the Government of Georgia with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, its office in Tbilisi, and other relevant international and regional human rights mechanisms and actors, requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to continue to provide technical assistance through her office in Tbilisi. The Council strongly calls for immediate and unimpeded access to be given to the Office of the High Commissioner and international and regional human rights mechanisms to Abkhazia, Georgia and the Tskhinvali region/South Ossetia, Georgia; and requests the High Commissioner to present to the Human Rights Council… an oral update on the follow-up to the present resolution at its forty-fourth session, and to present a written report on developments relating to and the implementation of the present resolution at its forty-fifth session.
The results of the vote were as follows :
In favour (20) : Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Fiji, Germany, Italy, Japan, Libya, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Netherlands, Peru, Poland, Slovakia, Somalia, Spain and Ukraine

Against (2) : Cameroon and Venezuela

Abstentions (24) : Afghanistan, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Chile, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Eritrea, India, Indonesia, Mauritania, Namibia, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Senegal, Sudan, Togo and Uruguay.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/50418-united-nations-human-rights-council-adopts-resolution-cooperation-georgia




Date: 22 June 2020
Title: Fourth consultation to seek views on strategic areas concludes
Content: 22 June 2020
UN is carrying out a third stakeholder consultation  in support of a new UNSDCF
On June 17, the UN carried out a fourth stakeholder consultation to gather views on the country’s development priorities to help us shaping a new UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025.
The new UNSDCF will guide the work and collaboration of the Government of Georgia and the United nations till 2026 towards one overarching priority, “Enhancing Human Wellbeing, Capabilities and Social Equality”. To contribute to this priority, the Cooperation Framework will be articulated around five priority areas: effective, transparent and accountable institutions; equal and inclusive access to quality services; inclusive economy and human capital development (jobs/livelihoods); human security and resilience; and  environment and climate change.
The fourth online consultation on Human Security and Resilience brought over 60 representatives of the Georgian Government, civil society, academia, and international organizations.
Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator introduced the UNSDCF 2021-2026 roll-out process, providing a brief background on the Framework.
Kemlin Furley, the co-chair of the fourth outcome group, UNCHR Representative in Georgia, highlighted key achievements in 2016-2020 and  presented the vision for the next five years. Key priorities for the 2021/25 will include provision of the conflict affected communities with improved access to essential social services, including education, healthcare and pandemic response, durable housing, food security, legal assistance and legal remedies,  improvement of their socio-economic conditions, and  strengthening of civil society, women’s meaningful participation in building resilient communities and social cohesion, including across conflict divides.
The participants focused on the opportunities and challenges that conflict-affected communities  face. It was noted that conflict-affected communities  have been particularly hit by the coronavirus pandemic, with negative effects on their income and their families. The discussion highlighted the need for building resilience in conflict-affected communities and  implementing more targeted support programmes.
The consultations with the experts and stakeholders will continue to enable  them contribute and voice their opinion on the priority areas. The feedback will be considered for the formulation of the UNSDCF 2021-2025.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/50322-fourth-consultation-seek-views-strategic-areas-concludes




Date: 17 June 2020
Title: COVID-19 exacerbates women’s vulnerabilities and gender inequalities in Georgia
Content: 17 June 2020
Across every sphere, from health to the economy, security to social protection, the impacts of COVID-19 are exacerbated for women and girls simply by virtue of their sex.
Across every sphere, from health to the economy, security to social protection, the impacts of COVID-19 are exacerbated for women and girls simply by virtue of their sex. The pandemic is further exposing and amplifying the gendered impact of pre-existing structural inequalities in social, political and economic systems.
To document how women’s and girls’ lives are changing in the face of COVID-19 and ensure that gender considerations are properly addressed in COVID-19 preparedness and response efforts by national and international partners, UN Women conducted a rapid gender assessment (RGA) of the COVID-19 situation in Georgia.
The RGA analysed the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and main challenges faced by women and men in Georgia, including its effects on their livelihood and already existing vulnerabilities. The objective of the initiative was to make the response as well as preparedness planning gender aware and responsive.
“Women and girls must be at the heart of all resilience and recovery efforts,” stresses UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl. “By generating data on the impact as well as different needs of men and women stemming from the COVID-19 crisis, we hope that the study findings will inform relevant preparedness and recovery efforts by the United Nations Country Team as well as national and international partners.”
The study revealed that as a result of the pandemic, a third of the employed population have lost their jobs, while 78 per cent of women report that if restrictive measures related to the spread of COVID-19 continue, they would struggle to cover basic expenses. The study further found that the lockdown and closures of schools and kindergartens increased the burden of unpaid care work on women and girls as they are dedicating more time to childcare, cleaning and cooking than usual. In the context of the pandemic, the increased demand for care work is further deepening already existing gender inequalities in the division of household chores and further contributing to time poverty faced by women in Georgia.
To deliver on the pledge to leave no one behind - the central and transformative promise of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development - the RGA further focused on assessing the situation and needs of women and girls with disabilities and women caregivers of disabled persons. The study found that the COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the situation for women and girls with disabilities, who have an increased risk of exposure to and complications from COVID-19 and are disproportionally affected by the negative impacts of quarantine measures. The pandemic and the measures to stop its spread have amplified problems with infrastructure, as many women and girls with disabilities have lost access to the caregivers they require to move around. Movement for blind people appears to have been particularly constrained, given the extensive reliance on touch for mobility.
The key elements of the study methodology were designed by UN Women Headquarters as part of a broader COVID-19 RGA initiative in the Europe and Central Asia region. The assessment was conducted under the “Good Governance for Gender Equality in Georgia” project supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Norway; and the UN Joint Programme “Transforming Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Georgia” supported by the Joint SDG Fund.
The complete RGA report will be available by the end of June 2020.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/52790-covid-19-exacerbates-women%E2%80%99s-vulnerabilities-and-gender-inequalities-georgia




Date: 16 June 2020
Title: Georgia becoming more gender-sensitive but bias remains, study reveals
Content: 16 June 2020
Women’s attitudes to gender roles are changing faster than those of men
More than half of all Georgians – 63 percent of women and 54 percent of men – think Georgia has yet to achieve meaningful gender equality. And 60 percent are confident that greater involvement of women in politics would benefit their country. Whereas 59 percent of men and 38 percent of women believe that women’s main duty is to take care of their families. Both women and men in Georgia have become more favourable to gender equality over the past seven years, but women are discarding traditional stereotypes much faster than are men.
These findings were revealed by new research “Men, Women and Gender Relations in Georgia: Public Perceptions and Attitudes” released today by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) with support from the Swedish Government. Building on the results of a similar study carried out in 2013, the research unveils lingering disparities in the social perceptions of gender roles in Georgia while showing that traditional gender stereotypes have become less common than they were seven years ago.
“Attitudes are changing and it is heartening to see the progress that Georgia has made over a fairly short period,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “But equal rights for women are unfortunately still called into question, particularly by Georgian men. Nearly 40 percent of men still think that a woman cannot perform professionally as well as a man, even if both are equally qualified. And almost half of the respondents overall also believe that men make better political leaders than women. If Georgia is to derive full benefit from all of its citizens, we need to overcome discrimination and stereotypes.”
“The research analysed attitudes and perceptions regarding gender equality from societal, community, relationship and individual levels. Relationships indeed are irrefutable markers to trace changes, thus, it is interesting to observe a stark shift in the perceptions on women’s role in the family captured by the research,” UNFPA Head Lela Bakradze said. “Currently, a significant number of the respondents (50.4%) do not agree with the opinion that women’s primary duty is to take care of the family, while the same was reported by only 11% in 2013.  Fewer people perceive women as the sole care-takers of the families, marked by 50.4% of the respondents in comparison to 89% in 2013. Similarly, the percentage of people agreeing that men have the final say in the family decreased by over 28% of the respondents. These figures indicate remarkable change, and it is obvious that much of the decline is due to shifting views among the younger generation. The remarkable percentage of both women and men support that both parents shall be entitled to parental leave (67.3% and 64.6%, respectively); this is yet another evidence indicating the shift happening in social norms.”
The comparative study found that traditional views of gender roles are becoming less common and that the understanding of gender equality has significantly changed since 2013, particularly among younger generations.
Currently, the distribution of household work in Georgia is still starkly segregated by gender, with women doing the cooking, cleaning and childcare tasks in overwhelming numbers. Three out of four respondents say that women always perform basic care duties. However, the proportion of both women and men who see caregiving tasks as the mother’s responsibility declined substantially, from 81 percent to 69 percent for men, and from 76 percent to 54 percent for women. While seven years ago 87 percent of men and 70 percent of women agreed that final decisions in households belonged to men, in 2019 this view was shared by 68 percent of men and only 34 percent of women.
The perception of women’s role in business is also changing. While in 2013, 58 percent of respondents said they thought men were better leaders in business than women, by 2019 this share had dropped to 39 percent. At the same time, the recognition of the challenges women face on the job market is substantial, as a staggering 85 percent of women and 58 percent of men agree that women have to overcome more obstacles than do men in their careers. Women cited their responsibilities in the household as the biggest barrier to greater engagement in economic activity and public life.
“Georgian society is moving away from gender-biased views and attitudes towards achieving meaningful gender equality,” said Lela Akiashvilli, the Prime Minister’s Advisor for Human Rights and Gender Equality. “However, more consistent and specific policies are needed to accelerate that progress and support greater equality in public life as well as in the distribution of household work.“
“Supporting gender equality and women leaders remains a priority for Sweden,” said Ulrik Tideström, Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia and Armenia. “This flagship research provides solid evidence for celebrating the successes Georgia has achieved in recent years and pinpointing the challenges that are yet to be addressed.”
The study on public perception of gender roles and attitudes was commissioned by UNDP and UNFPA under the Sweden-funded UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality in Georgia. The research was conducted in 2019 by the organization Promundo – the global leader in advancing gender equality and preventing violence by engaging men and boys,  and the National Center for Disease Control and Public Health (NCDC), based on the International Men and Gender Equality Survey (IMAGES), a comprehensive household questionnaire on men's attitudes and practices, along with women's opinions and reports of men’s practices, on a wider variety of topics related to gender equality. The data were collected by face-to-face interviews with a nationally representative sample of around 2,500 citizens and during focus group discussions in five regions.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/49966-georgia-becoming-more-gender-sensitive-bias-remains-study-reveals




Date: 15 June 2020
Title: Consultations on strategic areas of a new UNSDCF 2021-2025 continue
Content: 15 June 2020
UN is carrying out a third stakeholder consultation in support of the UNSDCF
On June 10 the third online consultation with the government at all levels and a significant number and diversity of non-state stakeholders was held to ensure coordination and alignment of a new UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025 with the country’s development priorities.
The new UNSDCF will guide the work and collaboration of the Government of Georgia and the United nations till 2026 towards one overarching priority, “Enhancing Human Wellbeing, Capabilities and Social Equality”. To contribute to this priority, the Cooperation Framework will be articulated around five priority areas: effective, transparent and accountable institutions; equal and inclusive access to quality services; inclusive economy and human capital development (jobs/livelihoods); human security and resilience; and  environment and climate change.
The consultation on outcome 3, “All people living in Georgia benefit from a sustainable and inclusive economy” involved over 65 participants from the government, the UN system and other international organizations, civil society, academia,  and the private sector.
Opening the online meeting, the UN Resident Coordinator, Dr. Sabine Machl noted  that through the consultations the UNCT is trying to identify directions to follow during the coming five-years and ensure that right priorities of the country are envisaged in the Cooperation Framework document.
Iamze Mirizanashvili, the co-chair of the third outcome group, FAO Program Assistant,  highlighted the UN’s  integrated commitment to accelerate the agriculture and rural development, to strengthen the private sector competitiveness and livelihoods, and to enhance  full and productive employment and decent work in order to ensure that all people living in Georgia benefit from inclusive and sustainable economy.
The consultation participants reiterated the importance of promotion of the private sector development and export-oriented production, and enhancement of skill development led labor productivity. The need for covering of all vulnerable groups, including women, migrants, returnees, and informal workers, who are frequently not protected by available mechanisms of social protection, was highlighted.
The discussion also covered challenges related to the fragmentation of agriculture, the existing disparities between Tbilisi and the rest of the country and the need to introduce innovative modern technologies into the sector.
The consultations with the experts and stakeholders will continue to enable  them contribute and voice their opinion on the priority areas.
The results of the consultation will contribute to the preparation of the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) for 2021-2025.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/50320-consultations-strategic-areas-new-unsdcf-2021-2025-continue




Date: 12 June 2020
Title: Georgia prepares a risk-communication strategy for future crises
Content: 12 June 2020
UNDP and UK help Georgia’s public health authorities to draw lessons from pandemic experience
Georgia’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic has drawn widespread praise for protecting public health, but national authorities are still keen to incorporate lessons learned into the country’s policy framework. To enhance preparedness for future emergencies, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the UK Government are assisting the National Center for Disease Control (NCDC) to develop a national risk-communication strategy focused on crisis and post-crisis needs.
With USD 60,000 in UK funding, the new strategy will be prepared by the United Nations Association of Georgia (UNAG) working in collaboration with a wide range of interested partners and counterparts.
“The strategy will help inform people about potential risks, their consequences, related decisions and recommendations,” NCDC Deputy Head Paata Imnadze said. “It will be a guiding document to coordinate risk-communication across all respective agencies, partners and stakeholders.”
“One of the lessons learned during the pandemic is that effective and open communication with the public is key to addressing these kinds of crises,” said British Ambassador Justin McKenzie Smith. “This new communication strategy will help Georgia’s excellent public health authorities to reach the widest possible audiences, from decision-makers to citizens right across society.“
“The experience of other countries has shown the disastrous consequences when official guidance in an emergency is mistrusted or ignored,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “The new national strategy will codify the many things that Georgia did right on COVID-19 and adapt in areas where improvements could be made, for example on the need to design targeted outreach for minorities and vulnerable groups.”
The risk-communication strategy is designed to help Georgia’s Government make effective decisions during a crisis and communicate them to citizens, ensuring public trust and coordination across all sectors of society. The document will address both national and local decision-making while tending to the needs of all citizens regardless of their ethnic, cultural, social or economic backgrounds.
UNDP will provide NCDC with consultancy and technical support in developing the strategy, as well as assist in raising public awareness about this critical strategic document. Other partners to be engaged in preparing the strategy include the Government Administration, the World Health Organization, the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and other national and international stakeholders.
The assistance to the NCDC is just one component of a wider initiative by UNDP to support the ongoing Public Administration Reform in Georgia, implemented in partnership with the UK Government.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/49201-georgia-prepares-risk-communication-strategy-future-crises




Date: 03 June 2020
Title: UN continues close consultations with partners on strategic areas of joint cooperation in Georgia for the next five years
Content: 03 June 2020
The UN system continues online consultations to bring the voices of the government at all levels and a significant number and diversity of non-state stakeholders to the table.
The extensive information collected through this consultation process will be invaluable for designing the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025.
The new UNSDCF will guide the work and collaboration of the Government of Georgia and the United nations till 2026 towards one overarching priority, “Enhancing Human Wellbeing, Capabilities and Social Equality”. To contribute to this priority, the Cooperation Framework will be articulated around five priority areas: effective, transparent and accountable institutions; equal and inclusive access to quality services; inclusive economy and human capital development (jobs/livelihoods); human security and resilience; and  environment and climate change.
On June 3 the UN has organised a consultation meeting to discuss the equal and inclusive access to quality services. Over 55 representatives of the Georgian Government, civil society, academia and international organizations attended the meeting.
Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, opened the meeting and  introduced the UNSDCF 2021-2026 roll-out process.
Lela Bakradze, the co-chair of the second outcome group, UNFPA Acting Head,  highlighted the UN’s  integrated commitment to accelerate the provision of equal and inclusive access to quality services. Key priorities for the 2021/25 will include strengthening the health system, scaling up social protection, improving access to quality education  and reducing stigma and all types discrimination focusing on those most in need  - children, youth, women, elderly, people with disabilities, LGBTGD persons, IDPs, refugees, stateless persons, migrants and key population groups at risk of HIV, TB and viral hepatitis.
The consultation participants reiterated the importance of decentralization processes,  promotion of digital technologies to improve service delivery and protection of particularly vulnerable populations hit hard by Covid-19  pandemic with special focus on those in rural areas and Georgian returnees.
At least two more consultations will be held over the coming weeks.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/48784-un-continues-close-consultations-partners-strategic-areas-joint-cooperation-georgia-next-five




Date: 27 May 2020
Title: UN initiates consultation process for formulation of a new UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025
Content: 27 May 2020
On May 27 the United Nations in Georgia launched a series of online consultations with the government at all levels and a significant number and diversity of non-state stakeholders to ensure coordination and alignment of a new UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025 with the country’s development priorities.
The new UNSDCF will guide the work and collaboration of the Government of Georgia and the United nations till 2026 towards one overarching priority, “Enhancing Human Wellbeing, Capabilities and Social Equality”. To contribute to this priority, the Cooperation Framework will be articulated around five priority areas: effective, transparent and accountable institutions; equal and inclusive access to quality services; inclusive economy and human capital development (jobs/livelihoods); human security and resilience; and  environment and climate change.
The first meeting on May 27 brought together over 90  representatives of the Georgian Government, civil society, academia and international organizations. was effective, transparent and accountable institutions  were the main topic of discussion.
Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator introduced the UNSDCF 2021-2026 roll-out process, providing a brief background on the Framework.
Anna Chernyshova, the co-chair of the first outcome group ‘Effective, Transparent and Accountable Institutions’, UNDP Deputy Resident Representative, highlighted key achievements in 2016-2020 and  presented the vision for the next five years such as protection of human rights and access to justice including through adoption of a new Human Rights Strategy  and Action Plan  for 2021 onwards and supporting gender equality and women’s empowerment, upholding the rights of children, IDPs, national minorities, migrants and refugees, and advancement of the judiciary and public administration reforms. The discussion helped explore development opportunities and identify some additional areas, for example, support to local governance through implementation of the Decentralization Strategy, protection of rights and interests of Georgian citizens living abroad, development of positive parenting skills and implementation of ageing policy.  At the same time the need for further exploring various cooperation scenarios, e.g. with civil society, business sector was outlined.
At least three more comprehensive consultations will be held by the end of June 2020. This will help consolidate views and develop a nationally owned UNSDCF 2021-2025. The formulation process will be completed in the coming months.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/48783-un-initiates-consultation-process-formulation-new-un-sustainable-development-cooperation




Date: 26 May 2020
Title: UN75: The United Nations is running the largest ever global debate
Content: 26 May 2020
Launched by UN Secretary-General António Guterres, it promises to be the largest and furthest-reaching global conversation ever on building the future we want.
In a world of dramatic changes and complex challenges, from the climate crisis to population shifts to the unknown course of technology, we need collective action more than ever before.
Through UN75, the United Nations will encourage people to put their heads together to define how enhanced international cooperation can help realize a better world by 2045, the UN’s 100th birthday.
At this pivotal moment in history, UN75 asks three big questions: What kind of future do we want to create? Are we on track?  What action is needed to bridge the gap?
Anyone can join the conversation. Online and offline, in formal and informal dialogues,
UN75 will involve as many people as possible. Together, they will share their hopes and fears, assess current and future risks and opportunities, and source solutions for global cooperation.
The survey is available in Georgian: https://un75.online/?lang=geo
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47507-un75-united-nations-running-largest-ever-global-debate




Date: 17 May 2020
Title: LGBTQI+ rights need attention during the COVID-19 crisis and beyond
Content: 17 May 2020
This joint statement is issued by the United Nations system in Georgia; the Ambassadors to Georgia of the European Union (EU), Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States; the Head of the Council of Europe Office in Georgia; and the Head of the EU Monitoring Mission in Georgia.
Today marks 30 years since the landmark decision by the World Health Organization to recognize that homosexuality is not a disease. On this International Day against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia (IDAHOBIT), we express our support for and solidarity with the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and intersex (LGBTQI+) community in Georgia.
This year’s IDAHOBIT passes in the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic. No one is immune from the health threat, nor from the risks to livelihoods that stem from the measures imposed to halt the outbreak. But the hardest hit are the vulnerable and the marginalized, including the LGBTQI+ community.[1]
The discrimination and stigma that LGBTQI+ people routinely face in accessing healthcare and other social services can prove fatal in a pandemic. Lockdown measures increase the risk of domestic violence against LGBTQI+ persons; and the economic shutdown has left the many who work in the informal sector facing debilitating losses in income without any social safety net.
In this context, we welcome the efforts undertaken by the Government of Georgia, through the Human Rights Council and the Prime Minister’s Advisor on Human Rights and Gender Equality, to help the LGBTQI+ community and other vulnerable and marginalized groups weather the pandemic. We urge Georgian officials to heed their voices and address their needs without bias or discrimination.
But the challenge goes beyond the immediate crisis. On this date last year, the international community in Georgia spoke out[2] about the discord between the sweeping human rights protections enshrined in law, including the prohibition of all discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, and the routine prejudice and violence that LGBTQI+ persons face in their everyday reality.
We commend the steps that have been taken since then, including the adoption in February of Chapter 15 of the National Human Rights Action Plan, which sets out to combat hate crimes, raise awareness about sexual orientation and gender identity, and deliver services tailored to LGBTQI+ needs. We look forward to firm commitments and swift, coordinated action to deliver on this plan.
Government actors at all levels need to work with resolve to create the conditions to enable LGBTQI+ persons to exercise their rights and express their identities without risk or fear.[3] The responsibility does not end here, however. Religious and community leaders, civil society and the wider public all have crucial roles to play in creating a climate of tolerance in Georgia.
COVID-19 has shown Georgia at its best, with individuals acting in solidarity to ensure that their own actions do not jeopardize others. Looking ahead, this spirit needs to embrace the full diversity of Georgian life, including the LGBTQI+ community, in the interest of building a harmonious and resilient society. Working together to advance the Sustainable Development Goals, we can see a future in Georgia where “no one is left behind.”

[1] For information from the Office of the UN High Commissioner on Human Rights on the risks faced by LGBTQI+ persons in the COVID-19 crisis, see : https://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/LGBT/LGBTIpeople.pdf.
[2] Statement of 17 May 2019: http://www.ungeorgia.ge/eng/news_center/media_releases?info_id=680#.XrzG1EQzY2y
[3] Recommendations are available in the 2019 report of the UN Independent Expert on protection against violence and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity (https://ap.ohchr.org/documents/dpage_e.aspx?si=A/HRC/41/45/Add.1) and the 2010 recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers: https://search.coe.int/cm/Pages/result_details.aspx?ObjectID=09000016805cf40a
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46430-lgbtqi-rights-need-attention-during-covid-19-crisis-and-beyond




Date: 15 May 2020
Title: A new partnership initiative to support young people during COVID-19 launched in Georgia
Content: 15 May 2020
A Memorandum of Cooperation was signed today by the Kant Academy, a leading non-formal education platform for adolescents, and UNICEF Georgia. The partnership aims to build the resilience of adolescents in coping with challenges, especially with the emerging needs during the COVID-19 pandemic and will focus on improving their knowledge-base and transferrable skills, as well as promoting a healthy lifestyle.
“The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the daily realities of young people, depriving them of their participation in social and educational endeavours, causing a great deal of uncertainty. By signing this memorandum, together with our partner, we aim to create new opportunities for young people for them to stay active, to learn new skills, to find new platforms for their development and for enhanced awareness, and find ways of overcoming the challenges stemming from the COVID-19 crisis,” said Ghassan Khalil, UNICEF Representative in Georgia.
As part of the partnership, to understand the current needs in the time of the COVID-19 pandemic, consultations with young people will be initiated. Based on these needs, modules will be developed for adolescents’ personal and professional development. In addition, more than 40 online events will be organized with the aim of establishing online networks among adolescents, enabling them to talk about their concerns, and to share their experiences with one another. The partnership includes organization of online trainings for young people and support for peer-to-peer education.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47233-new-partnership-initiative-support-young-people-during-covid-19-launched-georgia




Date: 14 May 2020
Title: IOM distributes 10,000 face masks for IDPs in Zugdidi to Help Prevent the Spread of COVID-19
Content: 14 May 2020
The material for the masks was provided to the NGO “Imedi” - IDP Women’s Movement for Peace by Turkish Cooperation and Coordination Agency (TIKA). IOM ensured distribution of the masks among vulnerable IDP families living in 5 villages of Zugdidi Municipality - Anaklia, Orsantia, Koki, Shamgona, Rukhi. The masks were also provided to village ambulatories and administrative units. The NGO will also distribute the face masks among the population in Georgia's Russian occupied Abkhazia region.
Up to 14,371 socially vulnerable IDP families reside in Zugdidi settlements. Majority of them live below the poverty line and their main income is financial assistance issued by the Social Service Agency of Georgia.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47227-iom-distributes-10000-face-masks-idps-zugdidi-help-prevent-spread-covid-19




Date: 14 May 2020
Title: UN Leads call to protect most vulnerable from mental health crisis during and after COVID-19
Content: 14 May 2020
Spearheading the alert ahead of the upcoming World Health Assembly in Geneva, UN Secretary-General António Guterres urged the international community to do much more to protect all those facing mounting mental pressures.
Launching the UN policy brief - COVID-19 And The Need for Action On Mental Health – Mr. Guterres highlighted how those most at risk today, were “frontline healthcare workers, older people, adolescents and young people, those with pre-existing mental health conditions and those caught up in conflict and crisis. We must help them and stand by them.”
In a video message, the UN chief highlighted how psychological problems such as depression and anxiety “are some of the greatest causes of misery in our world”.
He noted how throughout his life “and in my own family, I have been close to doctors and psychiatrists treating these conditions”, and how he had become “acutely aware of the suffering they cause. This suffering is often exacerbated by stigma and discrimination.”
The UN paper also highlights a warning from The Lancet Commission On Global Mental Health And Sustainable Development, that “many people who previously coped well, are now less able to cope because of the multiple stressors generated by the pandemic”.
All this is understandable, given the many uncertainties facing people, the UN policy brief notes, before identifying the growing use of addictive coping strategies, including alcohol, drugs, tobacco and online gaming.
“During the COVID-19 emergency, people are afraid of infection, dying, and losing family members”, the UN recommendations explain. “At the same time, vast numbers of people have lost or are at risk of losing their livelihoods, have been socially isolated and separated from loved ones, and, in some countries, have experienced stay-at-home orders implemented in drastic ways.”
Specifically, women and children are at greater physical and mental risk as they have experienced increased domestic violence and abuse, the UN paper affirms.
At the same time, misinformation about the virus and prevention measures, coupled with deep uncertainty about the future, are additional major sources of distress, while “the knowledge that people may not have the opportunity to say goodbye to dying loved ones and may not be able to hold funerals for them, further contributes to distress”.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47509-un-leads-call-protect-most-vulnerable-mental-health-crisis-during-and-after-covid-19




Date: 14 May 2020
Title: EU and UNDP provide protective gear to front-line medical personnel in Georgia
Content: 14 May 2020
The European Union (EU) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) today handed over 7,500 protective face shields to the Emergency Situations Coordination and Urgent Assistance Center of the Ministry of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia.
UNDP Head Louisa Vinton, Team Leader for Economic Development and Market Opportunities at the EU Delegation to Georgia Dominik Papenheim and Director of the Emergency Situations Coordination and Urgent Assistance Center Avtandil Talakvadze met today at the Center premises in Tbilisi to hand over the protective gear and discuss future assistance to front-line medical personnel.
Manufactured by the Georgian company CaucasPack with EU and UNDP support, the adjustable and reusable face shields will help ensure that emergency crews in Tbilisi and Georgia’s regions are able to do their jobs safely amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The shields are made from recycled plastic bottles.
This assistance is part of a larger programme of support to healthcare workers, civil servants and other at-risk personnel who are working all over the country, providing people with essential healthcare and other services.
More than 40,000 face shields were produced in April and May with assistance from the EU, UNDP and the governments of Switzerland, Austria and the United States, to be distributed in Tbilisi and Georgia’s regions. UNDP, with assistance from the EU and the US, is also ensuring that protective equipment and other medical supplies are provided to Abkhazia, Georgia to mitigate COVID-19 risks.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46434-eu-and-undp-provide-protective-gear-front-line-medical-personnel-georgia




Date: 11 May 2020
Title: World must look beyond ‘old normal’ after COVID-19, UN says
Content: 11 May 2020
Warning that COVID-19 is as much a development crisis as a health crisis, the United Nations system has issued a roadmap aimed at helping countries protect people from the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic while enacting recovery plans that remedy the inequalities it has revealed.
The new UN Framework echoes the spirit of the Sustainable Development Goals by calling on countries to ensure that the economic downturn and the interruption of social services caused by lockdown measures designed to halt the pandemic “leave no one behind,” especially the poor and other vulnerable groups.
Crucially, the new framework urges countries to “build back better” in the wake of the crisis. The pandemic has shown that the world’s traditional economic models are exhausted and unsustainable; the imperative now is to adjust development paths to embrace greener, fairer approaches that ensure that everyone enjoys full social protection and that environmental boundaries are respected to preserve the planet.
“We simply cannot return to where we were before COVID-19 struck, with societies unnecessarily vulnerable to crisis,” explained UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. “We need to build a better world.”
“It’s a kind of a fork in the road for every country,” noted Achim Steiner, Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). “You have an opportunity either to invest in returning to yesterday’s economy or to invest into tomorrow’s economy.” Steiner emphasized the need to “insert the DNA of a low-carbon transition” into country recovery strategies to address the threat of climate change.
As the Georgian Government begins to ease restrictions on economic activities, attention has turned to the country’s post-crisis development agenda. “The primary goal for Georgia today is to save the lives of our citizens and to bring our economy back to life,” stated Georgian Prime Minister Giorgi Gakharia. “We stand ready to look at lessons learned and refine our policies to ensure that as a society we emerge from this crisis more resilient than before.”
“Georgia’s response to the pandemic undoubtedly saved lives, and my prediction is that it will be studied in the future as a best practice,” said Louisa Vinton, UNDP Head in Georgia. “But, here as everywhere in the world, COVID-19 has also exposed social vulnerabilities and economic imbalances. UNDP therefore welcomes the resolve of Georgia’s leaders to go beyond ‘business as usual’ to design a recovery plan that builds on the positives and neutralizes the negatives to map out a path to a green, fair and inclusive future.”
The new framework defines five core areas of UN support for socio-economic recovery:
To ensure focused support to countries, the new UN framework designates clear responsibilities. Worldwide, UNDP has been tasked to serve as the technical lead agency for socio-economic recovery efforts, under the overall leadership of the UN Resident Coordinators, with the UN teams working as one across all aspects of the response. This socio-economic work will be conducted in parallel to the UN response to the health emergency, where the World Health Organization is the technical lead.
UN work on socio-economic recovery will be supported by a new USD 1 billion trust fund, the UN COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund. Georgia was one of the first 46 countries named eligible for this funding, and the UN team in Georgia is set to receive USD 1 million to protect vulnerable groups from COVID-19 shocks.
Working closely with Government and donor partners, UNDP has already repurposed much of its annual USD 20 million programme in Georgia to assist in the pandemic response. Support has been provided in informing vulnerable groups and remote communities about COVID-19 risks and prevention; supplying Abkhazia and IDP communities with protective gear, medical supplies and other support; moving vital public services, training and business mediation support online; and issuing grants to protect rural livelihoods.
In New York:
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45317-world-must-look-beyond-%E2%80%98old-normal%E2%80%99-after-covid-19-un-says




Date: 08 May 2020
Title: UN Secretary-General's Global Appeal to address and counter COVID-19 related hate speech
Content: 08 May 2020
We need every ounce of solidarity to tackle it together.  Yet the pandemic continues to unleash a tsunami of hate and xenophobia, scapegoating and scare-mongering.
Anti-foreigner sentiment has surged online and in the streets. Anti-Semitic conspiracy theories have spread, and COVID-19-related anti-Muslim attacks have occurred.  Migrants and refugees have been vilified as a source of the virus -- and then denied access to medical treatment.  With older persons among the most vulnerable, contemptible memes have emerged suggesting they are also the most expendable.  And journalists, whistleblowers, health professionals, aid workers and human rights defenders are being targeted simply for doing their jobs.
We must act now to strengthen the immunity of our societies against the virus of hate.  That’s why I’m appealing today for an all-out effort to end hate speech globally.
I call on political leaders to show solidarity with all members of their societies and build and reinforce social cohesion.
I call on educational institutions to focus on digital literacy at a time when billions of young people are online – and when extremists are seeking to prey on captive and potentially despairing audiences.
I call on the media, especially social media companies, to do much more to flag and, in line with international human rights law, remove racist, misogynist and other harmful content.
I call on civil society to strengthen outreach to vulnerable people, and religious actors to serve as models of mutual respect.
And I ask everyone, everywhere, to stand up against hate, treat each other with dignity and take every opportunity to spread kindness.
Last year, I launched the United Nations Strategy and Plan of Action on Hate Speech to enhance United Nations efforts against this scourge.   As we combat this pandemic, we have a duty to protect people, end stigma and prevent violence.
Let’s defeat hate speech – and COVID-19 - together.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47510-un-secretary-generals-global-appeal-address-and-counter-covid-19-related-hate-speech




Date: 08 May 2020
Title: IOM Appeals for Funding to Scale Up Assistance to Vulnerable Migrants Amid the COVID-19 Crisis in South Caucasus
Content: 08 May 2020
The countries of the South Caucasus host hundreds of thousands of migrants in regular and irregular situations predominantly from Central Asia, but also from the Syrian Arab Republic, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and countries of South-East Asia and West Africa.
Due to both real and perceived legal precarity of both regular and irregular migrants, as well as regulatory and practical barriers, they are less likely to seek health services, including getting tested for COVID-19. It is critical to ensure that information on risks an recommendations reach migrant communities in a timely manner and in a language they understand. It is key to identify the most vulnerable amongst the migrant population, assess their needs and provide emergency relief where critically needed, provide counselling, as well as assistance to those who wish to return to their countries of origin. Furthermore, a large proportion of the population in the South Caucasus relies on income facilitated by mobility — remittances sent by family members working abroad and income from circular or seasonal migration frequently form a livelihood strategy. This income has been severely diminished or interrupted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to official statistics capturing formal COVID-19 repatriation channels under the auspices of governments, nearly 10,000 Georgian migrants, over 63,000 Armenian migrants, and over 10,000 Azerbaijani migrants returned to the South Caucasus since the beginning of the crisis. Mass returns, however, bring migrants back to communities characterized by economic insecurity in the form of chronic underemployment and unemployment and lack of access to economic opportunities. It is critical to mitigate the socio-economic impacts on and create new livelihood opportunities for local mobility-dependent population across the South Caucasus.
IOM Georgia jointly with IOM Armenia and IOM Azerbaijan are requesting USD 3.725 m in line with IOM’s Global Strategic Preparedness and Response Plan (SPRP) to support the Governments in South Caucasus in supporting vulnerable migrants and mobility-dependent communities between February and December 2020. The plans described in the Appeal span diverse areas of work: coordination and partnerships, risk communication and community engagement, disease surveillance, point of entry, protection, displacement tracking, as well as logistics, procurement and supply chain management, corresponding to existing IOM capacities and expertise in the region.
Download IOM South Caucasus COVID-19 Response Appeal

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47229-iom-appeals-funding-scale-assistance-vulnerable-migrants-amid-covid-19-crisis-south-caucasus




Date: 07 May 2020
Title: EU and UNDP help Georgia’s rural regions respond to the COVID-19 crisis
Content: 07 May 2020
To help Georgia’s rural regions respond to the economic and social challenges emerging amidst the COVID-19 crisis, the European Union and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) today launched a GEL 9 million grant programme together with the Agriculture and Rural Development Agency (ARDA) of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture. The grants are designed to boost rural entrepreneurship, create sustainable jobs, improve the management of natural resources and promote climate action.
The programme will be implemented in eight municipalities – Akhalkalaki, Borjomi, Dedoplistskaro, Kazbegi, Keda, Khulo, Lagodekhi and Tetritskaro – where UNDP and the EU are working together to promote livelihoods outside agriculture. Applicants can be based elsewhere in Georgia but will need to show a connection with the targeted municipalities.
“The grant programme is a flexible and effective instrument for strengthening the rural economy,” said Levan Davitashvili, Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture (MEPA) of Georgia. “It will help diversify economic activities in Georgia’s regions and foster non-farming businesses across the country.”
“The EU is mobilising all possible resources to assist Georgia to recover from the current crisis. I am especially glad that these grants will target rural areas around the country, where economic development can be a challenge even in normal times,” said EU Ambassador Carl Hartzell.
The Rural Development Programme is assisting non-agricultural business start-ups and growing enterprises with grants worth up to GEL 170,000 per project. Additional grants worth up to GEL 30,000 will be provided to businesses to improve energy efficiency. To ensure sustainability, all grantees are expected to provide at least 20% co-financing for their projects. Applications for the current round are due by 1 August 2020. More information is available at www.arda.gov.ge
“Georgia’s exemplary COVID-19 response has saved lives,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “Our new grants programme is aimed at saving livelihoods that are threatened by the shutdown, and also at applying the principle of ‘building back better.’ We have a chance now to promote green alternatives in rural areas that will benefit both people and planet.”
The EU and UNDP are long-term supporters of rural development in Georgia. More than GEL 600 million (EUR 179.5 million) in EU assistance has been allocated to Georgia under the ENPARD programme for 2013-2022. This support is designed to improve agricultural productivity, refine rural development policies and create new economic opportunities for rural communities, both in agriculture and outside of it. In parallel to UNDP’s work in rural development, the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) is working with the EU and MEPA to operate a grants programme to support farm businesses and improve food security.
More information about ENPARD is available at www.enpard.ge

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45319-eu-and-undp-help-georgia%E2%80%99s-rural-regions-respond-covid-19-crisis




Date: 07 May 2020
Title: The Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the UNFPA and Liberty Bank
Content: 07 May 2020
The purpose of this MoU is to provide a framework of cooperation and facilitate collaboration between Liberty and UNFPA in areas of common interest – to promote healthy and active ageing and gender equality in Georgia. This cooperation considers the following areas of activity:
“I am extremely proud of this new partnership, which reinforces Liberty’s commitment to the safety of older population in Georgia and also, prevention and raising awareness regarding Covid-19.” said Vasil Khodeli, the CEO of Liberty Bank, “For the past few years, at Liberty we have been continuously creating special spaces and events for 60+ population through various educational and entertainment programs offline and online. Today, we are excited to greet UNFPA as our partners and join the forces towards promoting the importance of healthy and active life for elderly as well as explore the opportunities to promote gender equality and empowerment of women in Georgia.”
“We at the UNFPA see huge potential in this partnership with the Liberty Bank,” said Lela Bakradze, Head of the UNFPA Georgia Country Office, “Promoting healthy and active ageing and gender equality will help the country to progress towards achieving sustainable development. It is very important to partner with Liberty Bank – a company which shares our values and is ready to invest in the better lives of senior citizens, women and adolescent girls in Georgia. We believe that our cooperation will be a new step towards building more equal society where no one will be left behind.”
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45480-memorandum-understanding-was-signed-between-unfpa-and-liberty-bank




Date: 05 May 2020
Title: EU and FAO support Georgian Nursery Enterprises to align with international standards amid Covid-19
Content: 05 May 2020
The webinar was launched by FAO under the EU-funded project, “EU Innovative Action for Private Sector Competitiveness in Georgia”. The online webinar trained entrepreneurs in how to produce high quality, certified seedlings, with additional focus on the development of the National Seedling Certification System in Georgia.
The training course provided practical knowledge on how to align the Georgian production of seedlings with the minimum international standards and best practices of European countries. This is especially important due to the fact that  new quality requirements will become mandatory for Georgian seedling producers from 2024, a result of the country’s Association Agreement with the EU.
These new requirements will also regulate import and export, as well as provide legal stability to the seedling sector, particularly in the form of helping to prevent the import of bad quality seedlings. In addition, the requirements will open markets for Georgian nurseries, allowing them to export to the EU and other countries.
The webinar was also a welcome opportunity to discuss the creation of an Association for Seed and Seedling Producers, and closer collaboration within a business cluster.
In her opening speech, Nunu Mosiashvili, the FAO’s project manager, stressed that: “It is critical for farmers to be able to procure locally-grown, certified seedlings for fruit trees and grapevines. Only then can they be sure of the quality of the seedlings that they are buying and planting on their farms. The FAO and EU are supporting local nurseries to produce better quality products, and ultimately meet international standards.”
This webinar is the first one of a series that will train nursery enterprises in several technical areas: nursery and greenhouse management; the principles of pest monitoring and pest control; principles to assure the varietal purity and identity of the seedlings; as well as the organization of proper paperwork systems.
The webinars are organized by the FAO as part of the “EU Innovative Action for Private Sector Competitiveness in Georgia” project. This EU-funded initiative is implemented by the FAO and other UN agencies in cooperation with private companies and business associations.
The project is part of the wider EU4Business support for private sector development in Georgia, which aims to assist Georgian entrepreneurs, improve the legal environment, facilitate access to finance, and strengthen the ties with the European Union.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46443-eu-and-fao-support-georgian-nursery-enterprises-align-international-standards-amid-covid-19




Date: 05 May 2020
Title: Georgian firms shift production to meet pandemic challenge
Content: 05 May 2020
Nearly 40,000 protective face shields produced by the Georgian company  CaucasPack will be provided to frontline healthcare staff, local civil servants and other at-risk personnel in Tbilisi and Georgia’s regions through programmes implemented by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The first 16,000 shields will be distributed this week as part of a joint programme of the European Union and the UN in support of a competitive private sector in Georgia.
“I am happy that the EU can help contribute to a further 40,000 face masks for the men and women working on the front lines of dealing with this pandemic. I am also pleased that they are produced by a Georgian company, which has adapted to meet the new challenges,” said Carl Hartzell, the EU Ambassador to Georgia. “Local production is vital for the economy and to meet the continued need for protective supplies.”
“With global supply chains overloaded and cross-border procurement impeded, we’re delighted to see Georgian manufacturers rise to the challenge,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “CaucasPack is just one example of how local producers have stepped up to provide the protective gear that healthcare workers and civil servants need to stay safe during the pandemic, rescuing jobs and livelihoods in the process.”
In the coming weeks, UNDP in partnership with the Governments of Switzerland and Austria will purchase another 23,000 shields for distribution through partner civil society organizations in 23 municipalities, including those in southern and mountainous regions where the COVID-19 outbreak has hit the hardest.
The face shields manufactured by CaucasPack are produced from recycled plastic bottles, and are adjustable and reusable. In normal times, the Rustavi-based company produces plastic cups and food containers. In the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, it adjusted its production lines to make face shields. This shift enables the company to keep its staff of 99 employed despite the broader pandemic shutdown.
CaucasPack is one of an array of Georgian companies repurposing their production lines on short notice to battle the pandemic. Many, especially in the packaging sector, are supported by the EU and UN as part of the wider EU4Business programme, which promotes private sector development in Georgia.
Later in May, the EU and UNDP will release the results of a study that weighs the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on Georgia’s packaging value chain, offering insights and recommendations on response strategies.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47285-georgian-firms-shift-production-meet-pandemic-challenge




Date: 04 May 2020
Title: UNICEF Donated Essential Personal Protective Equipment to Clinics in Tbilisi and Batumi
Content: 04 May 2020
UNICEF continues to respond to the emergency needs connected to the COVID-19 pandemic. Essential personal protective equipment – gloves, face-shields, caps and sanitizers were delivered to the First University Clinic in Tbilisi and to 4 health clinics in Batumi, Adjara.
Total of 1000 litres of hand sanitizers, 50,000 gloves, 12,000 surgical masks and 3800 face-shields were distributed among the 5 health clinics, meeting their urgent needs to halt the spread of COVID-19.

“We need to support health workers who are on the frontlines of the pandemic and provide needs-based support to them. UNICEF remains on standby to support the Government of Georgia in delivering the essential supplies,” said Ghassan Khalil, UNICEF representative in Georgia.
UNICEF will continue provision of critical hygiene and medical supplies for healthcare professionals in the following weeks.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47236-unicef-donated-essential-personal-protective-equipment-clinics-tbilisi-and-batumi




Date: 30 April 2020
Title: Equipment for testing toxic metals handed over to the National Centre for Disease Control and Public Health
Content: 30 April 2020
Four XRF analyzers – special portable handheld devices which allow testing toxic metal content in different kinds of specimens were delivered to the National Centre for Disease Control and Public Health (NCDC) today.
The XRF analyzers were procured by UNICEF Georgia with financial support from USAID and the Estonia Development Cooperation and will be used to study lead exposure sources and pathways.
The Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey published last year, collected over 1,570 venous blood samples from children aged 2-7 years. In Georgia, 41 per cent of children were found to have blood lead levels equal to or greater than 5 μg/dL - about ten times higher than the prevalence found in developed countries.


To tackle the problem, UNICEF developed a three-phase strategy. The first phase was understanding the problem, which was carried out through the MICS survey. The second was to search for the sources and pathways (of lead contamination). The third phase will entail supporting the implementation of a national response plan developed by the Government.
“We praise the Government of Georgia for their goodwill and readiness to acknowledge the problem and to work on a response straightaway,” said Dr. Ghassan Khalil, UNICEF Representative in Georgia. “We have a very strong partnership with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and we are grateful to the Estonian Embassy and USAID for supporting us in identifying the problem and searching the sources of lead contamination”.
“This is really about a contribution to the human capacity development of children of Georgia. USAID is proud to be a partner in this important time in public health," - Adam Schmidt, director of USAID/Georgia's Democracy, Governance & Social Development Office.
The XRF analyzers will enable a further study of sources of lead contamination including testing the sites where children live as well as surrounding areas. Due to COVID-19 related disruptions, the fieldwork of studying the sources of lead exposure has been postponed and will be undertaken as soon as the situation stabilizes.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47239-equipment-testing-toxic-metals-handed-over-national-centre-disease-control-and-public-health




Date: 28 April 2020
Title: Agricultural Grant Competition to be launched in Shida Kartli and Racha-Lechkhumi
Content: 28 April 2020
The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia, in cooperation with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and under the financial support of Austrian Development Cooperation (ADC) are offering small grant investments to farmers and cooperatives. Starting from today, for a three-week period the residents and agricultural cooperatives of of Ateni, Plevi (Shida Kartli), Tvishi and Sori (Racha-Lechkhumi) will be able to register for the competition.
The grant competition foresees the funding of production and agricultural infrastructure initiatives. The maximum amount of each grant to be disbursed is equivalent to 10,000 USD in Georgian lari. The grant will fund 75% of the investment budget, which means that 25% must be covered by the beneficiary in the form of either financial or labor contributions.
Small grant investments will facilitate the development and expansion of activities of different social groups, as well as improve their quality of life.
The Grant Competition is one of the components of The Rural and Agricultural Development Project implemented by FAO and funded by the Austrian Government. The project aims to strengthen the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, to increase overall food production, and to support the reduction of poverty and social inequality in rural areas. The project also foresees the development of Local Initiative Groups in the above-mentioned communities, organizing demonstration plots, training the staff of farmers’ Informational-Consulting Centers, and introducing environment-friendly agricultural practices to locals. These measures will jointly contribute to the development of sustainable eco-systems and minimize damage to the environment.
These pilot activities and the results they achieve will be considered by the Government of Georgia in its policy-making processes, and will assist in facilitating the efficient implementation of the National Agricultural and rural Development Strategy.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45893-agricultural-grant-competition-be-launched-shida-kartli-and-racha-lechkhumi




Date: 27 April 2020
Title: A New Normal: UN Lays out Roadmap to Lift Economies and Save Jobs after  COVID-19
Content: 27 April 2020
The urgent health crisis that is COVID-19 has created a historic recession with record levels of deprivation and unemployment, creating an unprecedented human crisis that is hitting the poorest hardest, especially women and children. In a new framework released today as a roadmap to support countries’ path to social and economic recovery, the United Nations calls for an extraordinary scale-up of international support and political commitment to ensure that people everywhere have access to essential services and social protection.
The “United Nations Framework for the immediate socio-economic response to COVID-19: Shared responsibility, global solidarity and urgent action for people in need” calls for protecting jobs, businesses and livelihoods to set in motion a safe recovery of societies and economies as soon as possible for a more sustainable, gender-equal, and carbon-neutral path—better than the “old normal”.
“This is not only a health crisis but a human crisis; a jobs crisis; a humanitarian crisis and a development crisis. And it is not just about the most vulnerable. This pandemic shows that we are all at risk because we are only as strong as the weakest health system. Its unprecedented scale demands an unprecedented response,” said United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres, who presented his report on the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19 “Shared Responsibility, Global Solidarity” in March.
“Everything we do during and after this crisis must be with a strong focus on building more equal, inclusive and sustainable economies and societies that are more resilient in the face of pandemics, climate change and the many other global challenges we face,” he said. This new framework released today sets the way United Nations entities will deliver this vision on the ground.
Decisions made in the next few months will be crucial for the progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the UN’s framework for social and economic recovery stresses.
Noting that during the Ebola outbreak in 2014, more people died from the interruption of social services and the economic breakdown than from the virus itself, the framework focuses on protecting the needs and rights of those most affected by the pandemic, starting with the most vulnerable countries, groups, and those who risk being left behind.
Drawing lessons from the 2008-2009 global economic and financial crisis, the framework notes that countries with strong social protection systems and basic services suffered the least and recovered the fastest. To prevent billions of people from sliding into poverty, governments around the world will need to rapidly adapt, extend and scale-up safety ‘cushions’, such as cash transfers, food assistance, social insurance schemes and child benefits to support families.
For the impacts of COVID-19 to be reduced, the UN calls for an extraordinary scale-up of support to cope with the challenges ahead, including immediate social protection responses that consider differentiated impacts on vulnerable groups, children, women, men, and those in the informal sector. This is particularly urgent considering that 4 billion people, more than half of the world population—including two out of three children—have no or inadequate social protection.
NOTES FOR THE EDITORS
The UN will focus on five key streams in its response, which places communities at the centre of recovery efforts:
1. protecting existing health services and strengthening health systems’ capacity to respond to COVID-19;
2. helping people cope with adversity, through social protection and basic services; 3. protecting jobs, supporting
small and medium-sized enterprises, and informal sector workers through economic recovery programmes;
4. guiding the necessary surge in fiscal and financial stimulus to make macroeconomic policies work for the most vulnerable and strengthening multilateral and regional responses; and 5. promoting social cohesion and investing in community-led resilience and response systems. These five streams are connected by action to meet the need for environmental sustainability, if countries are to recover and “build back better”, and be better prepared to address future shocks, including pandemics.
UN teams covering 162 countries and territories will rollout this recovery plan in the next 12 to 18 months, under the leadership of UN Resident Coordinators (RC), supported by a network of global and regional expertise. As the technical lead in the socio-economic recovery effort, the UN Development Programme (UNDP) will support RCs, with UN teams working as one across all aspects of the response.
While a significant proportion of the existing US$17.8 billion portfolio of sustainable development
programmes across UN entities will be adjusted towards COVID-19 needs, given the scale and scope of the socio-economic impact of the pandemic, additional funds will be required. To support these efforts, the
Secretary-General launched the United Nations COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund, a UN inter-agency fund mechanism to help support low- and middle-income programme countries overcome the health and development crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and support people most vulnerable to economic hardship and social disruption. The financial requirements of the Fund are projected at $1billion in the first nine months and will be subsequently reviewed. The Secretary-General also called for a multilateral response that amounts to at least 10 per cent of global gross domestic product (GDP) to mount the most effective response to crisis the world has ever seen.
There will be no return to the “old normal”, the framework document states. The pandemic is a blow to develop-ing and emerging economies that already face binding constraints of debt and limited fiscal space, with several developing countries needing urgent debt relief. Its impacts will be especially devastating for the most vulnerable countries – those in humanitarian or conflict settings. The UN also calls for a massive fiscal and financial repurposing in the next weeks and months, including the redirection of fossil fuel subsidies to aid the response.
The UN stresses that the status quo and business-as-usual are policy choices, and they are not inevitable.
For a sustainable development that benefits more people, the choice must be for a recovery from COVID-19 that is fast, fair, green and inclusive.
About the framework document
The “United Nations Framework for the immediate socio-economic response to COVID-19: Shared responsibility, global solidarity and urgent action for people in need”, released today puts in practice the UN Secretary-General’s Shared Responsibility, Global Solidarity report on the same subject. It is one of three critical components of the UN’s efforts to save lives, protect people, and rebuild better, alongside the health response, led by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the humanitarian response, as detailed in the UN-led COVID-19 Global Humanitarian Response Plan. Three funding mechanisms support the comprehensive response pillars:
The COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund, managed by the UN Foundation and the Swiss Philanthropy Foundation for the immediate health needs; the “Global Humanitarian Response Plan” for the humanitarian appeal; and the United Nations COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund for the socio-economic recovery.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47754-new-normal-un-lays-out-roadmap-lift-economies-and-save-jobs-after-%C2%A0covid-19




Date: 24 April 2020
Title: TV and online platforms launched to support families of children with disabilities amid COVID-19 crisis
Content: 24 April 2020
Starting from 25 April TV programme “Parents’ Time” will be aired twice a week on Georgian Public Broadcaster’s new Education channel featuring experienced professionals providing specific recommendations on challenges that children with disabilities and their families are facing during the COVID-19 pandemic. The topics of the TV programmes include how to develop independent living skills, behavior management techniques, teaching and learning strategies, parental self-care, etc. Questions from the audience will be collected via online platforms before to ensure maximum participation from the target audience. The TV programmes will be aired every Saturday and Sunday at 1:00 pm.
The unified Facebook platform “Mshoblis Skivri” was also launched to identify the needs, develop content, and provide resources aimed at supporting children with disabilities and their families during the quarantine. The emphasis will be placed on those resources that provide guidance on academic, emotional, and behavioral support. The platform will feature Facebook Live segments with participation of psychologists, experts and parents on a range of topics discussed in the TV programmes. Online messenger will enable chat sessions with parents to answer frequently asked questions and provide emotional support.
The COVID-19 outbreak has created additional challenges for children with disabilities and their families. Apart from being concerned with their children’s elevated risk for infection, loss of family income and reduced access to food, medical and hygiene supplies, parents of children with disabilities also find themselves responsible for their child’s often complex physical, academic and psychological needs as they are mostly cut off from all in-person services and support.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47243-tv-and-online-platforms-launched-support-families-children-disabilities-amid-covid-19-crisis




Date: 22 April 2020
Title: “Earth School” Launches to keep Students Connected to Nature in the Time of COVID-19
Content: 22 April 2020
Nairobi. In response to the COVID-19 crisis, an unprecedented coalition has come together to launch “Earth School,” which provides free, high-quality educational content to help students, parents and teachers around the world who are currently at home. Initiated by the UN Environment Programme (UNEP) and TED-Ed, Earth School takes students on a 30-day “Adventure” through the natural world.
The curated Earth School content features videos, reading materials and activities — which will be translated into 10 languages — to help students gain an understanding of the environment while considering their role within it. This is the biggest online learning initiative in UNEP’s history and is available for free on TED-Ed’s website.
According to the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), more than 1.5 billion learners are affected by COVID-19 school closures. The pandemic has caused a health, economic, and education crisis; in the age of physical and social constraints, there is a strong need for global science literacy.
That is why UNEP and TED-Ed — in coordination with 30 collaborators, including National Geographic, WWF and UNESCO — came together to launch Earth School in just over two weeks. Built for children and youth ages 5-18, it spans 30 school days that run between Earth Day and World Environment Day on June 5, which this year will take place under the banner of Time for Nature.
TED-Ed creates free, video-based lessons on everything from animals and climate change to underwater farms. It is the educational arm of TED, whose library of thousands of interactive lessons — built by a network of 500,000 educators from across the world — spans all ages and subjects.
Each Adventure has been carefully selected by a panel of expert practitioners and caters to different age groups. Each consists of a hands-on experiment and nature discovery. In addition to TED-Ed’s own content, Earth School will feature videos from notable media organizations including National Geographic, PBS LearningMedia and the BBC with the goal of empowering participating students to be caretakers of our planet.
“Billions of children are currently out of school because of COVID-19. But learning cannot stop. COVID-19 has revealed how deeply interconnected all life on this planet is," said UNEP’s Executive Director, Inger Andersen. "I am delighted that UNEP, along with TED-Ed and other collaborators, are launching Earth School. Learning about the natural world will be critical to building a better and sustainable future for all."
“These unprecedented times highlight just how important it is for young people to connect with the natural world and understand science,” said Vicki Phillips, executive vice president
and chief education officer at the National Geographic Society. “We’re thrilled to join
forces with trusted organizations like UNEP and TED-Ed to cultivate a spirit of exploration and
build empathy for the Earth, no matter where students are the world — even if it's from inside
their homes, from a window, or on a short walk in the neighborhood.”
“Despite being confined to their homes, this project shows that students, parents and teachers
throughout the world can still engage in science-based learning and adventures together.
Earth School is a collaboration between so many talented educators and incredible partners
from around the world, which is why we’re proud and thrilled to see the initiative feeding the
global curiosity of home-bound students, all of whom are the future environmental stewards
of our planet. This platform is a gateway to some of the most inspiring lessons on nature and
the environment, and each lesson comes with practical and fun activities that students can
engage with and share,” said Logan Smalley, founding director of TED’s youth and
education initiative, TED-Ed.
The lessons were curated by a team of environmental education experts including Kathleen
Usher Ph.D, Jessie Oliver and Juliane Voss, who worked with over 100 contributors in creating
Earth School. The initiative is in support of SDG 4.7 and the Decade of Delivery and will
contribute towards the Global Education Coalition launched by UNESCO last month to
convene governments, technology partners and leaders in the education field to keep pupils
learning. As part of this coalition, UNEP will be exploring how this content can be adapted and
shared with children who aren’t able to access the Internet.
Collaborators who have agreed to support this initiative include: BBC Ideas, Basel,
Rotterdam and Stockholm Conventions, Bill Nye the Science Guy, Conservation International,
CEE, Earth Day Network, Earth Challenge 2020, Environment Online (ENO), GeSI,
International Olympic Committee, IUCN, Institute for Planetary Security, Junior Achievement,
Learning in Nature, Little Scribe, Minecraft, National Geographic Society, Ocean Wise, Only
One, Royal Geographic Society, SciStarter, Sitra, TAT, TED-Ed, The Nature Conservancy,
UN Convention on Biodiversity, UN SDSN / TRENDS, UN Technology Innovation Lab,
UNCCD, UNDP, UNEP, UNESCO, UNFCCC, UN Food and Agriculture Organization,
University of Pennsylvania, Vult Labs, World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts
(WAGGGS), World Organization of the Scout Movement (WOSM), Wild Immersion and WWF.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47755-%E2%80%9Cearth-school%E2%80%9D-launches-keep-students-connected-nature-time-covid-19




Date: 17 April 2020
Title: Experience Gained in Greece and a Small Business Idea to Overcome the Financial Challenges in the Time of COVID-19 in Georgia
Content: 17 April 2020
As many others, she left with an aim to help her family overcome financial hardships and pay for her three children’s education.
In Greece Dali lived in a town by the sea. In addition to her job as a housekeeper, she used her home economics teacher’s skills and was sewing and selling beach dresses and clothes. With her hard work she managed to start a vineyard. Dali’s family also harvests nuts and runs a grocery store.
Feeling more-or-less financially stable, at the age of 60 Dali returned home with IOM’s Assisted Voluntary Return and Reintegration support. As part of her reintegration assistance she purchased a sawing machine and started working as a dressmaker. However, like others, Dali’s financial stability was affected by COVID-19. She adapted quickly though - she switched to sewing beddings and medical masks and received an order from a local clinic. She has already produced 1000 medical masks and 50 beddings. Even after the world overcomes COVID-19-related restrictions, Dali plans to continue her life in Georgia. She might still visit Greece, but this time, as a tourist.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47226-experience-gained-greece-and-small-business-idea-overcome-financial-challenges-time-covid-19




Date: 17 April 2020
Title: Leaving No One Behind in the COVID-19 Response
Content: 17 April 2020
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is working hand in hand with the Government of Georgia to ensure that persons with disabilities all over the country have full access to accurate and timely information to protect themselves from the COVID-19 pandemic.
“Timely access to accurate information is vital as we are fighting COVID-19,” said Lela Akiashvili, Advisor to the Prime Minister of Georgia on Human Rights and Gender Equality. “Since the breakout of the pandemic, the Government of Georgia is closely collaborating with international partners, national Disabled Persons Organizations (DPOs), and people with disabilities to make information resources fully accessible for all.”
“We can’t fight the pandemic if we leave people out,” said UNDP Head Louisa Vinton. “Persons with disabilities face particularly high risks from this virus but often lack the resources and knowledge to protect themselves. We hope through our joint work to ensure that their rights are respected.”
UNDP has helped to adapt the national information campaign on COVID-19 to the needs of persons with different types of disabilities. Four informational videos about coronavirus symptoms and protection measures were subtitled and translated into sign languages to make them available for Georgian, Armenian and Azerbaijani speakers with hearing impairments. For persons with psycho-social needs and intellectual disabilities, 10,000 adapted flyers will be printed and distributed at 20 residential and psychiatric institutions. Alongside the Administration of Georgia, UNDP works closely with the Society of Georgian Psychiatrists and the Global Initiative in Psychiatry-Tbilisi to help develop specialised protocols and supervision programmes to ensure that both staff and residents are ready for the COVID-19 crisis.
In Georgia, some 125,000 persons, or 3.3 percent of the population, are registered as persons with disabilities. The actual number is likely much higher since in most countries disability affects around 12 percent of the population. Despite the evident progress Georgia has made in recent years, persons with disabilities remain vulnerable and face physical barriers and stigma in every aspect of life.
A new USD 2 million joint programme funded by the Joint SDG Fund ‘Transforming Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) in Georgia’ to improve social protection for persons with disabilities was launched in Georgia at the beginning of 2020, with six UN agencies participating. This programme is currently being adapted to address the specific challenges that COVID-19 poses for persons with disabilities.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/44994-leaving-no-one-behind-covid-19-response




Date: 17 April 2020
Title: Share the Easter spirit, not the virus!
Content: 17 April 2020
Easter is a very special occasion for Georgia, when many families come together and share a heartwarming celebration. The community spirit at the heart of Easter includes a sense of responsibility to protect ourselves and others from COVID-19.
The UN in Georgia commends the people of Georgia for the responsible way they are complying with the protective measures recommended by the Government, guided by the advice of the World Health Organization (WHO). This approach has already reduced the number of cases of infection and saved lives.  We need to continue this trend.
This year we call on every family in Georgia to share the spirit of the celebration, but put the health and the wellbeing of the community first. Please, stay home and avoid gatherings to ensure that you and your loved ones remain healthy in these unheard-of circumstances.
More than ever, we should make use of modern technology to reconnect with relatives and friends living far and close: physical distancing is not social isolation. Let’s maintain our connections by conducting faith activities in alternative ways.
Adhering to physical distancing rules protect ourselves, our beloved ones and the entire community. It protects in particular the most vulnerable: older people, people living with chronic health conditions and immune suppression.
Following the Government's recommendations will also protect healthcare workers and public health professionals who have been bravely and tirelessly, day and night, fighting the pandemic since the very first case. We need to stay home to let them stay at work healthy and caring for the sick ones.
The UN in Georgia calls on all living in Georgia to continue play your essential role in fighting COVID-19 thus contributing to the national response by staying at home!
The UN wishes all those in Georgia who celebrate a Happy Easter!

---
Related information: “Practical considerations and recommendations for religious leaders and faith-based communities in the context of COVID-19,” was published by the World Health Organization to guide religious leaders, faith-based organizations, and faith communities during COVID-19. Link
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/44997-share-%C2%A0easter-spirit-not-virus




Date: 16 April 2020
Title: UN Chief Calls for Greater Protection for Children Caught up in COVID-19 Crisis
Content: 16 April 2020

“Thankfully, children have so far been largely spared from the most severe symptoms of the disease. But their lives are being totally upended”, he said. “I appeal to families everywhere, and leaders at all levels: protect our children.”
The report finds that the socio-economic impact of the pandemic, together with measures to mitigate the spread of the new coronavirus, could potentially be catastrophic for millions of children worldwide.
It details how the crisis is putting young lives at risk in key areas that include education, food, safety and health.
Practically all students worldwide are now out of school because of the pandemic.
Nearly 190 countries have imposed school closures, affecting 1.5 billion children and young people.
The report stated that the losses in learning today, and in their future development, are hard to fathom.
“Some schools are offering distance learning, but this is not available to all”, the Secretary-General said, adding that children in countries with slow and expensive Internet services are severely disadvantaged.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47756-un-chief-calls-greater-protection-children-caught-covid-19-crisis




Date: 16 April 2020
Title: UNICEF continues providing essential supplies to the most vulnerable families in Georgia
Content: 16 April 2020
UNICEF continued to deliver supplies to assist those in need in Tetritskaro municipality, providing essential hygiene and food items for families with children, while also advising on best protection practices against the virus. Support to the vulnerable families was provided as part of the partnership initiative led by the Georgian Prime-Minister’s Office and the State Minister for Reconciliation and Civic Equality with the support of UNICEF and UK Government.

140 boxes with essential supplies were delivered to families with many children in Tetritkaro Municipality. UNICEF Representative in Georgia Ghassan Khalil with the Advisor to the Prime Minister on Human Rights and Gender Equality issues, Lela Akiashvili and local authorities of the Tetritskaro municipality visited some of the families to hand over the supplies and provide information about measures to halt the spread of COVID-19.
“We need to reach the families who are especially vulnerable and provide needs-based support to them. UNICEF remains on standby to support the Government of Georgia in reaching out to the most vulnerable families and communities,” said Ghassan Khalil, UNICEF representative in Georgia.

"In the wake of the COVID-19 crisis, social protection and state support are particularly important. That is why we are currently analyzing the risks to vulnerable groups and working to eliminate them. We join UNICEF today to provide families with children the needed support. Further challenges lie ahead, and we are working step by step to eliminate them, " said Lela Akiashvili, Advisor to the Prime-Minister of Georgia.
Over 380 boxes were handed over to vulnerable families in Tbilisi, Dedoplistskaro, Kobuleti and Kutaisi in recent weeks.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47246-unicef-continues-providing-essential-supplies-most-vulnerable-families-georgia




Date: 15 April 2020
Title: UN Secretary-General: This is a Time for Science and Solidarity
Content: 15 April 2020
In his words, Yet the global ‘misinfo-demic’ is spreading. Harmful health advice and snake-oil solutions are proliferating. Falsehoods are filling the airwaves. Wild conspiracy theories are infecting the Internet,” the Secretary-General stated.
’This is a time for science and solidarity”, he said. “First, trust in science. I salute the journalists and others fact-checking the mountain of misleading stories and social media posts”.
"Around the world, people are scared. They want to know what to do and where to turn for advice. Hatred is going viral, stigmatizing and vilifying people and groups. The world must unite against this disease too."
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47759-un-secretary-general-time-science-and-solidarity




Date: 10 April 2020
Title: UNICEF reaching out to the most vulnerable communities hit by the COVID-19 pandemic in Georgia
Content: 10 April 2020
UNICEF rushed to deliver essential hygiene and food items for Roma families living in Gachiani and the nearby villages of Vakhtangisi and Tetritskaro, in an outreach initiative led by the Georgia’s Prime-Minister’s Office and the State Minister for Reconciliation and Civic Equality in partnership with UNICEF.
“Children are the hidden victims of this pandemic,” said Dr Ghassan Khalil, UNICEF representative in Georgia. “We need to reach the families who are especially vulnerable and provide needs-based support to them.”

In the next few weeks, about 380 Roma families in Tbilisi, Dedoplistskaro, Kobuleti and Kutaisi will receive packages with essential hygiene and food products while also be informed on best protection practices against the virus.
“The families might need food, medicine and hygiene supplies or have more complex needs like psychosocial support,” Dr Khalil added “Our assistance will help them make ends meet at least for another couple of months,” he added.

UNICEF continues to work closely with the Government, other United Nations and humanitarian partners, to respond to covid-19 pandemic. UNICEF’s mix of response and preparedness activities include: risk communication as well as learning, play, and positive parenting communications; provision of critical hygiene and medical supplies for healthcare and education structures; ensuring children, pregnant, and lactating women are supported with adequate healthcare despite the outbreak; mitigating secondary effects of the outbreak by facilitating continued access to education, child protection needs, including prevention of violence against children, and advocating for continued access to social protection programmes.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47255-unicef-reaching-out-most-vulnerable-communities-hit-covid-19-pandemic-georgia




Date: 05 April 2020
Title: The Secretary-General Statement on Gender-Based Violence and COVID19
Content: 05 April 2020
I recently called for an immediate global ceasefire to focus on our shared struggle to overcome the pandemic.
I appealed for an end to violence everywhere, now.
But violence is not confined to the battlefield.
For many women and girls, the threat looms largest where they should be safest.
In their own homes.
And so I make a new appeal today for peace at home — and in homes — around the world.
We know lockdowns and quarantines are essential to suppressing COVID-19. But they can trap women with abusive partners.
Over the past weeks as economic and social pressures and fear have grown, we have seen a horrifying global surge in domestic violence.
In some countries, the number of women calling support services has doubled.
Meanwhile, healthcare providers and police are overwhelmed and understaffed.
Local support groups are paralyzed or short of funds. Some domestic violence shelters are closed; others are full.
I urge all governments to make the prevention and redress of violence against women a key part of their national response plans for COVID-19.
That means increasing investment in online services and civil society organizations.
Making sure judicial systems continue to prosecute abusers.
Setting up emergency warning systems in pharmacies and groceries.
Declaring shelters as essential services.
And creating safe ways for women to seek support, without alerting their abusers.
Women’s rights and freedoms are essential to strong, resilient societies.
Together, we can and must prevent violence everywhere, from war zones to people’s homes, as we work to beat COVID-19.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47761-secretary-general-statement-gender-based-violence-and-covid19




Date: 04 April 2020
Title: Update on the Secretary-General’s Appeal for a Global Ceasefire Following the Outbreak of COVID-19
Content: 04 April 2020
This call was rooted in a fundamental recognition:  There should be only one fight in our world today: our shared battle against COVID-19.
We know the pandemic is having profound social, economic and political consequences, including relating to international peace and security.
We see it, for example, in postponement of elections or limitations on the ability to vote, sustained restrictions on movement, spiraling unemployment and other factors that could contribute to rising discontent and political tensions.
In addition, terrorist or extremist groups may take profit from the uncertainty created by the spread of the pandemic.
Nonetheless, the global ceasefire appeal is resonating across the world.
The call has been endorsed by an ever-growing number of Member States, some 70 so far, regional partners, non-state actors, civil society networks and organizations, and all UN Messengers of Peace and Advocates for the Sustainable Development Goals.
Religious leaders — including Pope Francis — have added their moral voice in support of a global ceasefire, as have citizens through grassroots mobilization online.
Just to mention one example, an appeal launched by Avaaz has already gathered support from more than one million people. To all, I express my deep gratitude.
Today, I am releasing an update on the impact of the global ceasefire appeal.
A substantial number of parties to conflict have expressed their acceptance for the call.
As the update details, these include parties to conflict in the following countries:  Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Colombia, Libya, Myanmar, the Philippines, South Sudan, Sudan, Syria, Ukraine and Yemen.
But there is a huge distance between declarations and deeds — between translating words into peace on the ground and in the lives of people.
There are enormous difficulties to implementation as conflicts have festered for years, distrust is deep, with many spoilers and many suspicions.
We know that any initial gains are fragile and easily reversible.
And in many of the most critical situations, we have seen no let-up in fighting — and some conflicts have even intensified.
We need robust diplomatic efforts to meet these challenges.
To silence the guns, we must raise the voices for peace.
In all these situations, my Special Representatives and Special Envoys – and in some countries, the Resident Coordinators — with full support from Headquarters and whenever required my personal involvement—are engaging with conflict actors to help move towards ceasefires on the ground as a prerequisite to lasting peace.
Allow me to give four examples of this intense diplomatic push.
In Yemen, despite expressed support for a ceasefire by the Government, Ansar Allah and many other parties — including the Joint Forces Command — the conflict has spiked.
My Special Envoy is working on preparations to convene the parties to discuss COVID-19 crisis management and a nationwide ceasefire mechanism.
I call on all governments and movements involved and their supporters to put an end to this catastrophic conflict and humanitarian nightmare – and come to the negotiating table.
In Syria, where the first COVID-related deaths have now been reported, my Special Envoy appealed for a “complete and immediate” nationwide ceasefire in the country to allow for an all-out-effort against COVID-19.
The Idlib ceasefire previously negotiated by Turkey and the Russian Federation is holding.
But it is essential that a permanent nationwide ceasefire take effect to allow for expansions in humanitarian access to all those suffering for the last decade.
In Libya, the Government of National Accord and Marshal [Khalifa] Haftar’s Libyan National Army welcomed calls to stop the fighting.  Yet clashes have escalated drastically on all frontlines, obstructing efforts to effectively respond to COVID-19.
I urge both parties — and all others directly and indirectly involved in this conflict — to immediately halt hostilities to allow authorities to effectively address the COVID-19 threat, ensure unhindered access to humanitarian aid and realize the ceasefire they have been discussing under the auspices of the United Nations.
Finally, in Afghanistan, while fighting increased, on 26 March, it was announced that a 21-member team, which includes five women, was formed for direct negotiations with the Taliban.
The Government and the Taliban have also established technical contacts for an initial prisoner release.
I believe the time has come for the Government and the Taliban to cease hostilities as COVID-19 looms over the country.  I pledge my full support.
In all these enormously difficult circumstances, as in others, I make a special appeal to all countries with influence on parties waging war to do everything possible for the ceasefire to become a reality.
I call on all those that can make a difference to make that difference:  to urge and pressure combatants around the world to put down their arms.
There is a chance for peace, but we are far from there.  And the need is urgent.  The COVID-19 storm is now coming to all these theatres of conflict.
The virus has shown how swiftly it can move across borders, devastate countries and upend lives.
The worst is yet to come.
And so, we need to do everything possible to find the peace and unity our world so desperately needs to battle COVID-19.
We must mobilize every ounce of energy to defeat it.
Thank you.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47762-update-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-appeal-global-ceasefire-following-outbreak-covid-19




Date: 03 April 2020
Title: All hands on deck to fight a once-in-a-lifetime pandemic
Content: 03 April 2020
Only by coming together will the world be able to face down the COVID-19 pandemic and its shattering consequences. At an emergency virtual meeting last Thursday, G20 leaders took steps in the right direction.  But we are still far away from having a coordinated, articulated global response that meets the unprecedented magnitude of what we are facing.
Far from flattening the curve of infection, we are still well behind it.  The disease initially took 67 days to infect 100,000 people; soon, 100,000 people and more will be infected daily.  Without concerted and courageous action, the number of new cases will almost certainly escalate into the millions, pushing health systems to the breaking point, economies into a nosedive and people into despair, with the poorest hit hardest.
We must prepare for the worst and do everything to avoid it.  Here is a three-point call to action -- based on science, solidarity and smart policies -- for doing just that.
First, suppress transmission of the coronavirus.
That requires aggressive and early testing and contact tracing, complemented by quarantines, treatment, and measures to keep first responders safe, combined with measures to restrict movement and contact.  Such steps, despite the disruptions they cause, must be sustained until therapies and a vaccine emerge.
Crucially, this robust and cooperative effort should be guided by the World Health Organization, a member of the United Nations family; countries acting on their own – as they must for their people – will not get the job done for all.
Second, tackle the devastating social and economic dimensions of the crisis.
The virus is spreading like wildfire, and is likely to move swiftly into the Global South, where health systems face constraints, people are more vulnerable, and millions live in densely populated slums or crowded settlements for refugees and internally displaced persons.  Fuelled by such conditions, the virus could devastate the developing world and then re-emerge where it was previously suppressed.  In our interconnected world, we are only as strong as the weakest health systems.
Clearly, we must fight the virus for all of humanity, with a focus on people, especially the most affected: women, older persons, youth, low-wage workers, small and medium enterprises, the informal sector and vulnerable groups.
The United Nations has just issued reports documenting how the viral contagion has become an economic contagion, and setting out the financing needed to address the shocks.  The International Monetary Fund has declared that we have entered a recession as bad as or worse than in 2009.
We need a comprehensive multilateral response amounting to a double-digit percentage of global Gross Domestic Product.
Developed countries can do it by themselves, and some are indeed doing it.  But we must massively increase the resources available to the developing world by expanding the capacity of the IMF, namely through the issuance of special drawing rights, and of the other international financial institutions so that they can rapidly inject resources into the countries that need them.  I know this is difficult as nations find themselves increasing domestic spending by record amounts.  But that spending will be in vain if we don’t control the virus.
Coordinated swaps among central banks can also bring liquidity to emerging economies.  Debt alleviation must also be a priority – including immediate waivers on interest payments for 2020.
Third, recover better.
We simply cannot return to where we were before COVID-19 struck, with societies unnecessarily vulnerable to crisis.  The pandemic has reminded us, in the starkest way possible, of the price we pay for weaknesses in health systems, social protections and public services.  It has underscored and exacerbated inequalities, above all gender inequity, laying bare the way in which the formal economy has been sustained on the back of invisible and unpaid care labour.  It has highlighted ongoing human rights challenges, including stigma and violence against women.
Now is the time to redouble our efforts to build more inclusive and sustainable economies and societies that are more resilient in the face of pandemics, climate change and other global challenges.  The recovery must lead to a different economy.  Our roadmap remains the 2030 Agenda and Sustainable Development Goals.
The United Nations system is fully mobilized: supporting country responses, placing our supply chains at the world’s disposal, and advocating for a global cease-fire.
Ending the pandemic everywhere is both a moral imperative and a matter of enlightened self-interest.  At this unusual moment, we cannot resort to the usual tools.  Extraordinary times demand extraordinary measures.  We face a colossal test which demands decisive, coordinated and innovative action from all, for all.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47763-all-hands-deck-fight-once-lifetime-pandemic




Date: 31 March 2020
Title: UN Secretary-General Launches Plan to Address the Potentially Devastating Socio-Economic Impacts of COVID-19
Content: 31 March 2020
Establishes global fund to support low- and middle-income countries
The new coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is attacking societies at their core, claiming lives and people’s livelihoods. The potential longer-term effects on the global economy and those of individual countries are dire.
In a new report, Shared responsibility, global solidarity: Responding to the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19, the United Nations Secretary-General calls on everyone to act together to address this impact and lessen the blow to people.
The report describes the speed and scale of the outbreak, the severity of cases, and the societal and economic disruption of COVID-19, which has so far claimed the lives of 33 257 people, with 697 244 confirmed cases in 204 countries, areas and territories1.
“COVID-19 is the greatest test that we have faced together since the formation of the United Nations,” said António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations. “This human crisis demands coordinated, decisive, inclusive and innovative policy action from the world’s leading economies – and maximum financial and technical support for the poorest and most vulnerable people and countries.”
The report comes after the IMF has announced that the world has entered into a recession as bad or worse than in 2009. The report calls for a large-scale, coordinated and comprehensive multilateral response amounting to at least 10 percent of global GDP.
The United Nations system—and its global network of regional, sub-regional and country offices working for peace, human rights, sustainable development and humanitarian action, will support all governments and partners through the response and recovery.
To that end, the Secretary-General has established a dedicated COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund to support efforts in low- and middle-income countries. Its approach underpins the reformed UN with a coordinated multi-agency, multi-sectoral response for priority national and local actions to address the socioeconomic impact of the COVID-19 crisis. It will count on the country leadership of Resident Coordinators and UN Country Teams in swiftly supporting and enabling governments in this crisis, and recovery.

NOTES TO EDITORS
The shared responsibility and global solidarity roadmap calls for:
• Suppressing the transmission of the virus to control the pandemic.
• Safeguarding people’s lives and their livelihoods.
• Learning from this human crisis to build back better.
Suppressing the transmission of the virus to control the pandemic
The report warns that there is no time to lose in mounting the most robust and cooperative health response the world has ever seen. The strongest support must be provided to the multilateral effort to suppress transmission and stop the pandemic, led by the World Health Organization.
At the same time there is great need for scientific collaboration in the search for a vaccine and effective therapeutics.
This must be matched with assurances of universal access to vaccines and treatment.
Throughout the report a people-centred approach is promoted that calls for engaging communities affected by COVID-19, respect for human rights and inclusion, gender equality and dignity for all.
Safeguarding people’s lives and their livelihoods
Recognizing that epidemics can expose and exacerbate existing inequalities in society, the road map shows it will be crucial to cushion the knock-on effects on people’s lives, their livelihoods and the economy.
The report highlights examples of actions countries could take, such as direct provision of resources to support workers and households, provision of health and unemployment insurance, scaling-up of social protection, and support to businesses to prevent bankruptcies and job loss.
The report strongly recognizes that women and girls must have a face in the response; and opportunities for young people, seriously affected, need to be preserved.
Learn from this crisis to build back better
The world will be faced with a choice in its recovery. Go back to the world we knew before or deal decisively with those issues that make everyone unnecessarily vulnerable to this and future crises.
From stronger health systems and fewer people living in extreme poverty to achieving gender equality and taking climate action for a healthy planet, the report gives hope that lessons from this human crisis can build more just and resilient societies and deliver on the promise of the 2030 Agenda and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
Partnerships for progress
No single country or entity will win alone against the pandemic. A successful response and recovery will require international cooperation and partnerships at every level -- governments taking action in lock step with communities; private sector engagement to find pathways out of this crisis. Partnerships based on solidarity will be the cornerstone for progress.
Civil Society, women and grassroots organizations, community-based organizations and faith-based organizations will play a vital role. In assisting the most vulnerable populations, these networks are active in bringing economic and livelihood opportunities and adapting responses to the community context.
These organizations, in many locations in the world, are the first, or only, point of reference for individuals and families as they seek to cope with the impacts of COVID-19 and for the recovery ahead.
Call to action
The COVID-19 Pandemic is a defining moment for modern society, and history will judge the efficacy of the response not by the actions of any single set of government actors taken in isolation, but by the degree to which the response is coordinated globally across all sectors for the benefit of our human family.
The United Nations and its global network of regional, sub-regional and country offices working for peace, human rights, sustainable development and humanitarian action, supported by established coordination mechanisms, will work with partners to ensure first and foremost that lives are saved, livelihoods are restored, and that the global economy and the people we serve emerge stronger from this crisis.
The 129 UN Resident Coordinators and the UN Country Teams will provide comprehensive policy and operational support at the national level in support of a whole of society approach in countries. With the right actions, the COVID-19 pandemic can mark the beginning of a new type of global and societal cooperation.
Recommended measures to cope with the impacts of COVID-19:
1 Global measures to match the magnitude of the crisis
• Advocate and support implementation of a human-centered, innovative and coordinated stimulus package
reaching double-digit percentage points of the world’s gross domestic product.
• Resist the temptation to resort to protectionist measures.
• Take explicit measures to boost the economies of developing countries.
2 Regional mobilization
A coordinated regional approach will enable collective examination of impacts, coordination of monetary, fiscal and social measures, and sharing best practices and the lessons learned.
• Adopt DO NO HARM trade policies, preserve connectivity, and ensure regional monetary-fiscal coordination.
• Engage with private financial sector to support businesses.
• Address structural challenges and strengthen normative frameworks to deal with transboundary risks.
3 National solidarity is crucial to leave no one behind
The pandemic is hitting an already weak and fragile world economy. Global growth in 2019 was already the slowest since the global financial crisis of 2008/2009. According to ILO estimates, the world could lose between 5 million and 25 million jobs.
• Undertake fiscal stimulus and support for the most vulnerable.
• Protect Human Rights and focus on inclusion.
• Support to Small and Medium sized Enterprises.
• Support decent work.
• Support education.
• Prioritize social cohesion measures.
COVID-19 socio-economic estimates for 2020 as of March 2020
5 - 25 million jobs lost (ILO)
US$ 860 billion – US$ 3.4 trillion losses in labor income (ILO)
30% -- 40% downward pressure on global foreign direct investment flows (UNCTAD)
20% – 30% decline in international arrivals (UNWTO)
3.6 billion people offline (ITU)
1.5 billion students out of school (UNESCO)
[END]
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47764-un-secretary-general-launches-plan-address-potentially-devastating-socio-economic-impacts




Date: 31 March 2020
Title: Statement of the Co-Chairs of the Geneva International Discussions
Content: 31 March 2020
While we commend the efforts of health professionals and others who are working hard to stop the spread of COVID-19, we appeal to all GID participants to respond to the call by UN Secretary General António Guterres to put aside mistrust and animosity, avoid antagonistic rhetoric, and work together to reach out to the most vulnerable.
In particular, we urge all GID participants to do their utmost to protect vulnerable conflict-affected populations, especially women, men and children in areas facing particular isolation. These populations need assistance and must not be allowed to suffer even more. We are encouraged by some collaborative approaches that have already taken place, but more needs to be done to ensure that all people, regardless of where they happen to live or what language they may speak, have equal access to health care. While co-operation across dividing lines, under other circumstances, may be challenging, we appeal to all participants of the GID to set aside differences and ensure that all individuals have the best possible access to testing and treatment.
On behalf of our organizations, we reiterate our readiness to assist and are at the disposal of participants as we, together, address this global threat.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45006-statement-co-chairs-geneva-international-discussions




Date: 29 March 2020
Title: World’s biggest-ever conversation on the future we want now available in Georgian
Content: 29 March 2020

To mark its 75th anniversary in 2020, the United Nations launched the biggest-ever global conversation to collect diverse perspectives and creative ideas on what is needed to address emerging risks and opportunities by 2045.
The survey gives people worldwide a chance to understand better both the threats and the solutions and to have their say on the urgent decisions ahead.
People can vote on key changes and complex challenges, from the climate crisis to population shifts to the unknown course of technology, they want to see adopted by government leaders.
This data will help governments to better understand the concerns, aspirations and future visions of their citizens.
Now the survey is available in  Georgian  at  https://un75.online/?lang=geo to enable our citizens to cast their votes in their native language.
For more information: https://www.un.org/en/un75
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47765-world%E2%80%99s-biggest-ever-conversation-future-we-want-now-available-georgian




Date: 27 March 2020
Title: “Unacceptable” – UN expert urges better protection of older persons facing the highest risk of the COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 27 March 2020
"Reports of abandoned older persons in care homes or of dead corpses found in nursing homes are alarming. This is unacceptable," said Rosa Kornfeld-Matte, UN Independent Expert on the enjoyment of all human rights by older persons. "We all have the obligation to exercise solidarity and protect older persons from such harm."
Older persons do not only face a disproportionate risk of death but they are further threatened by COVID-19 due to their care support needs or by living in high-risk environments such as institutions, the expert said.
Kornfeld-Matte expressed particular concerns about older persons with underlying health conditions and those who are already socially excluded, living in poverty, having limited access to health services, or living in confined spaces such as prisons and residential care homes.
"This social exclusion is exacerbated by 'social' distancing measures, such as denying visitors to residential care homes. Social distancing must not become social exclusion," the expert said.
"Physical distance is crucial but creative and safe ways must be found to increase social connections. Older persons must be provided with ways to stay in touch online, including those in residential care homes and remote areas," she urged.
The Independent Expert noted that older persons are already facing particular old age discrimination ("ageism") and therefore require specific rights protection. She stressed the urgent need for a holistic human rights approach for older persons that ensures equal realization of all their rights, including access to health care.
"I am deeply concerned that decisions around the allocation of scarce medical resources such as ventilators in intensive care units may be made solely on the basis of age, denying older persons their right to health and life on an equal basis with others.
"Triage protocols must be developed and followed to ensure such decisions are made on the basis of medical needs, the best scientific evidence available and not on non-medical criteria such as age or disability.
"Older persons have become highly visible in the COVID 19 outbreak but their voices, opinions and concerns have not been heard. Instead, the deep-rooted ageism in our societies has become even more apparent. We have seen this in some cruel and dehumanizing language on social media and in the exclusive emphasis on older persons' vulnerability ignoring their autonomy," Kornfeld-Matte said.
She finally called on all stakeholders to ensure that essential support services at home in the communities can continue without putting older persons and their care providers at risk. "Communities and generations must come together to get through this crisis in solidarity," the UN expert concluded.
ENDS
Ms Rosa Kornfeld-Matte (Chile) was appointed by Human Rights Council as the first Independent Expert on the enjoyment of all human rights by older persons in May 2014. Ms Kornfeld-Matte served as the National Director of the Chilean National Service of Ageing, where she designed and implemented the National Policy of Ageing. She has a long career as an academic and is the founder of the programme for older persons at the Pontificia Unversidad Católica de Chile.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47767-%E2%80%9Cunacceptable%E2%80%9D-%E2%80%93-un-expert-urges-better-protection-older-persons-facing-highest-risk-covid-19




Date: 27 March 2020
Title: WHO head calls on  G20 to fight, unite and ignite against COVID-19
Content: 27 March 2020
He told them, “You have come together to confront the defining health crisis of our time: We are at war with a virus that threatens to tear us apart - if we let it.“
He welcomed the G20‘s initiative to find joint solutions and work together: “This is a global crisis that requires a global response.”
“Fight, unite, ignite“ - Dr. Tedros’ call was clear.
First, he urged leaders to fight without excuses, without regrets – thanking countries who have already taken steps and urgently asking that they do more.
Second, he encouraged them to unite, stressing that no country can fight this alone, and calling on all countries to build on the solidarity already sparked by the crisis.
Third, he exhorted them to ignite a global movement to ensure this never happens again.
He welcomed G20 leaders‘ commitment “to do whatever it takes to overcome the pandemic” to protect lives and livelihoods, as well as restore confidence and shore up stability currently threatened in trade and other sectors, and to commit to taking all necessary health measures and seek to ensure adequate financing to contain the pandemic and protect people, especially the most vulnerable.“
The G20 committed to support and further strengthen WHO’s mandate in coordinating the response and called for the full funding of WHO‘s Strategic Preparedness and Response Plan.
The G20 members pledged to work together to increase research and development funding for vaccines and medicines, strengthen international scientific cooperation, and leverage digital technologies.
In turn, they tasked WHO and other relevant organizations with assessing gaps in pandemic preparedness and to report the findings of this assessment to the G20 Finance and Health Ministers, in order to establish a global initiative on pandemic preparedness and response together.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47766-who-head-calls-%C2%A0g20-fight-unite-and-ignite-against-covid-19




Date: 25 March 2020
Title: COVID-19 Global Humanitarian Response Plan
Content: 25 March 2020
COVID-19 has killed more than 16,000 people worldwide and there are nearly 400,000 reported cases. It has a foothold across the globe and is now reaching countries that were already facing humanitarian crisis because of conflict, natural disasters and climate change.
The response plan will be implemented by UN agencies, with international NGOs and NGO consortia playing a direct role in the response. It will:
• deliver essential laboratory equipment to test for the virus, and medical supplies to treat people;
• install handwashing stations in camps and settlements;
• launch public information campaigns on how to protect yourself and others from the virus; and
• establish airbridges and hubs across Africa, Asia and Latin America to move humanitarian workers and supplies to where they are needed most.
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres said:
“COVID-19 is menacing the whole of humanity – and so the whole of humanity must fight back. Individual country responses are not going to be enough.
The mission of the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) is to coordinate the global emergency  response to save lives and protect people in humanitarian crises. We advocate for effective and principled humanitarian action by all, for all.
“We must come to the aid of the ultra-vulnerable – millions upon millions of people who are least able to protect themselves. This is a matter of basic human solidarity. It is also crucial for combating the virus. This is the moment to step up for the vulnerable.”
Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs Mark Lowcock said:
“COVID-19 has already upended life in some of the world’s wealthiest countries. It is now reaching places where people live in warzones, cannot easily access clean water and soap, and have no hope of a hospital bed if they fall critically ill.
“To leave the world’s poorest and most vulnerable countries to their fate would be both cruel and unwise. If we leave coronavirus to spread freely in these places, we would be placing millions at high risk, whole regions will be tipped into chaos and the virus will have the opportunity to circle back around the globe.
“Countries battling the pandemic at home are rightly prioritizing people living in their own communities. But the hard truth is they will be failing to protect their own people if they do not act now to help the poorest countries protect themselves.
“Our priority is to help these countries prepare and continue helping the millions who rely on humanitarian assistance from the UN to survive. Properly funded, our global response effort will equip humanitarian organizations with the tools to fight the virus, save lives, and help contain the spread of COVID-19 worldwide.”
WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said:
“The virus is now spreading in countries with weak health systems, including some which are already facing humanitarian crises. These countries need our support – out of solidarity but also to protect us all and help suppress this pandemic. At the same time, we must not fight the pandemic at the expense of the other humanitarian health emergencies.”
UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta H. Fore said:
“Children are the hidden victims of the COVID-19 pandemic. Lockdowns and school closures are affecting their education, mental health and access to basic health services. The risks of exploitation and abuse are higher than ever, for boys and girls alike. For children on the move or living through conflicts, the consequences will be unlike any we have ever seen. We must not let them down.”
At the virtual launch of the COVID-19 Global Humanitarian Response Plan, the UN Secretary-General was joined via video link by Mr. Lowcock, Dr Tedros and Ms. Fore.
Together they called on UN Member States to commit to stemming the impact of COVID-19 in vulnerable countries and containing the virus globally by giving the strongest possible support to the plan, while also sustaining core support to existing humanitarian appeals that help the more than 100 million people who already rely on humanitarian assistance from the UN just to survive.
Member States were warned that any diversion of funding from existing humanitarian operations would create an environment in which cholera, measles and meningitis can
To kick-start the response plan, Mr. Lowcock released an additional $60 million from the UN’s Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF). This brings CERF’s support to humanitarian action in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to $75 million. In addition, country-based pooled funds have allocated more than $3 million so far.
This new CERF allocation – one of the largest ever made – will support: WFP to ensure the continuity of supply chains and transport of aid workers and relief goods; WHO to contain the spread of the pandemic; and other agencies to provide humanitarian assistance and protection to those most affected by the pandemic, including women and girls, refugees and internally displaced people. Support will include efforts around food security, physical and mental health, water and sanitation, nutrition and protection.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47768-covid-19-global-humanitarian-response-plan




Date: 24 March 2020
Title: UN Agencies work continues as Coronavirus spreads
Content: 24 March 2020
The Government of Georgia is to be commended for taking proactive measures to slow the spread of the COVID-19 virus and to treat those affected.
The UN agencies, in close consultation with the Government, continue to identify needs and provide support to all the people of Georgia, with a focus on ensuring that the most vulnerable groups are not left behind in this crisis.
We encourage the Government to ensure that accurate information on the outbreak reaches every member of society, including where needed in a format adapted for linguistic minorities and persons with disabilities. Our efforts to combat the COVID-19 virus won't work unless we take great care to protect the most vulnerable people in society.
The UN agencies will continue to fully use all the tools at their disposal to support Georgia in addressing the socio-economic consequences of the crisis to ensure that efforts to achieve the SDGs are not halted.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45014-un-agencies-work-continues-coronavirus-spreads




Date: 11 March 2020
Title: WHO: Coronavirus is Now a Pandemic
Content: 11 March 2020
The World Health Organization has described the outbreak of the coronavirus as a pandemic.
Speaking during a press conference on Wednesday, the WHO's Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said: "Pandemic is not a word to use lightly or carelessly. It is a word that, if misused, can cause unreasonable fear, or unjustified acceptance that the fight is over, leading to unnecessary suffering and death."
"In the days and weeks ahead we expect to see the number of cases, the number of deaths and the number of affected countries to climb even higher," he added.
He described the situation as "deeply concerning," with "alarming levels of spread and severity."
Describing the situation as a pandemic doesn't change the assessment of the threat, he added.
“It doesn’t change what WHO is doing, and it doesn’t change what countries should do,” said Tedros.
He said that countries need to “strike a fine balance between protecting health, minimizing economic and social disruption and respecting human rights.”
Tedros also pointed to counties struggling with a lack of capacity and resources to tackle the virus.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47769-who-coronavirus-now-pandemic




Date: 11 March 2020
Title: The  Secretary-General Message on COVID 19
Content: 11 March 2020
It’s also a call for responsibility and solidarity – as nations united and as people united.
As we fight the virus, we cannot let fear go viral.
Together, we can still change the course of this pandemic – but that means addressing inaction.
The best science tells us, if countries detect, test, treat, isolate, trace and mobilize their people in the response, we can go a long way to mitigating transmission.
I call on every government to step up and scale up their efforts – now.
And since this is a crisis that affects everyone, we must all play our part.
As we mourn all those who have lost their lives and the many families who are suffering, we must show solidarity with the most vulnerable – the elderly, the sick, those without reliable healthcare, and those on the edge of poverty.
Let’s move forward with resolve and without stigma.
You can count on the UN to do our part.
Let’s overcome this common threat together.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47770-%C2%A0secretary-general-message-covid-19




Date: 10 March 2020
Title: COVID-19: IFRC, UNICEF and WHO issue guidance to protect children and support safe school operations
Content: 10 March 2020

he International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), UNICEF and the World Health Organization (WHO) today issued new guidance to help protect children and schools from transmission of the COVID-19 virus. The guidance provides critical considerations and practical checklists to keep schools safe. It also advises national and local authorities on how to adapt and implement emergency plans for educational facilities.
In the event of school closures, the guidance includes recommendations to mitigate against the possible negative impacts on children’s learning and wellbeing. This means having solid plans in place to ensure the continuity of learning, including remote learning options such as online education strategies and radio broadcasts of academic content, and access to essential services for all children. These plans should also include necessary steps for the eventual safe reopening of schools.

Where schools remain open, and to make sure that children and their families remain protected and informed, the guidance calls for:
The guidance, while specific to countries that have already confirmed the transmission of COVID-19, is still relevant in all other contexts. Education can encourage students to become advocates for disease prevention and control at home, in school, and in their community by talking to others about how to prevent the spread of viruses. Maintaining safe school operations or reopening schools after a closure, requires many considerations, but if done well, can promote public health.
For example, safe school guidelines implemented in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone during the outbreak of Ebola virus disease from 2014 to 2016 helped prevent school-based transmissions of the virus.

UNICEF is urging schools – whether open or helping students through remote learning – to provide students with holistic support. Schools should provide children with vital information on handwashing and other measures to protect themselves and their families; facilitate mental health support; and help to prevent stigma and discrimination by encouraging students to be kind to each other and avoid stereotypes when talking about the virus.

The new guidance also offers helpful tips and checklists for parents and caregivers, as well as children and students themselves. These actions include:
Coughing or sneezing into a tissue or your elbow and avoid touching your face, eyes, mouth and nose.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47249-covid-19-ifrc-unicef-and-who-issue-guidance-protect-children-and-support-safe-school




Date: 10 March 2020
Title: Women face an uphill climb in Georgia's civil service
Content: 10 March 2020
Over 1,000 civil servants took part in the first systemic attempt to assess how gender affects career development and professional growth in the Georgian public sector. The findings: 86 percent of survey participants believe that men enjoy more power and influence than women in the workplace, while 69 percent think that men receive more rewards for their work.
The study was commissioned by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) as a part of a UK-funded program supporting Public Administration Reform in Georgia. It was conducted by the Institute for Development of Freedom of Information (IDFI). The presentation of the findings marked the ongoing Gender Equality Week in Georgia.
Louisa Vinton, UNDP Head in Georgia; Catherine Kardava, Head of the Civil Service Bureau; Gocha Lordkipanidze, Deputy Minister of Justice of Georgia; Lela Akiashvilli, the Prime Minister’s Advisor for Human Rights and Gender Equality; Alexandra Cole, Deputy Head of Mission at the UK Embassy; and Giorgi Kldiashvili, IDFI Executive Director, addressed the attendees of the presentation with opening remarks.
“There is one word that struck me while reading the report: ‘invisible,’” said UNDP Head, Louisa Vinton. “It is repeated again and again: invisible barriers, invisible hierarchies, invisible practices that render the women themselves invisible. Or rather, visible only in the roles that are traditionally acceptable for women, which implies submitting to criticism and enjoying less respect from their bosses, and as a result losing out to men in their career progression.”
The results showed that the career path of male civil servants differs from that of female civil servants, and that these differences result in deeply engrained gender inequality within the Georgian civil service. Among other findings, the study found that 66 percent of civil servants believe that women are less visible than men who have the same qualifications. Women civil servants also feel they receive more criticism and less respect from their bosses than men.
“As the researchers rightly point out, we are dealing with deeply embedded, culturally determined practices. The aim of the ongoing Public Administration Reform in Georgia is to establish gender equality in civil service and promote more women to managerial positions,” said the Head of the Civil Service Bureau, Catherine Kardava.
“The survey shows that women have to work harder to make careers in the civil service,” said the Prime Minister’s Advisor for Human Rights and Gender Equality, Lela Akiashvilli. “However, as CSB statistics show, women make up 36 percent of high-ranked civil servants and 45 percent of the government’s ministers. On one hand, this is a proof of women’s qualifications in the field, and on the other – it is an evidence for the authorities’ efforts to ensure gender equality in the public service.”
The study used both qualitative and quantitative research methods, coupled with in-depth interviews and focus group discussions with men and women civil servants, both at the central as well as at local government level. The findings are expected to help policymakers better understand and address the systemic and cultural constraints that create a public sector “glass ceiling.”

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45015-women-face-uphill-climb-georgias-civil-service




Date: 08 March 2020
Title: International Women’s Day 2020 Theme — "I Am Generation Equality: Realizing Women’s Rights”
Content: 08 March 2020
The theme is aligned with UN Women’s new multigenerational campaign, Generation Equality, which marks the 25th anniversary of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action. Adopted in 1995 at the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, China, the Beijing Platform for Action is recognized as the most progressive roadmap for the empowerment of women and girls, everywhere.
The year 2020 is a pivotal year for advancing gender equality worldwide, as the global community takes stock of progress made for women’s rights since the adoption of the Beijing Platform for Action. It will also mark several other galvanizing moments in the gender equality movement: a five-year milestone towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals; the 20th anniversary of UN Security Council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security; and the 10th anniversary of UN Women’s establishment.
The emerging global consensus is that despite some progress, real change has been agonizingly slow for the majority of women and girls in the world. Today, not a single country can claim to have achieved gender equality. Multiple obstacles remain unchanged in law and in culture. Women and girls continue to be undervalued; they work more and earn less and have fewer choices; and experience multiple forms of violence at home and in public spaces. Furthermore, there is a significant threat of rollback of hard-won feminist gains.
The year 2020 represents an unmissable opportunity to mobilize global action to achieve gender equality and human rights of all women and girls.
The United Nations Observance of International Women’s Day 2020 will take place at the United Nations Secretariat in New York on Friday, 6 March 2020, from 10 a.m. to 1.00 p.m.
The Observance aims to bring together the next generations of women and girl leaders and gender equality activists with the women’s rights advocates and visionaries who were instrumental in creating the Beijing Platform for Action more than two decades ago. The event will celebrate change makers of all ages and genders and discuss how they can collectively tackle the unfinished business of empowering all women and girls in the years to come.
The Observance will include addresses by senior representatives of the United Nations system, an inter-generational dialogue with gender equality activists, and musical performances.
Visit www.unwomen.org for more information in the coming months.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47771-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-2020-theme-%E2%80%94-i-am-generation-equality-realizing-women%E2%80%99s-rights%E2%80%9D




Date: 06 March 2020
Title: COVID-19 Update for Representatives of Embassies and Development Agencies
Content: 06 March 2020
The representatives of the Ministry of Internally Displaced Persons from Occupied Territories, Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia and the World Health Organization (WHO) Office in Georgia briefed the participants on the current situation with the COVID-19 outbreak.
The meeting was moderated by Dr. Sabine Machl,  UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia.
“We recommend the authorities of different countries to prepare for three possible scenarios”, said Dr. Silviu Domente, WHO Representative and Head of WHO Country Office, Georgia.  “The first scenario is when the country has imported cases, as it is now in Georgia. The second phase is local transmission, and the third is widespread transmission. Each country has to prepare for these three scenarios. In general, response measures and readiness should be complex, we should consider various aspects, ranging from state coordination and communication to hospital readiness, healthcare readiness, and then increase of the capacity of laboratories,” said Silviu Domente.
Dr. Ekaterine Tikaradze, Health Minister of Georgia and Dr. Tamar Gabunia,  First Deputy Health  Minister of updated about  concrete measures undertaken by the government to detect, assess, contain and treat the first cases of COVID-19.
It was noted that Georgia is coping well with the global crisis regarding the novel Coronavirus.
Dr. Amiran Gamkrelidze, Director General of the National Centre for Disease Control and Public Health (NCDC) outlined efforts by the NCDC in responding and containing the spread of the disease. He noted that NCDC keep close communication and coordination with WHO,  the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), Chinese CDC  and US CDC.
The representatives of the Ministry and NCDC focused on national coordinated multisectoral response to slow transmission and save lives: monitoring health situation, strengthening surveillance  and case investigation, including airport checks,  health service readiness in the country (e.g. clinics in  Batumi, Kutaisi, Zugdidi and Tbilisi and  national laboratories, in particular the Lugar lab), restrictive public health measures (quarantines and self-isolation),  disinfection activities,  maintaining essential services, improving risk communication and disseminating  timely, accurate and comprehensive information to the public through social and other media outlets for ensuring the uptake of protective measures by the public.
It was noted the Georgian government launched a website – StopCov.ge – dedicated to help preventing the novel virus in the country.
The meeting was held with support of the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in Georgia.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46450-covid-19-update-representatives-embassies-and-development-agencies




Date: 04 March 2020
Title: Debate begins about preventing violence against women in politics and elections
Content: 04 March 2020
“Violence against women is an underlying factor for women’s low political participation,” stressed UN Resident Coordinator Sabine Machl at the 4 March meeting dedicated to the prevention of violence against women in politics and elections.
The meeting was organized by the UN Gender Theme Group with the support of the Government of Sweden and the participation of representatives from the legislative and executive branches, the Public Defender’s Office, the diplomatic corps, political parties and civil society. The key goal of the meeting was to raise awareness and prevent violence against women in politics and elections.
“Women’s participation in Georgian politics is extremely low, and the legislature is ready to take special measures to improve this situation as well as to prevent and respond to the instances of gender-based violence as the two are interlinked,” underlined Kakha Kuchava, Vice-Speaker of the Parliament of Georgia.
Ekaterina Skhiladze, Deputy Public Defender of Georgia, further observed that “politicians are obliged to demonstrate greater patience, but no one is obliged to tolerate sexism, discrimination and harassment, be it a politician or a voter.”
At the meeting, the members of political parties were encouraged to sign a statement on the prevention of violence against women in politics and elections. The document, on the one hand, recognizes the humiliating and excluding effects of such violence on women and, on the other, encourages parties to adopt a policy of zero tolerance to guarantee women’s free and equal participation in political life.
It is notable that two political parties - the European Democrats and United Georgia - signed the statement on the spot.
The Ambassadors of the European Union, Norway, the United Kingdom and the United States and the Heads of the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency and the Council of Europe all addressed the audience, sending a unifying message of zero tolerance for violence against women in general and in politics and elections in particular.
Tamar Zhvania, Chair of the Central Election Commission of Georgia, further explained the forms of such violence and the fact that no one is immune from experiencing it, be it voters, candidates, election administrators, observers or media representatives covering electoral processes. Also among the speakers were Lela Akiashvili, Assistant to the Prime Minister on Human Rights and Gender Equality Issues; Irma Inashvili, Member of Parliament from the Alliance of Patriots of Georgia; Nino Tsilosani, Member of Parliament from the Georgian Dream party; Tinatin Bokuchava, Member of Parliament from the United National Movement; and Laura Thornton, NDI Resident Director in Georgia.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47282-debate-begins-about-preventing-violence-against-women-politics-and-elections




Date: 03 March 2020
Title: Statement by the UN in Georgia on the current situation with the COVID-19 outbreak
Content: 03 March 2020
In addition, the Government of Georgia is to be commended for the timely provision of information on the first identified cases of coronavirus in the country and is encouraged to continue dissemination of timely, accurate and comprehensive information to the public as this is crucial for ensuring the uptake of protective measures by the public and is a critical confidence-building measure. This is particularly important for the purposes of countering erroneous information, widely exchanged via social media and other means.
Given that COVID-19 is a new disease, it is understandable that its emergence and spread may cause confusion, anxiety and fear. We need to be mindful that these factors can give rise to harmful stereotypes. Stigma can drive people to hide the illness to avoid discrimination; prevent people from seeking health care immediately and discourage them from adopting healthy behaviours.
We encourage the Government to continue to relay the information in readily understandable form and adapted for linguistic minorities and persons with disabilities, including the blind, the hearing-impaired and those with limited or no ability to read. People in detention should be included in information campaigns, as should prison wardens and other prison personnel.
The UN stands ready to continue supporting the Government of Georgia in responding and containing the spread of the disease. For the latest updates please visit www.who.int where you also find the areas currently most affected globally.
Useful hotlines and links
Governmental Hot Lines
Ministry of Health: 1505 (24/7)
National Centre for Disease Control: 11601 (is redirected to 1505 line during non-operation hours)
WHO Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak website page
https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019
WHO daily situation reports
https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/situation-reports
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45002-statement-un-georgia-current-situation-covid-19-outbreak




Date: 24 February 2020
Title: World Must Prepare for Pandemic, Says WHO
Content: 24 February 2020
The WHO said it was too early to call the outbreak a pandemic but countries should be "in a phase of preparedness".
WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told reporters on Monday that the number of new cases in recent days in Iran, Italy and South Korea was "deeply concerning".
However he added: "For the moment we are not witnessing the uncontained global spread of this virus and we are not witnessing large scale severe disease or deaths.
"Does this virus have pandemic potential? Absolutely, it has. Are we there yet? From our assessment, not yet."
"The key message that should give all countries hope, courage and confidence is that this virus can be contained, indeed there are many countries that have done exactly that," Mr Tedros said.
“In the past two weeks the number of cases outside China has increased thirteenfold and the number of affected countries has tripled,” WHO Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said at a press conference at the organization’s headquarters in Geneva. “In the days and weeks ahead, we expect to see the number of cases, the number of deaths and the number of affected countries to climb even higher.”
Tedros said several countries have been able to suppress and control the outbreak, but he scolded other world leaders for failing to act quickly enough or drastically enough to contain the spread.
“We’re deeply concerned both by the alarming levels of spread and severity, and by the alarming levels of inaction,” he said, just before declaring the pandemic. “We have rung the alarm bell loud and clear.”
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47772-world-must-prepare-pandemic-says-who




Date: 12 February 2020
Title: UN75 Initiative – The Biggest-ever Global Conversation on the World’s Future
Content: 12 February 2020
Through these conversations, the UN aims to build a global vision of 2045 – its centenary, increase understanding of the threats to that future, and support enhanced international cooperation to realise that vision.
Your voice will be heard. The views and ideas that are generated will be presented to world leaders and senior UN officials. They will also be disseminated online and through partners on an ongoing basis.
Take a one-minute survey: https://un75.online/
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47773-un75-initiative-%E2%80%93-biggest-ever-global-conversation-world%E2%80%99s-future




Date: 03 February 2020
Title: Leaders of all religious denominations in Georgia gather at a conference to discuss child rights
Content: 03 February 2020
Leaders from Georgia’s all religious denominations gathered at a special conference to discuss child rights and the role of religious leaders in promoting and protecting child rights. The conference was organized by the State Agency for Religious Issues and UNICEF Georgia.
The conference was attended by representatives from diplomatic and international organizations, government agencies, civil society, and the media.
The issues discussed at the conference included: cooperation with faith-based organizations, the Convention on the Rights of the Child after 30 years, achievements and remaining challenges in Georgia, the Code on the Rights of the Child of Georgia, child rights in different religions, and the role of religious leaders in protecting and promoting child rights.



The conference was organized as part of the partnership between the State Agency for Religious Issues and UNICEF Georgia. The aim of the cooperation is to promote and protect child rights through engagement with different religious denominations.
“We value our partnership with religious leaders and we want to make sure it brings tangible results for children.” said Dr. Ghassan Khalil, UNICEF Representative in Georgia. “We have initiated an open and mutually respectful dialogue with all the religious denominations to mobilize their influence to promote child rights and end rights violations, such as violence against children, in their communities. UNICEF will continue strengthening this partnership with religious denominations in the best interests of children in Georgia,” added Dr. Khalil.
UNICEF Georgia has already organized thematic meetings and seminars with religious leaders on child rights, and on the situation of children in Georgia, with a focus on their roles in protecting children’s rights.



Three workshops, with 100 Orthodox Christian priests and Muslim muftis and imams, have  already been conducted, in addition to a session with representatives of the Lutheran Church. More seminars are planned for 2020.
UNICEF has a long history of working with faith-based organizations and religious leaders. Religious leaders have deep and trusted relationships within their communities and often have strong links with the most disadvantaged and vulnerable people. They are well positioned to support the poorest, most vulnerable, and hardest to reach children and families.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47251-leaders-all-religious-denominations-georgia-gather-conference-discuss-child-rights




Date: 31 January 2020
Title: Statement on the second meeting of the International Health Regulations Emergency Committee Regarding the Outbreak of Novel Coronavirus (2019-NCOV)
Content: 31 January 2020
The Committee’s role is to give advice to the Director-General, who makes the final decision on the determination of a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC). The Committee also provides public health advice or suggests formal Temporary Recommendations as appropriate.
The Committee welcomed the leadership and political commitment of the very highest levels of Chinese government, their commitment to transparency, and the efforts made to investigate and contain the current outbreak. China quickly identified the virus and shared its sequence, so that other countries could diagnose it quickly and protect themselves, which has resulted in the rapid development of diagnostic tools.
The very strong measures the country has taken include daily contact with WHO and comprehensive multi-sectoral approaches to prevent further spread. It has also taken public health measures in other cities and provinces; is conducting studies on the severity and transmissibility of the virus, and sharing data and biological material. The country has also agreed to work with other countries who need their support. The measures China has taken are good not only for that country but also for the rest of the world.
The Committee acknowledged the leading role of WHO and its partners.
The Committee also acknowledged that there are still many unknowns, cases have now been reported in five WHO regions in one month, and human-to-human transmission has occurred outside Wuhan and outside China.
The Committee believes that it is still possible to interrupt virus spread, provided that countries put in place strong measures to detect disease early, isolate and treat cases, trace contacts, and promote social distancing measures commensurate with the risk. It is important to note that as the situation continues to evolve, so will the strategic goals and measures to prevent and reduce spread of the infection. The Committee agreed that the outbreak now meets the criteria for a Public Health Emergency of International Concern and proposed the following advice to be issued as Temporary Recommendations.
The Committee emphasized that the declaration of a PHEIC should be seen in the spirit of support and appreciation for China, its people, and the actions China has taken on the frontlines of this outbreak, with transparency, and, it is to be hoped, with success. In line with the need for global solidarity, the Committee felt that a global coordinated effort is needed to enhance preparedness in other regions of the world that may need additional support for that.
The Committee welcomed a forthcoming WHO multidisciplinary technical mission to China, including national and local experts. The mission should review and support efforts to investigate the animal source of the outbreak, the clinical spectrum of the disease and its severity, the extent of human-to-human transmission in the community and in healthcare facilities, and efforts to control the outbreak. This mission will provide information to the international community to aid in understanding the situation and its impact and enable sharing of experience and successful measures.
The Committee wished to re-emphasize the importance of studying the possible source, to rule out hidden transmission and to inform risk management measures
The Committee also emphasized the need for enhanced surveillance in regions outside Hubei, including pathogen genomic sequencing, to understand whether local cycles of transmission are occurring.
WHO should continue to use its networks of technical experts to assess how best this outbreak can be contained globally.
WHO should provide intensified support for preparation and response, especially in vulnerable countries and regions.
Measures to ensure rapid development and access to potential vaccines, diagnostics, antiviral medicines and other therapeutics for low- and middle-income countries should be developed.
WHO should continue to provide all necessary technical and operational support to respond to this outbreak, including with its extensive networks of partners and collaborating institutions, to implement a comprehensive risk communication strategy, and to allow for the advancement of research and scientific developments in relation to this novel coronavirus.
WHO should continue to explore the advisability of creating an intermediate level of alert between the binary possibilities of PHEIC or no PHEIC, in a way that does not require reopening negotiations on the text of the IHR (2005).
WHO should timely review the situation with transparency and update its evidence-based recommendations.
The Committee does not recommend any travel or trade restriction based on the current information available.
The Director-General declared that the outbreak of 2019-nCoV constitutes a PHEIC and accepted the Committee’s advice and issued this advice as Temporary Recommendations under the IHR.
Continue to:
• Implement a comprehensive risk communication strategy to regularly inform the population on the evolution of the outbreak, the prevention and protection measures for the population, and the response measures taken for its containment.
• Enhance public health measures for containment of the current outbreak.
• Ensure the resilience of the health system and protect the health workforce.
• Enhance surveillance and active case finding across China.
• Collaborate with WHO and partners to conduct investigations to understand the epidemiology and the evolution of this outbreak and measures to contain it.
• Share relevant data on human cases.
• Continue to identify the zoonotic source of the outbreak, and particularly the potential for circulation with WHO as soon as it becomes available.
• Conduct exit screening at international airports and ports, with the aim of early detection of symptomatic travelers for further evaluation and treatment, while minimizing interference with international traffic.
It is expected that further international exportation of cases may appear in any country. Thus, all countries should be prepared for containment, including active surveillance, early detection, isolation and case management, contact tracing and prevention of onward spread of 2019-nCoVinfection, and to share full data with WHO. Technical advice is available on the WHO website.
Countries are reminded that they are legally required to share information with WHO under the IHR.
Any detection of 2019-nCoV in an animal (including information about the species, diagnostic tests, and relevant epidemiological information) should be reported to the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) as an emerging disease.
Countries should place particular emphasis on reducing human infection, prevention of secondary transmission and international spread, and contributing to the international response though multi-sectoral communication and collaboration and active participation in increasing knowledge on the virus and the disease, as well as advancing research.
The Committee does not recommend any travel or trade restriction based on the current information available.
Countries must inform WHO about travel measures taken, as required by the IHR. Countries are cautioned against actions that promote stigma or discrimination, in line with the principles of Article 3 of the IHR.
The Committee asked the Director-General to provide further advice on these matters and, if necessary, to make new case-by-case recommendations, in view of this rapidly evolving situation.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47774-statement-second-meeting-international-health-regulations-emergency-committee-regarding




Date: 22 January 2020
Title: Ten Years to Transform Our World
Content: 22 January 2020
With just 10 years to go, an ambitious global effort is underway to deliver the 2030 promise—by mobilizing more governments, civil society, businesses and calling on all people to make the Global Goals their own.
Decade of Action to Deliver the Global Goals
As complex, frustrating, chaotic and confusing as our world may seem, there is evidence of progress—extreme poverty and child mortality rates are falling and access to energy, education and to decent work is rising. But we are far from the world we want.
The Decade of Action calls for accelerating sustainable solutions to all the world’s biggest challenges—ranging from poverty and gender to climate change, inequality and closing the finance gap
The Decade sf Action will:
Mobilize everyone, everywhere
We will work to create an unstoppable force linked to the Global Goals.
We will identify risks to ensure no one is left behind.
This requires each of us to take action—individually and collectively, locally and globally.
Demand urgency and ambition
We must be the generation to end extreme poverty, win the race against climate change and conquer injustice and gender inequality.
We will hold leaders to account and point to what is possible when action delivers results.
Supercharge ideas to solutions
We will shine a light on solutions that expand access and demonstrate the possibilities of ideas.
We will drive sustainable innovation, financial investments and technology—while making space in our communities and cities for young people to lead.
Why we are hopeful
The spirit of human endeavor has demonstrated our shared ability to deliver the extraordinary. The 2030 Agenda is our roadmap for the world we all want. The Global Goals are our best hope—for people, for planet, for prosperity, for peace and for partnerships.

It’s time to deliver on the Sustainable Development Goals.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47775-ten-years-transform-our-world




Date: 09 December 2019
Title: Georgia ranks high in Human Development but loses 12 percent of its progress through inequalities
Content: 09 December 2019
UNDP releases the 2019 Human Development Report “Beyond income, beyond averages, beyond today: inequalities in human development in the 21st Century”
Georgia ranks 70 of the 189 countries covered by the 2019 Human Development Index published today by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Recognizing that human well-being depends on more than just money, UNDP combines health, education and income to rank the world’s countries. This year Georgia places ahead of Armenia at 81, Azerbaijan at 87 and Ukraine at 88, but behind Russia at 49, Belarus at 50 and Turkey at 59.
Georgia currently qualifies as a country of high human development. Between 2000 and 2018, the country’s HDI value rose from 0.669 to 0.786, an increase of 17.5 percent. Life expectancy at birth increased by 3.2 years, mean years of schooling by 1.1 years and expected years of schooling by 3.0 years. GNI per capita grew by about 19.8 percent between 1990 and 2018.
However, these achievements lose some lustre when the HDI value is discounted for inequality. For Georgia the loss is a discouraging 12 percent. “Georgia’s performance in improved living standards for its citizens is being undercut by inequality,” commented Louisa Vinton, UNDP Head in Georgia. “This year’s human development report is a call to action to design and adopt policies to reduce disparities, whether between men and women, urban and rural areas, or the wealthy and the poor.”
“Beyond income, beyond averages, beyond today”
Inequality is the main theme of the analysis that accompanies this year’s Human Development Index. The new Human Development Report (HDR) argues that, despite unprecedented progress against poverty, hunger and disease, many societies are not working as they should.
“Different triggers are bringing people onto the streets -- the cost of a train ticket, the price of petrol, demands for political freedoms, the pursuit of fairness and justice. This is the new face of inequality, and as this Human Development Report sets out, inequality is not beyond solutions,” says UNDP Administrator, Achim Steiner.
The 2019 Human Development Report (HDR), entitled “Beyond income, beyond averages, beyond today: inequalities in human development in the 21st Century,” says that just as the gap in basic living standards is narrowing for millions of people, the necessities to thrive have evolved.
A new generation of inequalities is opening up, around education, and around technology and climate change – two seismic shifts that, unchecked, could trigger a ‘new great divergence’ in society of the kind not seen since the Industrial Revolution, according to the report.
The Report argues that while the middle-income countries of Europe and Central Asia have achieved higher living standards than ever before, climate change and technological disruption could severely slow down their efforts to reduce inequalities.
For instance, nearly 90 percent of the region’s energy comes from fossil fuels, and some 30 percent of land is classified as degraded. And while the region ranks in the middle tercile worldwide on research and development spending, its ratio of highly skilled to low-skilled workers is only half that of OECD countries— a gap that will become harder to close as technology advances in richer countries.
To address these challenges, the 2019 Human Development Report (HDR) proposes a battery of policy options, including lifelong investments in human productivity, education and social protection; policy reforms related to international taxation and public spending; systemic steps to close gender gaps in politics, economics and society; and policies crucial to tackling the climate crisis.
Global Human Development Index (HDI)
The 2019 HDR shows that impressive progress has been made in the Human Development Index (HDI) since 1990 and many countries have moved up through the human development categories: between 1990 and 2018 the number of countries classified as having very high human development rose from 12 to 62 while those classified as having low human development fell from 62 to 36.
The top five positions in the global HDI rankings are: Norway (0.954), Switzerland (0.946), Ireland (0.942), Germany (0.939) and Hong Kong (0.939). The bottom five are: Burundi (0.423), South Sudan (0.413), Chad (0.401), Central African Republic (0.381) and Niger (0.377).
Unequal distribution of human development gains in education, health and living standards within countries remains a challenge to achieving human development for all. The Inequality adjusted HDI (IHDI) shows that globally, 20 percent of human development progress was lost in 2018.
The empowerment gap between women and men, as measured by the Gender Inequality Index (GII), is narrowing but at a very slow pace. There are small gains globally in parliamentary representation (24.1 percent of seats held by women) and in reduction of adolescent birth rate (42.9 births per 1000 women of adolescent age), but the gap in economic empowerment persists (the labour force participation rate of women is still 27 percentage points lower than of men).
Georgia GII value ranks it 75 out of 162 countries. In Georgia, only 15 percent of parliamentary seats are held by women, and 97.4 percent of adult women have reached at least a secondary level of education compared to 98.6 percent of men. For every 100,000 live births, 36.0 women die from pregnancy related causes; and the adolescent birth rate is 46.4 births per 1,000 women of ages 15-19. Female participation in the labour market is 57.8 percent compared to 78.7 for men.

###  ###  ###
2019 HDR Broadcast Package:
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/vl0qjm3g1nvcg4k/AABXqgDA86UkT9MLTjURmGE4a?dl=0


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45020-georgia-ranks-high-human-development-loses-12-percent-its-progress-through-inequalities




Date: 30 November 2019
Title: Regional Workshop on Healthy Ageing Hosted in Tbilisi
Content: 30 November 2019
There was a symposium held on November 28th, where the invited guests and international experts talked about the current demographic trend on ageing, the policy exercised by the states and the best practices for supporting the healthy ageing, after which there was a training held on November 29th on establishing and managing the healthy ageing centers.
Fast economic progress and improved living conditions in developed countries, along with family planning, extended life expectancy at birth and low fertility contributed to steady population ageing. The same pattern at even greater pace is now followed in developing countries and countries in transition so it is expected that on global level the number of persons over 60 will triple from 600 million to almost 2 billion by mid-century. In percentages, the proportion of persons over 60 will double from 10% to 21% compared to overall population.
It is observed that population ageing is putting economies of developed countries to a huge test. For countries in transition and developing countries it may prove to be even more challenging. Nevertheless, social and cultural features in many of these societies offer opportunities to address some of the most critical elements of ageing: the physical and mental health of older persons, which is significantly affected by isolation and loneliness.
The workshop aimed to share the experience of countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia, and to elaborate common approaches for advocating for active and healthy ageing, and to ensure the welfare of population.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45875-regional-workshop-healthy-ageing-hosted-tbilisi




Date: 26 November 2019
Title: 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence
Content: 26 November 2019
Each year on November 25 the world marks International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, while for the next 16 days, from November 25 through to December 10 (Human Rights Day), the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence will be marked to raise public awareness and mobilise people to bring about change.
Violence against women and girls is a global scourge and unfortunately still one of the largest human rights violations worldwide.  One in three women globally continues to suffer from abuses at home or in the workplace during her lifetime.  At least one out of seven women has experienced violence  in Georgia.
The United Nations in Georgia marked the 16 Days of Activism this year under the theme: “Every Woman has a Story!” to put the spotlight on the voices of survivors and activists.
The United Nations in Georgia recorded the video address calling for firm stand on violence against women.
On the occasion of the opening of the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-based Violence campaign, on November 25 the TV tower overlooking Georgia's capital Tbilisi was illuminated  in orange,  the official colour of the campaign.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46451-16-days-activism-against-gender-based-violence




Date: 30 October 2019
Title: From November 1, 2019 the State Investigation Function will be Launched
Content: 30 October 2019

The Prime Minister of Georgia Giorgi Gakharia, the State Inspector of Georgia Londa Toloraia, the First Deputy Chairperson of the Parliament Tamar Chugoshvili, Minister of Justice Thea Tsulukiani, EU Ambassador to Georgia Carl Hartzell  and UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia Sabine Machl opened the event dedicated to the launch.
The representatives of Government of Georgia, members of the Parliament of Georgia, representatives of other agencies, diplomatic corps, international organisations and non-governmental organisations attended the event.
Since 2014 the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) as well as the Public Defender’s Office, international experts, and a number of human rights non-governmental organizations were actively advocating that Georgia creates an independent mechanism to investigate allegations of serious human rights abuses committed by law enforcement officials.  OHCHR conducted workshops, trainings, roundtables and provide expertise to advance the discussions on the creation of such a mechanism.  Moreover, OHCHR has provided suggestions on amendments to a draft law on the creation of an independent and impartial investigative mechanism.  On July 21, 2018, the Parliament of Georgia adopted the law on the State Inspector Service of Georgia.  From November 1, 2019 the State Inspector Service will have the mandate to investigate crimes mentioned below.
Starting from November 1, The State Inspector’s Service will be mandated to investigate crimes committed by representatives of law- enforcement authorities and by an official or a person equal to an official. In 2018, the Parliament of Georgia adopted the law on “the State Inspector’s Service.” The law mandated the State Inspector’s Service the independent and impartial investigative power of abovementioned specific crimes. Independent investigative mechanism was established by the state in response to the recommendations issued by the Public Defender of Georgia, international organisations and experts.
During her speech, Londa Toloraia stated that, the State Inspector’s Service is ready to fulfil its investigative function from November 1: “Investigative department is fully staffed with personnel having different working experience selected by contest and is equipped with technique and tools necessary for investigation.” The guest of the event received detailed information on the steps taken and implemented reform from the State Inspector.  It was also mentioned by Londa Toloraia that effective functioning of the service largely depends on the coordination between different agencies.
On the first phase of the work the offices of the States Inspector’s Service will be opened in Tbilisi and Kutaisi and in East and West divisions of the investigative service sixteen investigators will be employed. Hot line (199), accessible for any interested person for 24 hours will start functioning. The State Inspector’s Service is a legal successor of the Office of Personal Data Protection Inspector. The Office of the Personal Data Protection Inspector was established as the State Inspector’s Service on May 10, 2019. The transformation was conditioned by the assignment of investigative function. From 2013, the Office was monitoring the lawfulness of personal data processing, covert investigative actions and activities performed within the central databank of electronic communications identification data.
The investigative jurisdiction of the State Inspector’s Service shall apply to the following crimes:
✓ Torture;
✓ Threat of torture;
✓ Inhuman or degrading treatment;
✓ Abuse of official powers committed using violence, weapon or offending personal dignity of the victim;
✓ Exceeding official powers committed using violence, weapon or offending personal dignity of the victim;
✓ Exceeding or abuse of official powers, committed using violence, weapon or offending personal dignity of the victim;
✓ Coercion of a person by deception, blackmail or other unlawful act to provide explanation, evidence or opinion;
✓ Coercion of a person placed in a penitentiary facility or liberty restriction facility into changing or refusing to give testimony, as well as coercion of a convicted person in order to interfere with the fulfilment of his/her civil duties;
✓ Other crimes which caused the death of the person, and when committing it, this person was in the temporary detention isolator or in penitentiary institution and/or in any other place, where he/she was forbidden to leave the place against his/her will by a representative of a law enforcement body, an officer or a person equal to him/her, and/or this person was otherwise under the effective control of the state.
The event was organised with the financial support of EU and UN joint project “Human Rights for All.”
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46459-november-1-2019-state-investigation-function-will-be-launched




Date: 28 October 2019
Title: Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs  and Peacebuilding Affairs Rosemary A. DiCarlo visits Georgia
Content: 28 October 2019
On October 28 she met  Prime Minister of Georgia Giorgi Gakharia.  According to the Prime Minister's press office, the meeting underlined the importance of the UN’s Co-Chairmanship of the Geneva International Discussions (GID) in the peaceful resolution of the conflict. The special role of the organization was noted in light of the daily challenges faced in the occupied territories.
The sides focused on the grave situation along the occupation line, including the situation in Chorchana, restriction of movement to Akhalgori, the installation of barbed wire fences across the occupation line and detention of citizens.
The Prime Minister expressed hope that the UN will continue its efforts to promote progress with regards to issues on the GID agenda, prevent provocations and help de-escalate the situation.
According to the press service, the prime Minister of Georgia reaffirmed the country’s commitment to  peace policy aimed at implementing mutually beneficial projects under the new peace initiative.
During the visit she also held meetings with the President of Georgia, the speaker of the Parliament and the Foreign Minister of Georgia.
United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Political and Peacebuilding Affairs Rosemary DiCarlo travelled to the South Caucasus region from 24 to 30 October 2019 in connection with the 18th Summit of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) and paid working visits to Azerbaijan, Georgia and Armenia.
With reporting by Georgian media

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47777-under-secretary-general-political-affairs%C2%A0-and-peacebuilding-affairs-rosemary-dicarlo-visits




Date: 22 October 2019
Title: UN Day marked in Kutaisi
Content: 22 October 2019
Under the slogan “Global Goals Generation”, several activities in collaboration with Kutaisi  municipality and NGOs took place for  youth to demonstrate the value of youth engagement, highlight their energy and passion and accelerate action on climate change for the planet.
Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Nino Tvaltvadze, Deputy Mayor of Kutaisi Municipality, Ioseb Khakhaleishvili, Deputy  State Representative of Imereti Region, Eka Laliashvii, Chair of the Board of Georgia Alliance for Safe Roads  and Lika Kiladze, Chair of the Board of Education Development and Employment Center  took part in the event.
A drawing contest highlighting the values of climate solidarity and promoting SDGs; public lecture  on the Sustainable Development Goals by  Esma Gumberidze, Georgia's Youth Representative to the United Nations, and tree planting campaign was organized  to mobilize young people and motivate them to save our planet.
At the end of the event the UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia awarded the winners of the drawing contest and quiz on the Sustainable Development Goals with certificates and memorable gifts.
The event in Kutaisi was organized by the UN Office in Georgia in cooperation with the Kutaisi Municipality, the Georgia Alliance for Safe Roads  and the Education Development and Employment Center.
The  theme of this year’s UN Week organized on October 17 -24  is ‘ Global Goals Generation’. A number of activities are planned countrywide, including planting of 550 trees in Tbilisi.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46453-un-day-marked-kutaisi




Date: 17 October 2019
Title: President visits United Nations to celebrate UN Day
Content: 17 October 2019
During the meeting the President and the Heads of UN agencies discussed the current state of  cooperation between Georgia and the United Nations and how to implement  the Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Development Agenda.
Speaking to the United Nations Country Team in Georgia, the President of Georgia commended the very good cooperation between Georgia and the United Nations over the past 26 years.
The UN Resident Coordinator, Sabine Machl, underlined the UN’s readiness to support Georgia in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals  and  the central promise of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development “Leaving no one behind.”
The Heads of UN agencies highlighted main areas of their work and future priorities spanning all 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
Under the slogan “Global Goals Generation”, several activities in collaboration with  local municipalities and NGOs will take place for children and youth to demonstrate the value of youth engagement, highlight their energy and passion and accelerate action on climate change for the planet.
A drawing and recycling workshop highlighting the values of climate solidarity and promoting SDGs; public lectures; opening of equality corner and tree planting campaigns are planned  in Svaneti, Kutaisi and Tbilisi to mobilize communities, especially young people to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) .
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46455-%C2%A0president-visits-united-nations-celebrate-un-day




Date: 09 October 2019
Title: UN Day marked in Ushguli
Content: 09 October 2019
On October 19, 2019, with joint efforts of the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Georgia Country Office, the United Nations Day was marked in Ushguli as well, together with other cities and municipalities of Georgia. Sabine Machl, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia and Lela Bakradze, Head of the UNFPA Georgia Country Office attended the planned activities.
There was an exhibition of a photographer Dina Oganova opened at Ushguli school at 14:30, showcasing two photo projects: “Girls from the Future” and “Peers for Equality”. The photo project “Girls from the Future” combines photos with texts to tell stories of girls aged 10 to 16 living in various cities and villages of Georgia. The project aims at highlighting to the public that the full realization of girls’ potential, creation of equal conditions and equitable environment for them, and access to health and education play a crucial role for the prosperity and development of every country, that every girl should be given an opportunity to complete her education and make informed decisions about her life and health. “Peers for Equality” tells stories of 12 youth. Within the framework of the photo project, they are talking about the gender equality, healthy lifestyle, reproductive health, education, activism and their own initiatives. Both photo projects were supported by the UNFPA Georgia Country Office, and it is a part of a widescale advocacy work, which UNFPA is carrying out for eliminating the harmful practice of early marriage and promoting reproductive health and rights of adolescents and youth.
Later during the day, in cooperation with the National Parliamentary Library of Georgia, “Equality Corner” was opened at the Ushguli library. The Equality Corner will enable the youth in Ushguli to raise awareness on equality with the help of contemporary fiction. Giorgi Kekelidze, a writer and a director of the National Library of Georgia opened the Equality Corner. Within the framework of the event, Giorgi Kekelidze delivered a public lecture on the idea of gender equality and its significance.
Opening the Equality Corner aims at supporting the realization of potential of adolescents and youth. Authors of the initiative consider that it is of utmost importance to have as much space as possible in Georgia, where the adolescents and youth will be able to get informal education, enjoy meaningful free time and share ideas among themselves.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46454-un-day-marked-ushguli




Date: 22 June 2019
Title: Joint Statement on Tbilisi Pride Decision to Postpone “March of Dignity”
Content: 22 June 2019
We welcome the decision by the organizers of Tbilisi Pride to postpone the “March of Dignity” planned for 22 June 2019. Participation in peaceful demonstrations of this sort is an expression of every person’s fundamental human right to freedom of expression and assembly. However, amidst real concerns about safety and security in the current context, we find the LGBTI+ community’s decision highly commendable.
At the same time, we reiterate the main points of our statement of 17 May 2019, which called upon all responsible actors to undertake concerted efforts to end the discrimination and violence experienced by LGBTI+ persons in Georgia. We welcome the policy consultations that have been undertaken in past weeks to identify and address priority needs of the LGBTI+ community. We are confident that respect for diversity yields a stronger democracy and a more resilient society.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46461-joint-statement-tbilisi-pride-decision-postpone-%E2%80%9Cmarch-dignity%E2%80%9D




Date: 12 June 2019
Title: United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Celebrates 20 Years of Presence in Georgia
Content: 12 June 2019
In 2019, UNFPA Country Office in Georgia also celebrates the 20-year anniversary of its support to the country’s development.
The UNFPA Country Office in Georgia was established in 1999. Since then the UNFPA Georgia team is actively working to ensure that every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe, and every young person's potential is fulfilled. By promoting sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights, advocating for gender equality, strengthening the policy frameworks and systems, striving for the elimination of harmful practices and combating violence against girls and women, supporting youth development, collecting quality data on  population dynamics and supporting their application for planning the country’s sustainable development, UNFPA is making a strong contribution to the advancement and development of Georgia as a democratic state.
The presence of UNFPA in Georgia is linked to many initiatives, such as: the launch of first reproductive health mobile teams in the beginning of the 2000s with the purpose of providing free and quality reproductive health and family planning services to the population, which helped to save the lives of hundreds of women for 12 years of their operation; four nationwide surveys on reproductive health; elaboration of the National Maternal and Newborn and Reproductive Health Strategy and the Action Plan; introduction and support to the innovative cervical and breast screening program; improved HIV prevention; introduction of peer education for youth on the issues of reproductive health, HIV prevention, gender equality, gender-based violence; support to the state’s multisectoral response to domestic violence and violence against women and girls; support to the prevention of harmful practices (early marriage, gender-biased sex selection, female genital mutilation) and refining the law on child/early marriage; cooperation with religious confessions for strengthening prevention of domestic violence and harmful practices against girls and women; enhancing men’s engagement for achieving gender equality and supporting the MenCare campaign, winner of the “Emerging Europe Award”; strengthening the Office of Public Defender for monitoring sexual and reproductive health and well-being within the frameworks of the human rights monitoring system; capacity building of the National Statistics Office for improving the collection and analysis of reliable population data; elaboration of comprehensive demographic and population aging policies, and advocacy for healthy aging, etc.
Having the partnerships with state agencies, NGOs, private sector organizations and religious confessions, various field experts, activists, artists and athletes, UNFPA Georgia team directly supports the realization of fundamental human rights and actively continues its operations for making the individuals, their rights and choices central for sustainable development.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45878-united-nations-population-fund-unfpa-celebrates-20-years-presence-georgia




Date: 01 June 2019
Title: New Head of the United Nations in Georgia
Content: 01 June 2019
Dr. Sabine Machl of Austria has been appointed UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia and will begin her assignment on 1 June 2019.
Prior to her assignment in Georgia, Dr. Sabine Machl has worked in international organizations for more than 22 years among those over 7 years for the UN. Her latest assignment was UN Women Representative in Indonesia and Liaison to ASEAN and before that she headed UN Women in Palestine and Kyrgyzstan.
From 2007-2011 Sabine was the Head of Section/Senior Adviser to the OSCE High Commissioner on National Minorities in The Hague covering the countries of the former Soviet Union. From 2005-2007 she was posted in Kyrgyzstan as Deputy Head of the OSCE Centre in Bishkek. She also worked for four years as the Head of the Central Asia desk in the OSCE Conflict Prevention Centre in Vienna. Throughout 2001 Sabine was assigned Deputy Head of the OSCE Mission to Estonia and during Austria’s OSCE Chairmanship in 2000, she was First Secretary in the Austrian Permanent Mission. She worked as Desk Officer for Southeastern Europe in the Political Section of the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at the European Parliament, in three different courts in Vienna and as a teacher in Croydon/London.
Sabine holds two Master degrees (in Law and Languages) and a PhD in Law from the University of Vienna. A major amount for her PhD research was carried out in Groningen, the Netherlands. She is married and has two sons.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46463-new-head-united-nations-georgia




Date: 17 May 2019
Title: International Community Calls for an End to Violence and Discrimination Against LGBTQI+ Persons in Georgia
Content: 17 May 2019
On the occasion of the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia (IDAHOTB),[1] we express our support for and solidarity with the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and intersex (LGBTQI+) community in Georgia.
Georgia’s national law prohibits all discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity and expression. The country has also ratified the core international human rights conventions that bar discrimination against LGBTQI+ persons, just as they forbid discrimination based on race, sex, religion, or political conviction. Under the Association Agreement with the EU, Georgia has likewise committed to fully respect the rights of persons belonging to minorities.
These legal commitments to the fundamental equality of every person are laudable.
Some progress has also been noted in recent years in expanding human rights protections in practice, including through the creation of a human rights department in the Ministry of Internal Affairs that has shown praiseworthy determination in seeking to end impunity for hate crimes.
However, the everyday reality for the LGBTQI+ community in Georgia is that these guarantees largely remain on paper. LGBTQI+ persons face discrimination, hate speech, and physical abuse, which violate their rights, deprive them of dignity, and push them to the margins of society.
This situation has been documented by both national and international institutions. The Georgian Public Defender concluded in her annual report for 2018 that “the LGBT+ community encounters discrimination in almost every sphere of life.”[2]  An independent UN expert noted in 2018 that “violence (physical and psychological) and discrimination against LGBT people are pervasive.”[3] The prevalence of hate speech and violence against LGBTQI+ persons was also noted in the 2016 report of the Council of Europe’s European Commission Against Racism and Intolerance (ECRI).[4]
These are troubling findings – findings that run counter to Georgia’s traditions of tolerance.
We thus urge Georgian leaders to take resolute action to ensure that the equality guaranteed in law is realized in practice, so that every person in the country, including LGBTQI+ persons, can exercise their rights. In this context, we note that cultural, religious and moral beliefs – even if held by a majority – can never be an excuse for tolerating human rights violations. We call for the adoption of a comprehensive strategy to combat discrimination and violence based on sexual orientation and gender identity, with an emphasis on education for tolerance. And we call on Georgia to ensure that LGBTQI+ persons are able freely to manifest their freedom of expression and assembly.[5]
As friends of Georgia, we stand ready to assist all the many actors with a role to play – government, parliament, political leaders, religious and community authorities, civil society, and the wider public – in meeting the country’s human rights commitments and in building a society that embraces diversity and, in the spirit of the Sustainable Development Goals, truly “leaves no one behind.”


[1] This date marks the 29th anniversary of the decision, made after many years of scientific research, to remove homosexuality from the International Classification of Diseases of the World Health Organization (WHO) in 1990.
[2] Public Defender’s Office, “Report on LGBT+ Persons in Georgia,” drawn from the 2018 annual report.
[3] https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=23682&LangID=E
[4] https://rm.coe.int/fourth-report-on-georgia/16808b5773
[5] For a comprehensive list of recommendations in fighting violence and discrimination against LGBTQI+ persons, see: https://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/Discrimination/Joint_LGBTI_Statement_ENG.PDF
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46670-international-community-calls-end-violence-and-discrimination-against-lgbtqi-persons-georgia




Date: 13 May 2019
Title: UN to support renewing the concept of the National Youth Policy
Content: 13 May 2019
The Georgian National Youth Policy, adopted in 2014 as a result of the participatory process, reaffirms high importance of the Georgian youth in terms of long-term democratic and socio-economic development of the country. The policy aims at encouraging establishment of relevant environment for a comprehensive youth development which will enable the youth to fully realize their potential and be actively involved in all the areas of the public life.
However, considering the new opportunities and challenges faced by today's generation and 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Goals, it’s necessary to review and update the policy, as well as define relevant tasks and actions.
With the initiative of the Sports and Youth Issues Committee of the Parliament of Georgia and with technical support of the United Nations Coordination Group on Youth Issues, the following actions have been planned: a) Analyzing and evaluating the implementation results of “Georgian National Policy development action plan 2014-2020” B) Preparing specific recommendations for strengthening coordination between the parties involved in youth development; C) Developing concept of the National Youth Policy of Georgia, which will be submitted to the Parliament for approval.
The Prime Minister's Advisor in Youth Issues, relevant governmental bodies, youth, youth NGOs and international organizations and field experts will be actively involved in the process of solving the above mentioned tasks.
The United Nations Coordination Group on youth issues was established in 2019 with the initiative of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and with participation of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), United Nations Development Fund (UNDP), United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and International Labor Organization (ILO).
The goal of the Coordination Group is to promote the implementation of United Nations Global Strategy - Youth 2030 – and support the coordinated work of UN Georgia team with Georgian youth sector.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45877-un-support-renewing-concept-national-youth-policy




Date: 08 May 2019
Title: Unlocking progress towards the SDGs
Content: 08 May 2019
More than 70 representatives of the Georgian government and the United Nations (UN) team in Georgia gathered in Kachreti on 7 and 8 May 2019 for a two-day workshop organized jointly to identify “bottlenecks” and “accelerators” in the country’s progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the global agenda for sustainable development adopted by all UN member states in 2015.
The workshop was opened by Kakha Kakhishvili, Head of the Government Administration and Chairman of the National SDG Council, and Louisa Vinton, who leads the UN Country Team in Georgia.
“Georgia was a pioneer in translating the SDG framework into national strategies and in establishing a structure for SDG implementation,” Kakhisvili said. “This workshop gives us an opportunity to see how well we’re doing, what we should adjust to move faster and where Georgia might need assistance.”
“Our focus today is on bottlenecks,” said Vinton, “since if Georgia takes action now to dismantle the biggest barriers to progress, the country is poised to surge forward in the achievement of multiple goals. Our analysis suggests that the best prospects here are youth employment and rural development.”
Workshop participants discussed the findings of a UN technical analysis conducted over nine months under the leadership of the UN Development Programme (UNDP). This analysis reviewed 55 different sectoral strategies and Georgia’s Association Agreement with the European Union (EU) to assess how well SDG targets are reflected in national plans, and how well national priority goals are funded.
The findings were broadly positive in terms of strategic alignment: national strategies cover fully 93 percent of the SDG targets that Georgia has adopted as national priorities. It’s revealing, however, that the EU Association Agreement makes a huge contribution to the country’s alignment with SDG targets, covering fully 63 percent of all targets. This underlines the complementarity of the SDGs and the European integration agenda, and also suggests a need for the refinement of sectoral strategies. Alignment work is needed in particular for four SDGs: gender equality (#5); reduced inequalities (#10); peace, justice and strong institutions (#16); and partnerships for sustainable development (#17).
In terms of spending, some priority areas are faring better than others. Peace (#16), education (#4) and infrastructure (#9) have generous budgets, whereas poverty (#1), gender equality (#5) and environmental protection and climate change (#6, 12, 13, 14 and 15) are significantly less well-funded.
These UN findings sparked lively discussion on how budgets might be recalibrated and intersectoral cooperation strengthened to keep Georgia on course for strong results in SDG achievement in 2030. Participants were unanimous about the need for better data to assess challenges and measure progress.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47279-unlocking-progress-towards-sdgs




Date: 01 May 2019
Title: PM: Our country has turned into a regional leader and advanced in democratic transformation and economic growth, great merits to our friends and their support
Content: 01 May 2019
"Great merits to the priceless contribution and essential support of friends, our country has turned into a regional leader and advanced in democratic transformation and economic growth" stated Mamuka Bakhtadze, Prime Minister of Georgia in his speech delivered at the Joint Steering Committee Meeting of the United Nations (UN) and Government of Georgia today.
Head of Government of Georgia stressed the effective and efficient cooperation with UN and 16 of its system agencies while noting that support and engagement of the organization has plaid a significant role in it.
"Georgia remains committed to the UN and its mission. Joint Strategy - Partnership for Sustainable Development - agreed by and between the UN and Government of Georgia covers five priority areas: democratic governance; job creation, living standards and social security; education and healthcare; security and protection of citizens. Joint Strategy fully complies with commitments and values of the Government of Georgia. In addition, priorities defined for 2019-2020 within the Joint Strategy are attuned with sector-specific policies and current reform agenda of my Government, thus enabling us to achieve greater success in the effective implementation of reforms and due delivery of the undertakings" noted the Prime Minister of Georgia.
Head of Government of Georgia welcomed the UN decision to augment the funding for various projects in Georgia, which will be positively reflected on the development of the public administration, protection of human rights and gender equality, access to quality education and healthcare, strengthened security, environment, sustainable management of natural resources and mitigation of risks deriving from natural disasters.
In the opinion of the Prime Minister of Georgia, painful challenges still exist irrespective of the achieved success. Example of it is the humanitarian disaster witnessed at the occupied territories of Georgia. Head of Government of Georgia noted that size of local population in the referred regions has shrunk 5-6 times since the actual occupation. Prime Minister of Georgia elaborated on the peace initiative of the Government of Georgia branded as Step2BetterFuture and stressed the significance of partners and their support in the successful implementation of the initiative.
Head of Government of Georgia thanked the UN Resident Representation for the efforts directed towards ensuring a better future of Georgia and expressed his gratitude for every single endeavor. Prime Minister of Georgia also noted that Government will continue facilitating the work of the organization in future.
"We strongly believe that efforts pursued towards the implementation of the Agenda for 2030 will lead to a better world for everyone" added the Prime Minister of Georgia.
Louisa Vinton, United Nations (UN) Resident Coordinator and UN Development Program (UNDP) Resident Representative in Georgia reviewed projects implemented in 2018 and presented priorities for 2019 at the Joint Steering Committee of UN and Government of Georgia. Officials of the executive and legislative authorities of Georgia, diplomatic corps accredited in Georgia and representatives of international organizations attended the meeting.
Prime Minister's Press Office
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47778-pm-our-country-has-turned-regional-leader-and-advanced-democratic-transformation-and-economic




Date: 12 April 2019
Title: UN Experts Urge Responsible Business Conduct to Tackle Work Accidents and Pollution
Content: 12 April 2019
“We were alarmed at how a decade of deregulation aimed at attracting foreign investment has become a carte blanche for irresponsible business practices,” said Surya Deva, Chairperson of the UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights, presenting a statement at the end of a 10-day visit to the country.
“The dramatic situation of workplace deaths and injuries as well as severe environmental pollution by mining is a sad reflection of this situation. Last year alone, 59 deaths and 199 injuries were reported, though the real number is likely to be much higher, as before 2018 employers were neither required to report accidents to the labour inspectors nor insure their workers.”
The Working Group welcomed initial steps by the Government to rein in irresponsible business practices, after a decade with no labour inspections and weak regulation and oversight of development projects, including in the hydropower and mining sectors.
“We welcome the new Environmental Impact Assessment Code, which aims to identify and mitigate adverse impacts on society, and the new Labour Safety Law. These are important steps to improve the protection of human rights in the context of business activities,” said Elżbieta Karska, Vice-Chairperson of the expert group.
“The experience of Georgia shows the need for a mix of incentives and regulations to promote a business culture that respects human rights,” she said.
The experts also welcomed new efforts by the Government to raise awareness about the responsibility of business to respect human rights, as envisaged in the 2018-2020 Human Rights Action Plan and commitments set out in the Georgia-EU Association Agreement.
During the visit, the experts met representatives of Government, business and civil society to discuss opportunities and challenges faced in implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
In their initial findings, they comment on the multiple forms of discrimination faced by women, the exclusion experienced by persons  with disabilities in economic life, and challenges faced by victims seeking to hold businesses accountable for human rights abuses. The experts also highlighted the need for States to uphold human rights in Free Industrial Zones and in the operations of State-owned enterprises.
The Working Group’s final report, including its findings and key recommendations, will be presented to the UN Human Rights Council in June 2020.
ENDS
The Working Group on human rights and transnational corporations and other business enterprises was established by the UN Human Rights Council in June 2011. Its current members are: Mr. Surya Deva(Chairperson), Ms. Elżbieta Karska (Vice-Chairperson), Mr. Githu Muigai, Mr. Dante Pesce, and Ms Anita Ramasastry.
The Working Group is part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, unanimously endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2011 (resolution 17/4), provide the authoritative global standard for action to safeguard human rights in a business context, clarifying what is expected by governments and companies to prevent and address impacts on human rights arising from business activity.
UN Human Rights, country page – Georgia
For additional information and media requests please contact the Working Group Secretariat:
In Georgia (during the dates of the visit):  (+995 599 570 786 / wg-business@ohchr.org) 
In Geneva: (+41 22 928 8863 / wg-business@ohchr.org)
Tag and share - Twitter: @WGBizHRs@UN_SPExperts ‏@UNHumanRights
Concerned about the world we live in? Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.#Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46673-un-experts-urge-responsible-business-conduct-tackle-work-accidents-and-pollution




Date: 08 April 2019
Title: Georgia harnesses European expertise in rural development
Content: 08 April 2019
Translating European practice into Georgian reality”. With a focus on rural development policy and practice, the Conference aims to assist the Government of Georgia in developing its second national Rural Development Strategy for 2020-2027.
The Conference was opened by the President of Georgia Salome Zourabichvili.
Levan Davitashvili, Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia, addressed the participants of the event with welcome remarks.
“Georgia has made notable progress since 2016 when the country’s first Rural Development Strategy was adopted,” Levan Davitashvili said. “The Government of Georgia has introduced a new vision of rural development grounded on the best EU practices in this field. In the next seven years, we will focus on promoting local entrepreneurship and employment and increasing people’s engagement in the rural development process.”
"We are proud to be part of Georgia's progress in rural development and look forward to continuing working together with all key ministries to improve employment and living conditions of the rural population in Georgia. European experience implemented in Georgia has demonstrated the benefits of a bottom-up approach in rural areas, empowering local people to take the development of their communities into their own hands," Carl Hartzell, Ambassador of the European Union to Georgia, said.
“Rural development can help unlock the biggest socio-economic challenge facing Georgia, namely that farmers make up 43 percent of the workforce yet produce just 8 percent of GDP,” noted Louisa Vinton, Head of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Georgia. “The new strategy will aim to narrow this gap by helping to make Georgia’s farms more professional and competitive, creating new non-farm jobs in rural areas and improving living conditions for rural communities.”
The Rural Development Conference 2019 was attended by officials and experts from EU Member States, including Markus Hopfner, Deputy Director General of the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism of the Republic of Austria; and Dr. Lászlo Sandor Vajda, Former Chief Negotiator for EU accession on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture of Hungary.
The discussions at the Conference focused on rural development policies and institutional arrangements, as well as on the ways of adapting successful European practices to Georgia’s realities.
The Rural Development Conference 2019 was organised by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia with the assistance of the European Union in cooperation with UNDP. The Conference is part of the EUR 179.5 million in EU assistance that Georgia is set to receive under the ENPARD programme between 2013 and 2022. This support aims to promote rural development policies and create economic opportunities for the rural population outside of agriculture.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46675-georgia-harnesses-european-expertise-rural-development




Date: 05 March 2019
Title: Modern technology creates new opportunities for achieving gender equality
Content: 05 March 2019
Tech makers, women scientists and promoters of equality in technologies met young people today for an inspirational Tech4Equality talk on new ways of empowering women and girls by supporting their involvement in the field of technology and science. In focus was a “generational breakthrough” now taking place which has the potential to make women and girls in science and tech a driving force for social change.
The Tech4Equality talk held to mark International Women’s Day 2019 in Georgia echoed the global slogan “Think equal, build smart, innovate for change”. It was organized by the United Nations in Georgia in cooperation with the Administration of the President of Georgia, the Gender Equality Council of the Parliament of Georgia, the governments of Sweden and Norway, and the Georgian civil society organization “Innovation Support Fund”.
“Technology is a sector still dominated by men, where women are often made to feel unwelcome,” said Louisa Vinton, UN Head in Georgia. “Yet our speakers today show that women have what it takes to succeed, in fields from microbiology to disability-sensitive technologies. Our message is that equal participation by women in technology and science is essential to designing the kinds of solutions we need to meet the existential challenges that the world is facing today.”
The event was designed as a forum to discuss women’s engagement in the field of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Seven inspirational speakers and role models were presented to the audience by Louisa Vinton, UN Head in Georgia; Tamar Chugoshvili, First Deputy Chairperson of the Parliament of Georgia; H.E. Ulrik Tideström, Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia and Armenia; Ketevan Makharashvili, Gender Equality Advisor to the President of Georgia and First Deputy of the Head of the President’s Administration; Erika Kvapilova, UN Women Representative in Georgia; and Mariam Lashkhi, Deputy Chairperson of Georgia's Innovation & Technology Agency of Georgia.
Event participants discussed educational and job opportunities available in the tech industry as well as the challenges faced by Georgian women who seek to enter this rapidly growing market.
The Tech4Equality talk featured seven speakers from different areas of science and technology – Nana Dikhaminjia, Computer Engineering professor at San Diego State University, USA, and Ilia State University, Georgia; Natia Ninikelashvili, creator and founder of the online service soplidan.ge; Esma Gumberidze, promoter of disability-sensitive technology; David Chechelashvili, Vice President of Marketing at iZ3D Inc., USA; Mariam Rusishvili, CEO and founder of QUICK|CASH AI; Maia Todua, Director of Abastumani Observatory; and Ani Tsitsishvili, veterinarian and bio-artist.
The discussion was facilitated by Nino Nanitashvili of the Innovation Support Fund. Anushka Chkheidze, DJ and electronic music composer, gave the event a unique musical setting.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46678-modern-technology-creates-new-opportunities-achieving-gender-equality




Date: 19 February 2019
Title: Georgia kicks off USD 70 mln programme to prevent natural disasters
Content: 19 February 2019
The Green Climate Fund (GCF), Switzerland and UNDP are joining forces with the Georgian Government to protect over 1.7 million people from floods, droughts and other climate risks
The Government of Georgia today launched a seven-year, USD 70 million programme aimed at protecting the public from the natural disasters that can be triggered by the extreme weather events caused by climate change. Funded by the Green Climate Fund (USD 27 million), the Swiss Government (USD 5 million) and the Government of Georgia (USD 38 million), the initiative will be implemented by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture in close partnership with other Government agencies.
The programme was officially set in motion on 19 February 2019 by the Prime Minister of Georgia, Mamuka Bakhtadze, who noted that the climate adaptation programme marks a transformational shift in Georgia’s approach to climate hazards.
“This new initiative will directly benefit 1.7 million people living in the basins of Georgia’s 11 biggest rivers,” said Levan Davitashvili, Minister of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of Georgia. “Instead of responding to disasters that have already happened, we will proactively analyse the risks and set up early warning systems to protect people and livelihoods.”
“Georgia has already experienced first-hand the destructive impact of climate change,” said Louisa Vinton, UNDP Head in Georgia. “While we cannot control the weather, there is nothing inevitable about natural disasters. Our new program gives us the resources we need to enact policies, create systems, prepare communities and build infrastructure to prevent extreme weather events from turning into disasters.”
Ambassador of Switzerland to Georgia Patric Franzen underlined the importance Switzerland attaches to this partnership, given the genuine interest of the two mountainous countries to join efforts for climate change adaptation and sustainable mountain development.
“Both Georgia and Switzerland are mountainous countries and, as such, can be severely affected by climate change. Adaptation to climatic change is of vital importance as it will aid local people to deal with impacts. These efforts, however, need to be supported by relevant policies. To this end, the goal is to share knowledge and experiences and to translate them into effective policies and concrete actions,” the Ambassador of Switzerland pinpointed.
If preventive measures are not taken now, climate change will cost Georgia as much as USD 12 billion over the coming decade, experts say. Action now could reduce climate-related losses by 90 percent.
The new programme will contribute directly to Georgia’s progress in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, by reducing the impact of climate change (Global Goal #13), helping to build more resilient cities (Goal #11) and protecting the livelihoods of thousands of people, particularly vulnerable communities in risk-prone urban and remote mountainous areas (Global Goals #1, 2 and 10).
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46679-georgia-kicks-usd-70-mln-programme-prevent-natural-disasters




Date: 22 January 2019
Title: Georgia marks progress towards sustainable development
Content: 22 January 2019
Georgia’s progress in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was discussed on 22 January 2019 at the annual meeting of the national Council on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Chaired by the Administration of the Government of Georgia and the United Nations, the SDG Council brought together over 130 representatives of the Georgian Government, United Nations, civil society, private sector, academic institutions and international organisations.
“Georgia is among the first countries that committed to the sustainable development agenda soon after the adoption of the UN resolution in 2015. We made a decision to integrate the Sustainable Development Goals into the ongoing national reforms,” said Kakha Kakhishvili, Head of the Georgian Government Administration. “As we move forward, we explore the unique opportunities presented by the sustainable development framework to boost country’s development, reduce inequalities and address climate change.”
Louisa Vinton, UN Resident Coordinator a.i. noted that Georgia’s achievements since signing the Sustainable Development Declaration in 2015 laid the ground to the next steps in building a peaceful and just society leaving no one behind.
“Today we salute Georgia’s impressive progress in embracing the Sustainable Development Goals,” she said. “For the UN system the SDGs are like our DNA, and we are proud to support the Government across all 17 of the Global Goals by providing policy advice and implementing development programmes to help make sure we truly ‘leave no one behind.’”
The SDG Council focused on Georgia’s national goals related to climate change and environment, education and economic growth. Representatives of the ministries presented the country’s current standing and prospects till 2030 in the areas of sustainable tourism, industrialization, business development, inclusive education, preservation of forests and biodiversity.
The Georgian Government Administration previewed its SDG tracker, a new electronic system that will be launched later in 2019 to keep monitor progress on more than 200 national SDG indicators.
The SDG Council coordinates and monitors the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in Georgia. It operates through the four thematic working groups on Social Inclusion, Economic Development, Democratic Governance and Sustainable Energy & Environment Protection, and provides a cooperation platform for over 15 public institutions, civil society, the private sector and academia. The Council was established in 2017 by the Administration of the Government of Georgia with assistance from the United Nations and the Government of Sweden.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47286-georgia-marks-progress-towards-sustainable-development




Date: 22 January 2019
Title: Georgia marks progress towards SDGS
Content: 22 January 2019

Georgia’s progress in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was discussed on 22 January 2019 at the annual meeting of the national Council on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Chaired by the Administration of the Government of Georgia and the United Nations, the SDG Council brought together over 130 representatives of the Georgian Government, United Nations, civil society, private sector, academic institutions and international organisations.
“Georgia is among the first countries that committed to the sustainable development agenda soon after the adoption of the UN resolution in 2015. We made a decision to integrate the Sustainable Development Goals into the ongoing national reforms,” said Kakha Kakhishvili, Head of the Georgian Government Administration. “As we move forward, we explore the unique opportunities presented by the sustainable development framework to boost country’s development, reduce inequalities and address climate change.”
Head of the United Nations in Georgia, Louisa Vinton, noted that Georgia’s achievements since signing the Sustainable Development Declaration in 2015 laid the ground to the next steps in building a peaceful and just society leaving no one behind.
“Today we salute Georgia’s impressive progress in embracing the Sustainable Development Goals,” she said. “For the UN system the SDGs are like our DNA, and we are proud to support the Government across all 17 of the Global Goals by providing policy advice and implementing development programmes to help make sure we truly ‘leave no one behind.’”
The SDG Council focused on Georgia’s national goals related to climate change and environment, education and economic growth. Representatives of the ministries presented the country’s current standing and prospects till 2030 in the areas of sustainable tourism, industrialization, business development, inclusive education, preservation of forests and biodiversity.
The Georgian Government Administration previewed its SDG tracker, a new electronic system that will be launched later in 2019 to keep monitor progress on more than 200 national SDG indicators.
The SDG Council coordinates and monitors the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in Georgia. It operates through the four thematic working groups on Social Inclusion, Economic Development, Democratic Governance and Sustainable Energy & Environment Protection, and provides a cooperation platform for over 15 public institutions, civil society, the private sector and academia. The Council was established in 2017 by the Administration of the Government of Georgia with assistance from the United Nations and the Government of Sweden.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46680-georgia-marks-progress-towards-sdgs




Date: 22 December 2018
Title: 9th Forum of Georgian Youth Organizations was held in Tbilisi
Content: 22 December 2018
The youth NGOs operating in Georgia, government agencies in charge of the youth, international organizations working on the youth issues, and youth policy development experts participated in the 9th Forum of Georgian Youth Organizations  held at Fabrika on December 21, 2018.
The forum aimed at facilitating a constructive and structured dialogue among the representatives of government and non-government youth organizations, and providing information to the participating organizations about the processes and challenges in the field of youth; the forum objective was to come up with a common vision regarding the development of a national council of youth organizations of Georgia, and to inform participants about the rationale and significance of the Youth Index, to identify key challenges regarding the implementation of the youth policy, and to set prospects for the cooperation among youth and responsible government agencies. Based on the forum results, there will be a document produced, reflecting all the opinions expressed during the forum, aimed at making further contributions for the development of the youth field. The document will be delivered to decision makers and respective international organizations.
The event was supported by the UN agencies: UNFPA Georgia Country Office, UNICEF and UNIDO. The Forum of Georgian Youth Organizations has been held in Georgia since 2007 with the initiative and participation of the youth organizations operating in Georgia.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45872-9th-forum-georgian-youth-organizations-was-held-tbilisi




Date: 20 December 2018
Title: A specialized family type service established for children with disabilities in Tbilisi
Content: 20 December 2018
M2 Real Estate company funded the construction of the alternative care facility. The company fully covered the construction costs.
Minister of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health, and Social Affair David Sergeenko, UNICEF Representative in Georgia Ghassan Khalil, USAID Mission Acting Director Adam Schmidt, and M2 Real Estate managing partner Shota Berekashvili visited the center to mark the opening of the new service.
Specialized Family-Type Service is an alternative care for 0-18-year-old children deprived of parental care and having severe/profound disabilities and complex health problems. The goal of the service is to provide beneficiaries with individual needs-based care, psychosocial assistance and create proper conditions for their development and social inclusion.
The service provides 24-hour care of the beneficiaries, including nursing care, monitoring of their health condition, provision of the programmes promoting development of the children’s physical, functional and social adaptation skills. The service is provided by the specialists of multidisciplinary team (psychologist, occupational therapists, and paediatrician) and caregivers. The service creates family-type environment for the beneficiaries and facilitates their social inclusion.
In strong collaboration with the Ministry and through financial support of USAID, UNICEF equipped the Specialized Family-Type Service and conducted the comprehensive pre-and in-service trainings for the service personnel.
The establishment of such services will allow the Government of Georgia to expand the alternative services for children with disabilities to gradually replace the model of institutional care for these children. Several more similar services need to be established to have the children with disabilities remaining in large institutions transferred to a family-type environment.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46681-specialized-family-type-service-established-children-disabilities-tbilisi




Date: 19 December 2018
Title: Interagency Response to the Practice of Early Marriage was Discussed at the Enlarged Working Meeting
Content: 19 December 2018
The meeting aimed at supporting the improved multisectoral cooperation for preventing the practice of early/child marriage. The Human Rights Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia presented an analytical report on the cases of early/child marriage and the practice of responding to them. The presentation also highlighted main directions of the Communication for Behavioral Impact (COMBI) on harmful practices of early marriage, and was followed by a discussion on specific steps for improving the coordinated multisectoral response to early/child marriage.
Initiated by the Inter-agency Commission on Gender Equality, Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and the UNFPA Georgia Country Office, a special working group on early/child marriage has been operating for the last 3 years, with a mission to ensure strategic planning of activities to prevent and eliminate harmful practices in the country, and to support coordinated operations of various stakeholders. The group is composed of representatives of respective government structures, members of the UN Gender Theme Group (international and donor organizations), staff of the Public Defender’s Office and the NGOs working on early/child marriages.
The issue of early/child marriage has become a special concern in Georgia in recent years as a result of evidence-based advocacy carried out by the Public Defender’s Office, UN Agencies and civil society organizations. Suggested by the available data and research, cases of early/child marriage in Georgia are not rare, and there are many factors contributing to it, including the gender inequality. According to Lela Bakradze, Assistant Representative of the UNFPA Georgia Country Office, “early marriage brings dire consequences to girls, and in most cases, it results in their social isolation and deprivation of their rights, it also prevents the girls from completing their education and realizing their full potential. Teenage pregnancy and childbirth pose risks to the maternal and fetal health. There is a complex set of causes of early marriage, and therefore, we need to work in many areas to improve the situation at legislative and policy levels, but also to reach out to the communities and adolescents to change their attitudes.”
The meeting was organized by the Inter-agency Commission on Gender Equality, Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the UNFPA Georgia Country Office. The meeting was held within the frameworks of the UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality, implemented with the financial support of the Swedish Government.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45873-interagency-response-practice-early-marriage-was-discussed-enlarged-working-meeting




Date: 13 December 2018
Title: EU and UNDP Media Monitoring Examines Three-Year Trends in Election Reporting
Content: 13 December 2018
Televisions and online editions demonstrated significant improvement in reducing hate speech, which, however, remained a challenge for newspapers. Election coverage on the radios has not changed much in the last three years and stayed relatively balanced but superficial. Election coverage in all media segments lacked the presentation of electoral programmes and issue-oriented debates among competing electoral candidates.
These and other findings have been included in the final media monitoring reports of the 2018 Presidential Elections in Georgia, released on 13 December 2018 by the European Union (EU), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and three Georgian civil society organizations – Georgian Charter of Journalistic Ethics, Internews – Georgia and Civic Development Institute (CDI).
"The electoral environment during the last elections in Georgia was competitive but rather tensed and polarised and this has influenced the society as well as the media. As in the past, the EU-supported media monitoring aimed to promote diverse and high-quality reporting that is critical for the voters to make an informed choice during elections," said Carlo Natale, Deputy Head of the Delegation of the European Union in Georgia.
Munkhtuya Altangerel, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. in Georgia, stressed that a retrospective media analysis is a valuable resource for journalists, researchers and media users.
“Media monitoring is an excellent tool for journalists and media managers to examine their work and discover key areas for improvement. Analytical media monitoring is also valuable for the citizens that receives information from the media,” she said.
The 2018 election media monitoring kicked off on 18 June and continued through the runoff elections on 28 November covering thirty-seven TV, radio, print and online national media outlets.
It is the seventh election media monitoring round supported by the European Union and UNDP since 2010. The media monitoring reports are available online at: www.mediamonitor.ge
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46683-eu-and-undp-media-monitoring-examines-three-year-trends-election-reporting




Date: 11 December 2018
Title: EU, UN and Public Defender launch Human Rights Week 2018
Content: 11 December 2018
Communication activities marking 70 years of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights will include a number of events as well as a social media and TV campaign.
Today, on 10 December, International Day of Human Rights, the European Union, together with the Public Defender of Georgia and the United Nations, launched Human Rights Week 2018 to mark the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
On the occasion of International Human Rights Day, Carl Hartzell, Ambassador of the European Union, stated "This year we mark the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Human rights are fundamental to the European Union and for its relations with Georgia. Together with our partners we will continue to stand up for human rights worldwide."
Nino Lomjaria, Public Defender of Georgia, remarked, “Today the whole world celebrates Human Rights Day, the main message of which is joining efforts to fight for equality, justice and human dignity. 70 years after the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we still talk about the achievements and challenges in the field of protection of human rights and freedoms in Georgia. The core principles of the Public Defender's activities are based on the spirit of the Declaration, which is of particular importance for achieving high standards of human rights in the country.”
"The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a living document, universal in scope and fiercely relevant to every individual. Fundamental rights stated in the Declaration are as important now as they were 70 years ago. Although the Declaration has been accepted by nearly every state in the world, its implementation still presents a challenge to many countries", said Munkhtuya Altangerel, Acting Head of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Georgia.
Human Rights Week 2018
The Delegation of the European Union, the United Nations and the Public Defender of Georgia are running a joint communication campaign to raise awareness for human rights in Georgia. A launch event was held outside of Rustaveli Metro Station in Tbilisi. The Campaign under the slogan “I raise my voice for human rights”, calls for respect and protection of human rights and includes a number of activities taking place during the week:
The launch event included the opening of an open-air photo exhibition curated by Kolga Tbilisi Photo. It showcases seven projects funded and supported by the European Union that focus on human rights issues in Georgia. The seven featured projects underline fundamental values of the EU such as human dignity, equality and justice. The exhibition will be shown for a week outside of Rustaveli Metro Station in Tbilisi.
Furthermore, the EU funded project "Human Rights for All” implemented by UNDP presented the newly published online platform "StandUp4HumanRights.ge", which is built around the 30 articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Users can discover the Declaration in a visual and user-friendly way and gain a better understanding of human rights in the Georgian context.
The week before Human Rights Day Tbilisi International Film Festival featured seven films depicting current human rights issues. The Delegation of the European Union awarded film Girl,directed by Lukas Dhont, with the "EU Human Rights in Film Award". Furthermore, the participating film "The silent revolution" directed by Lars Kraume was presented to young filmmakers followed by a comprehensive discussion on the subject.
Throughout Human Rights Week the EU, UN and the PDO will run a focused communication campaign on TV and social media highlighting human rights in Georgia. Citizens are encouraged to participate in the campaign by tagging themselves with the hashtags #standup4humanrights and #ადამიანისუფლებებიჩვენია.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46685-eu-un-and-public-defender-launch-human-rights-week-2018




Date: 13 November 2018
Title: Governments Must Join Hands with Civil Society and the Private Sector  to Ensure Equal  Access to Justice for All
Content: 13 November 2018
Global challenges related to ensuring equal access to justice for all and free legal aid for the poor and vulnerable are the focus of the third International Legal Aid Conference (ILAC) ongoing in Tbilisi on 13-15 November 2018. The three-day event brings together 300 delegates from over 60 countries to discuss how countries can improve access to legal aid in their unique national contexts and deepen international cooperation in this critical field.
ILAC 2018 in Georgia is the third international forum on legal aid following the conferences in South Africa (2014) and Argentina (2016).
“We are honoured to host a global event of such a scale and importance and share Georgia’s decade-long experience in establishing and expanding the state-funded legal aid service that helps over 30 thousand people every year,” said Meliton Benidze, Director of the Legal Aid Service of Georgia, in his welcome remarks to the ILAC participants.
The third International Legal Aid Conference, ILAC 2018, addresses common challenges faced by the governments and legal aid providers in ensuring access to legal services for the poor and vulnerable. This largest international forum invites representatives of Parliaments, Governments, human rights defenders, legal practitioners, members of civil society and experts from around the world to take practical steps towards establishing sustainable and institutionalised systems of legal aid.
The Conference blends expert panel discussions with breakout sessions that enable its participants to work in smaller groups and brainstorm ways to implement reforms in their unique country contexts.
The third International Legal Aid Conference, ILAC 2018, will conclude with the adoption of a declaration in which the participant countries will commit to improving access to legal aid, expanding their national legal aid networks and deepening international cooperation.
About the third International Legal Aid Conference, ILAC 2018
ILAC 2018 is organised by the Parliament of Georgia and Legal Aid Service, together with the International Legal Foundation (ILF), Open Society Justice Initiative (OSJI), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). The conference is supported by the European Union (EU), Council of Europe (CoE), Open Society Georgia Foundation (OSGF), United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and East-West Management Institute (EWMI) through their project “Promoting Rule of Law in Georgia” (EWMI/PROLoG).
Follow ILAC 2018 at the website and in social media – www.ilac2018.ge, #LegalAid2018
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46688-governments-must-join-hands-civil-society-and-private-sector-ensure-equal-access-justice-all




Date: 16 October 2018
Title: MenCare Georgia Presented at Frankfurt International Book Fair
Content: 16 October 2018
MenCare Georgia Campaign, having won Emerging Europe Award in 2018 as the best Equality-Friendly Initiative of the Year in Europe, was presented at the Frankfurt International Book Fair, where Georgia was a Guest of Honour this year. Three events were held in Frankfurt on Oct. 10-14, under the auspices of the campaign in cooperation with the UNFPA Georgia Country Office, Georgian National Book Center, and the organization LitCam. The celebrities involved in the campaign, as well as its organizers highlighted the different aspects of the campaign during these events.
On October 10th,  Karl Kulessa, UNFPA Representative in Turkey, Country Director for Georgia and Lela Bakradze, UNFPA Georgia Country Office Assistant Representative talked about the significance of gender equality, necessity of fathers’ involvement in caregiving and the achievements attained as a result of the campaign. Joe Messi, head of the German NGO Stiftung Lesen also participated in the discussion. The Panel members reflected on gender equality from the perspective of two countries.
On October 12th, Mariam Bandzeladze, gender portfolio manager at the UNFPA Georgia Country Office and Alexander Lortkipanidze, an activist of the MenCare Campaign, TV-presenter and writer discussed the development of the campaign throughout the years, major initiatives implemented within this period, and the future plans of MenCare Georgia. The book “Lullaby for Lily”, by Alexander Lortkipanidze (illustrations by Sopo Kirtadze), was also presented at the same panel.
On October 13th, Levan Kobiashvili, President of the Georgian Football Federation deliberated on the partnership of MenCare Campaign and the Georgian Foorball Federation at the LitCam stage. Claudemir Jerônimo Barreto (Cacau), a famous, Brazilian football player also participate in the panel discussion. The speakers discussed the social responsibility of football and role of football players’ as the allies for attaining gender equality.
MenCare Campaign in Georgia has been implemented since 2016 by the UNFPA Georgia Country Office in partnership with the NGO We Care within the framework of the UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality funded by the Government of Sweden. MenCare Campaign aims at promoting men’s involvement as equitable, nonviolent fathers, partners and caregivers in order to achieve better health and family well-being and to encourage men to support gender equality and social and economic participation of women and thus contribute to harmonious development of the society. MenCare campaign is open to all men, who share the idea and principles of the Campaign.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45874-mencare-georgia-presented-frankfurt-international-book-fair




Date: 16 October 2018
Title: UNICEF New Representative in Georgia Hands over Credentials to the Foreign Ministry
Content: 16 October 2018
“It is a great privilege for me to be in Georgia. I am very enthusiastic about my new position and I am looking forward to working closely with the Georgian government for improving wellbeing of children and families in Georgia”, said Dr. Ghassan Khalil.
Dr. Khalil expressed his gratitude to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the fruitful cooperation with UNICEF over the past 25 years and on its considerable efforts for the protection of children’s rights in Georgia. UNICEF Representative underlined that there had been a considerable progress for children in Georgia over the last decades. There are many children however who still need our support.
“We will continue to work with the Government of Georgia to address the needs and to protect the rights of these vulnerable children and their families. We need to create stronger systems and policies so that children have full access to services,” added Dr. Khalil.
Before moving to Georgia Dr. Khalil, a national of Lebanon, served as the Senior Advisor to UNICEF Regional Office for Middle East and North Africa. Before this position, he was the UNICEF Special Representative in Libya. He brings more than twenty-five years of significant professional experience in various capacities, which include senior positions with governments, NGO’s, the United Nations and as an independent senior consultant, university professor, researcher and training expert.
Dr. Khalil’s work has been focused on promoting human rights, women and children’s rights, social policy, legal reform, cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue, with extensive experience in strategic management and rights-based approach to programming, in both development and emergency settings.
Dr. Khalil holds a Maitrise in Law from the Lebanese University, a Master degree in International Business Law from Paris-Sorbonne University and a Doctorate Degree in International Law from Paris Sorbonne Descartes (Paris-V) University.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46838-unicef-new-representative-georgia-hands-over-credentials-foreign-ministry




Date: 05 October 2018
Title: Time to End  Invisibility of LGBT People in Georgia - Expert
Content: 05 October 2018
The UN Independent Expert on Violence and Discrimination based on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity, Victor Madrigal-Borloz said beatings were commonplace, harassment and bullying constant, and exclusion from family, education, work and health settings appear to be commonplace.
“The majority of Georgians who happen to be gay, lesbian, bisexual or trans face dilemmas: leaving the country or staying and taking one of two paths: revealing their true self and be subjected to certain violence and discrimination, or concealing this essential aspect of their identity and living in a world of deception,” Madrigal-Borloz said.
“In recent years, the Government has taken significant steps to address the situation of LGBT people, which are among the most discriminated and vulnerable communities in Georgia,” he said in a statement at the end of his 11-day visit to Tbilisi, Kutaisi and Batumi regions.
Madrigal-Borloz said trans persons, particularly trans women, find it difficult to access State services, a challenge exacerbated by abusive requirements for legal recognition of their gender identity, and disempowerment resulting from reliance on the opinion of medical doctors, unnecessary on this matter.
The expert met a wide range of stakeholders from Government and civil society, and many LGBT people shared with him life experiences and stories. One of them, a gay man, told Madrigal-Borloz: “some people tell us that this change will take 30 years. But I am 34 years old! I cannot wait 30 more years to be free!”
The Independent Expert also met with high-level representatives of the Patriarchate of the Georgian Orthodox Church and other religious leaders, including the Mufti of All Muslims of Georgia and the Chairman of the Jewish Council of Georgia. “Despite differences of opinion, I am encouraged that during all of these meetings we identified a basic common ground: violence and discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity are never justified and must be condemned and discouraged. Active dialogue is one of the guiding principles for my mandate, and I am delighted to have been able to deploy this approach so actively during this visit,” said Madrigal-Borloz.
“The Government of Georgia has already taken the most important step: recognising the eradication of violence and discrimination as one of its main priorities, and firmly declaring sexual orientation and gender identity as protected grounds. I encourage the authorities to continue along this path; I am convinced that respect, peaceful coexistence and tolerance are cherished Georgian values and I am certain that they will provide a foundation where all Georgians who happen to be gay, lesbian, trans or bisexual will live free and equal.”
ENDS
Mr. Victor Madrigal-Borloz (Costa Rica) assumed the role of UN Independent Expert on Protection against violence and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity for a three years period starting on 1 January 2018. He serves as the Secretary-General of the International Rehabilitation Council for Torture Victims (IRCT), a global network of over 150 rehabilitation centres with the vision of full enjoyment of the right to rehabilitation for all victims of torture and ill treatment. A member of the UN Subcommittee on the Prevention of Torture from 2013 to 2016, Mr Madrigal-Borloz was Rapporteur on Reprisals and oversaw a draft policy on the torture and ill-treatment of LGBTI persons. Prior to this he led technical work on numerous cases, reports and testimonies as Head of Litigation and Head of the Registry at the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and has also worked at the Danish Institute for Human Rights (Copenhagen, Denmark) and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights (San José, Costa Rica).
The Independent Experts are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
For inquiries and media requests, please contact:
In Georgia (during the visit): Catherine de Preux De Baets (+995 599 570 786 - cdepreuxdebaets@ohchr.org)
In Geneva (after the visit): Catherine de Preux De Baets (+41 22 917 93 27 - cdepreuxdebaets@ohchr.org)
UN Human Rights country page: Georgia
This year is the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the UN on 10 December 1948. The Universal Declaration – translated into a world record 500 languages –is rooted in the principle that “all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.” It remains relevant to everyone, every day. In honour of the 70th anniversary of this extraordinarily influential document, and to prevent its vital principles from being eroded, we are urging people everywhere to Stand Up for Human Rights: www.standup4humanrights.org.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46839-time-end-invisibility-lgbt-people-georgia-expert




Date: 21 September 2018
Title: Georgia: UN Expert to Assess Human Rights of LGBT Persons
Content: 21 September 2018
“The visit provides an important opportunity to assess the implementation of existing national and international human rights standards to combat violence and discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in the country,” said Madrigal-Borloz.
The human rights expert mandated by the UN Human Rights Council will travel to Tbilisi, Kutaisi and Batumi to meet representatives of the executive, legislative and judicial branches, local authorities, religious leaders, the Public Defender’s Office, individuals and civil society organisations working on issues related to the human rights of LGBT people, and members of the international community.
“During my visit I will identify progress towards the elimination of violence and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, highlight remaining gaps and challenges, and provide recommendations to relevant stakeholders,” the expert said.
“I will also explore factors impacting on the vulnerability and the risk of exclusion and marginalisation of LGBT persons, and explore the root causes of violence and discrimination, including the impact of social prejudice, and the link between hate speech and hate crime.
“I look forward to engaging with Government authorities in Georgia, religious leaders, civil society representatives and others.”
A media conference will be held in Tbilisi on Friday, 5 October at 11 am local time, at the UN House conference hall in Tbilisi, 9 Eristavi Street, Tbilisi 0179, Georgia, to share preliminary findings with the media. Access will be strictly limited to journalists.
The expert will present his findings and recommendations to the UN Human Rights Council in June 2019.
ENDS
Mr. Victor Madrigal-Borloz (Costa Rica) assumed the role of UN Independent Expert on Protection against violence and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity for a three years period starting on 1 January 2018. He serves as the Secretary-General of the International Rehabilitation Council for Torture Victims (IRCT), a global network of over 150 rehabilitation centres with the vision of full enjoyment of the right to rehabilitation for all victims of torture and ill treatment. A member of the UN Subcommittee on the Prevention of Torture from 2013 to 2016, Mr Madrigal-Borloz was Rapporteur on Reprisals and oversaw a draft policy on the torture and ill-treatment of LGBTI persons. Prior to this he led technical work on numerous cases, reports and testimonies as Head of Litigation and Head of the Registry at the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and has also worked at the Danish Institute for Human Rights (Copenhagen, Denmark) and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights (San José, Costa Rica).
The Independent Experts are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
For inquiries and media requests, please contact:
In Georgia (during the visit): Catherine de Preux De Baets (+995 599 570 786 - cdepreuxdebaets@ohchr.org)
In Geneva (after the visit): Catherine de Preux De Baets (+41 22 917 93 27 - cdepreuxdebaets@ohchr.org)
UN Human Rights country page: Georgia
This year is the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the UN on 10 December 1948. The Universal Declaration – translated into a world record 500 languages – is rooted in the principle that “all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.” It remains relevant to everyone, every day. In honour of the 70th anniversary of this extraordinarily influential document, and to prevent its vital principles from being eroded, we are urging people everywhere to Stand Up for Human Rights: www.standup4humanrights.org.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46841-georgia-un-expert-assess-human-rights-lgbt-persons




Date: 07 August 2018
Title: Statement Attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary General on the Tenth Anniversary  of the August 2008 Conflict in Georgia
Content: 07 August 2018
This requires increased commitment by the relevant actors, backed by strong political will and a reinvigoration of mediation processes.
The Secretary-General urges all the participants in the Geneva International Discussions to adopt a constructive, forward-looking approach that would allow this indispensable mechanism to fulfill its mandate. All concerned should prioritize progress through appropriate dialogue and refrain from divisive policies and unilateral actions that may adversely impact regional peace and security.
The Secretary-General recalls that while the Geneva International Discussions and the Incident Response and Prevention Mechanism have substantially contributed to strengthening stability in recent years, more should be done on key security and humanitarian issues, including those related to the plight of the many internally displaced persons and refugees. The United Nations will continue to fully support this important mechanism and work with the European Union and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to achieve progress on all issues.
Farhan Haq, Deputy Spokesman for the Secretary-General
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46844-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-tenth-anniversary-august-2008-conflict




Date: 30 July 2018
Title: Gardabani: Workshop on Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 30 July 2018
This workshop aimed to familiarize members the Municipality Sakrebulo (local assembly) and representatives of local self-government bodies with the SDGs and the 2030 Agenda with the final goal of strengthening the role of local governments in localizing the SDGs.
The workshop was organized by the  Youth Initiative for Democracy with the support of UNO Tbilisi and the Gardabani Municipality.
The localization of the SDGs and the urban agenda has been one of the main mottos since the formulation of the 2030 Agenda.  To this end, the workshop was designed in a way to facilitate learning among local government representatives and improve key skills that will allow participants to implement the SDGs in their territories.
Among the topics of the workshop were: the introduction to the SDGs and their importance for Georgia and, in particular, for municipal management.
In summary, the three-day workshop was very successful and a good mix of content and exchanging opinion.
The workshop was capped by opening of UN Corner at Gardabani Municipality.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46847-gardabani-workshop-sustainable-development-goals




Date: 30 July 2018
Title: Invisible in Plain Sight campaign
Content: 30 July 2018
To mark this day the International Organization for Migration (IOM), the UN Migration Agency, Mission in Georgia will officially launch its “Invisible in Plain Sight” counter-trafficking campaign on 10:00 in Rooms Hotel Tbilisi. The campaign is funded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Norway.
“The Invisible in Plain Sight” campaign is implemented by IOM jointly with the State Fund for Protection and Assistance of (Statutory) Victims of Human Trafficking and in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice of Georgia. It is an art-installation, presenting real stories of trafficking victims, which will be placed near the Rustaveli Metro station in Tbilisi.
The launch of the campaign will be followed by a meeting, during which the representatives of various agencies active in the field of counter-trafficking – the Ministry of Justice, the State Fund, the Central Criminal Police Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia – the US Embassy, NGO and other relevant agencies, will have an opportunities to present challenges, achievements and future plans in the field.
The “Invisible in Plain Sight” campaign was first introduced by IOM Ukraine in 2014. The Campaign was extended to Belarus and Moldova in 2016 and 2017 respectively, as the best regional counter-trafficking initiative. Now we are bringing the campaign to Tbilisi, Georgia.
IOM Ukraine colleagues will also be visiting Tbilisi, to participate in the Working Meeting and the Campaign launch.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46850-invisible-plain-sight%C2%A0campaign%C2%A0




Date: 18 June 2018
Title: EU and UNDP Kick off Media Monitoring of 2018 Presidential Elections in Georgia
Content: 18 June 2018
The European Union (EU) and UNDP continue supporting free, diverse and professional media in Georgia through monitoring media performance at a time of elections. A new round of this research will examine some major trends in election coverage during the 2018 presidential polls.
Media monitoring will go on from 18 June till the immediate aftermath of the elections, covering thirty-seven TV, radio, print and online national media outlets. The first reports will be released in October 2018, prior to the election day. The final report will be released in November or December, depending on the actual elections date, yet to be announced.
Media monitoring will be carried out by the three Georgian civil society organizations – Georgian Charter of Journalistic Ethics, Internews – Georgia, and Civic Development Institute (CDI).
The EU/UNDP media monitoring was launched in 2010 with the aim to promote media diversity and build watchdog functions of civil society. Since then, the initiative has contributed to the media research during six major elections in Georgia in 2010 – 2017. For media monitoring reports and more information on methodology, visit: www.mediamonitor.ge
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46853-eu-and-undp-kick-media-monitoring-2018-presidential-elections-georgia




Date: 04 June 2018
Title: Parliamentary Action for SDGS Kicks off in Georgia
Content: 04 June 2018
The national Parliamentary Action for SDGs will focus on all available parliamentary mechanisms, such as law-making, budgeting, oversight and citizen engagement, and will be based on the Parliament’s self-assessment that will measure its capacities, gaps and opportunities in supporting Georgia to achieve its national goals.
To kick off the Parliamentary Action for SDGs, the Parliament of Georgia organized a workshop on 4 June 2018, bringing together members of parliament and representatives of government, civil society and the private sector.
The event was opened by Irakli Kobakhidze, Georgian Parliament Speaker; Munkhtuya Altangerel, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. in Georgia; and Molly Lien, Head of Development Cooperation at the Embassy of Sweden in Tbilisi.
“National parliaments are uniquely positioned to promote sustainable development, translate the goals into enforceable domestic laws and regulations, create synergies among the stakeholders, and hold governments accountable for the goals they subscribed to,” Munkhtuya Altangerel, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. in Georgia, said.
The two-day workshop will focus on a range of issues related to the nationalization and implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. This includes coordination between the Parliament and Government, involvement of civil society, businesses and citizens, creation of relevant laws and policies, as well as the practical steps for making the progress to SDGs a transparent and open process.
The workshop participants will benefit from the experience of UNDP and Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) experts who will advise the Parliament on its self-assessment and the SDG Implementation and Monitoring Action Plan.
“The Parliament of Georgia has an excellent opportunity, as well as constitutional responsibility, to play a leading role in the achievement of the national SDGs, ensuring that all voices are being heard and no one is left behind,” Molly Lien, Head of Development Cooperation at the Embassy of Sweden in Tbilisi.
The discussions at the workshop concluded with the “fair of ideas” where the working groups presented their consideration and suggestions about the concrete priorities that will be reflected in the Parliamentary Action Plan of SDGs.
The workshop will be followed by the development of the Parliamentary Action Plan on SDG Implementation and Monitoring which will be completed by the end of 2018.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46855-parliamentary-action-sdgs-kicks-georgia




Date: 28 May 2018
Title: Parliament and Development Partners Gather for the Agenda 2030 Conference
Content: 28 May 2018
The two-day international conference brought together members of parliament and representatives of government, international organizations, civil society, academia and the private sector.
The event was opened by Sopho Kiladze, Chair of the Human Rights and Civil Integration Committee; Irakli Kobakhidze, Georgian Parliament Speaker; Mikheil Janelidze, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Georgia;  Levan Izoria, Minister of Defence of Georgia; Martin Chungong, Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) Secretary General; Niels Scott, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia; and Daniel Haas, Head of South Caucasus Development Cooperation Office of the German Embassy.
“UN Sustainable development agenda is highly familiar for the Georgian society today and practically it does not differ from the domestic political discourse of the country – healthcare improvement, eradicating poverty, gender equality, employment and economic development, improvement of infrastructure and innovations, sustainable development of the regions through decentralization, restoration of peace and justice in the country and region and international cooperation – which are the most resonant and relevant issues for the Government and society”,  Irakli Kobakhidze, Speaker of the Georgian Parliament   said. “Let me assure you that the Parliament of Georgia and the Government will remain loyal to the principles of sustainable development”.
The Foreign Minister of Georgia, Mikheil Janelidze addressed the attendees, emphasizing importance of sustainable development goals. The transparency and responsibility of the institutions serve the basis for successful activity of the Government. “Successful implementation of the 16th goal is the top priority for Georgia. This goal envisages establishment of effective, accountable and inclusive institutions on all levels”.
“This conference provides a welcomed opportunity to engage in ambitious but also practical discussions on how to achieve the 2030 Agenda, for which we all are stakeholders. It is especially encouraging to see the parliament’s engagement in this endeavor,” Niels Scott, UN Resident Coordinator  in Georgia, said.
The two-day conference focused on a range of issues related to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. This includes intersection of the human rights and sustainable development, creating synergies and networks for sustainable development, involvement of Government, Parliament, academia, civil society, businesses and citizens in the implementation process, and the practical steps for making the progress to SDGs.
The UN has been requested to support one of the sessions, entitled “Creating synergies and networks - the possibilities of multi-stakeholder cooperation at the international level to support the immediate implementation of sustainable development goals”.
The conference  served as a good platform for participants from various countries and backgrounds to share their experience in implementing 2030 Agenda and discuss the current state, challenges and advancements related to the implementation process.
See more at: https://bit.ly/2Lu2uCY
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46856-parliament-and-development-partners-gather-agenda-2030-conference




Date: 28 May 2018
Title: Parliament and Development Partners Gather for the Agenda 2030 Conference
Content: 28 May 2018
The two-day international conference brought together members of parliament and representatives of government, international organizations, civil society, academia and the private sector.
The event was opened by Sopho Kiladze, Chair of the Human Rights and Civil Integration Committee; Irakli Kobakhidze, Georgian Parliament Speaker; Mikheil Janelidze, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Georgia;  Levan Izoria, Minister of Defence of Georgia; Martin Chungong, Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) Secretary General; Niels Scott, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia; and Daniel Haas, Head of South Caucasus Development Cooperation Office of the German Embassy.
“UN Sustainable development agenda is highly familiar for the Georgian society today and practically it does not differ from the domestic political discourse of the country – healthcare improvement, eradicating poverty, gender equality, employment and economic development, improvement of infrastructure and innovations, sustainable development of the regions through decentralization, restoration of peace and justice in the country and region and international cooperation – which are the most resonant and relevant issues for the Government and society”,  Irakli Kobakhidze, Speaker of the Georgian Parliament   said. “Let me assure you that the Parliament of Georgia and the Government will remain loyal to the principles of sustainable development”.
The Foreign Minister of Georgia, Mikheil Janelidze addressed the attendees, emphasizing importance of sustainable development goals. The transparency and responsibility of the institutions serve the basis for successful activity of the Government. “Successful implementation of the 16th goal is the top priority for Georgia. This goal envisages establishment of effective, accountable and inclusive institutions on all levels”.
“This conference provides a welcomed opportunity to engage in ambitious but also practical discussions on how to achieve the 2030 Agenda, for which we all are stakeholders. It is especially encouraging to see the parliament’s engagement in this endeavor,” Niels Scott, UN Resident Coordinator  in Georgia, said.
The two-day conference focused on a range of issues related to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. This includes intersection of the human rights and sustainable development, creating synergies and networks for sustainable development, involvement of Government, Parliament, academia, civil society, businesses and citizens in the implementation process, and the practical steps for making the progress to SDGs.
The UN has been requested to support one of the sessions, entitled “Creating synergies and networks - the possibilities of multi-stakeholder cooperation at the international level to support the immediate implementation of sustainable development goals”.
The conference  served as a good platform for participants from various countries and backgrounds to share their experience in implementing 2030 Agenda and discuss the current state, challenges and advancements related to the implementation process.

See more at: https://bit.ly/2Lu2uCY
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46857-parliament-and-development-partners-gather-agenda-2030-conference




Date: 25 May 2018
Title: UN issues post stamp dedicated to Rustaveli's 850th anniversary
Content: 25 May 2018
The United Nations has issued a post stamp dedicated to the 850th anniversary of the birth of Georgia’s iconic 12th century poet, Shota Rustaveli
The presentation of the post stamp and a celebration event of Georgian Independence Day was held On May 24 at the headquarter office of the UN.
The post stamp features a portrait of Rustaveli, a map of Georgia in the colours of the flag of Georgia, a quotation from Rustaveli’s famous poem, A Knight in the Panther’s Skin.
The post stamp will come into circulation on May 26, the day when Georgia celebrates 100th anniversary of the creation of the first Democratic Republic of Georgia.
Also a concert titled „Georgian Overtones” of Georgian pianist Giorgi Mikadze and ensemble Basiani was held within the event.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46878-un-issues-post-stamp-dedicated-rustavelis-850th-anniversary




Date: 25 May 2018
Title: Constructive dialogue continues between IPRM participants and women's CSOs
Content: 25 May 2018
The discussion centred around several topics related to the everyday security of the population living in the villages adjacent to the ABL. Women’s organizations raised concerns related to the limited access to essential health, social and education services of the people living in the Gali region of Abkhazia, Georgia, as well as challenges related to the persisting problems with poor infrastructure.
The results of the independent monitoring of the National Action Plan of Georgia on Women, Peace and Security (2016-2017) by the Public Defender’s Office as well as the NGO Women’s Information Center assessed the meeting format as highly productive. The results of the monitoring also recommended diversifying the meeting locations beyond Tbilisi and the administrative centres of Samegrelo and Shida Kartli regions, by also engaging the villages adjacent to the ABL. Thus, UN Women will support the relevant state agencies to conduct information-sharing meetings in the villages of Ergneti, Khurcha and Perevi.
Supported by UN Women since 2013, the regular information-sharing meetings between civil society and grass-roots community representatives and the participants of the Incident Prevention and Response Mechanism are currently fully led by the Office of the State Minister for Reconciliation and Civic Equality, with the participation of the State Security Service of Georgia. Due to the growing importance of the meetings, they have been included for the third time in the new National Action Plan of Georgia for the implementation of the UN Security Council resolutions on Women, Peace and Security (2018-2020).
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46875-constructive-dialogue-continues-between-iprm-participants-and-womens-csos




Date: 21 May 2018
Title: Implementing the Paris Agreement
Content: 21 May 2018
The Regional Dialogue on Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) is co-organised by the UN Development Programme (UNDP) and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Secretariat, and is hosted by the Government of Georgia. The event is supported by the European Union and the Governments of Germany, Japan, and Norway, in collaboration with the NDC Partnership.
Speaking at the opening of the Regional Dialogue, Nino Tandilashvili, Deputy Minister of Environment Protection and Agriculture of Georgia, stressed that international cooperation boosts national climate actions.
The Government of Georgia welcomes and appreciates international cooperation and support in mitigating climate change. This Regional Dialogue is an excellent opportunity to exchange unique experience accumulated in the region, form partnerships and agree about concrete steps to achieve sustainable climate-smart development,” Nino Tandilashvili said.
She also noted Georgia’s commitments under the Paris Agreement and the ongoing work undertaken in every sector of the country’s economy with the aim to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
“By 2030, Georgia plans to unconditionally reduce its GHG emissions by 15% below the business as usual scenario, and conditionally by up to 25%. This will decrease Georgian GHG emissions by 40% below the 1990 levels,” Nino Tandilashvili said.
Niels Scott, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia, highlighted challenges and opportunities presented by climate change to the region’s countries.
“Climate change affects people and livelihoods, and has adverse impacts on the economy and the social sector. At the same time, climate change creates developmental opportunities, pushing societies and governments to transform their way of doing business and work together for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals”, Niels Scott said.
NDCs embody efforts pledged by each country to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to the impacts of climate change. As such, NDCs are at the heart of the Paris Agreement, which was signed by 196 countries in 2015 and envisions a global transition to a resilient, low emission development pathway.
Originally created to help countries formulate their climate pledges for the Paris Agreement, the Regional Dialogues now facilitate an exchange of national experiences with the implementation of their NDCs. To date, the Regional Dialogues have convened over 2 100 government representatives and other stakeholders from 150 developing countries, assisting them to advance the Paris Agreement process.
The Regional Dialogue in Georgia follows the similar events in Africa, Pacific and Latin America regions. The three-day event brought together over 90 delegates from 16 countries of Eastern Europe, Caucasus, and Central Asia countries.
Follow the Regional NDC Dialogue in Georgia #NDCDialogues and visit the Eurasia NDC Dialogue webpage for more information.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46879-implementing-paris-agreement




Date: 01 May 2018
Title: UN Supports Comprehensive Enactment of Tobacco-control Legislation in Georgia
Content: 01 May 2018
From May 1st, 2018 the following measures enter into force:
UN Country Team welcomes implementation of this important regulation endorsed by the Parliament of Georgia a year ago. All national stakeholders are encouraged to secure its implementation, and consequently protect present and future generations from catastrophic consequences of tobacco use.
Unfortunately Georgia still belongs to the countries with very high tobacco consumption. Tobacco smoking causes addiction and results in devastating consequences for individuals, their families and all of society. In Georgia the prevalence of smoking among men is among the highest in the world at approximately 57%; the official prevalence rate of smoking among women, despite still being relatively low (about 10%), has almost doubled in the recent years. Every fourth child at the age 13-15 year uses tobacco product. More than 40% of population, among them children and pregnant women are exposed to secondhand smoke.
Children have an absolute right to be protected from tobacco exposure, including the effects of adult smoking, which can compromise a child’s health even before birth. The Convention of the Rights of the Child emphasizes the right of the child to enjoy “the highest attainable standard of health” and includes detailed obligations for States, many of which are relevant to protecting children from the harmful effects of tobacco.
In Georgia thousands of smokers and people exposed to tobacco smoke suffer from numerous diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, lung diseases and cancers. Half of all long-term smokers will be killed early by a smoking-related disease. Approximately 11,000 citizens of Georgia die prematurely every year from diseases caused by tobacco, and among those are more than 2,000 non-smokers. The alarming figures clearly indicate a need for strong and imminent action in the area of tobacco control.
Implementation of the mentioned legislation is significant step forward in saving lives and growing the economy. This law has significant support of Georgians, as more than 79% of population support smoke free regulations and above 90% support ban of tobacco advertising.
In 2017 WHO FCTC secretariat and UNDP estimated economic burden of tobacco use and effects of tobacco control measurements in Georgia (The case for investing in FCTC implementation in Georgia). Each year, tobacco costs the Georgian economy GEL 824.9 million, equivalent to 2.43% of Georgia’s GDP in 2016. These costs include
The same study concludes that by full implementation of four major tobacco control measurements (raising taxes, ban of advertising, health warnings and packaging, as well as smoke-free policies) the country can avoid GEL 3.6 billion in cumulative health-care expenditures and economic losses over 15 years, and at the same time save a minimum of 53,000 lives .
Tobacco industry interferes with all phases of endorsing and implementing tobacco control measures. This has been observed in variety of countries, including Georgia. It can and shall be prevented with transparent work of national and international stakeholders.
UN Country Team is highly committed to continue its support to the national authorities in strengthening tobacco control in Georgia with the ultimate goal to enable people in Georgia reaching the highest attainable standard of health.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46880-un-supports-comprehensive-enactment-tobacco-control-legislation-georgia




Date: 25 April 2018
Title: The Inter-religious Dialogue on the prevention of Violence against Women and Harmful Practices took place in Tbilisi
Content: 25 April 2018
The Inter-Religious Dialogue on the prevention of Violence against Women and Harmful Practices was organized as a collaborative effort among the Inter-agency Commission on Gender Equality, Violence against Women and Domestic Violence Issues, the Union Century 21st and the UNFPA Country Office in Georgia.
The findings of the recent researches conducted on Violence against Women and Harmful Practices were presented at the meeting in order to facilitate the evidence-based dialogue regarding the role of religious community in preventing and eliminating violence and harmful practices against women and girls.
Violence and harmful practices against women and girls still remain a major challenge in Georgia. During the recent years the Government has been very active in setting the policies and plans for prevention and elimination of violence and harmful practices against women and girls. The Parliament has adopted amendments to the Civil Code of Georgia and raised the minimum age for marriage registration up to the age of 18 without any exceptions; Female Genital Mutilation is regarded as a criminal offense by law; the Law on Prevention and Elimination of Violence Against Women and Domestic Violence and Protection and Support to its Victims is effective in full force.
Changing attitude of communities and the entire society towards the violence and harmful practices against women and girls is as important as the policy and legislative measures introduced by the government. Religious unions can play important role in this regard.
The conference was a continuation of the initiative launched in 2016 by the Union Century 21st and the UNFPA/Georgia that aimed at increasing support of religious associations to prevention and elimination of early/child marriage. Two forums were organized under the aegis of the Inter-religious Council, and in collaboration with the Administration of Muslims of All Georgia, the informative meetings for the local Muslim religious leaders were conducted in Kakheti on the prevention of Early/Child Marriage and Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting. At the conference organized in 2017 the Administration of Muslims of All Georgia adopted a powerful official Statement that urges Muslim leaders to support the elimination of Early/Child Marriage and Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting which harms girls, their families, communities and society at large, and hinders the  sustainable development of the country.
The members of Inter-Religious Council, representatives of legislative and executive authorities, international and local organizations, and diplomatic corps participated in the Dialogue.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/45888-inter-religious-dialogue-prevention-violence-against-women-and-harmful-practices-took-place




Date: 31 March 2018
Title: The Conference on women's empowerment
Content: 31 March 2018
Up to 40 students from Kakheti region met on 31 March 2018 to discuss issues related to women’s role in politics and business, civic engagement, and gender-based violence.
The event was organized by the European Law Students Association of Georgia (ELSA Georgia) with the support from the UN Office in Georgia (UNO), in cooperation with the Training Center of Justice of Georgia. The conference was held for the second time in commemoration of the Int’l Women’ Day.
Khatuna Kasradze, Director of the Training Center of Justice, Ketevan Saradjishvili, Head of International Public Law Department of the Ministry of Justice and Ketevan Mchedlishvili, Specialist of the Training Center of Justice briefed the participants about the legislative amendments developed by the Ministry of Justice to protect women's rights. Among them are laws and policies that criminalize violence against women and children, support and protect those affected, and regulations concerning premature marriage.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46882-conference-womens-empowerment




Date: 22 March 2018
Title: Inclusiveness of Older Persons in Georgia must be a priority - UN Expert says
Content: 22 March 2018
Georgia is the most aged country in the South Caucasus region, and according to the last census, every fifth person is aged 60 and over. By 2050, the percentage of people over 60 in Georgia will further rise to over 30 percent.
“Population decline paired with an ageing society has significant implications for the enjoyment of human rights by older persons,” Rosa Kornfeld-Matte, the Independent Expert on the enjoyment of all human rights by older persons, said at the end of her first official visit to the country.
“Older persons’ care in general remains an area that needs to be improved. There is no comprehensive strategy on long-term care and despite the introduction of the state-funded Universal Health Programme, older persons remain particularly vulnerable to significant out-of-pocket payments – especially for medication.”
Kornfeld-Matte said there were reports that various forms of violence against and abuse of older persons, including by family members, occurred frequently, and called on the Government to improve detection and prevention.
She said many older persons remained among the persistent poor. “I welcome the Government’s recognition that the current pension is insufficient, but I am concerned that the proposed pension reform misses key elements of solidarity and may not effectively address the risk of old-age poverty, particularly among women,” the expert said.
Kornfeld-Matte welcomed the recent adoption of the National Action Plan for the implementation of the State Policy Concept on Population Ageing in Georgia as a long awaited step towards transforming the main policy directions into concrete actions for older persons.
During her 10-day visit, the expert met with various Government authorities and civil society as well as others working on the rights of older persons and older persons themselves. A comprehensive report on her findings and recommendations will be presented to the UN Human Rights Council in September this year.
ENDS
Ms. Rosa Kornfeld-Matte (Chile) was appointed by the Human Rights Council as the first Independent Expert on the enjoyment of all human rights by older persons in May 2014. Ms. Kornfeld-Matte served as the National Director of the Chilean National Service of Ageing where she designed and implemented the National Policy of Ageing. She has a long career as an academic and is the founder of the programme for older persons at the Pontificia Unversidad Católica de Chile.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights country page - Georgia
This year is the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the UN on 10 December 1948. The Universal Declaration – translated into a world record 500 languages – is rooted in the principle that “all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.” It remains relevant to everyone, every day. In honour of the 70th anniversary of this extraordinarily influential document, and to prevent its vital principles from being eroded, we are urging people everywhere to Stand Up for Human Rights: www.standup4humanrights.org.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46883-inclusiveness-older-persons-georgia-must-be-priority-un-expert-says




Date: 22 March 2018
Title: Inclusiveness of Older Persons in Georgia must be a priority - UN Expert says
Content: 22 March 2018
Georgia is the most aged country in the South Caucasus region, and according to the last census, every fifth person is aged 60 and over. By 2050, the percentage of people over 60 in Georgia will further rise to over 30 percent.
“Population decline paired with an ageing society has significant implications for the enjoyment of human rights by older persons,” Rosa Kornfeld-Matte, the Independent Expert on the enjoyment of all human rights by older persons, said at the end of her first official visit to the country.
“Older persons’ care in general remains an area that needs to be improved. There is no comprehensive strategy on long-term care and despite the introduction of the state-funded Universal Health Programme, older persons remain particularly vulnerable to significant out-of-pocket payments – especially for medication.”
Kornfeld-Matte said there were reports that various forms of violence against and abuse of older persons, including by family members, occurred frequently, and called on the Government to improve detection and prevention.
She said many older persons remained among the persistent poor. “I welcome the Government’s recognition that the current pension is insufficient, but I am concerned that the proposed pension reform misses key elements of solidarity and may not effectively address the risk of old-age poverty, particularly among women,” the expert said.
Kornfeld-Matte welcomed the recent adoption of the National Action Plan for the implementation of the State Policy Concept on Population Ageing in Georgia as a long awaited step towards transforming the main policy directions into concrete actions for older persons.
During her 10-day visit, the expert met with various Government authorities and civil society as well as others working on the rights of older persons and older persons themselves. A comprehensive report on her findings and recommendations will be presented to the UN Human Rights Council in September this year.
ENDS
Ms. Rosa Kornfeld-Matte (Chile) was appointed by the Human Rights Council as the first Independent Expert on the enjoyment of all human rights by older persons in May 2014. Ms. Kornfeld-Matte served as the National Director of the Chilean National Service of Ageing where she designed and implemented the National Policy of Ageing. She has a long career as an academic and is the founder of the programme for older persons at the Pontificia Unversidad Católica de Chile.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights country page - Georgia
This year is the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the UN on 10 December 1948. The Universal Declaration – translated into a world record 500 languages – is rooted in the principle that “all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.” It remains relevant to everyone, every day. In honour of the 70th anniversary of this extraordinarily influential document, and to prevent its vital principles from being eroded, we are urging people everywhere to Stand Up for Human Rights: www.standup4humanrights.org.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46884-inclusiveness-older-persons-georgia-must-be-priority-un-expert-says




Date: 08 March 2018
Title: Georgia hosted  #WIKIGAP event in connection to International Women's Day
Content: 08 March 2018
Globally, 90 per cent of Wikipedia’s editors are men, and it has four times more content about men than women. #WikiGap, a joint initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Sweden and the Wikimedia Foundation, aims to address this gap. The initiative is focused on two areas: involving more female editors and increasing the amount of content about women in Wikipedia.
With the initiative of the Swedish Embassy, Georgian Wikipedia and UN Women, a #WikiGap edit-a-thon was held in Tbilisi for the future female editors of Wikipedia. Erika Kvapilova, UN Women Country Representative in Georgia, and Eric Salmgren von Schantz, Deputy Head of Mission of the Embassy of Sweden in Armenia and Georgia, opened the event.
Georgian female researchers, bloggers and journalists participated in the edit-a-thon. Representatives from the Georgian Wikipedia shared their experiences with the participants, specifically on how to write for Wikipedia and how to become editors of the online encyclopedia.
“The Georgian Wikipedia reflects global statistics precisely: about 90 per cent of our volunteers are men,” noted Mikheil Chabukashvili, administrator of the Georgian Wikipedia. “Usually, it is primarily male volunteers who come to us. This is why it is very important to work on encouraging women. I am sure that the edit-a-thon participants will continue working actively in Wikipedia and will become prominent Wikipedians too.”
At the end of the edit-a-thon, the nine trained editors uploaded materials to the Georgian Wikipedia about famous or previously unknown women. Lana Mushkudiani, one of the participants, remarked: “There are women in Georgia who were fighting for women’s rights, for example, Babilina Khositashvili - a Georgian feminist writer, translator, poet and advocate of women’s and workers’ rights. However, most people are not aware of her name, which is why we need to use all available opportunities to ensure that the broader public can access materials about her. I am happy that I created an article about Babilina in Wikipedia during today’s edit-a-thon.”
To promote #WikiGap, the Swedish Embassies have been organizing worldwide edit-a-thons on 8 March, International Women’s Day. This year, more than 50 countries hosted an edit-a-thon.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46886-georgia-hosted-wikigap-event-connection-international-womens-day




Date: 08 March 2018
Title: UN Expert to Assess Human Rights Situation of Older Persons in Georgia
Content: 08 March 2018
“This visit provides an important opportunity for dialogue with Georgia,” said Ms. Kornfeld-Matte. “It will be extremely useful to assess the implementation of national and international standards relevant to the rights of older persons, to identify good practices and provide recommendations on how to close potential gaps.
“I particularly want to learn more about Georgia’s 2017-2018 National Action Plan and its impact on the lives of older people,” added Ms. Kornfeld-Matte, the first Independent Expert tasked by the UN Human Rights Council with reporting and advising on how best to promote and protect the rights of the world’s older persons.
The expert, who is visiting the country at the invitation of the Government, will hold discussions with government representatives, non-governmental organizations and others working with or on behalf of older persons.
A press conference will be held in Tbilisi on Thursday 22 March at 10:30 local time, at the Courtyard Marriott Hotel in Tbilisi, 4 Freedom Square, Tbilisi 01105, Georgia, to share preliminary findings with the media. Access will be strictly limited to journalists.
The expert will present her findings and recommendations to the UN Human Rights Council in September 2018.

ENDS
 
Ms. Rosa Kornfeld-Matte (Chile) was appointed by the Human Rights Council as the first Independent Expert on the enjoyment of all human rights by older persons in May 2014. Ms. Kornfeld-Matte served as the National Director of the Chilean National Service of Ageing where she designed and implemented the National Policy of Ageing. She has a long career as an academic and is the founder of the programme for older persons at the Pontificia Unversidad Católica de Chile.
UN Human Rights country page - Georgia
This year is the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the UN on 10 December 1948. The Universal Declaration – translated into a world record 500 languages – is rooted in the principle that “all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.” It remains relevant to everyone, every day. In honour of the 70th anniversary of this extraordinarily influential document, and to prevent its vital principles from being eroded, we are urging people everywhere to Stand Up for Human Rights: www.standup4humanrights.org.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46887-un-expert-assess-human-rights-situation-older-persons-georgia




Date: 07 March 2018
Title: Ambassadorial Working Group statement
Content: 07 March 2018
We welcome the recent amendment to the Constitution of Georgia, which provides for special measures to be implemented by the State to ensure substantive equality between men and women and to eliminate inequalities.
We take note of the legislative initiative supported by more than 37,000 citizens of Georgia which, if passed, would significantly increase representation of women in elected bodies at all levels and would help Georgia to bring women's voices more prominently into political discourse. We consider the initiative to be timely as it provides a tool to meet one of the objectives of the EU-Georgia Association Agenda 2017-2020 and brings Georgia, in line with other successful reforms, closer to the average proportion of women at national parliaments in the EU (30.4%). This legislation would also bring Georgia into better compliance with Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) #5 and the recommendations of the UN Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) when it comes to women’s political participation.
Being aware that the legislative initiative was endorsed by three Parliamentary committees in the 3rd quarter of 2017, we reaffirm the importance of striving for gender equality in any democratic society and look forward to further developments at the Parliament of Georgia with regard to this important piece of legislation.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46888-ambassadorial-working-group-statement




Date: 06 March 2018
Title: One in seven women in Georgia experiences domestic violence, new national study finds
Content: 06 March 2018
The key findings of the study were released by UN Women, the EU and GEOSTAT together with partners from the Government, the development sector and civil society at a presentation of the study’s summary report in Tbilisi on 6 March 2018. The study findings provide data on the prevalence of domestic violence and non-partner physical and sexual violence, as well as the perceptions and awareness of women and men on gender and violence in Georgia. For the first time in Georgia, the study also generated data on the prevalence of sexual harassment and stalking at the national level. This is the first nationwide research initiative on violence against women conducted in Georgia since UNFPA’s 2009 study.
The new study was implemented throughout 2017 and combined quantitative and qualitative research methods. In total, 6,006 women aged 15-64 and 1,601 men aged 15-64 were interviewed across the country. If one combines all forms of violence, the study found that one in every four women has experienced gender-based violence in their lifetime. Among those, some 15,000 women have experienced physical violence from an intimate partner during pregnancy, and 9 per cent of women in Georgia have admitted to being subjected to sexual violence during their childhood, before the age of 18.
The study findings indicate that women and men show a high degree of tolerance and acceptance towards the use of physical violence against women in relationships, and they also share inequitable views on sex and sexual violence. Of those surveyed, almost one quarter of women (22 per cent) and one third of men (31 per cent) believe that wife-beating is justified under certain circumstances. Moreover, almost one quarter of all women (23 per cent) and nearly half of all men (42 per cent) believe that a wife should obey her husband even if she disagrees.
The study indicates some positive trends as well. There has been a significant increase in the percentage of women who have reported to the police an act of violence committed by an intimate partner: 18 per cent in 2017, compared to 1.5 per cent in 2009. Also, the percentage of women who believe that domestic violence is a private matter and that no one should interfere has decreased from 78 per cent in 2009 to 33 per cent in 2017.
“The study findings fill the gap in the nationally representative data on the prevalence of violence against women in Georgia and provide baseline data for the nationalized Sustainable Development Goals indicators,” stated Erika Kvapilova, UN Women Country Representative in Georgia. “The data analysis will further inform policymaking as well as awareness-raising interventions aimed at prevention and effective response to violence against women and girls in Georgia.”
Gogita Todradze, Deputy Director of GEOSTAT, highlighted the importance of the technical assistance provided by UN Women to GEOSTAT in developing national capacity to conduct studies on violence against women in line with the globally established methodologies and standards, stressing that this will “enable GEOSTAT to replicate similar prevalence surveys in the future as prescribed by the obligations undertaken under the Istanbul Convention.”
The National Study on Violence against Women in Georgia was conducted by UN Women in partnership with GEOSTAT under the EU-funded project “Unite to Fight Violence against Women”.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46889-one-seven-women-georgia-experiences-domestic-violence-new-national-study-finds




Date: 30 January 2018
Title: Georgian Parliament unveils first comprehensive review of gender equality legislation and policies
Content: 30 January 2018
Nine fields of Georgia’s legislation and policy were analysed for their compliance to the principles of gender equality. The baseline research Gender Equality in Georgia: Barriers and Recommendations was carried out by the Gender Equality Council of the Parliament of Georgia with support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Government of Sweden, under the UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality, and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and East-West Management Institute, under the USAID-funded initiative Promoting Rule of Law in Georgia (PROLoG).
Key findings of this comprehensive study were released on January 30, 2018, at a conference attended by representatives of the Georgian Government, Parliament, civil society and international organizations.
Tamar Chugoshvili, First Vice Speaker and Chairperson of the Gender Equality Council of the Parliament of Georgia; Martina Quick, Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia; Elizabeth Rood, Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Georgia; and Niels Scott, Head of the United Nations in Georgia, addressed the participants with opening remarks.
The research is based on the previous reports and studies undertaken by international and national organizations in Georgia, as well as on the interviews and data provided by authorities. A team of researchers analysed Georgia’s international human rights obligations and international best practices to identify legislative and policy gaps and set concrete recommendations for advancing gender equality agenda in the areas of political participation, economic empowerment, violence against women, labour relations, health, education, sports, culture, and peace and security.
Some key recommendations of the study refer to the amendments to the Gender Equality Law, Anti-Discrimination Law, Criminal Code, Election Code, Labour Code and Law on the Public Defender. Policy recommendations are particularly important in closing gender gaps in education, women’s economic advancement, protection of sexual and reproductive rights of women and girls, and advancing gender equality in sports and culture.
The recommendations target key national agencies responsible for gender equality in Georgia, including the Gender Equality Council of the Parliament and the Inter-Agency Commission on Gender Equality, Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, which operates under the Government.
“Legislation and policies alone are not enough to close gender gaps. However, their revision is a constructive step forward to achieve meaningful equality between women and men in all spheres of life as well as to prevent systemic discrimination against women. We hope that the findings and recommendations of this research will lay the ground for effective measures against sexual harassment, domestic violence and violence against women, as well as for increasing political participation of women through temporary mandatory gender quotas,” said Niels Scott, Head of the United Nations in Georgia.
The presentation of the study was followed by a discussion on the new Gender Equality Concept of Georgia, a revised version of the previous document adopted in 2006. The new Concept was drafted based on the findings of the research and then reviewed by the USAID/PROLoG experts. The Parliament of Georgia is expected to adopt a new Concept for Gender Equality during the Spring 2018 session.
“The United States government is committed to supporting gender equality. Ending gender-based violence and sexual harassment, effectively fighting discrimination, and economically empowering women are priorities of the U.S. government, and we are proud to support the Government of Georgia's efforts to reduce gender inequalities in Georgia through legislative reform and a modified State Concept,” said Elizabeth Rood, Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Georgia.
The Gender Equality Council also presented its 2018-2020 Action Plan revealing key priorities of the gender equality agenda of the Parliament of Georgia.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46890-georgian-parliament-unveils-first-comprehensive-review-gender-equality-legislation-and




Date: 04 December 2017
Title: EU and Partners- International Parliamentary Conference Opens in Tbilisi
Content: 04 December 2017
Bringing together representatives of the European Parliament and 17 parliaments of the European Union Member States, Candidate States and Eastern Partnership countries, the conference aims to discuss integration with the European Union as a framework for promoting internal reforms, and point out the benefits and challenges associated with the EU-inspired transformation.
Representatives of the Georgian Government, international organisations and the prominent leaders of civil society are taking part in the discussion.
Niels Scott – Head of the United Nations in Georgia; and Tamar Khulordava – Chairperson of the European Integration Committee of the Parliament of Georgia, addressed the participants of this international forum with welcome remarks.
Five major discussion panels of the conference, on December 4-5, will focus on the political and economic reforms inspired by the Association Agreements in different countries, EU partnership instruments and cooperation frameworks, legislative challenges on the way to implementing the EU-driven reforms, and on economic impacts of the European integration on business and trade.
Some special attention at the conference will be provided to discussing citizen expectations before and after the integration with the European Union, ways of countering anti-European propaganda, and to the future of the European Union, considering the 60th anniversary of the European cooperation.
The international parliamentary conference “EU and Partners – Embracing Diversity for Stronger Unity” is organized by the Parliament of Georgia, on the initiative of the European Integration Committee of the Parliament, with support from the European Union (EU) and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46891-eu-and-partners-international-parliamentary-conference-opens-tbilisi




Date: 31 October 2017
Title: Peaceful, Just and Inclusive Societies: From Words to Action: Implementing SDG 16+ in Focus at International Forum in Georgia
Content: 31 October 2017
From October 31 to November 2, 2017, the Forum will discuss best policy and practice in the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), with the focus on SDG16 – Peaceful, Just and Inclusive Societies.
“Georgia is honoured with the opportunity to host this important international event. This year marks the 25th anniversary of Georgia’s membership in the United Nations. Over this period, despite all difficulties, we managed to transform our country from a UN humanitarian aid recipient to a model state that assumed the Open Government Partnership (OGP) chairmanship this year. Throughout the past decade, Georgia has achieved tangible progress in building strong state institutions and ensuring: a free civil society; free media; free markets; social cohesion, and the rule of law.  The global sustainable development agenda provides us with the great prospect to consolidate our achievements, share success and learn from each other’s experience”, Mikheil Janelidze, Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Georgia, said in his welcome remarks to the Forum participants.
Head of the United Nations in Georgia, Niels Scott, stressed the role of international partnership and cooperation in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
“The United Nations and UNDP globally lead in the support to states to strengthen democratic governance and sustain peace as part of reaching the Sustainable Development Goals. Our support helps build the capacity of governments to deliver, and provides them with essential tools for social engagement and effective delivery,” Niels Scott said.
The 16+ Forum Annual Showcase in Tbilisi focuses on a range of topics to ensure that the full breadth of Peaceful, Just and Inclusive Societies is featured during the discussions. Six plenary sessions, organised throughout the Forum days, demonstrate the successes and challenges faced by the countries as they, in partnership with civil society, strive to improve governance, ensure rule of law, fight corruption, introduce innovation to public services, resolve conflict, and work towards sustaining peace.
Some special attention at the Forum will be provided to Open Government Partnership (OGP) and to opening civic spaces for accelerating national development. The participants will discuss the experience of Georgia, the current OGP chair country, highlighting how the sustainable development agenda comes together with Open Government priorities. Forum participants will also visit the Ministry of Justice of Georgia, Public Service Hall and customs clearance zone, and will meet with representatives of the Georgian media and civil society.
Held in Tbilisi, this inaugural event is the first for the 16+ Forum, a multi-stakeholder platform, inclusive of Georgia, eight other member states, the g7+ and the World Federation of United Nations Associations (WFUNA) as its Secretariat.
“On behalf of the 16+ Forum, we are incredibly grateful to all our partners and particularly to Georgia, as our host and as a global leader in advancing SDG 16+”, noted Bonian Golmohammadi, Secretary-General of WFUNA.
The Showcase is hosted by the Government of Georgia – the Administration of the Government of  Georgia, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Justice – in partnership with WFUNA and co-organisers and supporters: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, Government of Sweden, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the State of Qatar, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), United States Agency for International Development (USAID), GIZ, Austrian Development Agency (ADA), Tetra Tech ARD and civil society partners – the Institute for Development of Freedom of Information (IDFI) and the United Nations Association of Georgia (UNAG).
The 16+ Forum was launched in New York, USA in 2016.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46893-peaceful-just-and-inclusive-societies-words-action-implementing-sdg-16-focus-international




Date: 24 October 2017
Title: Georgia celebrates 25th anniversary of its membership in the United Nations
Content: 24 October 2017
„I would like to say with pride that over this period, we have managed to transform our country from a UN humanitarian aid recipient into a regional leader that now serves as the Chair of the Open Government Partnership" - with these words the Prime Minister of Georgia addressed the representatives of the diplomatic corps, international and non-governmental organizations attending the UN Day Reception.

Prime Minister congratulated the UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia Niels Scott and spoke about the UN-Georgia fruitful cooperation.

"Our success story is in many ways connected to the fruitful and active involvement of the United Nations in Georgia and a very important cooperation that we have in so many fields. We cooperate with 13 UN agencies in the most important directions, such as democratic governance, human rights, rule of law, economic and social development, healthcare, education, employment and environmental protection. We have gained huge experience and we are very well aware of the importance of cooperation with the UN structures. Today, from this tribune, I would like to reassert that Georgia firmly supports the UN's engagement in the country as well as throughout the region in terms of fortification of the stability and achieving sustainable development. It is our Government's honor to serve as the chair of OGP and contribute to a powerful global movement for openness and deeper democracies that promotes the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals, especially Goal 16: "Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels," - the Prime Minister stated.
The head of the Government also commented on the first plenary session of the Sustainable Development Goal Council that was held today. According to him, respective platform is a clear indication of the close cooperation in terms of implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
"Every country and government has joined this path of global transformation and integration of economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development into the national priorities. Georgia has already taken steps to reinforce the effective governance and ensure the participation of all relevant stakeholders in the decision making process. That's precisely why Georgia remains committed to the UN and its work. I would like to once again thank Niels Scott and his colleagues for their tireless efforts in contributing to Georgia's development. We look forward to many more years of constructive, stronger partnership between Georgia and UN agencies," - the Prime Minister of Georgia noted.
UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia Niels Scott also emphasized the UN-Georgia cooperation and the progress achieved by the country.
"Since Georgia joined the United Nations in 1992, in the midst of internal and external adversity, it has not only undergone a remarkable transformation but has also become a highly active and much esteemed member of the UN. Georgia continues to make substantial contributions to the UN’s work towards security, peace, development and human rights. This dynamic international engagement reflects the strong will of the Georgian Government and the people to support the work of the United Nations for stronger, more sustainable economic growth; cleaner air and water; equal opportunities and gender equality; improved health and education; and a decent life for all. May I therefore once more thank the Government of Georgia, and the people of Georgia, for this valuable partnership with the United Nations; and for enabling the UN to continue contributing to the progress of Georgia," Niels Scott noted.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46899-georgia-celebrates-25th-anniversary-its-membership-united-nations




Date: 16 October 2017
Title: FAO Celebrates World Food Day in Georgia
Content: 16 October 2017
An event was organized by the Representation of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in Georgia and the Ministry of Agriculture of Georgia. This year WFD was dedicated to the importance of food security and rural development in addressing the root causes of migration. The slogan for World Food Day 2017 was: Change the future of migration. Invest in food security and rural development.
The event was opened with the welcome addresses by Mr. Levan Davitashvili, the Minister of Agriculture of Georgia, Mr. Mamuka Meskhi, Assistant FAO Representative in Georgia, Mr. Niels Scott, UN Resident Coordinator, Mr. Arad Benkö, the Ambassador of the Republic of Austria and Mr. Grigol Giorgadze, the First Deputy Minister of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Accommodation and Refugees of Georgia.
The speakers highlighted the importance of rural development and food security to challenge young generation to stay in their home villages and rural areas and become successful farmers.
Mamuka Meskhi said, “FAO is working with governments, UN agencies, the private sector, civil society and local communities, to generate data on migration patterns and is building countries’ capacities to address migration through rural development policies. We support governments and partners as they explore the developmental potential of migration, especially in terms of food security and poverty reduction.”
Racha, a region of Georgia deeply affected by migration of its population to the large cities, was the centerpiece of the event. FAO, with the financial support of the Austrian Development Cooperation, implemented a rural development project in Racha that provided 60 farmers with agricultural equipment for the future enlargement and development of their farms. As the project is ending, FAO reviewed and summarized its outcomes and presented a short movie about the young farmers in Racha who are willing to stay in their home villages and take care of their agricultural businesses. After a screening of the video, the characters of the movie -- especially brought from Racha to Tbilisi to attend the World Food Day -- treated the event’s guests with samples of their agricultural products.
Another highlight of the event was a presentation of a project providing livelihoods support and socio-economic empowerment to IDPs. To date, the European Union -- through the EU/FAO cooperation alone -- has invested more than 5 000 000 Euros in IDP livelihoods. More than 4 000 IDP households have been given assistance to initiate and expand their agricultural productions, establish irrigation systems, buy livestock and machinery, start orchards and even build farms and fishponds. As the project is in its final phase, a photo exhibition at the WFD event displayed portraits of the IDP beneficiaries.
Niels Scott, the UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, stressed the importance of the rural development projects in Georgia and underlined that eliminating the poverty is one of the most important of the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations.
Representatives of the Government of Georgia, the diplomatic corps, international and donor organizations, NGOs and private sector attended the event, which was broadly covered by national TV and online media.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46900-fao-celebrates-world-food-day-georgia




Date: 24 September 2017
Title: UN in Georgia Appoints National Goodwill Ambassadors for SDGs
Content: 24 September 2017
At appointment ceremony, the UN Resident Coordinator Niels Scott said the new UN National Goodwill Ambassadors give a much-needed voice to the Sustainable Development Goals in Georgia. “ I am grateful and excited to welcome Ms. Nino Sukhishvili, Mr. Gela Charkviani, and Ms. Irma Khetsuriani  as UN's Goodwill Ambassadors, confident that they will raise awareness and mobilize support for the Sustainable Development Goals”, he said.
“I am honored to join the United Nations as a Goodwill Ambassador,” Gela Chrkviani said. “I am looking forward to working with UN to raise awareness of the Sustainable Development Goals and I hope to inspire others to join us. Together we can ensure that people live in freedom and security; and society becomes more cohesive and more equal”.
“I will be a strong advocate for make lasting progress on the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals,” said Nino Sukhishvili. “The SDGs matter to all of us as we have a shared responsibility for present and future generations.”
Irma Khetsuriani said she was very happy to be officially appointed UN goodwill ambassador. “It's really a privilege for me to be UN Goodwill Ambassador for Sustainable Development Goals. I would like to try to make a difference in the lives of those who most need it,” she said.
Nino Sukhishvili is an art manager and executive producer for the Georgian National Ballet,  the world-known state dance company founded in 1945 by her grandparents Nino Ramishvili and Iliko Sukhishvili. Thanks to this company the Georgian national dancing and music has become known in many parts of the world.
An accomplished Georgian diplomat, writer, educator and television personality, Gela Charkviani is immensely popular in Georgia. He is the author of numerous publications, including the National Bestseller of the Year -  The Round Dance of the Familiar Chimeras (2015). Charkviani's awards include Order of Honour (1998), Presidential Order of Excellence (2011) and Victory Order of St.George (2013).
Georgian wheelchair fencer Irma Khetsuriani, has earned the admiration and respect of people for her achievements in wheelchair fencing and in advocating for the athletes with a range of disabilities in Georgia. She is the champion of the Wheelchair Fencing World Cup.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46940-un-georgia-appoints-national-goodwill-ambassadors-sdgs




Date: 17 July 2017
Title: Statement on the case of Tatia Dolidze
Content: 17 July 2017
"We are pleased to hear that Tatia Dolidze’s case will be investigated by the Police Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia, and we hope this investigation will be concluded rapidly. We condemn the incitement of violence in general and, in this case, acts which target women and girls. Clearly these acts have no place in modern society.
It is extremely important that young people, such as Tatia, stand up for Georgia’s values: freedom, solidarity, tolerance, respect, which are also fundamental values of the United Nations. Tatia has demonstrated these values very clearly as Georgia’s youth delegate to the United Nations. 
It is a fundamental of democracy that all citizens are able to promote human rights, non-discrimination and tolerance without fear of harassment, insult and threat."
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46901-statement-case-tatia-dolidze




Date: 05 July 2017
Title: The High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF)
Content: 05 July 2017
The High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF), the central platform for reviewing progress on the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at the global level, takes place this year on 10-19 July at UN Headquarters in New York.
44 countries will present their Voluntary National Reviews (VNRs) or plans to achieve the Goals during the 3-day ministerial meeting from 17-19 July. They are: Afghanistan, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Monaco, Nepal, Netherlands, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Qatar, Slovenia, Sweden, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, Uruguay and Zimbabwe.
The theme for this year's Forum is “Eradicating poverty and promoting prosperity in a changing world” . The set of goals to be reviewed in depth will be the following #1, 2, 3, 5, 9, 14, including Goal 17.
Georgia was among 22 first time countries that shared their Voluntary National Reviews (VNRs) or development plans since the adoption of the SDGs  at the 2016 High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (11-20 July 2016).
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46939-high-level-political-forum-sustainable-development-hlpf




Date: 12 May 2017
Title: Ambassadorial Working Group Statement on the Tkibuli Mine Accident
Content: 12 May 2017
The Ambassadorial Working Group (AWG) is saddened to learn about the tragic accident that occurred in Tkibuli coal mines on 9 May 2017 claiming the lives of four workers. The AWG expresses deepest sympathy and sincere condolences to the families of the victims.
This tragic accident leading to a loss of peoples’ lives is yet another reminder of an urgent need to establish adequate health and safety procedures in the work place including proper legislation and the establishment of labour inspection mandated in line with International Labour Standards.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46905-ambassadorial-working-group-statement-tkibuli-mine-accident




Date: 10 May 2017
Title: The Fourth UN Global Road Safety Week Opens Formally in Tbilisi
Content: 10 May 2017
The conference brought together the Minister of Interior Affairs Giorgi Mgebrishvili, Minister of Environment Protection Gigla Agulashvili, Tbilisi Vice Mayor Irakli Lekvinadze, MPs, representatives of the Ministry  Economy and Sustainable Development, civil society and international organizations.
Speed contributes to around one-third of all fatal road traffic crashes in high-income countries, and up to half in low- and middle-income countries.
Countries successfully reducing road traffic deaths have done so by prioritizing safety when managing speed. Among the proven strategies to address speed include:
•           Building or modifying roads to include features that calm traffic
•           Establishing speed limits to the function of each road
•           Enforcing speed limits
•           Installing in-vehicle technologies
•           Raising awareness about the dangers of speeding
The Fourth UN Global Road Safety Week (8-14 May 2017) seeks to increase understanding of the dangers of speed and generate action on measures to address speed, thereby saving lives on the roads.  The key message orientates around the slogan; Save Lives: #SlowDown.
The conference was organized by the Georgia Alliance for Safe Roads with the support of the UN Office in Tbilisi (DPI/UNO).


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46906-fourth-un-global-road-safety-week-opens-formally-tbilisi




Date: 10 May 2017
Title: Competition for Journalists
Content: 10 May 2017
The human tragedy of massive forced displacement continues around the world. 2016 saw persistent conflict in many regions, notably Syria, Iraq, South Sudan, Yemen, Nigeria, leading millions to flee their homes, most remaining displaced within their own country. In total, an unprecedented 65.3 million people around the world have been forced from home. Among them are nearly 21.3 million refugees, over half of whom are under the age of 18.
Our primary purpose at UNHCR is to safeguard the rights and well-being of people who have been forced to flee. Together with partners and communities, we work to ensure that everybody has the right to seek asylum and find safe refuge in another country. We also strive to secure lasting solutions by helping people to restart their lives.
The aim of the competition is to reinforce support and empathy for refugees and asylum-seekers in order to create a more receptive environment. The role of journalists is paramount in this process. It is important to raise awareness in the media and society on root causes of displacement, problems related to the experiences people face during flight, conditions of reception in the country of asylum, and challenges and opportunities for successful integration of refugees in order to promote co-existence and social cohesion.
Eligibility for Participation
All the journalists whose material have been or will be aired or published in Georgia during the period from 1 January until 10 June 2017 related to the issue of refugee protection are eligible to participate in the competition. The competition is open for all types of media: TV, radio, written and electronic media outlets. Journalists should submit one piece of work/story (print, audio, multimedia) to UNHCR by 10 June 2017. All the submitted pieces of work shall be produced either in English or Georgian language. The competition material submitted to UNHCR should be accompanied by the contact information of the journalist: name, family name, workplace, telephone, e-mail.
The material can be submitted in electronic version to the following e-mail address: kajaia@unhcr.org
For additional information, please contact us at the above mentioned e-mail address.
All participants will be invited for the award ceremony, where three winners will be identified. The winners will be selected for each of the following categories:
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46938-competition-journalists




Date: 09 May 2017
Title: Georgia ratifies the Istanbul Convention
Content: 09 May 2017
Today Mr. Mikheil Janelidze, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Georgia deposited the instrument of ratification in respect of the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence.
The Parliament of Georgia confirmed the commitment of combating violence against women through endorsing ratification of the Istanbul Convention and adopting milestone legal framework aimed at harmonization of the domestic legislation with the Istanbul Convention - a package of amendments to 24 laws accompanying the Convention on 4 May, 2017.
Ms. Erika Kvapilova UN Women Country Representative made the following statement: Violence against women and girls is one of the most pervasive human rights violations, and it is an extreme manifestation of gender inequality and systemic gender based discrimination. Ratification of the Istanbul Convention will substantially galvanize efforts directed at combating violence against women and girls in Georgia. In addition, it will enhance impetus to strengthen a holistic national framework to prevent it. The process is also instrumental to achieving targets under Georgia’s nationalized Sustainable Development Goal 5.

The Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe is the most comprehensive international treaty on combating violence against women and domestic violence. The Convention was presented in 2011 and entered into force in August 2014.

The Istanbul Convention recognizes violence against women as a human rights violation. The Convention requires states parties to promote and effectively implement policies of equality between women and men and the empowerment of women; to protect women against all forms of violence; and to prevent, prosecute and eliminate violence against women and domestic violence. To offer a holistic response to violence against women and domestic violence, it calls for the involvement of all relevant actors, such as government agencies; the national, regional and local parliaments and authorities; national human rights institutions; and civil society organizations.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46903-georgia-ratifies-istanbul-convention




Date: 02 May 2017
Title: UN supports comprehensive tobacco-control legislation in Georgia
Content: 02 May 2017
Tobacco smoking causes addiction and results in devastating consequences for individuals, their families and all of society. In Georgia, the prevalence of smoking among men is among the highest in the world at approximately 57%; the prevalence of smoking among women, despite still being relatively low, has almost doubled in the recent years. Thousands of smokers and people exposed to tobacco smoke suffer from numerous diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, lung diseases and cancers. Half of all long-term smokers will be killed early by a smoking-related disease. Approximately 11,000 citizens of Georgia die prematurely every year from diseases caused by tobacco, and among those are approximately 3,000 non-smokers. The alarming figures clearly indicate a need for strong and imminent action in tobacco control.
The draft legislation being considered by the Parliament this week would be a significant step forward in saving lives, growing the economy and further integrating the country with the European Union.
The significant harms of tobacco use on developing countries are usually understood primarily as health issue. This overlooks the extensive impact of tobacco on social, economic and environmental progress. Tobacco control is a development issue and its success relies on the work of other sectors such as commerce, trade, finance, justice and education. This is why the international community agreed to include the implementation of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control in the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (WHO FCTC) is the first international treaty negotiated under the auspices of WHO. It was adopted by the World Health Assembly on 21 May 2003. It has since become one of the most rapidly and widely embraced treaties in United Nations history. The WHO FCTC was developed in response to the globalization of the tobacco epidemic and is an evidence-based treaty that reaffirms the right of all people to the highest standard of health. The Convention represents a milestone for the promotion of public health and provides new legal dimensions for international health cooperation. Georgia was among the first countries to ratify the WHO FCTC treaty in 2006.
Tobacco industry interferes extensively with the process of enacting a strict and comprehensive tobacco control law. Passage of the draft legislation would align Georgia with its obligations as a Party to the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC), and help meet Article 356 of the EU-Georgia Association Agreement, which makes FCTC implementation a pre-condition for further European integration.
Tobacco use is the leading preventable cause of morbidity and premature mortality and it is critical that Georgia endorses comprehensive and strict tobacco control legislation.
Preliminary findings of the Georgia FCTC Investment Case
To provide additional evidence for the tobacco control in Georgia, the WHO FCTC Secretariat, with UNDP and WHO, are piloting an FCTC Investment Case. One of the United Kingdom-funded activities estimates the economic costs of inaction on tobacco control and the benefits of scaled up action such as that found in the draft legislation.
A preliminary study from the United Nations Development Programme and WHO indicates that:
The power of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control
Key measures of tobacco-control
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46908-un-supports-comprehensive-tobacco-control-legislation-georgia




Date: 01 May 2017
Title: Press conference:  United Nations calls for strong action to control tobacco smoking in Georgia
Content: 01 May 2017
Representatives of the United Nations will update the media about preliminary findings of the FCTC Investment Case – recent research implemented by the WHO and UNDP to promote implementation of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) in Georgia. They will also inform about economic burden of tobacco smoking in Georgia, importance and practical implications of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) for the member states, and key measures of tobacco control.
Speakers:
Journalists are invited to attend.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46910-press-conference-united-nations-calls-strong-action-control-tobacco-smoking-georgia




Date: 19 April 2017
Title: United Nations Regrets Tskhinvali Referendum
Content: 19 April 2017
Responding to questions at a press briefing on April 11, Stéphane Dujarric noted that the United Nations reiterates its “previous calls for the participants in the Geneva International Discussions to engage constructively in making tangible progress and to refrain from any unilateral action that may adversely impact regional peace and security and undermine the work of the discussions.” “We regret any such recent unilateral actions,” he added.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46936-united-nations-regrets-tskhinvali-referendum




Date: 28 February 2017
Title: Note to Correspondents in Response to Questions on the Announced Closure of Crossing Points Along the Inguri River
Content: 28 February 2017
We regret the recently announced plans to close two additional crossing points along the Inguri River, Georgia, which will be detrimental to the freedom of movement and overall well-being of the population, including school children, on both sides of the administrative boundary line, especially those living in the Gali District. We join other international partners in calling for the continued functioning of the existing crossing points to ensure the freedom of movement, including humanitarian crossings. We underline previous calls for all the participants in the Geneva International Discussions to engage constructively in making tangible progress and to refrain from any unilateral actions that may adversely impact regional peace and security and undermine the work of those Discussions.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46935-note-correspondents-response-questions-announced-closure-crossing-points-along-inguri-river%C2%A0




Date: 27 January 2017
Title: Youth Conference commemorates victims of the Holocaust
Content: 27 January 2017
The United Nations Office (UNO) in Georgia and the European Law Students Association of Georgia (ELSA) jointly organized this year's observance of International Day of Commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust. Students from universities of Tbilisi and youth leaders participated in a panel discussion organized under the theme, “Holocaust Remembrance: Educating for a Better Future” on January 27, 2017 at Museum Hotel.
Niels Scott, UN Resident Coordinator, Saba Pipia, Head of the Tolerance Centre under the Public Defender of Georgia, and Marina Solomonishvili, President of the International Foundation LEA – Jewish Women Council opened the panel discussion that focused on the history of antisemitism that led to the Holocaust; international law and the Holocaust, and the importance of Holocaust education to prevent discrimination, racism and religious intolerance.
The documentary The Path to Nazi Genocide, was screened to enhance understanding of the Holocaust and its consequences. It stimulated a lively discussion about racist ideology, propaganda and persecution of the Jews and other victims during the Second World War.
A set of posters The Power of Nazi Propaganda provided by the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum were displayed. The posters examine how the Nazis used propaganda to win broad voter support in Germany’s young democracy after the First World War, implement radical programmes under the party’s dictatorship in the 1930s, and justify war and mass murder.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46916-youth-conference-commemorates-victims-holocaust




Date: 26 January 2017
Title: ​​​​​​​Statement by Niels Scott, UN Resident Coordinator, on behalf of the UN Country Team regarding announced closure of cross points along the Inguri River
Content: 26 January 2017
It is incumbent on the United Nations to raise the very real concerns of the population being negatively impacted by these changes, creating greater vulnerability and isolation of those living in the adjacent areas. Based on observed patterns the closure of the remaining pedestrian crossing points will likely affect at least 1,000 crossings a day on average.
The United Nations are concerned that the announced restrictions will have negative consequences for the humanitarian and development needs of those living in Abkhazia, Georgia. As movement is further restricted, the people of Abkhazia will find it more difficult to access basic services such as healthcare and education and participate in economic activities and social events such as weddings, funerals and public holiday commemorations, as well as family gatherings across the dividing line. Notably, access to education for children who have been crossing to attend schools in their mother tongue will be impeded.
We wish to recall the words of the United Nations Secretary-General, who, in his report to the General Assembly in May 2016, urged the authorities in control to reconsider and avoid closing any further crossing points. In his words, the issue of freedom of movement across the administrative boundary line has security, humanitarian and human rights dimensions and remains of utmost importance to the local population.
Again, we urge relevant parties to consider the impact of the announced closing measure on the welfare of the local residents. We call on all sides to ensure the rights and needs of all people living in Abkhazia, Georgia are respected.
The United Nations remain open to continue our constructive dialogue and support finding practical solutions to the issues that may arise.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46918-%E2%80%8B%E2%80%8B%E2%80%8B%E2%80%8B%E2%80%8B%E2%80%8B%E2%80%8Bstatement-niels-scott-un-resident-coordinator-behalf-un-country-team-regarding




Date: 10 December 2016
Title: EU and UN reaffirm commitment to support Georgia in protecting human rights
Content: 10 December 2016
The slogan of Human Rights Day 2016 is Stand up for Someone's Rights Today!
Georgia celebrated Human Rights Day 2016 with a series of events on December 10.
The day saw a street rally on Rustaveli Avenue – the main street of the capital city, Tbilisi, where the Public Defender of Georgia, Ucha Nanuashvili, responded to the questions of the citizens about the key human rights issues related in the country.
Later the same day, the Government of Georgia hosted a Human Rights Day reception which brought together top government officials, senior diplomats, representatives of civil society, international organizations and the media.
Giorgi Kvirikashvili, Prime Minister of Georgia; Irakli Kobakhidze, Chairperson of the Parliament of Georgia; Janos Herman, Ambassador of the European Union to Georgia; Niels Scott, Resident Coordinator of the United Nations in Georgia, Christian Urse, Head of the Council of Europe Office in Georgia, and Ucha Nanuashvili, Public Defender of Georgia, opened the event.
"Today and every day, the European Union stands up for human rights worldwide, working with all who do the same. Also in Georgia, human rights are at the heart of our cooperation. By the Human Rights for All Programme, we actively promote the protection and enforcement of human rights for everyone in Georgia, in particular the more vulnerable groups, including women, children, minorities and people with disabilities," said Janos Herman, Ambassador of the European Union to Georgia.
The celebration of Human Rights Day 2016 was organized by the Government of Georgia and Public Defender of Georgia, with assistance from the European Union (EU) and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) under the EU-funded initiative “Human Rights for All”.
"Human rights is the choice of Georgia's people and the foundation of the country's development and international integration. The United Nations stands ready to support Georgia in every possible way to achieve greater protection of human rights," said Niels Scott, Resident Coordinator of the United Nations in Georgia.
Human Rights Day is observed every year on 10 December. It commemorates the day on which, in 1948, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This year, Human Rights Day is sending an alarm message about disrespect for basic human rights that continues to be wide-spread in all parts of the globe, and calls on everyone to step forward and defend the rights of a refugee or migrant, a person with disabilities, an LGBT person, a woman, a child, indigenous peoples, a minority group, or anyone else at risk of discrimination or violence.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47205-eu-and-un-reaffirm-commitment-support-georgia-protecting-human-rights




Date: 08 December 2016
Title: The Government recommits to build a society free from violence for all women and girls
Content: 08 December 2016


Members of the Parliament, the Government of Georgia, ambassadors and representatives of international organizations and civil society organizations took stock of the progress made in achieving gender equality and preventing and combating violence against women and girls.
H.E. Martina Quick, Ambassador of Sweden to Georgia, highlighted that violence against women and girls is a gross human rights violation that leads to significant moral and economic losses for any society. Preventing and eliminating violence against women and girls is, therefore, one of the key preconditions for building free and prosperous democratic societies.
“We should do our best to ensure that every woman and girl in Georgia is safe and free from violence,” declared Kakha Kaladze, the Deputy Prime Minister of Georgia. “We have to focus more on prevention and start working on it from early childhood, at schools, with the involvement of relevant professionals.”
Head of the Council of Europe’s Office in Georgia Cristian Urse commended the Government for progress made towards addressing violence against women and girls through recent legislative amendments. He also underlined the importance of ratifying the Council of Europe Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence (also known as the Istanbul Convention), which Georgia signed in 2014. “The Istanbul Convention provides an effective framework for addressing violence against women and girls and domestic violence in a holistic and coordinated manner,” Mr. Ursenoted.
Sophio Kiladze, Chair of the Human Rights and Civil Integration Committee of the Parliament of Georgia, expressed her believe that the newly elected parliament will proactively contribute to combating gender-based violence in Georgia.
Sophio Japaridze, Assistant to the Prime Minister of Georgia on Human Rights and Gender Equality Issues, presented an account of work done by the executive branch of the Government that indicated the steps to be taken by the Prime Minister’s Office in 2017, including the institutionalization of a national mechanism on gender equality that aims to end violence against women and domestic violence.
The meeting also provided an opportunity for the Public Defender’s Office to highlight areas of improvement as well as for the representatives of women’s NGOs to advocate for the establishment of a specialized unit on ending violence against women and domestic violence within the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Such a unit, according to their views, would play a significant role in preventing domestic violence and femicides resulting from domestic violence abuse cases.
“We are looking forward to next year’s meeting to mark further progress in making Georgia a country free of gender-based violence,” stated UN Women Representative Erika Kvapilova in her closing remarks.
The High-Level Meeting on Violence against Women and Girls and Domestic Violence is organized by UN Women on an annual basis within the framework of the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence. The meetings take stock of the progress made towards ending violence against women by the duty bearers, identify gaps and areas of improvement and provide an opportunity to strengthen the partnerships among various stakeholders working on ending violence against women and girls in Georgia.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47207-government-recommits-build-society-free-violence-all-women-and-girls




Date: 02 December 2016
Title: Private companies take action  to achieve gender equality
Content: 02 December 2016
The conference, organized by UN Women and the Civil Development Agency (secretariat of the UN Global Compact Network in Georgia), was the culmination of a process during which five small, medium and large Georgian companies assessed their policies and operations from a gender perspective, identified gaps, set goals and developed action plans for their realization, all with UN Women support.
The Deputy Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development, Ms. Ketevan Bochorishvili, applauded the initiative, stating that “Women’s participation in the private sector is high in Georgia, but gender stereotypes often prevent women from fully realizing their potential. The leadership that the companies here today are showing is also a recognition that gender equality is increasingly seen as an important factor for business success.”
The companies – Adjara Group Hospitality, the microfinance organization Crystal, the PR and marketing firm GEPRA, the real estate company m2 and the Georgian American University– presented their action plans. These include internal efforts such as encouraging men to take time off for parental leave, promoting women’s participation in male-dominated professions and establishing complaints mechanisms for cases of discrimination as well as external efforts such as targeting women-owned businesses in procurement and creating employment opportunities for marginalized groups of women.
Valeri Chekheria, CEO of Adjara Group Hospitality and Head of the Board of the UN Global Compact Network, specified some of the challenges that his hotel business faces in a mountainous region of Georgia: “Certain professions are not seen as appropriate for women, and women find it difficult to take on a paid job because they are expected to primarily manage the household. Awareness-raising on women’s rights is essential for changing these attitudes.”
Erika Kvapilova, UN Women Representative, underlined that achievement of the ambitious development plans of the Government of Georgia, including the nationalized Sustainable Development Goals, is impossible without active involvement of businesses: “Mainstreaming gender in companies’ operations helps not only to increase their profits but also prevents gender-based discrimination and improves the overall performance of society.”
The CEOs of the five companies signed the Letter of Support for the WEPs, while an additional three – KPMG, CREDO and Georgian Business Zone – committed to endorsing the WEPs, making a total of 10 WEPs signatories in Georgia.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47206-private-companies-take-action-achieve-gender-equality




Date: 29 November 2016
Title: Recognizing the work of a women's human rights defender with the Kato Mikeladze Award
Content: 29 November 2016
Since 2014, the UN Women Georgia Country Office has supported the Women’s Fund in Georgia (WFG) with the annual Kato Mikeladze award ceremony to honour women’s rights defenders on every 29 November – International Women Human Rights Defenders Day.
“We established this award because the agenda that women’s rights defenders are working on is an extremely important one and this agenda needs to be supported,” stated Nana Pantsulaia, the Head of the WFG.
The 2016 Kato Mikeladze award was granted to Ms. Eka Skhiladze, a women’s rights activist and defender who currently works as the Deputy Public Defender of Georgia. In her speech, Ms. Erika Kvapilova, UN Women Country Representative in Georgia, congratulated Ms. Skhiladze, stating that, “Occasions like this allow us to celebrate achievements and the spirit of activism and to look forward by encouraging and supporting each other and promoting positive role models of women human rights defenders.”
UNDP, MamaCash and Kvinna Till Kvinna were among the other supporting organizations of the event along with UN Women.
The winner of the Kato Mikeladze award is identified by a confidential selection committee on the basis of open nominations made throughout the year. In 2013, the first winner of the award was Ekaterine Aghdgomelashvili, a distinguished women's rights defender and queer activist in Georgia. The winner of the 2014 award was Marina Tabukashvili, director of the NGO “Taso Foundation– Women's Fund and Memory Research Center”. The winner in 2015 was feminist artist and activist Lia Ukleba, who announced the 2016 winner.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47199-recognizing-work-womens-human-rights-defender-kato-mikeladze-award




Date: 21 November 2016
Title: Women peace activists talk to UN representatives during the Open Day on Women, Peace and Security
Content: 21 November 2016
The event brought together women’s civil society organizations and senior UN officials to discuss the implementation of the Women, Peace and Security agenda in Georgia.
“Open Days are an opportunity for the UN system to be better informed on how we can support women’s organizations more effectively in their efforts to prevent conflict, promote peace and advance gender equality. This is a space to bring UN Security Council resolutions on women, peace and security alive,” said Niels Scott, UN Resident Coordinator in his welcome speech.
Marina Pochkhua, a member of IDP Women’s Association “Consent”, summarized observations from the implementation of the 2016-2017 National Action Plan on UN SCR 1325 (NAP). The se have been jointly developed by several organizations representing interests of grassroots women, in particular those living in villages adjacent to control lines with Abkhazia and Tskhinvali/South Ossetia regions. She commended the government for taking the women, peace and security agenda seriously, but also pinpointed gaps and areas of concern including, but not limited to lack of budgetary commitments to the NAP and need for greater involvement of local governments in the implementation of the NAP commitments at the local levels. She called upon UN System to advocate for women’s legitimate needs to meaningfully participate in prevention of conflict, and decision-making as well as for creating more economic opportunities for conflict affected population, including youth.
“These recommendations are taken seriously by the UN system in Georgia. We have presented a joint account of UN support to women’s recommendations from 2015 Open Day, and we will do the same next year. However, our support is not limited to a once-a-year dialogue. Our work towards increasing women’s participation in decision-making, peace-building and (human) security is ongoing. Evidence shows that if women are involved, peace lasts longer and security for all increases. We cannot afford to left women’s contribution to stability and peace unrecognized and underutilized” reflected Erika Kvapilova, UN Women Representative.
UN Women in close cooperation with UN Resident Coordinator’s Office, UNDP have been organizing Open Days in Georgia since 2014. Global tradition in organizing Open Days goes back to 2010, when in commemoration of the 10th anniversary of UNSCR 1325 UN Department of Political Affairs, Department of Peacekeeping Operations, UNDP and Unifem (now UN Women) launched a joint project to support regular consultations between senior leadership of United Nations missions and national and local women peace organizations and activists.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47200-women-peace-activists-talk-un-representatives-during-open-day-women-peace-and-security




Date: 15 November 2016
Title: Women increasingly contribute to strengthening security near the lines of control
Content: 15 November 2016
Supported by UN Women, the meeting was led by the Office of the State Minister for Reconciliation and Civic Equality (OSMRCE), with the participation of the State Security Service of Georgia (SSSG) and high-ranking representatives from the EU Monitoring Mission in Georgia (EUMM).The meeting focused on the outcomes of the latest Incident Prevention and Response Mechanism (IPRM) meetings that recently took place in Ergneti and Gali. Discussion centred around a number of topics, including the everyday security of the population living in villages adjacent to the control lines; challenges related to accessing education in native languages; the need for humanitarian crossing for schoolchildren and for emergency medical evacuations; and the need for economic and employment opportunities for the conflict-affected population.
“These meetings help us to better understand the full-scale impact on the lives of women and girls living along the control line,” remarked Head of EUMM Kęstutis Jankauskas.
Women and their organizations called upon the IPRM participants for a more effective response to their humanitarian needs. They also offered their cooperation in providing additional information that may help to address key humanitarian and security issues of their concern.
Zviad Zviadadze (OSMRCE), Kakhaber Kemoklidze (SSSG), and other IPRM participants ensured the women that their voices are being heard and that cooperation with the local population on addressing the humanitarian and security situation is highly appreciated.
The IPRM information meetings have been initiated and organized by UN Women since 2014. Since 2016, the meetings have been chaired by the OSMRCE, with technical support from UN Women and financial support from the Government of Poland. The next meeting will take place in early 2017.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47202-women-increasingly-contribute-strengthening-security-near-lines-control




Date: 09 November 2016
Title: The National Rugby Teams of Georgia and Samoa Unite to Fight  Violence Against Women
Content: 09 November 2016

In front of 27 000 fans at the Mikheil Meskhi stadium the national rugby teams of Georgia and Samoa expressed their support to the United Nations Secretary General’s UNiTE to End Violence against Women Campaign.
Alama Ieremia, chief coach of the Samoan rugby team appeared at the pre-match press conference in a UNiTE branded t-shirt: “Our relations with the Georgian rugby team started in June, 2016. As the after math we also got involved in the campaign. We share similar values, and are conscientious with regard to our responsibilities. It is a great honor for us to take part in the match devoted to the fight against violence against women and girls”.
Milton Heig, chief coach of the Georgian national rugby team, who always supports and is engaged in UN Women’s activities devoted to the cause of ending violence against women and girls underlined: It is a great honor for us to support the UNiTE campaign, we have been supporting the generous aim for years. For me as for a husband and farther it is of paramount importance to be involved in the campaign. We as a team are to reach out to everyone. We will do our best to achieve this aim.”
The match ended with the victory of Georgia, score - 20:16 and at the same time Levan Chalichava has earned the man of the match award and has been granted a prize on behalf of the UNiTE campaign by Irina Japharidze, UN Women Programme Analyst.
Georgian rugby players have a long-standing partnership with UN Women in the framework of the UN Joint programme for gender equality (funded by the Government of Sweden and implemented by UNDP, UN Women and UNFPA). This cooperation is aimed at increasing men’s engagement in the fight against violence against women and girls. The rugby team Lelos, have devoted several international matches to this cause under the aegis of the UN Secretary-General’s UNiTE to End Violence against Women Campaign as well as the UN Women’s solidarity movement for gender equality – HeforShe. In addition, the Lelos travel throughout Georgia to meet with local men and boys and speak to them about the inadmissibility of violence against women and girls.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47201-national-rugby-teams-georgia-and-samoa-unite-fight-violence-against-women




Date: 24 October 2016
Title: UN Unveils Art Installation to Take SDGs Public
Content: 24 October 2016

An art installation of a Rubik’s Cube that features the Sustainable Development Goals was unveiled today by the UN Resident Coordinator Niels Scott, representatives of the non-governmental organizations and media on Rustaveli Avenue, the central avenue in Tbilisi.
At the unveiling, Mr. Scott called on to mobilize and advance local action and change for the implementation of the new 15-year development agenda.
“The new Global Goals – 17 Sustainable Development Goals  - are huge and interrelated – end poverty, protect the safety of the planet, improve  education, health and ensure that all human beings enjoy equal rights and prosperity, leaving no one behind.  We believe that Georgia has the capacity to reach the Sustainable Development Goals and meet all challenges,“ he said.
Through this project, launched on UN Day, the UN Office in Georgia aimed to raise public awareness of the Sustainable Development Goals. Like the Rubik’s Cube, the Sustainable Development Goals are universal, indivisible and linked to each other.
Throughout the day, the children and other volunteers were busy distributing booklets about the SDGs in Georgian language on Rustaveli Avenue. Passer-by kids also were given toy Rubik’s Cubes branded with SDG logos as gifts.
The campaign was organized by the United Nations Office in Georgia in cooperation with the local non-governmental organizations.
Other events organized in celebration of UN Day included: TV spots, UN4U and info sessions for students from intermediate, high schools and universities across the country which featured panel discussions and roundtables on the Sustainable Development Goals and on several topics of priority to Georgia and the UN.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47203-un-unveils-art-installation-take-sdgs-public




Date: 16 October 2016
Title: World Food Day Marked in Georgia
Content: 16 October 2016
Climate change and the International Year of Pulses were the main themes or the World Food Day event organized by the Representation of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in Georgia and the Ministry of Agriculture of Georgia.
In his opening address Assistant FAO Representative in Georgia Mr.Mamuka Meskhi discussed the key sectors and directions of agriculture, the strengthening of which is vital for sustainable development of the sector in the face of climate change.
“The Agricultural sector has great potential to reduce the increasing pace of climate change. This requires adaptation of the production and introduction of climate-smart agricultural practices,'' he said.
The Minister of Agriculture of Georgia, Mr. Levan Davitashvili noted that climate change and global warming have become one of the key challenges of the 21st century.  All developed countries of the world are focusing their efforts toward the development and implementation of policies to adapt to these threats.
“The sustainable development of climate-smart agriculture is essential for poverty reduction, food security, enhancement of farmers' competitiveness as well as implementation of policy adapted to climate change. Given the objectives of sustainable development drawn up by FAO, the Government of Georgia envisaged minimum standard in all strategic documents, that is essential for proper development of the sector, aimed at minimizing the impact to the environment,” Davitashvili said.
World Food Day commemorates the founding of FAO in 1945, making it the day to celebrate FAO’s activities and achievements. Javier Sanz Alvarez, Coordination Officer for FAO-ENPARD Programme in Georgia, gave an overview of the projects that FAO successfully implemented during the past year and stressed the importance of the work done by the organization to support the sustainable development of Georgian agriculture. 
Students from the European School took part in the event as well, presenting a vision of a new generation regarding the fight against climate change. They stressed the importance of contribution of each child and adult in making the world sustainable to face climate change. The students were awarded with the certificates of appreciation.
It should be noted that the UN General Assembly officially named 2016 as the International Year of Pulses (beans, peas, chickpeas and lentils).  Therefore, the event discussed methods recommended by FAO to increase the production and consumption of these crops. Good agricultural practise of preserving, producing and promoting pulses in Georgia was presented by Tea Chitadze, representative of the Bio-farming Association Elkana, which implemented the project - Recovery, Conservation, and Sustainable Use of Georgia’s Agrobiodiversity.
At the event, Chef Manuel Baranda talked about using traditional Georgian beans, peas, chickpeas and lentils in modern cuisine and offered the guests traditional Georgian and European dishes made of them especially for this day.
“There are several reasons why production and consumption of pulses is recommended. They can easily be produced, are characterized by high nutritional value, and most importantly, are beneficial to health,” Baranda noted.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47204-world-food-day-marked-georgia




Date: 15 October 2016
Title: Rural Women's Day
Content: 15 October 2016
The event in Kachreti Vocational School “AISI” brought together over 50 women farmers and councillors from different parts of Georgia, as well as representatives of international organizations, government and MPs.
The event encompassed the exhibition/sale of local produce by women farmers and the panel discussion including Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, and the Chair of The Agrarian Issues Committee of the Parliament.
Women councillors and farmers raised a range of issues at the panel discussion, including: problems with drinking and irrigation water supply; farmer’s cooperatives; pastures; land taxes; and pre-school education.
The first International Day of Rural Women was observed on 15 October 2008. This new international day, established by the General Assembly in its resolution 62/136 of 18 December 2007, recognizes “the critical role and contribution of rural women, including indigenous women, in enhancing agricultural and rural development, improving food security and eradicating rural poverty.”
Rural women in Georgia are not actively taking part in local-level decision-making while they are playing decisive role in household nutrition and subsistence farming. Unequal division of labour at home leaves women with significantly less time for leisure and self-development than it is the case with men. According to official data, in rural areas male-headed households represent 69.1%, and female-headed households – 30.9%. While in urban areas the division is 61.2% and 38.8% respectively. Women represent only 10% of local governance.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47063-rural-womens-day




Date: 07 October 2016
Title: International Parliamentary Conference in Georgia
Content: 07 October 2016
With less than two months ahead of the Vilnius Summit, Georgia is hosting an International Parliamentary Conference on Monday, 7 October 2013, to discuss the country’s progress towards the European Union.
The event brought together parliament leaders from the Baltic and Central European states, top officials of the Georgian Government, representatives of diplomatic missions, international organizations and civil society.
With the aim to assess Georgia’s achievements and challenges on the path to the European Union, the conference focused on a range of issues, including: the harmonization of the legislation, the completion of talks on the Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area Agreement (DCFTA) and the Association Agreement with the European Union as well as on the role of the Parliament in the EU integration process.
David Usupashvili, Chairperson of the Parliament of Georgia, Loreta Grauziniene, Speaker of the Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania, Niels Scott, UNDP Resident Representative in Georgia, Philip Dimitrov, Head of European Union Delegation in Georgia, Hans Horbach, Ambassador of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Georgia
The conference was organised by the Parliament of Georgia with assistance from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47061-international-parliamentary-conference-georgia




Date: 24 September 2016
Title: Georgian Women Photographers to Focus on Sexual Harassment in Workplace
Content: 24 September 2016
What ethical considerations should be taken into account when working on such sensitive issue? How to technically capture and edit a picture, so that it talks directly and unambiguously to the viewer? These and other questions were discussed at a workshopheld at the outskirts of the Tbilisi Photo Festival (September 21 – 24, 2016), and led by the British Photographer Alixandra Fazzina, a well-accomplished and an award winning member of Noor Photo Agency and Foundation.
Eight Georgian female photographers, who document various social, political and environmental issues, have discussed sexual harassment at work place - frequently unrecognized and underreported problem, also with UN Women Programme Specialist Tamar Sabedashvili. She highlighted how sexual harassment can lead to irreparable damages in women’s lives, but also negatively impact on overall performance of enterprises and institutions. While other inequalities in the work place can be relatively easily captured by data (such as gender wage gap, percentage of women as compare to men in managerial positions, number of men and women promoted during given period of time) sexual harassment is difficult to detect, report, effectively address and prevent.A significant part of the problem is public tolerance to inappropriate behavior and persistent gender stereotypes. The problem is, however, common, and no country can say that have eradicated sexual harassment at work place completely.
“Documentary and artistic photography can greatly contribute to uncovering unseen or taboo topics” noted Mzia Saganelidze, a participant of the workshop. “Many of us may fail to realize that have been exposed to sexual harassment, because we are simply used to sexist remarks or behavior. It is, however, time to start questioning what is and what is not appropriate communication between colleagues at work place, and try also to visualize it. The workshop has definitely helped to realize that the problem exists and is unaddressed. Picturing sexual harassment at work place in non-explicit way is not an easy task. Yet,I strongly believe that photography has the power to speak about everything”.
“We know each other, but have never before worked as a team,” said Leli Blagonravova. A photographer who is known for her work in covering human rights and social issues. “I believe we can do a lot together to raise awareness of the problem. We plan continue working on our ideas developed during the workshop and present our works to public later this year”.
“We planto benefit from creative ideas presented in the end of the workshop. We aim at bringing the issue –captured through the eyes of Georgian female photographers, to the places where the photos will speak out -- including to law-makers and employers. We know, it can be powerful and empowering. We have done it before and learned that art, including photography, can help to acceleratea positive change in lives of women”, commented Erika Kvapilova, UN Women Country Representative.
Tbilisi Photo Festival (since 2010), is one of the most important international cultural events in the South Caucasus. Each year, the festival attracts internationally renowned photographers, experts of photography, curators, and photo editors of international magazines and newspapers, and it hosts exhibitions of top-class photographers, educational events, and a popular event known as the Night of Photography in the capital of Georgia. Tbilisi Photo Festival aims to raisepublic awareness of social, economic and political issues through the use of photography. The cooperation between UN Women and Tbilisi Photo Festival began in 2015., when UN Women supported a round table that brought together prominent female photographers from several countries, titled “Are women changing photography?”
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47193-georgian-women-photographers-focus-sexual-harassment-workplace




Date: 22 September 2016
Title: Georgia: UN Rights Expert to Follow up on the Situation of Internally Displaced Persons
Content: 22 September 2016
He will follow up on the recommendations made in his 2014 report* to the UN Human Rights Council.
“During my visit, I will consider progress made with regard to the protection and assistance provided to IDPs and look at current challenges and opportunities for durable solutions in Georgia, particularly the integration of IDP needs into broader development plans and initiatives,” said the UN Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons.
“I have continued to pay attention to the protracted situation of IDPs in Georgia and the current inability of IDPs to return voluntarily to their places of origin,” Mr. Beyani said. “Some of those who did return to Abkhazia, Georgia, continue to face difficulties in accessing their rights, including to documentation and freedom of movement.” 
During his five-day visit, the expert will meet with Government officials, UN partners and civil society organisations, as well as displaced persons and affected communities.
At the end of his visit, Mr. Beyani will present the findings in statement.
(*) Check the Special Rapporteur’s 2014 report on Georgia: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/HRC/RegularSessions/Session26/Documents/A_HRC_26_33_Add_1_ENG.doc
ENDS
Mr. Chaloka Beyani, professor of international law at the London School of Economics, was appointed Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons by the Human Rights Council in September 2010. As a Special Rapporteur, he is part of the Special Procedures of Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization, and serve in their individual capacity. Learn more, visit: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/IDPersons/Pages/IDPersonsIndex.aspx
Check the UN Guiding Principles on Internal Displacement:  http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/IDPersons/Pages/Standards.aspx
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47194-georgia-un-rights-expert-follow-situation-internally-displaced-persons




Date: 22 September 2016
Title: Georgia: UN Rights Expert to Follow up on the Situation of IDPs
Content: 22 September 2016
He will follow up on the recommendations made in his 2014 report* to the UN Human Rights Council.
“During my visit, I will consider progress made with regard to the protection and assistance provided to IDPs and look at current challenges and opportunities for durable solutions in Georgia, particularly the integration of IDP needs into broader development plans and initiatives,” said the UN Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons.
“I have continued to pay attention to the protracted situation of IDPs in Georgia and the current inability of IDPs to return voluntarily to their places of origin,” Mr. Beyani said. “Some of those who did return to Abkhazia, Georgia, continue to face difficulties in accessing their rights, including to documentation and freedom of movement.” 
During his five-day visit, the expert will meet with Government officials, UN partners and civil society organisations, as well as displaced persons and affected communities.
At the end of his visit, Mr. Beyani will present the findings in statement.
(*) Check the Special Rapporteur’s 2014 report on Georgia: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/HRC/RegularSessions/Session26/Documents/A_HRC_26_33_Add_1_ENG.doc
ENDS
Mr. Chaloka Beyani, professor of international law at the London School of Economics, was appointed Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons by the Human Rights Council in September 2010. As a Special Rapporteur, he is part of the Special Procedures of Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization, and serve in their individual capacity. Learn more, visit: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/IDPersons/Pages/IDPersonsIndex.aspx
Check the UN Guiding Principles on Internal Displacement:  http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/IDPersons/Pages/Standards.aspx
You can access this media advisory at: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=20562&LangID=E
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47059-georgia-un-rights-expert-follow-situation-idps




Date: 06 September 2016
Title: The First Crisis Centre for the Victims of Domestic Violence has been opened in Tbilisi
Content: 06 September 2016
The event was supported by UN Women in the framework of the UN Joint Programme to Enhance Gender Equality funded by the government of Sweden.
The long-standing cooperation between the State Fund and UN Women since 2010 has resulted in the establishment four shelters for victims of domestic violence and the nation-wide domestic violence hotline 2 116 006. However, until now there had been no state-run crisis centers in Georgia constituting a significant gap in ensuring universal, free of charge access to services to the victims/survivors of domestic violence.
“I am very happy to launch this state funded crisis center that will provide services to all in need, regardless of their official victim status” stated Mr. David Sergeenko, the Minister of Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia at the opening ceremony.
Head of Swedish Development Cooperation Ms. Molly Lien stressed, that “the opening of the center is remarkable not only because it provides much needed services to the victims of domestic violence, but also because it contributes to broader gender equality agenda in the country and to the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals”.
Ms. Erika Kvapilova, UN Women Country Representative underlined that the opening of the first state-run crisis center is “an important step forward in meeting governments commitments under the Law of Georgia on the Elimination of Domestic Violence, Protection of and Support to Its Victims as well as of the National Action Plan for Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence for the years 2016-2017.” The plan for the establishment of the state-run crisis center has been already welcome by Ms. Dubravka Simonovic, UN Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences in her Georgia specific report issues released earlier this year (June 2016).
The Tbilisi crisis center has the possibility to accommodate alleged victims of domestic violence until the official domestic violence victim status is granted that entitles beneficiaries to be transferred to state-run shelters. The victims not willing/needing to be placed in a crisis center or shelter can visit the center for other services such as psycho-social rehabilitation, legal aid, first aid/emergency medical assistance during the working days. The crisis center that was opened in Tbilisi can accommodate 18 persons at once, including children and persons with special needs (disabilities).
UN Women in partnership with the government of Sweden and European Union plans to support expanding of the network of crisis centers in other regions of Georgia, providing services not only to the victims of domestic violence but also to the victims/survivors of sexual violence outside the context of domestic violence. The plans also include elaboration of standards for the service provision for the victims/survivors of sexual violence and development of a training-module on the issues of sexual violence for the employees of the state-run center, shelters and the hotline.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47195-first-crisis-centre-victims-domestic-violence-has-been-opened-tbilisi




Date: 27 July 2016
Title: What do Georgians think about public services?
Content: 27 July 2016
Quality of roads, public kindergartens, cleaning service and citizen engagement in decision-making are in focus of a research commissioned by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Swiss Cooperation Office (SCO) for the South Caucasus and Austrian Development Cooperation (ADC) and carried out by the Georgian research company ACT in November 2015.
Niels Scott, Head of UNDP in Georgia, and Tengiz Shergelashvili, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Infrastructure of Georgia, addressed the participants of an event with welcome remarks.
The comprehensive nation-wide research is based on interviews with 3,800 citizens over the age of 18 in all regions of Georgia. It examines public views about the services that are currently provided by municipalities and central government, provides comparative analysis with the similar study conducted in 2013, and includes recommendations for local authorities based on the perceptions and expectations of citizens.
The research is part of a wider programme supported by UNDP, Swiss Cooperation Office (SCO) for the South Caucasus and Austrian Development Cooperation (ADC) to assist self-governance reform in Georgia.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47196-what-do-georgians-think-about-public-services




Date: 22 July 2016
Title: Civil Society Releases First Findings of Election Media Monitoring
Content: 22 July 2016
Three civil society organizations – Georgian Charter of Journalistic Ethics, Internews – Georgia and Civic Development Institute (CDI), released the first media monitoring report ahead of the 8 October Parliamentary elections in Georgia.
Carlo Natale, Deputy Head of Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, and Natia Natsvlishvili, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. in Georgia, welcomed participants of the press conference and then gave floor to media monitors who presented key findings of the first six weeks of media monitoring, May 20 –July 11.
The election media monitoring will go on through the end of November 2016 to assess performance of forty-six national and local media outlets – televisions, radio, print and online media. Next intermediate reports will be released in September and early October, prior to the election day. The final report will be published at the end of 2016.
The election media monitoring is supported by the European Union and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
A full version of the report is available online at: www.mediamonitor.ge
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47197-civil-society-releases-first-findings-election-media-monitoring




Date: 19 July 2016
Title: Georgian First Deputy Foreign Minister Addresses the UN High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development
Content: 19 July 2016
Georgian First Deputy Foreign Minister David Zalkaliani took part in the Ministerial meeting of the United Nations High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development, held under the ECOSOC aegis, on 18-20 July 2016, in New York. On 18 July, David Zalkaliani delivered a speech at the HLPF general debates.
It should be noted that the High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development is United Nations central platform for the follow-up and review of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Sustainable Development Goals. The theme of the 2016 HLPF is “Ensuring that no one is left behind”, which is also a central promise of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
In his speech, David Zalkaliani focused on the need to protect all groups of the population and highlighted Georgia’s efforts directed towards the integration of minorities. The First Deputy Foreign Minister underlined that when implementing the sustainable development goals one should remember the internally displaced persons, who are not able to return to their homes. David Zalkaliani also spoke about the needs of the IDPs and refuges from Georgia’s occupied regions and about the continued violations of the fundamental human rights of people living in the occupied territories, including, restrictions on access to education in the native language and free movement.   Davit Zalkaliani paid special attention to the murder of Giga Otkhozoria in the village of Khurcha.
On 19 July, in the frames of the High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development, David Zalkaliani presented the first National Voluntary Review on the steps Georgia has been taking in terms of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46934-georgian-first-deputy-foreign-minister-addresses-un-high-level-political-forum-sustainable




Date: 18 July 2016
Title: The Implementation of the Law on Early and Preschool Education Requires the Effective Systems
Content: 18 July 2016
The conference was attended by the Minister of Education and Science of Georgia and the Mayor of Tbilisi as putting the main principles of the Law in practice requires coordinated and more enhanced efforts from the central as well as municipal authorities.
“UNICEF commends the efforts of the Parliament of Georgia and especially the Human Rights and Civil Integration Committee for leading the process of adoption of the Law which aims to create a stronger legal basis and national standards for inclusive early and preschool education for all children in Georgia” said Sascha Graumann, UNICEF Representative in Georgia. “UNICEF will continue to support the Government in implementation of the Law and in development of an effective early and preschool education system in Georgia.”
The implementation process is crucial for realizing the main principles of the law in practice. The Law foresees the introduction of a pre-primary year for all five-year-old children to improve school readiness, mechanisms for the prevention of violence against children and development of the national standards in education, hygiene and sanitation, nutrition, physical environment in pre-school institutions. The Law also envisages increased responsibilities of the central authorities to monitor the national standards as well as supports municipalities to improve governance, quality and access to inclusive pre-school education. To make the new Law effective, it is essential to establish a national system for pre- and in-service training of preschool educators.
UNICEF is currently advising the respective ministries on the preparation of subsequent regulations and national standards.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47198-implementation-law-early-and-preschool-education-requires-effective-systems




Date: 13 July 2016
Title: EU Commissioner For European Neighbourhood Policy and Enlargement Negotiations will visit Georgia  to speak  at  “Georgia's European Way” Conference in Batumi
Content: 13 July 2016
Reflecting the EU's key commitment to cooperation with Georgia, on 14 July Commissioner Hahn will travel to Georgia to deliver the keynote speech at the 13th Batumi International Conference on "Georgia's European Way 2016" together with high ranking Georgian politicians.


In addition, he will hold a series of bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Giorgi Kvirikashvili, President Giorgi Margvelashvili, Foreign Minister Mikheil Janelidze and State Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration Davit Bakradze.
The annual Batumi International Conference is an important discussion hub on European affairs since 2007, and creates a venue for high officials from Georgia, its partner nations as well as EU countries to analyse current issues and exchange ideas in order to address current EU-related challenges.
After the conference, Commissioner Hahn will also visit a number of EU-funded agriculture projects in Adjara region, accompanied by EU Ambassador to Georgia Janos Herman and United Nations Resident Coordinator Niels Scott.
At 15:45 hr, Commissioner Hahn will visit the “Lurja 2015” agricultural cooperative producing berries in Ochkhamuri village in Kobuleti. The founder and several members of the cooperative are visually impaired. The Commissioner Johannes Hahn will hand over two laptop computers with speech recognition software programme specially designed for visually impaired persons.
At 16:20 hr, Commissioner Johannes Hahn will visit the Kobuleti branch of the Adjara autonomous republic Agroservice Center. The guests will see the ENPARD demonstration high technological greenhouse, the grape and fruit nursery, and will also observe the scientists working in the nurseries and the ongoing training of farmers.
The visit to EU funded agricultural cooperatives and the meetings with small farmers will offer the Commissioner first-hand information about the successes of agriculture cooperatives, and the role of agriculture cooperation in boosting rural development in Georgia. Both projects are funded through the EU's ENPARD programme. Since 2013, ENPARD has supported Georgia’s agriculture and rural development with over GEL 250 million.
More information on ENPARD agricultural cooperative “Lurja 2015” and Adjara autonomous republic Agroservice Center is provided in Annex.
For information on ENPARD please visit www.enpard.ge or contact:
For more information on EU activities in Georgia please visit http://euingeorgia.ge or contact:
Annex
•      13th Batumi International Conference on "Georgia's European Way 2016"
The annual Batumi International Conference is organised by the Office of the State Minister of Georgia on European and Euro-Atlantic Integration since 2007.  The main topics of this year’s Batumi International Conference will include: Georgia – EU relations; A discussion about the European Neighbourhood Policy, its future, the lessons learned and key challenges; implementation of the EU-Georgia Association Agreement, including the DCFTA and visa liberalisation. The conference will also address the geopolitical situation in the region, along with modern security challenges and opportunities.

•      ENPARD / UNDP agricultural cooperative “Lurja 2015”
The cooperative “Lurja 2015” in the village of Ochkhsmuri (Kobuleti) grows blueberries and strawberries on 1.5 hectares of land. The production has substantially increased since the farmers received new seedlings and an up-to-date drip watering system with assistance from ENPARD.
Expected productivity of this small berry plantations makes up to 10 tonnes per 1 hectare.
The head of the cooperative, Alexi Tsevelidze, visually impaired, is extremely motivated and skilled farmer and one of the best ENPARD grantees.
•      Adjara Agroservice Centre (www.agrosc.ge)
The Adjara Agroservice Centre (ASC) is the largest provider of agriculture extension, i.e. information and consultation services for farmers in Adjara.
The ASC was launched by the Adjara AR Government in 2011 to support the development of targeted branches of agriculture in the region. For the last three years, the Centre operates with assistance from the European Union and UNDP, which has allowed to increase the scope of its services, open new branches all over the region, and provide regular assistance (consultations, training, technical support) to tens of thousands of small farmers.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47185-eu-commissioner-european-neighbourhood-policy-and-enlargement-negotiations-will-visit-georgia




Date: 06 June 2016
Title: Government of Georgia joins hands with the European Union and United Nations to enhance human rights protection
Content: 06 June 2016
Giorgi Kvirikashvili, Prime Minister of Georgia; Janos Herman, Ambassador of the European Union to Georgia; and Niels Scott, Resident Coordinator of the United Nations in Georgia, opened the event with welcome remarks to representatives of the Government, Parliament, civil society, international organizations, diplomatic missions and the media.
The reception acknowledged Georgia’s progress in promoting national mechanisms for the effective protection of human rights, including for the endorsement of the National Human Rights Strategy by the Parliament of Georgia two years ago, in May 2014.
The event also informed about the launch of a large-scale three-year programme to support the implementation and monitoring of the National Human Rights Strategy and Action Plan in the areas prioritized by the European Union-Georgia agreements – the rights of minorities and vulnerable groups, internal and external oversight of law enforcement, children’s rights, labour rights, protection of privacy, and freedom of expression and information.
The programme “Human Rights for All” is funded by the European Union and jointly implemented by the four UN agencies – United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF), Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) and International Labour Organization (ILO).
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47186-government-georgia-joins-hands-european-union-and-united-nations-enhance-human-rights




Date: 02 June 2016
Title: The Presentation of the Legal Estimation of the  “Practical Analysis and Preventive Recommedations on Past Torture and Inhuman Treatment
Content: 02 June 2016

The report reads: “The State shall investigate the past inhuman treatment facts taking place prior to 2012 Elections to prevent political revenge. The state shall undertake all necessary measures within authority to provide the victims of the offenses with effective protection in line with the paragraph 3, Article 2 of the Convention”.
The Human Rights and Civil Integration Committee, based on the hereof recommendations, set up the working group to develop the legal estimation of past torture and inhuman treatment facts (2004-2012). The legal document was been publicly represented in Hualing Hotel, attended by the Prime Minister, the Speaker, the Chair of the Supreme Court, legislative and executive authorities, Public Defender and the diplomatic corps.
The Prime Minister, the Speaker and the Senior Advisor to the UN Human Rights Office of High Commissioner delivered the welcome speeches.
As the Speaker stated, torture has not justification with any arguments, including the state of war, the threat of war, domestic political instability and other emergencies.
“No such severe standard is established for any actions. The most supreme granted to the humankind by the God, even life can be lawfully deprived and we know it. But torture cannot be justified with any argument, any circumstances because when a person deliberately wants another to suffer physical pain to achieve one’s goals, thus, he/she loses a human face. It is a very important, very fundamental value, serving the basis for the modern world”.
The Speaker elucidated that in 2004-2012, the society witnessed the system problem in this sphere and the resuming report by the Human Rights Committee working group reflects torture and inhuman treatment in this period. “I have already been asked today: why 2004-2012? Because unfortunately, we witnessed the gravest events in this sphere, which were called the system problem on all the levels. It entailed implementation of respective emergency measures in the Parliament. The Human Rights Committee set up the working group and we will see the results of their work. But why we will see it? Because we are better than our political opponents? Of course not! We will see because similar facts shall never take place in Georgia again as any punishment, any estimation is of this very purpose”.
It is impossible to regain what people lose due to torture. Though, we can prevent such facts in the future. As the Speaker noted, according to the world experience, we shall hold uninterrupted fight against human torture and when offense is committed, we shall be intolerable. “There may be someone, unhealthy persons committing similar offense but we shall intolerable and as the UN Convention provides, we cannot find any justification under any circumstances”.
The Speaker resumed: “I believe that at our meeting today, at our event being held under the aegis of the Parliament with participation of the representatives of all Governmental branches, executive authority, law-enforcement agencies, we will be attentive to hear the report and those, to whom it concerns, will do their best to punish the offenders and to create the respective guarantees – legislative guarantees, moral guarantees, institutional guarantees to provide that such surveys and conclusions will never be necessary again”.
The PM, Giorgi Kvirikashvili thanked the Parliament, the Human Rights Committee and the working group for development of this document based on the UN Human Rights Office conclusions and recommendations. It was not only demand of Georgian society.
“Our aim is to live in the country without executioners and victims. We shall not only call the events their names but we shall make their legal estimation, analysis and fact finding. Today, we heard the conclusion and one glance is enough to see the whole terrible picture. Despite that seemingly we knew everything, still it appeared hard for us to imagine that these terrible facts took place in our country, so close to us – merciless and inhuman treatment, blackmail and humiliation, deprivation of dignity and property, murders. And we witnessed it in our country, the Government of which officially used to declare the European course. The conclusion provides argumented appalling facts, giving more systematic impression of what was going on in our country. The scales were appalling and the offenses were systematic we knew it on the basis of the reports of international human rights organizations. We witness thousands of cases for which many are under prosecution, under trial. There are the cases still under investigation. I am sure that the offenders will be punished”.
The Government many times declared and proved that the aim is achievement of social agreement as today, Georgia holds building of democratic, European, civilized state. “We had to make immense efforts to prevent civil confrontation and revenge. Moreover, today we often hear from the creators of this merciless system groundless and insulting accusations towards our Government. And despite of these filthy accusations, they well know that even due the most radical estimation today, the state mechanism will not be directed against them and they will not become the victims of blackmail and revenge. And it is the achievement of our Government and our people. This is the featured method of our Government”.
The Senior Advisor to UN High Commissioner to South Caucasus, Vladimir Shkolnikov addressed the attendees and stated that attendance of high rank officials of Georgian Government speaks of their interest and commitment for elimination of torture and inhuman treatment.
The Chair of Human Rights Committee, Eka Beselia held the presentation of legal estimation.
According to the decision of February 10, 2015, the working group was set up composed of MPs, representatives of the Prosecutor’s Office, MIA, Ministry of Corrections, Public Defender Office aiming at analysis of torture and inhuman treatment facts in temporary isolators, administrative prisons and detention areas till 2012. The working group, after systematization of more than 6000 applications, outlined only those providing concrete information about torture and inhuman treatment. The studied material revealed that more than 400 applications provided concrete facts. In more than 340 applications, the reporters noted to become the victim of torture and inhuman treatment. Taking the estimations and recommendations of international and special reporters, the working group has developed the document reflecting not only system offense facts and their systematization but also developed the preventive recommendations.
E. Beselia spoke about the recommendations and noted that the working group took the recommendations by the special rapporteur into account. The part of the recommendations concern legislative changes initiated in the Parliament this week. The changes are to be adopted to the Criminal Code, namely concerning annulment of status of limitation of the article on torture. The legal estimations developed will be submitted to the Parliament and the Prosecutor’s Office.
The representative of UN Human Rights Office of High Commissioner to Georgia, Besarion Bokhashvili introduced the report. He spoke about recommendations of international and national supervision agencies on prohibition of torture and other severe treatment and emphasized preventive measures and legislative changes.
The presentation was organized by the Human Rights and Civil Integration Committee and UN Human Rights Office of High Commissioner.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47187-presentation-legal-estimation-%E2%80%9Cpractical-analysis-and-preventive-recommedations-past-torture




Date: 20 May 2016
Title: Georgia and  Armenia maintain open and secure borders
Content: 20 May 2016
UNDP presented the results of the EU-funded project to improve border management at the Ninotsminda-Bavra border crossing point between Georgia and Armenia, and introduced a future initiative at the Bagratashen-Sadakhlo border crossing point.
Representatives of the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Finance and National Security Council of Georgia, and the National Security Council, National Security Service, Police and Revenue Committee of Armenia attended the conference together with the senior officers from the State Border Guard Service of Latvia who provided assistance and consultation throughout the project.
Ambassador Philip Dimitrov, Head of the European Union Delegation to Georgia, and Niels Scott, Head of the United Nations Development Programme in Georgia addressed the participants at the opening session.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47062-georgia-and-armenia-maintain-open-and-secure-borders




Date: 10 May 2016
Title: Road Safety Conference held in Tbilisi
Content: 10 May 2016
The conference organized within a framework of the UN Decade of Action for Road safety, brought together representatives of the Government, civil society and international organizations.
Eka Laliashvili - Chair of the Board of Georgia Alliance for Safe Roads,  Shombi Sharp – Deputy Head of UNDP in Georgia, David Narmania - Tbilisi Mayor,  Shalva Khutsishvili – Deputy Interior Minister, David Khutsishvili – Deputy Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development, Giorgi Seturidze - Head of Georgian Road Department the Road Department addressed the participants at an opening session.
The participants of the conference discussed ongoing projects to advance road safety and decrease fatalities and injuries resulting from road collisions.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47189-road-safety-conference-held-tbilisi




Date: 08 April 2016
Title: The conference  to promote a greater knowledge of and respect for the diverse heritage held in Tbilisi
Content: 08 April 2016
The conference “Celebrating the Heritage and Culture of the African Diaspora and its Roots ”  was organized in celebration of the International Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave Trade
The European Law Students’ Association-Georgia, with assistance from the United Nations Office in Tbilisi, organized a conference on 8 April 8 2016 to promote a greater knowledge of and respect for the diverse heritage, culture and contribution of people of African descent to the development of societies.
The conference “Celebrating the Heritage and Culture of the African Diaspora and its Roots ”  organized in celebration of the International Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave Trade brought together students of Tbilisi State University, Ilia State University, Tbilisi Technical University, Caucasian International School, and the Georgian Institute of Public Affairs.
The conference was facilitated by Ms. Flora Pachulia, founder of the NGO World Without War and the member of organization Cooperation for Peace and Progress.
The poster exhibit ‘Africans in India: From Slaves to Generals and Rulers’ was also opened in the lobby of Tbilisi State University.
The conference was followed by a screening of the Roy T. Anderson film 'Queen Nanny: Legendary Maroon Chieftainess'. The screening of the Roy T. Anderson film and follow-up discussion was also organized in Batumi.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47190-conference-promote-greater-knowledge-and-respect-diverse-heritage-held-tbilisi




Date: 29 March 2016
Title: My Rustaveli  - Essay Contest for Students
Content: 29 March 2016
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science of Georgia and Ministry of Culture and Monument Protection of Georgia announces the essay contest for students #MyRustaveli.
Themes of the essays:
Selection Criteria
Conditions:
Prizes:
Three winners of the contest will be given opportunity to undertake short-term paid apprenticeship at the Ministry of Education and Science of Georgia, Ministry of Culture and Monument Protection of Georgia and the Gender Equality Project of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Georgia.
Contest annoncements are also available at the websites:
The contest is organized within the framework of the UN Joint Programme for Gender Equality in Georgia funded by the Government of Sweden.
Essays should be submitted in an electronic form only to the following e-mail addresses:
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47192-my-rustaveli-essay-contest-students




Date: 22 March 2016
Title: National Action Plan  on Gender equality: Annual Results
Content: 22 March 2016
The event was organized with assistance from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Government of Sweden.
Manana Kobakhidze, First Deputy Chairperson of the Parliament and Chair of the Gender Equality Council; and Shombi Sharp, UNDP Resident Representative a.i. in Georgia, addressed the participants.
“We are deeply encouraged that gender equality has become a priority for the Georgian Government. In fact, a lot of progress has been made already in terms of new policies and legislation, as well as better coordination between partners – the government, donors, international organisations and civil society. But now it is time to translate this into real change - to bring more women into politics, close the wage gap and increase the number of female entrepreneurs. Evidence shows that across the world, where this is achieved, everybody wins, from women and their families to the welfare and development of the country” – Shombi Sharp said.
The Parliament of Georgia adopted the National Action Plan on Gender Equality 2014-2016 in January 2014. The second-year implementation report focuses on Georgia’s achievements in 2015 on the way to gender equality in all aspects of political, economic and social life, as well as on the challenges faced by the country in this area.
The United Nations in Georgia, with the financial support of the Swedish Government, is implementing a Joint Programme “for Gender Equality”. Three UN agencies are involved in this project: UNDP, UNFPA and UN Women.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47179-national-action-plan-gender-equality-annual-results




Date: 19 March 2016
Title: Earth Hour 2016 in Georgia: The Future Starts Today
Content: 19 March 2016

At 8:30 PM, landmarks and public buildings all over the country symbolically went dark for an hour followed by the street actions and rallies in support of greener and safer future of the planet.
The Earth Hour sites in Tbilisi included Narikala Fortress, Peace Bridge, TV Tower, Presidential Palace, Parliament, Government Chancellery, City Hall, Youth Palace, UN House, government offices and main avenues.
Hundreds of Earth Hour supporters, including for the citizens, Government officials, representatives of civil society, international organizations and embassies, came to the Round Garden in front of the UN House for a traditional lights-off celebration with live music, candles and the Shadow Theatre show.
Gigla Agulashvili, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Protection of Georgia; Shombi Sharp, UNDP Resident Representative a.i.; Nana Janashia, Executive Director of CENN; and Giorgi Sanadiradze, Head of WWF Caucasus, addressed the participants of the Earth Hour event.
The presenters – the well-known blogger, artist and musician, Zura Balanchivadze, and teenage TV anchor, Gigo Shiukashvili, talked about green life-style and our joint responsibility for protecting the planet.
Youth eco club members made the Earth Hour symbol 60+ with candles to show that climate action needs to go beyond just one hour.
Earth Hour in Tbilisi was organised by the United Nations  Office in Georgia (UNO), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Protection of Georgia, Tbilisi City Hall, Caucasus Environmental NGO Network (CENN) and WWF Caucasus.
Born in Sydney in 2007, Earth Hour has grown to become the world's largest grassroots movement for the environment, inspiring individuals, communities, businesses and organizations in over 170 countries and territories to take tangible climate action.
Last year, more than 10 thousand of iconic landmarks were switched off all over the globe. +378 Million twits and +36.5 Million Facebook posts followed the Earth Hour events.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47180-earth-hour-2016-georgia-future-starts-today




Date: 15 March 2016
Title: Ambassadorial Working Group Statement on the Release of Illegally Recorded Videos
Content: 15 March 2016
This targeting of politicians and public figures displays a contempt for the democratic principles upon which Georgia is founded.
We condemn all forms of such abuse and commend the strong statements made by Prime Minister Giorgi Kvirikashvili and President Giorgi Margvelashvili in support of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The Ambassadorial Working Group applauds the Georgian people for the broad and firm expressions of solidarity against these acts.  An effective, transparent and expedited investigation is now paramount to bring this matter to an end, while society engages in constructive dialogue around protecting human rights and individual privacy.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47181-ambassadorial-working-group-statement-release-illegally-recorded-videos




Date: 15 March 2016
Title: Women's Rights in Conflict
Content: 15 March 2016
The impact of conflict on women, women’s insecurity, conflict-related sexual violence, impunity, and the role of women in peace-building was in focus of the conference.
The event was opened by Levan Aprasidze, President of European law Students Association and  Niels Scott, UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia.
Niels Scott spoke about the issues related to the impact of armed conflict on women and women's capacities to engage in peace-building.
“To ensure that women and girls are better protected from human rights abuses in their daily lives as well as during and after conflict, UN works towards women’s full and equal participation in formal and informal conflict resolution dialogues and peace processes,” Niels Scott said. “We develop women’s negotiating and mediation abilities, and advocate for gender-sensitive policies and programmes.”
He said that as Georgia begins to implement the newly adopted 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development “the focus now has to be on turning gender-related plans, policies and legislation into action to tackle unequal gender relations, and focus our efforts on women’s empowerment.”
Anna Dolidze, Deputy Minister of Defence, spoke about women leaders and the role of women in the society. She stressed the importance of an expression of solidarity by women toward women saying, "women’s empowerment is very important issue.”
Maya Kardava, Georgia Red Cross Society representative, expressed her sadness at witnessing  sexual violence in the armed forces.
The conference was organized by the European Law Students’ Association and the United Nations Information Office (UNO) Tbilisi.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47183-womens-rights-conflict




Date: 26 February 2016
Title: Equality Means Business – UN Women Launches Training Initiative with the Private Sector
Content: 26 February 2016
The participants have been asked to brainstorm examples of what women and men can face when they go against gender norms and stereotypes. The exercise leads on to a presentation of how stereotypes relate to discrimination in the workplace, as well as guidelines and promising examples of how such discrimination can be tackled.
The discussion was part of UN Women Georgia’s pilot training on how to promote gender equality and women’s empowerment in the workplace, the marketplace and the community. The training was based on the UN Women and UN Global Compact guidelines for the corporate sector, known as the Women’s Empowerment Principles. The purpose of the training, which targets management staff, was to promote responsible business practices and women’s economic empowerment.
Anna Trapaidze, from the micro finance institution CREDO, spoke about the day, saying, "CSR and women’s empowerment are very important issues. I came to the training today because I want concrete tools for how to promote gender equality in our business".
In Georgia, women are over-represented in low paying sectors and positions; the average nominal monthly salary of women is 589 GEL compared to 940 for men. Sexual harassment is not clearly regulated by the Labour Code and more than three times as many men as women are employing entrepreneurs, while more than twice as many women than men are unpaid family workers. As the largest employer in Georgia, the private sector has the chance to play a crucial role in strengthening women’s participation and position in the economy. At the same time, they have the opportunity to broaden their talent pool: Female graduates of higher education outnumber male graduates and research shows that management and staff diversity is good for business.
Etuna Zhvania, from TBC Bank, explained what she took from the training, "We will bring with us the tools we got today to analyze the current situation and plan and implement efforts to promote gender equality. CSR and gender equality must be part of the business culture".
The pilot training session on the Women’s Empowerment Principles was organized by UN Women in Georgia in collaboration with the CSR Club, a network of 70 businesses and other stakeholders. The pilot, involving 16 participants, served to gather input from the private sector as well as NGOs with experience of training on labor and women’s rights. The inputs will be used to finalize a training manual. During the spring of 2016, UN Women will partner with further business networks and associations to deliver trainings and provide follow-up support to implement the seven Women’s Empowerment Principles.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47184-equality-means-business-%E2%80%93-un-women-launches-training-initiative-private-sector




Date: 24 February 2016
Title: “Break the Cycle of Silence and Acceptance of Violence Against Women” – UN Expert Urges Georgia
Content: 24 February 2016
“There is an urgent need to break the cycle of silence and acceptance of violence against women as a private matter and to secure the right of each and every woman and girl to the right to live a life free from violence,” the UN expert said at the end of her first official visit* to the country.
Ms. Šimonović  noted the adoption, in recent years, of new laws on gender equality, non discrimination and domestic violence and welcomed the plans to further revise a number of laws including on domestic violence law in order to put them in line with the international and regional standards. She called for a speedy ratification of the Istanbul convention, the European agreement addressing violence against women and domestic violence.
The human rights expert said that women victims of violence in Georgia still face multiple challenges in their search for protection, justice and rehabilitation due to entrenched patriarchal attitudes and gender stereotypes which make gender-based violence tolerated.
“Domestic violence is considered a private matter and not a public concern, especially in rural areas,” she said. “Women victims of domestic violence, who decide not to keep this scourge taboo, are forced by the community – in particular in rural areas – and/or the police, to remain with their perpetrators and are not only revictimized, but at risk of new assaults”.
The expert encouraged to continue to train the police officers and reminded the key role of social workers and other professionals, including doctors and teachers in detecting and reporting cases of violence. She also reminded the importance of training the members of the judiciary, including judges and prosecutors on the international and regional women’s rights instruments.
Ms. Šimonović called for the collection of official data on femicides, noting that, currently only the Office of the Public Defender of Georgia collects such data, and reminded her call made on States for the establishment of a Femicide watch.
The Special Rapporteur called for the creation of more State-run shelters for victims of violence against women and their collaboration with the crisis centers. She warned that victims still face a number of obstacles to access any of the three existing shelters. Women have to obtain the status of victim from the Interagency Council for Prevention of Domestic Violence in order to seek refuge in a State-run shelter. There is no such requirement for the crisis centers that provide immediate safe place for women.
“There is an urgent need for more shelters and crisis centers throughout the country, in particular in rural areas,” Ms. Šimonović said. “Many of the women who live in the shelters have no education and low skills and are therefore unable to access the job market which would render them economically independent and in a position to leave the shelter and/or to find an accommodation.”
“Furthermore, there are no measures to empower women, who have to leave the shelter, that will allow access to housing and/or employment, which render them more vulnerable to return back to the cycle of violence,” she noted.
Regarding the issue of forced girl child marriage, marriages are mainly arranged by parents and girls have not expressed full, free and informed consent, or who are below the age to give such consent, the Special Rapporteur said that “these girls are extremely vulnerable to violence and lack economic independence to leave their abusers and a strict enforcement of the law that prohibits such marriages would be necessary”.

Ms. Šimonović also urged the Georgian authorities to look at the links between violence against women and other forms of discrimination: “Women belonging to ethnic minorities and/or living in rural areas, as well as internally displaced women are extremely vulnerable to gender-based violence.
During her five-day visit, the expert met with Government authorities, civil society representatives and other stakeholders in Tbilisi, as well as Kakheti and Shida Qartli regions. She also visited a shelter for victims of domestic violence, met with internally displaced women, and met with individual victims of gender-based violence and minority women.
The Special Rapporteur will present a report with final findings and recommendations to the UN Human Rights Council in June 2016.
(*) Check the Special Rapporteur’s full end-of-mission statement:
English: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=17073&LangID=E
Georgian: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/,DanaInfo=www.ohchr.org+DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=17073&LangID=E
ENDS

Ms.Dubravka Šimonović (Croatia) was appointed as Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences by the UN Human Rights Council in June 2015, to recommend measures, ways and means, at the national, regional and international levels, to eliminate violence against women and its causes, and to remedy its consequences. Ms. Šimonović has been member of the CEDAW Committee from 2002 to 2014. She headed the Human Rights Department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia and was the Minister Plenipotentiary at the Permanent Mission of Croatia to the UN in New York. She was also Ambassador to the OSCE and UN in Vienna. She co-chaired the Ad hoc Committee (CAHVIO) of the Council of Europe that elaborated the Convention on Preventing and Combatting Violence against Women and Domestic Violence (Istanbul Convention).She has a PhD in Family Law and published books and articles on human rights and women’s rights. Learn more, log on to: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/Women/SRWomen/Pages/SRWomenIndex.aspx
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, Country Page – Georgia: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Countries/ENACARegion/Pages/GEIndex.aspx
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47174-%E2%80%9Cbreak-cycle-silence-and-acceptance-violence-against-women%E2%80%9D-%E2%80%93-un-expert-urges-georgia




Date: 19 February 2016
Title: Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women Finalizes Country Visit to Georgia
Content: 19 February 2016
At the end of a five-day visit to Georgia, which took her to Tbilisi, as well as to the Kakheti and Shida Qartli regions, Ms. Dubravka šimonović, United Nations Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences, delivered the following statement:
“I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation to the Government of Georgia for extending me an invitation to visit the country and in particular to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, whose Ministry was in charge of organizing the official programme. This is the first official visit by this mandate on the elimination of violence against women, its causes and consequences in the country and I am grateful to all the stakeholders I met during my five-day visit, including national and regional authorities, independent human rights institutions, representatives of the civil society organizations, villagers, internally-displaced women and representatives of the United Nations entities (in particular OHCHR, UN Women, UNHCR and UNFPA) and I wish to extend my thanks to women survivors of violence who met with me to share their stories and concerns.
I will present my preliminary findings that will be developed further and elaborated in a set of concrete and action-oriented recommendations in the report that I will present at the 32nd session of the Human Rights Council, in June 2016. It is my hope that today’s preliminary findings and final recommendations, mostly addressed to the Government of Georgia, as the primary duty bearer of the obligation to act with due diligence to prevent and eliminate violence against women and will be of use to all stakeholders.
My findings are based on this country visit and built the assessment of the implementation of the comprehensive framework of this mandate under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women (DEVAW), which establish that violence against women is a form of gender-based discrimination and a human rights violation. There are also built on the recent recommendations of the CEDAW Committee to Georgia, on actions needed for the elimination of discrimination and violence against women, the views under the Optional Protocol of the CEDAW Convention in the first case of violence against women with regard to Georgia (X and Y v. Georgia No 24/2009), whose recommendations point out systematic deficiencies related to the implementation of the legislative framework and specific measures on violence against women. I am also taking into consideration the recent examination of Georgia by the Universal Periodic Review, which took place last year.
This country visit is happening during a promising time, during which the Government and soon the Parliament will consider the ratification of the Istanbul Convention as the new European instrument addressing violence against women and domestic violence. Georgia envisages important legislative amendments to harmonize its national legislation with the Istanbul Convention, by which at the same time, strengthens the implementation of the CEDAW Convention that mirrors the same obligations to prevent violence against women, to punish the perpetrator, to provide adequate services for coordination and implementation of laws and policies and reparation including compensation to survivors of violence against women and girls.
The Ministry of Justice has taken the lead in amending 17 specific laws, to be in line with the Istanbul Convention. I strongly encourage the Georgian Parliament to speedily ratify the Istanbul Convention.
During the past few years Georgia, has made several significant improvements of its legislative framework on violence against women with a particular focus on domestic violence.
The Government demonstrated its willingness to improve women’s situation in general and to address domestic violence in particular. Nevertheless, despite a list of laws, policies and institutional measures adopted to combat violence against women, including the 2006 Law of Georgia on Elimination of Domestic Violence, Protection of and Support to Its Victims, the 2010 Law of Georgia on Gender Equality and the 2014 Law of Georgia of the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination, which prohibits discrimination based on gender identity. Despite the establishment of the Gender Equality Council within the Parliament, and the establishment of the Gender Equality Adviser in the Office of the Prime Minister, among others, there is no specific legislation on gender-based violence and a lack of a comprehensive national mechanism within the executive branch to coordinate and effectively implement and monitor gender equality policies.
The implementation of those laws is challenged by societal attitudes by entrenched patriarchal attitudes and gender stereotypes, makes gender-based violence tolerated, where domestic violence is considered a private matter and not a public concern, in most parts of the country.
Training and awareness raising
There is an urgent need to promote prevention and continue the awareness raising campaigns conducted on women and girls’ rights among the population, including men and boys on the unacceptability of gender-based violence, including early marriages, in order to prevent such cases.
I was informed that there are currently trainings being delivered to police officers who are now more proactive in issuing restriction orders and would like to encourage the continuation of increase of women as police officers, who can play a key role in detecting and providing all necessary information to victims of violence, so that they handle cases with gender-sensitivity, thus avoiding risks of re-victimization or perpetuation of the cycle of violence. I encourage the Government to continue to train the police officers throughout the country, in order to put an end to this practice. Social workers and other professionals, including doctors  and teachers have also a key role in detecting and reporting cases of violence.
I also consider appropriate reminding the importance of training the members of the judiciary, including judges and prosecutors, on the international and regional women’s rights instruments, including the CEDAW Convention and good practices to ensure at the domestic level that laws are applied from a gender dimension, in accordance with international standards and norms.
Women and girls need to be more empowered, in particular those pertaining to disadvantaged groups, and education, including education on gender equality is essential to address violence against women and achieve substantive gender equality. In that sense, gender equality should be added in the curricula at all levels of education and I was pleased be informed by the Ministry of Education that the will exists to include this issue in the curricula. I would strongly encourage the Government to also include sexual and reproductive rights education in the curricula.
Data on violence against women
During my visit, I saw that there is no unified statistical data on violence against women.
Some data on different forms of violence against women and girls, as well as on sexual violence, including rape, sexual harassment, and domestic violence have been shared with me. According to the Office of the Public Defender of Georgia, in 2014, 34 women have been killed, out of which 13 intimate-partner femicides were registered in Georgia. I recognize the efforts made in the area of collection of data on femicide and would like to reiterate the call I had directed to all UN Members States to establish a “femicide” or “gender-relating killings” watch through which member states, including Georgia, would release every year on 25th of November, International Day on the Elimination of Violence Against Women, the number of femicides or gender-motivated killings of women per year, disaggregated by age and sex of the perpetrators, as well as the relationship between that perpetrator and the victim or victims. Information about the prosecution and punishment of perpetrators should also be collected and published. On the basis of such information, each case of femicide should be carefully analyzed to identify any failure of protection in view of improving and developing further preventive measures.
Protection, justice and rehabilitation
It was reported to me that women victims of violence face multiple challenges in their search for protection, justice and rehabilitation. For instance, women victims of domestic violence, who decide not to keep this scourge taboo, are forced by the community – in particular in rural areas – and/or the police, to remain with their perpetrators and are not only revictimized, but at risk of new assaults. Even though it seems that there has been a decrease of these police de facto practices, perpetrators are still asked to sign a ‘warning letter’ – devoid of any legal value – through which they make the commitment not to exercise violence against their partner.
In many cases, women who report cases of violence to the police are still asked ‘what did you do to cause such violence?’ showing the remaining persistence of stereotypes, as well as the difficulties to initiate a case without the need for the victim to submit an application. There is no ex officio prosecution of perpetrators of domestic violence, leaving in the victims’ hands the burden to decide whether they wish to initiate a criminal procedure or not.
Despite an increasing number of restriction orders issued the last couple of years – valid for a maximum period of one month – victims still have to face several obstacles. One of them is to receive the status of victim from the Group for Determining Domestic Violence Victim Status of the Interagency Council for Prevention of Domestic Violence. Without such status, they remain ‘alleged victims’ of violence, which has several implications for them. The status of victim allows them to seek refuge in one of the State-run shelters among the three State-run shelters existing in the country. In the meantime, they have to rely on the crisis centre only operated by civil society organisations. However, I was informed that the first State crisis centre would open this spring in the capital and I strongly recommend extending these centres to the rural areas.
I believe important to stress that there is an urgent need for more shelters throughout the country, in particular in rural areas. I heard that many of the women who live in the shelters have no education and low skills and are therefore unable to access the job market which would render them economically independent and in a position to leave the shelter and/or to find an accommodation. Furthermore, there are no temporary special measures or temporary measures that will allow women who have to leave the shelter access to housing and/or employment, which render them more vulnerable to return back to the cycle of violence.
I am concerned about the low number of protection orders, allowing an increased protection to victims – up to six months. Pro-active issuance of protection orders by the police and Public Prosecutors is needed and should be connected with restriction orders and the risk assessment of each case.
In rural areas, sexual and gender-based violence, in particular domestic violence is mostly considered as a private matter and women are less keen to report such abuses. In addition, those living in rural areas and escaping from their perpetrators, have to leave their villages and communities to live in shelters, which are only located in urban areas.
Early/forced marriage
I was also informed about cases of girl child marriages. In some cases, early marriages are caused by the fear of the abduction of the girls, in particular in rural areas, in which the vast majority of girls are married before the age of 18 and even 16. As a consequence of their marriage, they drop out of schools. These girls are extremely vulnerable to violence and lack economic independence to leave their abusers and a strict enforcement of the law would be necessary. Other harmful practices that were reported to me, albeit to a lesser extent, include virginity testing and sex selective abortions.
The multiple forms of discrimination and how they intersect with violence against women need to be further looked at. Women belonging to ethnic minorities and/or living in rural areas, as well as internally displaced women are extremely vulnerable to gender-based violence, but also, lesbian, gay, transgender victims are additionally discriminated.
Participation of women in political and public life
Taking into consideration the low number of women in the Parliament, I support the adoption of the law on mandatory quotas, specifying a minimum participation of 30% of women. I am also looking forward to the upcoming parliamentary elections, which will take place in October this year and hope to see more women elected as members of the parliament.
Conclusion
There is a real turning point for Georgia to fully integrate international and regional standards into its legal system and to establish a holistic and comprehensive national framework, as well as mechanisms to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence. There is an urgent need to break the cycle of silence and acceptance of violence against women as a private matter and to secure the right of each and every woman and girl to the right to live a life free from violence.”
Ms. Dubravka šimonović (Croatia) was appointed as Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences by the UN Human Rights Council in June 2015, to recommend measures, ways and means, at the national, regional and international levels, to eliminate violence against women and its causes, and to remedy its consequences. Ms. šimonović has been member of the CEDAW Committee from 2002 to 2014. She headed the Human Rights Department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia and was the Minister Plenipotentiary at the Permanent Mission of Croatia to the UN in New York. She was also Ambassador to the OSCE and UN in Vienna. She co-chaired the Ad hoc Committee (CAHVIO) of the Council of Europe that elaborated the Convention on Preventing and Combatting Violence against Women and Domestic Violence (Istanbul Convention). She has a PhD in Family Law and published books and articles on human rights and women’s rights.
Learn more, visit: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/Women/SRWomen/Pages/SRWomenIndex.aspx
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47175-special-rapporteur-violence-against-women-finalizes-country-visit-georgia




Date: 16 February 2016
Title: Official Visit to Georgia of the UN Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women, Its Causes and Consequences
Content: 16 February 2016
She now leaves development partners, NGOs and the government to await the findings and recommendations of her mission. The final country report, capturing the findings and recommendations from the visit, will be issued in June 2016. The Special Rapporteur held a number of consultations with representatives from civil society, development partners and grassroots women’s groups, alongside meetings with government officials, at both the national and local level.
On 16 February 2016, a consultation meeting was held by the Special Rapporteur, with UN Women’s support, for over 50 civil society organizations and development partners. At the meeting, experts from civil society and the Public Defender’s Office underlined the fact that even though the police response to instances of domestic violence had improved, a lot remains to be done to ensure the effective prosecution of violence against women and domestic violence cases; as well as protecting individuals and preventing such violence.
It was further stressed that gender sensitivity is lacking during investigations, prosecutions and court judgements, even in cases of femicide, and often perpetrators are able to get away with lighter sentences. According to civil society organizations, reports, prepared by police called to investigate incidents of domestic violence, do not accurately capture the physical damage/harm done to victims by perpetrators, and are lacking context-specific information and adequate descriptions of the violence.
It was also stressed that Battered Women’s Syndrome is not recognized by Georgian legislation, resulting in it not being applied at all by lawyers defending victims of violence who have been accused of committing violent crimes against their abusers.
At the consultation meetings, Dr. Dubravka Šimonović thanked civil society representatives for the valuable input they provided and encouraged them to use the Special Rapporteur’s mandate more actively to support their work to end violence against women and girls. She said they could do this not only by applying the recommendations from the official mission report, but also by sending direct communications to her office whenever relevant.
The Special Rapporteur added, “I can say that in our work towards ending violence against women and girls, we are turning a new page, as we already have strong international standards and tools when it comes to legislation and policies, as well as service provision, that should be applied.”
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47176-official-visit-georgia-un-special-rapporteur-violence-against-women-its-causes-and




Date: 11 February 2016
Title: UN Human Rights Expert in First Official Visit to Georgia
Content: 11 February 2016
“I am grateful to the Government of Georgia for the invitation to conduct the first official visit to the country by a UN Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences,” Ms. Šimonović said.
“Violence against women continues to be one of the most pervasive human rights violations globally, affecting every woman worldwide”, she stressed. “States have a primary responsibility to take effective action to eliminate violence against women, so it is ultimately up to State authorities to make its eradication a reality.”
During her five-day visit, the Special Rapporteur will meet with Government authorities, civil society representatives and other stakeholders in Tbilisi, as well as Kakheti and Shida Qartli regions.
The expert will also visit a shelter for victims of domestic violence, a camp for internally displaced persons and she will meet with individual victims of gender-based violence and minority women. “I hope that as a result of my interactions with government and civil society representatives, I will contribute to the current discussions and efforts in the fight against such violence in the country”, she said.
The Special Rapporteur will hold a press conference on the initial findings of her visit on Friday 19 February at 17:00 at the Courtyard Marriott Hotel (4 Freedom Square, Tbilisi). Access to the press conference is strictly limited to journalists.
Based on the information obtained during the visit, Ms. Šimonović will present a report with final findings and recommendations during the thirty-second session of Human Rights Council, in June 2016.
ENDS
Ms.Dubravka Šimonović (Croatia) was appointed as Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences by the UN Human Rights Council in June 2015, to recommend measures, ways and means, at the national, regional and international levels, to eliminate violence against women and its causes, and to remedy its consequences. Ms. Šimonović has been member of the CEDAW Committee from 2002 to 2014. She headed the Human Rights Department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia and was the Minister Plenipotentiary at the Permanent Mission of Croatia to the UN in New York. She was also Ambassador to the OSCE and UN in Vienna. She co-chaired the Ad hoc Committee (CAHVIO) of the Council of Europe that elaborated the Convention on Preventing and Combatting Violence against Women and Domestic Violence (Istanbul Convention).She has a PhD in Family Law and published books and articles on human rights and women’s rights. Learn more, log on to: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/Women/SRWomen/Pages/SRWomenIndex.aspx
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47177-un-human-rights-expert-first-official-visit-georgia




Date: 08 December 2015
Title: Rustaveli Theatre hosts performance on violence against women
Content: 08 December 2015
Following the Kote Marjanishvili State Drama Theatre, the Rustaveli Theatre, has now offered its stage for plays on the theme of violence against women. The playwright, Lasha Bughadze, says his adaptation of Aristophanes’ “Lysistrata” (directed by Davit Sakvarelidze), “was inspired by what is happening in Georgia, with regards to domestic violence and violence against women".
In his award winning blog "Become Lysistratas", he states: " Now is the time when nobody should remain silent and the victims of violence should not be left alone, face to face with a despot. We should stop perpetrators together. We should help the Lysistratas.…” (click here for the blog).
“Lysistrata” was first performed as a poetry recitation last year during the 16 Days of Activism against Gender Based Violence at the Mikheil Tumanishvili Film Actors’ Theatre in Tbilsi. After positive feedback from the audience, the performance has been brought to the biggest stage in Georgia. The premiere that took place on 8 December was attended by the First Lady, who has supported numerous initiatives to end violence against women and girls during the 2015 Year of Women (an initiative declared by the President of Georgia early this year).
Both, the original recitation and the big stage premiere of “ Lysistrata” have been supported by UN Women as part of the UN Joint Programme to Enhance Gender Equality in Georgia (funded by the Government of Sweden).
Since 2010, UN Women Georgia has been collaborating with artists, sportsmen, and the media on innovative actions to promote zero tolerance of VAWG. The latest play will be included in the regular repertoire of the Rustaveli Theatre and UN Women plans to assist in bringing the play to several towns in Georgia in 2016.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47178-rustaveli-theatre-hosts-performance-violence-against-women




Date: 20 November 2015
Title: Georgia, UN sign a new partnership document
Content: 20 November 2015
Prime Minister of Georgia, Mr. Irakli Garibashvili and UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Mr. Niels Scott signed on Friday the United Nations Partnership for Sustainable Development (UNPSD), which outlines the strategic directions of the UN activities in the country over a five-year period (2016-2020).
"Being a UN family member brings lots of benefits to Georgia,” PM Garibashvili said as he delivered a speech at the ceremony."We highly appreciate your recommendations and we are grateful for your continuous support.”
The Prime Minister emphasized the importance of the UN role in support of the reform agenda, and expressed satisfaction that Georgia was first elected as a member of the UN Human Rights Council.
Garibashvili said Georgia and the UN shared the same values and thanked the UN for its participation in the Geneva Discussions, which aimed to stabilize the situation in Georgia’s breakaway regions.
The PM stressed the importance of the UN’s role in global peace, especially now "when terror attacks became so frequent”.
"The United Nations - through its 14 resident and 4 non-resident funds, programs and agencies - renews its commitment with the Georgian people, to contribute to sustainable development – to strengthening the rule of law, the protection of human rights and democratic values, to help in building a modern economy and reinforcing social justice", - said the UN Resident Coordinator in Georgia, Mr. Niels Scott.
“The United Nations Partnership for Sustainable Development Framework is entirely centered on the Sustainable Development Goals which were recently endorsed by the UN General Assembly in New York,” - said Mr. Niels Scott.
With a budget of around US$ 156 million, the framework aims at delivering key results in the areas of democratic governance; jobs, livelihood and social protection; education; health, and human security and community resilience.
The new programme of cooperation is the result of in-depth consultations with the Government, the UN agencies, donors, civil society and other partners.
After the signing ceremony, the UN Resident Coordinator hosted UN70 official dinner in honour of the Prime Minister of Georgia and representatives of the executive and legislative branches of government, and the diplomatic corps.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47173-georgia-un-sign-new-partnership-document




Date: 08 November 2015
Title: Women's Rights Advocates Meet UN Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women
Content: 08 November 2015
“Your work, what you are doing at the grassroots’ level, is feeding in into my work and contributes to our joint goal to eliminate violence against women; tackling the perception that it is a private matter and not a public concern,” stated Dr. Dubravka Simonovic, UN Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women, its Causes and Consequences. She made the statement at a consultation meeting, organized by UN Women, attended by women’s NGOs and key development partners working on women’s rights and gender equality issues in Georgia.
UN Women's Regional Director for Europe and Central Asia Region, Ms. Ingibjorg Gisladottir, in her opening remarks welcomed the participants to the meeting, stressing the importance of civil society and the contribution women’s rights activists make in accelerating the implementation of the gender equality agenda; holding governments accountable for their commitments around women’s rights.
The goal of the meeting was to discuss how the mandate of the UN Special Rapporteur could further advance advocacy and technical support efforts aimed at ending violence against women and girls. The meeting participants also exchanged information and views on the causes and consequences of violence against women and girls, as well as strategies for combating such violence - especially in the Georgian context.
The Head of the Gender Equality Department of the Public Defender’s Office (PDO), Ms. Eka Skhiladze, presented the findings and recommendations of a PDO Special Report on Violence against Women and Domestic Violence in Georgia (findings for 2014), prepared in cooperation with UN Women and released in November 2015.
This meeting took place as a side event of the International High-level Conference, “Achieving Gender Equality - Challenges and Opportunities in the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) Region”, held 9-10 November, 2015 in Tbilisi and organized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia, in partnership with the EU, UN Women, UNDP, UNFPA and the Swedish Government.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47171-womens-rights-advocates-meet-un-special-rapporteur-violence-against-women




Date: 05 November 2015
Title: Georgia's Human Rights Record to be Reviewed by Universal Periodic Review
Content: 05 November 2015
Georgia is one of the 14 States to be reviewed by the UPR Working Group during its upcoming session taking place from 2 to 13 November.  Georgia’s first UPR took place on 28 January 2011.
The documents on which the reviews are based are: 1) national report - information provided by the State under review 2) information contained in the reports of independent human rights experts and groups, known as the Special Procedures, human rights treaty bodies, and other UN entities; 3) information provided by other stakeholders including national human rights institutions, regional organizations and civil society groups.
Among the issues raised in the above-mentioned documents are:  measures to protect and uphold the rights of ethnic and religious minorities; respect for freedom of religion or belief; prohibiting racist discourse and hate speech; anti-discrimination law; guaranteeing the freedom of the press; treatment of detainees and prisoners; addressing reports of excessive use of force by law enforcement; the independence of the judiciary and ensuring the right to a fair trial; combatting impunity; preventing arbitrary arrests; upholding the rights of women and of the child; combatting domestic violence and violence against women; combatting human trafficking; upholding the rights of internally displaced persons; labour rights and the rights of LGBT persons.;.
The three reports serving as the basis for the review of Georgia on 10 November can be found here: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/UPR/Pages/GESession23.aspx
Location: Room 20, Palais des Nations, Geneva
Time and date: 09.00 – 12.30, Tuesday 10 November (Geneva time, GMT +1 hour)
The UPR is a unique process which involves a periodic review of the human rights records of all 193 UN Member States.  Since its first meeting was held in April 2008, all 193 UN member States have been reviewed during the first UPR cycle and 140 thus far during the second cycle.  The second review of States aims to highlight human rights developments in the country since its first review and provides an opportunity for States under review to spell out steps taken to implement recommendations posed during their first reviews.
The delegation of Georgia will be headed by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Ms. Khatuna Totladze
The three country representatives serving as rapporteurs (“troika”) for the review of Georgia are:  Algeria, Portugal and The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
The webcast of the session will be at http://webtv.un.org
The list of speakers and all available statements to be delivered during the review of Georgia will be posted on the UPR Extranet at the following link [username:  hrc extranet (with space); password: 1session]:  https://extranet.ohchr.org/sites/upr/Sessions/23session/Georgia/Pages/default.aspx
The UPR Working Group is scheduled to adopt the recommendations made to Georgia at 17.30 on 12 November.  The State under review may wish to express its positions on recommendations posed to it during their review.  The recommendations will be shared with the media on this day in advance.
To learn more about the Universal Periodic Review, visit: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/UPR/Pages/UPRMain.aspx

UN Human Rights Council, follow us on social media:

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/UNHRC
Twitter: https://twitter.com/UN_HRC
YouTube:  http://www.youtube.com/channel/UCokQuTYVvkwQb-A3TsSUm-g
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47172-georgias-human-rights-record-be-reviewed-universal-periodic-review




Date: 06 October 2015
Title: Ambassadorial Working Group Statement on the Developments Surrounding Georgian Media and Rustavi-2
Content: 06 October 2015
As Georgia has committed itself to strengthening the respect for democratic principles of the rule of law and good governance, human rights and fundamental freedoms, including media freedom, as well as to reinforce independence and professionalism of the media, we are confident that the appropriate environment will be ensured by the State.
The Ambassadorial Working Group calls for a peaceful dialogue in resolving the ongoing Rustavi-2 ownership dispute to ensure the adherence to a fair legal process that is free from any political influence.
We affirm the importance of upholding the democratic standards of media freedom and political pluralism in line with Georgia’s constitution and international commitments.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46929-ambassadorial-working-group-statement-developments-surrounding-georgian-media-and-rustavi-2




Date: 24 September 2015
Title: UNICEF Statement on the Consultation Council of Monitoring Implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Persons with Disabilities​​​​​​​
Content: 24 September 2015
Establishment of a Consultation Council at the Public Defender’s Office to monitor implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Persons with Disabilities is another important step forward.
According to the existing data of the Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Affairs up to 10,000 children with disabilities are registered in Georgia. This represents about 1% of the total child population. However, international evidences demonstrates that at least 2.5% of the child population live with disabilities. Hence, about 15,000 children are still invisible to the child care system.
This makes the role of the Consultation Council even more important in order effectively address the high level of stigma associated with disabilities, lack of services to support families, especially in small cities and rural areas, and existing medical model of disability assessment that focuses on a medical diagnosis and the limitations arising from impairments and ignores many children with special needs.
We believe that it is crucial to undertake the following measures to address systemic flaws in the area:
- Change public attitude and existing stigma towards children (and generally persons) with disabilities so that these children live in asociety free from discrimination.
We strongly believe that only well-coordinated actions at the central and local levels of all actors, - the Parliament of Georgia, different ministries, Public Defender’s Office, other state agencies, civil society and donor community – can bring positive systemic changes. Media has also a crucial role to play in reducing the stigma and breaking the stereotypes.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47170-unicef-statement-consultation-council-monitoring-implementation-un-convention-rights-persons




Date: 06 July 2015
Title: Gender Equality in Business and Politics
Content: 06 July 2015

The winner of Best Women Entrepreneur Award – Nutsa Abramishvili of Shuhman Winery was awarded by the President of Georgia, Giorgi Margvelashvili, who attended the event as a special guest.
“Georgia has moved a long way to ensuring gender equality in every aspect of political, economic and social life. We are determined to build a society where everyone can enjoy their rights and exercise their choices without discrimination,” President Margvelashvili said.
The Gender Equality Awards was organised by the Gender Equality Council of the Parliament of Georgia with assistance from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Government of Sweden as part of the UN Joint Programme “To Enhance Gender Equality in Georgia”.
“Georgia needs more gender equality in political life as well as in business. I am sure that we are on the right track to achieve significant progress in this area,” said Manana Kobakhidze, First Deputy Chairperson of the Parliament of Georgia and Chair of the Gender Equality Council.
Shombi Sharp, acting Head of UNDP in Georgia, stressed the importance of the Gender Equality Awards for promoting women’s participation and leadership roles in politics, business and social life.
“We salute women entrepreneurs and leaders who are taking risks and succeeding in business and public service. And the companies and public agencies celebrated today have discovered a recipe for success that needs to be shared. The message is clear – gender equality in business and politics, which builds on the foundation of full rights and protections for women and girls, means a more prosperous Georgia for all,” Shombi Sharp said.
The awards ceremony brought together representatives of the Government and Parliament of Georgia, business, civil society, diplomatic missions and international organizations. Media partners of the event were Forbes Georgia, NetGazeti.ge and Radio “Tavisupleba”.
Gender Equality Winners 2015:
Grand Award for Gender Equality:
Woman Entrepreneur Award:
Gender Balance at the Executive Level:
Best Innovative Gender Policy:
Special Recognition for Gender Awareness Trainings:
Special Recognition for Female Empowerment Programme:
Special Recognition for Gender Budget Implementation:
Special Recognition for Supporting Women Entrepreneurship:
Special Recognition for Supporting Women in Leadership:

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47168-gender-equality-business-and-politics




Date: 15 June 2015
Title: Statement of the United Nations in Georgia on the flooding in Tbilisi
Content: 15 June 2015
The United Nations expresses sincere condolences to the people and Government of Georgia, especially the families of those who have died, been injured or otherwise affected in this disaster.
From the outset, we are in contact with the Georgian authorities and are closely monitoring the developments.
The United Nations stands ready to assist the country in mitigating the consequences of this disaster and potential of the future occurrences.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47169-statement-united-nations-georgia-flooding-tbilisi




Date: 03 June 2015
Title: General Assembly, in Resolution, Recognizes Right of Return of All Displace Persons in Georgia, Reaffirms Unacceptability of Forced Demographic Changes
Content: 03 June 2015
By a vote of 75 in favour to 16 against, with 78 abstentions, the Assembly stressed the need to respect the property rights of all internally displaced persons and refugees affected by the conflicts in Georgia, including in Abkhazia and the Tskhinvali region/South Ossetia, and to refrain from obtaining property in violation of those rights.  It reaffirmed the unacceptability of forced demographic changes, and called for unimpeded access for humanitarian activities.
Seeking consensus on the draft, the representative of Georgia stressed that the text was not aimed at any party nor did it point fingers at those responsible for the displacements.  Rather, it was intended to affirm the rights of the displaced and the urgent need for action in that regard.
However, the representative of the Russian Federation, opposing the text, which he contended was politicized and opportunistic, requested a recorded vote.  He said the Georgian side was using humanitarian principles to pursue its political agenda in defiance of the wishes of the peoples and regions concerned.
Introducing the draft resolution titled “Permanent neutrality of Turkmenistan” (document A/69/L.70), the representative of Turkmenistan said a General Assembly resolution in 1995 had laid the ground for work on the subject.  It was a matter of pride for her country to bring to light the path of neutrality and translate it into the practical arena of the country’s foreign policy.  The draft also provided an opportunity to foster greater understanding of how neutrality could support the broader cause of peace, security and development.
Adopting the text without a vote, the Assembly reiterated its support for the status of permanent neutrality declared by Turkmenistan and called once again on United Nations Member States to respect and support that status as well as the country’s independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity.  It also welcomed the decision of the Government to declare 2015 the Year of Neutrality and Peace and to host an international conference on the theme “Policy of neutrality: international cooperation for peace, security and development”, in December 2015.
Introducing the draft resolution titled “Status of internally displaced persons and refugees from Abkhazia, Georgia, and the Tskhinvali region/South Ossetia, Georgia” (document A/69/L.69), the representative of Georgia said that each vote in favour would send a powerful signal to the displaced people of the country, who amounted to about 10 per cent of the population.
Through the text, the General Assembly would recognize the right of return of all internally displaced persons and refugees and their descendants and, in that context, it would underline the need for a timetable to ensure the safe and unhindered return of those affected by the conflicts in Georgia to their homes.  It would reaffirm the “unacceptability of forced demographic changes” and call on the participants in the Geneva discussions to intensify their efforts.  It also would underline the urgent need for unimpeded humanitarian access to all internally displaced persons, refugees and others residing in all conflict–affected areas throughout Georgia.
The representative of Ukraine, speaking before the vote on behalf of the Organization for Democracy and Economic Development (GUAM) — Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and the Republic of Moldova — said support was growing for the text, which had been adopted annually by the Assembly since 2008.  Since the last adoption, the situation on the ground had deteriorated.  The text was an important tool to reaffirm international support for the Geneva discussions.  The issue of forced displacement had gained new and daunting dimensions as a result of aggression against Ukraine, and, as of now, the number of internally displaced persons in Ukraine stood at more than 1.2 million.
The representative of Lithuania, speaking on behalf of the Nordic and Baltic countries, reiterated the countries’ firm support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia within its internationally recognized borders, also underscoring its support for the resolution’s objectives.
The representative of the United Kingdom said his country looked forward to the draft’s adoption, which reaffirmed the inalienable rights of internally displaced persons and refugees.  That humanitarian issue should not be impeded by political issues or considerations, he said, stressing the importance of a strong message from the international community to the affected peoples and communities.  He urged the Russian Federation to cease activities that were a direct impediment to the return of those persons as well as a threat to Georgia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.  It would be actions from the region, and not words in New York, that would achieve progress, he added.
The representative of Canada, similarly expressing its support for Georgia, said that his delegation viewed the so-called “partnership treaties” signed between the two Georgian regions and the Russian Federation as illegal.  He supported the 12 August 2008 Ceasefire Agreement and its September 2008 Implementing Measures.  Further, he strongly condemned the Russian Federation’s aggression in Crimea and eastern regions of Ukraine.
The representative of Sierra Leone said his country’s vote today was not against parties but one which affirmed that internally displaced persons were worthy of the international community’s concern.  He urged all delegations to consider the resolution in furtherance of the recognized norms of the Charter.
The representative of the Russian Federation said the initiative was politicized and opportunistic.  The Georgian side was using humanitarian principles to pursue its political agenda in defiance of the wishes of the peoples and regions concerned.  The return of internally displaced persons depended on security, which the policies of the Georgian Government had not advanced.  The Geneva discussions provided a forum to consider all dimensions of the issue, he said, stressing that Georgia had blocked the Geneva-based discussions on refugee returns.  The Russian Federation considered it pointless to discuss the issue in New York without the participation of the concerned populations.  As that approach was counter-productive, he called for a recorded vote and would oppose the text.
The resolution was then adopted by a recorded vote of 75 in favour to 16 against, with 78 abstentions.
Speaking after the vote, the representative of Brazil said his country abstained because the text prejudged an issue that should be resolved by the parties concerned.  He urged all parties to seek a lasting solution to the issues of internally displaced persons and refugees in a spirit of cooperation.
The representative of Uruguay stressed the need for ensuring greater access of humanitarian personnel to the affected areas while upholding the principles of international humanitarian law.  He urged speedy discussions in Geneva to accelerate progress.  The delegation had abstained.
The representative of Israel said the Georgian Government’s strategy on internally displaced persons and refugees had borne positive results, adding that her Government did not support unilateral declarations of independence.
The representative of Georgia thanked the delegations that had voted in favour of the resolution, which was a vote to uphold the Charter’s principles.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/46925-general-assembly-resolution-recognizes-right-return-all-displace-persons-georgia-reaffirms




Date: 10 March 2015
Title: UN Special Rapporteur on Torture Returns to Georgia After Ten Years
Content: 10 March 2015

The United Nations human rights expert Juan E. Méndez will undertake an information-gathering mission to Georgia from 12 to 19 March 2015, ten years after the first visit to the country by the former Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment*.
“In recent years, the Georgian Government has opened up to the international community and engaged with human rights experts to try and improve a wide range of issues within the criminal justice system,” Mr. Méndez said.
“It is my hope to play a small part in this shift to a more transparent society by having a constructive dialogue with a wide range of stakeholders to assist the Government to identify ongoing challenges that it may have with regards to upholding the rule of law, promoting accountability for torture and ill-treatment, and fulfilling the right of reparations for victims,” the expert stressed.
To this end, the Special Rapporteur will meet with relevant authorities in the executive, the judiciary, parliamentary committee members, national human rights institutions, civil society, international and regional organizations, victims and their families.
During his eight-day visit, at the invitation of the Government, the Special Rapporteur will travel to both Eastern and Western Georgia to conduct unannounced visits to places of detention such as police stations, temporary detention isolators, pre-trial facilities and penitentiaries in a country which he anticipates has undergone significant changes since his predecessor’s visit.
“I welcome the Government’s initiative to follow up on the commitments made in 2005 with the accession to the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment and establishing a national preventative mechanism in 2009,” he noted.
Mr. Méndez will share his preliminary comments and recommendations at a press conference to be held on Thursday 19 March 2015, at 17:30, at the Courtyard Marriott Meeting Room 1 (address: 4 Freedom Square).
The Special Rapporteur will present a final report to the Human Rights Council in March 2016.
(*) Check the 2005 report on Georgia by the former Special Rapporteur on torture, Manfred Nowak: http://daccess-dds-ny.un.org/doc/UNDOC/GEN/G05/160/45/PDF/G0516045.pdf?OpenElement
ENDS
Mr. Juan E. Méndez (Argentina) was appointed by the UN Human Rights Council as the Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment in November 2010. Mr. Méndez has dedicated his legal career to the defense of human rights, and has a long and distinguished record of advocacy throughout the Americas. He is currently a Professor of Law at the American University – Washington College of Law and Co-Chair of the Human Rights Institute of the International Bar Association. Learn more, log on to: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/Torture/SRTorture/Pages/SRTortureIndex.aspx
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, Country Page – Georgia: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/Countries/ENACARegion/Pages/GEIndex.aspx 

UN Human Rights, follow us on social media:
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/unitednationshumanrights 
Twitter: http://twitter.com/UNrightswire 
Google+ gplus.to/unitednationshumanrights    
YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/UNOHCHR
Check the Universal Human Rights Index: http://uhri.ohchr.org/en
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47166-un-special-rapporteur-torture-returns-georgia-after-ten-years




Date: 08 March 2015
Title: Gender Week 2015
Content: 08 March 2015
The United Nations in Georgia, in cooperation with the Government, Parliament, civil society, private sector and international partners, is rolling out the eighth Gender Week in Georgia.
Under the global UN theme “Empowering Women – Empowering Humanity: Picture It!" the Gender Week celebrates successes on the way to gender parity and calls for change in the areas that require further attention. The Gender Week events on 2-16 March 2015 will take place in Tbilisi and the regions of Georgia.
In his message, Niels Scott, Resident Coordinator of the United Nations in Georgia, invited everyone to engage in the Gender Week activities. “Achieving gender equality in every aspect of life will lead us to the world where men and women can equally exercise their choices, such as participating in politics, getting an education, having an income, and living in societies free from violence and discrimination,” Niels Scott said.
The Gender Week is organized by the United Nations Office in Georgia and the UN agencies –United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and UN Women, under the UN joint programme “To Enhance Gender Equality in Georgia” funded by the Swedish Government.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47167-gender-week-2015




Date: 19 January 2015
Title: The President of Georgia declared 2015 the Year of Women
Content: 19 January 2015
The President of Georgia, George Margvelashvili declared 2015 the Year of Women at a press conference held in the presidential palace on January 15th.
Presidents’ initiative is a direct reaction on domestic violence cases in which almost 30 women in Georgia were killed last year:  “During early 90’s Women in Georgia have faced a very difficult period while the classic structures of our society, politics and economy, all the institutions went down. During these long years of civil wars and transition period women have saved our families from hunger and difficulties. Unfortunately last year there were 29 women victims of violence, killed by their partners and husbands. There is no remedy to tolerate such cases. We have to condemn violence against women and girls and make tangible steps to eliminate domestic violence and violence against women”.
President stressed that 2015 offers an exceptional opportunity for further advancement of women’s rights, as the world celebrates the 20th anniversary of the Beijing Platform for Action, the most comprehensive global gender agenda so far. In his speech he underlined the need to increase participation of women in public and political life, including through temporary special measures and quotas, and expressed his readiness to support and foster all initiatives promoting women's rights in Georgia.
President then invited the UN Women Representative in Georgia, Erika Kvapilova to take floor. She congratulated the President to the important initiative and his personal commitment and commended the government and parliament for making important policy steps towards non-discrimination and gender equality, by adopting in 2014 several key policy documents and legislation.  She reiterated that the Year of Women in Georgia, 20th anniversary of the Beijing Platform for Action and the 15th Anniversary of UNSCR 1325 “ present an opportunity to celebrate the progress made towards women’s empowerment, but also remind us about the persisting gaps and challenges” such as the need to overcome stereotypical attitudes towards the roles of men and women in the family and  society, improve planning and budgeting for the needs of the most vulnerable groups of women, address the gender discrimination in work place, increase women’s participation in all spheres of live and introduce measures that lead to substantial equality between men and women.
Members of Parliament, governmental representatives, Public Defender, representatives of diplomatic corps, civil society organizations and women’s activist participated in the event.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47100-president-georgia-declared-2015-year-women




Date: 23 October 2014
Title: Open Day on Women, Peace and Security
Content: 23 October 2014
The event attended by the Deputy Vice-Speaker of Parliament Manana Kobakhidze, the Chair the Human Rights and Civil Integration Committee Eka Beselia,  the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of IDPs from the Occupied Territories, Accommodation and Refugees  Gvantsa Shengelia, UN Resident Coordinator Niels Scott, the Representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Georgia Simon Wolken and the UN Women Represenetive in Georgia Erika Kvapilova, among others, provided an opportunity for over 50 representatives of civil society organizations, women from conflict-affected areas and IDP women to engage in a dialogue, voice their concerns, needs, priorities and share the recommendations to accelerate the implementation of UN SCR 1325 in the country.
The primary goal of the Open Day was to collect the inputs, examples of good practice and recommendations from women that would ensure and strengthen women’s role in conflict prevention and resolution, increase effective participation of women in peacebuilding and decision-making and improve an overall implementation of the commitments under NAP for UN SCR1325, which Georgia adopted and is being implementing since 2011. The outcomes of the meeting will inform the UN Secretary General’s Annual Report to the Security Council and to the High-level Review of the implementation of UNSR 1325 in 2015, when we will be commemorating the 15th Anniversary of UN SCR 1325.
The Open Day on Women, Peace and Security is an inter-agency group’s initiative to observe and have documented experiences on the implementation of the UN Security Council Resolution (UN SCR) on Women, Peace and Security #1325 (2000). The practice of organizing “Open Days” has been established across the world since the first events organized in connection with the 10th anniversary of UN SCR 1325 in 2010.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47093-open-day-women-peace-and-security




Date: 29 May 2014
Title: UN Showcases its Publications at Tbilisi International Book Fair
Content: 29 May 2014
The book fair, yearly organized by the Georgian Publishers and Booksellers Association, draws a large number of publishing houses and academic institutions from Georgia and other countries around the world.
The UN stall at the Fair was a  demonstration of the UN team spirit in Georgia. As in previous years, the Fair’s UN stall saw a significant demand for UN publications and handouts.
This event provided the United Nations a platform to network with visitors from all walks of life with a view to enhancing awareness about the Organization’s work and shedding light on UN issues and priorities.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47087-un-showcases-its-publications-tbilisi-international-book-fair




Date: 23 April 2014
Title: UN Global Road Safety Week kicks off in Georgia
Content: 23 April 2014
On 23 April the UN Global Road Safety Week conference was held at Sheraton Metechi Palace Hotel dedicated to road safety issues, in particular pedestrian safety.
Georgia Alliance for Safe Roads and  DPI /UN Office in Georgia marked the opening of the Road Safety Week in Georgia with a conference.
Among the speakers of the conference were representatives of the UNO Georgia, Georgia Alliance for Safe Roads, Ambassadors of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Estonia to Georgia, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Labor, Healthcare and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Regional Development and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Protection of Georgia.
Launch of the one-year social-educational project for road safety – “Yield to the Pedestrian” took place at the conference. In the framework of the project partner organizations (KIA Motors Georgia, MFO “Crystal”, “GIS” Ltd., Georgian Automobile Federation, Radio Holding “Fortuna”, television company “MusicBox” , magazine “AutoBild Georgia”, informational-analytical portal “Kvira”, newspaper “The FINANCIAL”, TV show “Auto Race” and the Estonian organization “TrafficProf”, Charity Humanitarian Center “Abkhazeti”(CHCA)) signed the cooperation memorandum.
The project aims to raise awareness of the drivers and the pedestrians on the road safety issues and decrease the number of fatalities and injuries caused by traffic accidents.
Moreover, in the framework of the project similar youth educational street actions were organized near schools in Kutaisi and Gori, besides Tbilisi.
The main message of the UN Road Safety Week is – “Road Safety is no Accident”, which stresses the importance of active involvement and tight partnership between the state, civil society and private sectors in the decrease of the number of traffic-related accidents.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47082-un-global-road-safety-week-kicks-georgia




Date: 21 January 2014
Title: Ambassadorial Working Group Statement on the Selection of the Board of Trustees at the Georgian Public Broadcaster
Content: 21 January 2014
We take note of the adoption of amendments in 2013 to the Law of Georgia on Broadcasting regulating the selection of the Board of Trustees at the Georgian Public Broadcaster (GPB). We believe that the law must now be implemented in such a way that a professional and independent Board of Trustees at the GPB is appointed, and the Georgian media environment is further reinforced.
The selection committee established by the Parliament has vetted nominees and selected a list of 27 candidates in a transparent and rigorous manner, in accordance with the requirements of the law.
As the world looks for Georgia to uphold the democratic ideals of pluralism, media freedom and transparency, we look forward to seeing the selection process completed by the Parliament, as intended by the law.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47090-ambassadorial-working-group-statement-selection-board-trustees-georgian-public-broadcaster




Date: 10 December 2013
Title: Human Rights Day Statement
Content: 10 December 2013
Today, we not only celebrate Human Rights Day, but the 20th anniversary of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, which marked the beginning of a renewed international effort to protect and promote human rights. This year, we also celebrate the 60th anniversary of the entry into force of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Human rights and fundamental freedoms are the birthright of all human beings. But unless we demand they be respected, and unless we defend our rights and freedoms, they will be just words.
Along with Georgia, we share a common desire to protect, promote and uphold human rights. It is the responsibility of every State to develop and encourage respect for human rights without discrimination on any ground such as sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, association with a national minority, property, birth or other status. States that respect human rights are more stable, secure and prosperous as a result.
Georgia has ratified a number of key United Nations and Council of Europe conventions. We continue to encourage the implementation of such conventions. In this connection, we welcome in particular the plans for a human rights strategy and anti-discrimination law, implementation of which will increase the protection of persons belonging to minority groups and look forward to further efforts to promote and protect the principles of equal rights for all, tolerance, democracy, justice and the rule of law.


UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47076-human-rights-day-statement




Date: 18 October 2013
Title: UN General Assembly passes Georgia IDP resolution
Content: 18 October 2013
The UN General Assembly passed on June 13 Georgia-sponsored resolution reiterating the right of return of all displaced persons and refugees to breakaway Abkhazia and South Ossetia by a vote of 63 in favor to 16 against, with 84 abstentions.
This is the sixth such non-binding resolution, which the UN General Assembly has been passing annually since 2008.
Last year the similar resolution was passed by a vote of 60 in favor to 15 against, with 82 abstentions.
UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47065-un-general-assembly-passes-georgia-idp-resolution




Date: 25 June 2013
Title: Georgia receives UN Public Service Award
Content: 25 June 2013
The United Nations Public Service Forum, Public Service Day and Public Service Awards Ceremony will honour Georgia for its project promoting a better future for all. The global Forum and Awards Ceremony will take place from 24 to 27 June 2013 in Manama, the Kingdom of Bahrain– the first time these events will be held in the Arab region.
The UN Public Service Awards will honour projects that fight poverty and promote sustainable development.
Public Service Award winners
The Award winners will be presented to delegations from around the globe during the high-level Awards Ceremony on 27 June. The theme for this year’s global Forum is “Transformative e-Government and Innovation: Creating a Better Future for All”.
The winning project this year from Georgia  involves Initiative: Online Asset Declaration System (OADS) (Institution: Civil Service Bureau)
The lack of transparency around the financial assets of public sector officials in Georgia left room for corruptions and negatively impacted on the confidence in government. The assets and income of top government officials have long been the subject of public interest in Georgia.  However, Georgian society was largely unaware of the financial situation of their public officials. The government did not provide such information on the assets of public officials. Such conditions were conducive to corruption and the media and civil society were unable to monitor the activities of public officials with view to unlawful behaviour or conflict of interest. Overall, this impacted the public’s confidence in government and candidates for government positions.  In 2010, the Civil Service Bureau launched an online system to collect financial information of public officials. Through this online system government officials are required to fill out an asset declaration on an annual basis, reflecting the position of the assets owned by them and their family members. In total, there are more than 2,800 senior officials obliged to submit online asset declarations annually. This availability of such information has greatly contributed to accountability and transparency in Georgia and has increased public monitoring of public expenditures.
The 2013 winners are from the following countries:
1st place winners: Brazil, Ecuador, Egypt, Germany, India, Italy, Moldova, Morocco, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Republic of Korea, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, United Arab Emirates;
2nd place winners:  Bahrain, Botswana, Brazil, Ethiopia, Georgia, India, Jordan, Kenya, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Republic of Korea, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, United Arab Emirates, United States of America.
For more information on the winning countries, please refer to the attached UNPSA factsheet.
The Forum and Awards Ceremony are hosted by the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain and organized by the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs Division for Public Administration and Development Management in partnership with UN-WOMEN, UNESCWA and UNIDO, among others.
In 2003, the UN General Assembly designated 23 June as UN Public Service Day to celebrate the value and virtue of service to the community.

UN House, 9 R. Eristavi St., 0179 Tbilisi, Georgia
URL: https://georgia.un.org/en/47064-georgia-receives-un-public-service-award




