Date: 22 May 2024
Title: Despite modest improvements, three million people in the English and Dutch-speaking Caribbean still face food insecurity - New Study
Content: 22 May 2024
BRIDGETOWN – A recent study has found that despite modest improvements on last year, food insecurity in the English- and Dutch-speaking Caribbean remains persistently higher than pre-pandemic levels, driven by the cost-of-living crisis, global economic volatility and the lingering impacts of the pandemic.
The Caribbean Food Security and Livelihoods Survey, carried out jointly by the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and Caribbean Community (CARICOM) found that43 percent of the population - or three million people - are estimated to be food insecure in 22 countries and territories.
These Small Island Developing States (SIDS) continue to grapple with high costs of food and inputs for productive sectors, and the overwhelming majority of those surveyed (96 percent) reported rising food prices over the past three months. With a high dependence on imported goods, coupled with limited economies of scale, the unique challenges of Caribbean Small Island Developing States (SIDS) mean that much of the population continues to struggle to afford a healthy diet.
With a highly active Atlantic hurricane season forecast to kick off on 01 June, the threat of natural hazards on food security looms large for those living the region. More than a third of those surveyed reported having been affected in the last 12 months - mainly by heatwaves, floods, drought and tropical storms. This has further eroded their capacity to cope with yet another shock. These climate shocks, combined with the lingering socio-economic impact of the pandemic, combined with the ripple effect of the crisis in Ukraine, have created major challenges for people and their livelihoods.
"In the face of persistent food insecurity, impactful investments in agriculture, finance, and social protection are urgently needed. Robust investments in disaster management are critical to fostering resilient food systems. Every individual in this region deserves consistent access to nutritious and affordable food for their families,” said Regis Chapman, Representative and Country Director of WFP’s Caribbean Multi-Country Office.
While levels of food insecurity have declined over the last two years, from 4.1 million in 2022 to 3 million in 2024, the overall picture remains deeply concerning. Those involved in productive sectors, farming and fishing, continue to bear the brunt of inflation. Livestock farmers reported increased feed prices and higher prices for tools and machinery. Meanwhile, nearly 80 percent of surveyed people engaged in fishing activities were affected by the rising cost of fuel for their operations.
"Continued investment in our regional food systems as SIDS is critical if we are to transform the regional food security position into one that creates equitable wealth and economic prosperity. The collective efforts of the region must address food production, distribution, food transportation, movement of capital, reform of sanitary and phytosanitary challenges, improving the use of technology and promoting investment has to position the region to becoming more food secure," said Joseph Cox, Assistant Secretary General for Economic Integration, Innovation and Development at CARICOM Secretariat.
As world leaders prepare to meet at the 4th International Conference on SIDS next week, this survey presents key data for a region that continues to call for greater equitable access to resources to achieve development goals. Overall, the survey’s findings indicate that there is hope for the region and highlights the need for greater international support to accelerate progress on Zero Hunger and help build pathways towards sustainable food systems.
WFP’s Caribbean Multi-Country Office was opened in 2018 and covers 22 countries and territories across the English and Dutch Caribbean. In the region, WFP works with national governments and regional institutions like the CARICOM Secretariat and the Caribbean Disaster and Emergency Management Agency, to strengthen disaster management, social protection and food systems. These investments place the most vulnerable at the forefront with the aim of strengthening resilience at the individual, community and systems level.  The survey was completed with the support of the Government of Canada, the European Union and the United States Agency for International Development, Bureau of Humanitarian Assistance.

Notes to editor:
The survey report can be found here.
Dashboard featuring full survey findings available here.
Photos available here.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/269309-despite-modest-improvements-three-million-people-english-and-dutch-speaking-caribbean-still




Date: 08 September 2023
Title: UN Secretary-General Issues ‘UN 2.0’ Policy Brief: A Vision for a Modernized UN System
Content: 08 September 2023
As we approach the midpoint of the 2030 Agenda, it is evident that the world is off course in meeting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). To get back on track, everyone—including the United Nations system—needs to rethink, refocus, and recharge.
In response, today, the Secretary-General issued his final Policy Brief on Our Common Agenda, titled “UN 2.0: Cutting-Edge Skills and Forward-Thinking Culture for UN System Impact.” UN 2.0 represents a vision for a rejuvenated United Nations system, better equipped to support member states in the twenty-first century and turbocharge progress on the SDGs.
At the core of UN 2.0 are stronger capabilities in five modern areas of expertise: a dynamic fusion of data, innovation, digital, behavioral science and strategic foresight, which we call our “quintet of change.” To foster environments where these cutting-edge skills thrive, the UN 2.0 will be rooted in a shift towards organizational cultures that put a priority on agility, learning, and creativity.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres remarked, “As a result, UN 2.0 unlocks novel, impactful approaches and solutions for SDG progress, at a time when it is needed the most.”
A snapshot of the ongoing UN system progress and solutions is available on the new www.un-two-zero.network platform. The site showcases over 500 initiatives from 160 UN Country Teams who utilize the “quintet of change” in their work with member states for SDG impact. These initiatives highlight the immense potential of twenty-first-century expertise for addressing challenges in climate, education, agriculture, gender equality, and beyond.
The UN 2.0 agenda will engage the entire UN system. Every UN entity, team, and colleague will contribute to this transformative organizational shift in learning, job profiles, partnerships, knowledge sharing, technology, as well as programme solutions for member states. While each UN entity will navigate the transformation at its own pace, a joint accelerator program will champion UN 2.0's progression throughout the United Nations system starting in 2024.
For a comprehensive understanding of our forward-looking vision, goals, and transformative strategies, we strongly encourage all stakeholders to delve into the full policy brief: https://www.un.org/en/common-agenda/policy-briefs.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/245150-un-secretary-general-issues-%E2%80%98un-20%E2%80%99-policy-brief-vision-modernized-un-system




Date: 27 June 2023
Title: Food Security improves in the Caribbean yet challenges persist
Content: 27 June 2023
A recent food security and livelihoods survey conducted by the World Food Programme and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) in the Caribbean region revealed that 3.7 million people, or 52 percent of the population of the English-speaking Caribbean, remain food insecure.
BRIDGETOWN – A recent food security and livelihoods survey conducted by the World Food Programme and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) in the Caribbean region revealed that 3.7 million people, or 52 percent of the population of the English-speaking Caribbean, remain food insecure. This is a 10 percent decrease when compared to an August 2022 survey, however, it underscored growing financial hardship and challenges due to the rising cost of living in the aftermath of the pandemic.
According to the 2023 Caribbean Food Security and Livelihoods survey, carried out among English-speaking Caribbean countries, 98 percent of respondents reported high food prices in the three months prior to the survey, the highest level reported since the first survey in 2020.
In a region that is highly vulnerable to climate shocks, the survey revealed that 42 percent of households were affected by climate-related hazards in the 12 months prior to the survey. These events continue to have a significant impact on climate sensitive livelihood activities such as in agriculture and fisheries.
"In this complex socio-economic environment that is vulnerable to climate change, the priority of CARICOM and national governments to make food accessible amidst these shocks is important.  Collaboration across agriculture, social protection, education, and finance sectors, helps to improve livelihood opportunities and contributes to achieving affordable food for all," says Regis Chapman, Representative and Country Director WFP Caribbean Multi-Country Office.
For persons who reported a disruption to their livelihoods, 65 percent cited the unaffordability of the necessary inputs as the main cause, with domestic workers and farmers most impacted. Salaried persons are managing slightly better, yet 40 percent of respondents indicated job losses or salary reductions in the six months before the survey. Others have resorted to alternative or secondary sources of income to meet food and other needs, according to the survey.
The cost of living has had a widespread impact on people’s ability to continue to meet food and other needs. Rising prices for animal feed, fertilizer and fuel have also severely affected respondents engaging in farming and/or fishing.
“Food insecurity is having major effects on the socio-economic welfare of citizens throughout the region, the solution however can only be accomplished through joint regional efforts in the planning and execution of comprehensive sustainable actionable solutions geared towards building resilience against climatic conditions and future market disruptions,” says David Prendergast, Director, Directorate of Single Market and External Trade CARICOM.
The survey’s results are a reminder of the importance of the region’s agenda to reduce imports by 25 percent by 2025, which includes strengthening food systems in the Caribbean so that they are resilient and adaptive to shocks and building on measures to address the affordability, accessibility, and availability of livelihood inputs.
The survey was completed with the support of the Government of Canada, the European Union and the United States Agency for International Development, Bureau of Humanitarian Assistance.
Note to the editor:
The survey report can be found on wfp.org. An interactive dashboard with results from all rounds of the survey is also available online. The dashboard visualises comparison of the results over time and for the overall region and individual countries. https://analytics.wfp.org/t/Public/views/CaribbeanFoodSecurityLivelihoodsSurvey/Overview
#                 #                   #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @wfp_Caribbean and www.facebook.com/WFPCaribbean

107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/238310-food-security-improves-caribbean-yet-challenges-persist




Date: 16 May 2023
Title: Guyana to host the 12th ILO Meeting of Caribbean Ministers of Labour
Content: 16 May 2023
Mr. Gilbert F. Houngbo, Director-General of the ILO, will attend the opening ceremony virtually to deliver feature remarks. Media are invited to attend the Opening Ceremony.
The International Labour Organization's (ILO), Decent Work Team and Office for the Caribbean, in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour in Guyana, will host the Twelfth Subregional ILO Meeting of Caribbean Labour Ministers from 23-25 May 2023 in Georgetown, Guyana.

This Meeting will include the participation of Ministers of Labour and senior officials from thirteen ILO member States and nine non-metropolitan territories in the English and Dutch-speaking Caribbean. Representatives from regional workers’ organizations and employers’ organizations will also be in attendance.

The three-day meeting will provide a forum for participating Caribbean world of work leaders to:
The opening ceremony of the Twelfth Subregional ILO Meeting of Caribbean Labour Ministers will take place on Tuesday 23 May between 9.00-10.30 AM at the Grand Ballroom of the Guyana Marriott Hotel, Georgetown, Guyana.

Mr. Gilbert F. Houngbo, Director-General of the International Labour Organization, will attend the opening ceremony virtually to deliver feature remarks.

Other speakers include:
Accredited local media (in Guyana) will be provided with access to the 12th Caribbean Labour Ministers’ Meeting opening ceremony and press conference on 23 May 2023, as well as a post-closing press conference on 25 May 2023.

The application form for local accreditation is available at: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/VDZQBK9  and must be completed and submitted by 19 May 2023. Further instructions for media will be provided upon accreditation.
Regional media are invited to attend the 12th Caribbean Labour Ministers’ Meeting opening ceremony and press conference virtually by registering at Opening Ceremony / Press Conference Registration - Zoom . Once registered, further details will be provided on how to attend.

###

Media contact:
Shireen Cuthbert
ILO Decent Work Team and Office for the Caribbean
cuthbert@ilo.org
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/232442-guyana-host-12th-ilo-meeting-caribbean-ministers-labour




Date: 13 April 2023
Title: The Region’s Countries Will Meet at ECLAC to Evaluate Progress on Fulfillment of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development
Content: 13 April 2023
The sixth meeting of the Forum of the Countries of Latin America and the Caribbean on Sustainable Development, convened each year under ECLAC’s auspices, will be held on April 25-28, 2023 in Santiago, Chile.
The sixth meeting of the Forum of the Countries of Latin America and the Caribbean on Sustainable Development – where authorities and representatives of governments, the United Nations System, international organizations, the private sector, academia and civil society will review the progress and challenges related to implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in the region – will take place on April 25-28 at ECLAC’s headquarters in Santiago, Chile.
The regional forum – which has been held annually since 2017 – aims to provide those responsible for implementing the 2030 Agenda in countries with a space conducive to peer learning through a set of interactive sessions in which, by discussing experiences and shared goals, they can identify good practices, enabling the Forum’s member countries to offer recommendations and present them to the United Nations High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF). The HLPF is the global mechanism for follow-up on the 2030 Agenda, and it meets each year in July in New York under the auspices of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC).
This sixth intergovernmental meeting will be inaugurated on Wednesday, April 26 at 8:30 a.m. local time in Santiago, Chile (GMT-4) by Santiago Cafiero, Minister of Foreign Affairs, International Trade and Worship of Argentina, the country that is serving as Chair of ECLAC in the 2022-2024 biennium; Amina Mohammed, Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations; Paula Narváez, Permanent Representative of Chile to the United Nations, in her capacity as Vice President of the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC); and José Manuel Salazar-Xirinachs, Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC).
It will be preceded on Tuesday, April 25 by a meeting of the mechanism for civil society participation in the Sustainable Development Agenda and in the Forum, and by a gathering of the Regional Collaborative Platform for Latin America and the Caribbean.
In the framework of the Forum, José Manuel Salazar-Xirinachs will present a document entitled “Halfway to 2030 in Latin America and the Caribbean: progress and recommendations for acceleration,” the sixth report on regional progress and challenges in relation to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in Latin America and the Caribbean, which has been prepared by the Secretariat (held by ECLAC) and which analyzes the evolution and current state of progress towards Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 6, 7, 9, 11 and 17, along with projections for their fulfillment by 2030.
The meeting contemplates statements by Latin American and Caribbean country representatives at two sessions entitled “Accelerating the recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and the full implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development at all levels” and “Strategies to advance implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in the Caribbean.”
In addition, five panel discussions have been organized in which the Forum’s member countries and other actors will be able to present and share their experiences and challenges in relation to implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in the following areas: Clean water and sanitation (SDG 6); Affordable and clean energy (SDG 7); Industry, innovation and infrastructure (SDG 9); Sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11); and Partnerships for the Goals (SDG 17).
Finally, on Friday, April 28, a high-level roundtable will take place under the theme of “Path to the SDG Summit. Transformative initiatives: creating opportunities to strengthen commitment to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its full implementation at all levels,” where prominent figures and authorities from the region will debate transformative initiatives for confronting global challenges and creating opportunities to bolster the commitment to the 2030 Agenda and accelerate its full implementation, in view of the Summit on the Sustainable Development Goals (to be held on September 19-20, 2023 in the framework of the UN General Assembly’s high-level segment).
The full programme of the sixth meeting of the Forum is available at the event’s special website: https://foroalc2030.cepal.org/2023/en
Journalists and other members of the press who want to attend this event in person must register using this form: https://eventos.cepal.org/event/102/. They will receive an automated email response once their registration has been accepted.

IMPORTANT NOTE: Submitting the registration form is a prerequisite for attending the meeting in person, but it does NOT guarantee access to the event. Local organizers can restrict entry, if need be, due to attendance capacity restrictions or for security or other reasons arising at the time. We thank you in advance for your understanding and respect for these conditions.
The event’s official activities can be followed live online via the meeting’s website, ECLAC’s official Internet portal www.cepal.org, the web page https://live.cepal.org/ and the Commission’s institutional accounts on Twitter (https://twitter.com/cepal_onu) and Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/cepal.onu).
What: Sixth meeting of the Forum of the Countries of Latin America and the Caribbean on Sustainable Development.
When: Tuesday, April 25 to Friday, April 28, 2023.
Who:
Inauguration, Wednesday, April 26, 2023 at 8:30 a.m. local time in Chile (GMT -4):
Where: Virtual connection via several platforms:
For queries related to journalistic coverage of this event, contact ECLAC’s Public Information Unit in Santiago, Chile. Email: prensa@cepal.org; Telephone: (56) 22210 2040.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/228047-region%E2%80%99s-countries-will-meet-eclac-evaluate-progress-fulfillment-2030-agenda-sustainable




Date: 15 March 2023
Title: Guyana Activates World Bank Financing to Reduce Flooding in Georgetown
Content: 15 March 2023
Guyana’s Ministry of Agriculture this week signed contracts amounting to approximately US $8.5 million, seeking to reduce the risk of flooding in the low-lying areas of East Demerara. The contracts are funded through the World Bank-financed Guyana Flood Risk Management Project.
Much of Guyana’s economic activity, especially agriculture, is concentrated in low-lying areas and 90% of the country’s population live on a coastal plain which lies below sea level. The impact of rising sea levels and intensified storm surges in Guyana could exceed 46.4 percent in Gross Domestic Product losses. Despite extensive urban and rural drainage, Georgetown’s system is frequently overwhelmed, resulting in severe flooding which causes damage to infrastructure, and disrupts urban activities, hampering the prosperity and wellbeing of affected communities.
“The World Bank is pleased to support Guyana, as the country seeks to build its climate resilience”, said Diletta Doretti, World Bank’s Resident Representative for Guyana. “Flooding not only has negative impacts on lives and livelihoods but can also impact health, due to communicable diseases”, Ms. Doretti added. The World Bank official further commended the Government of Guyana for awarding the contracts to local companies.
The interventions financed under these contracts will reduce flood levels in two catchment areas, and include replacement of existing pumps, additional pumping capacity, rehabilitation of the sluice gates at Ogle, and two mobile pumps, also at Ogle. Further, the Flood Risk Management Project supports upgrading critical sections of the East Demerara Water Conservancy Dams, and institutional strengthening for flood risk reduction while also facilitating project management and implementation support, through local agencies and institutions.
Guyana’s Minister of Agriculture, the Hon. Zulfikar Mustapha highlighted the necessity to improve the drainage systems across the country as they impact development outcomes. He said, “as we are improving the flood risk management of our country, we are seeing more development especially in the agriculture sector. This project will help the entire eastern part of Region Four which will contribute to the ease of flooding in these areas.”
The Bank and the Government of Guyana expressed their mutual commitment to improving flood risk management, during the signing event for contractors.
Contacts:
In the Caribbean: Penny Bowen, pbowen@worldbankgroup.org
Learn more about the work of the World Bank in the Caribbean: https://www.worldbank.org/en/country/caribbean  
Be updated via Twitter: https://twitter.com/WBCaribbean
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/223642-guyana-activates-world-bank-financing-reduce-flooding-georgetown




Date: 18 January 2023
Title: UN Report: 131 million people in Latin America and the Caribbean cannot access a healthy diet
Content: 18 January 2023
The region has the highest cost for a healthy diet compared to the rest of the world, at USD 3.89 per person per day, while the world average is USD 3.54.
January 18, 2022, Santiago, Chile. The new United Nations report Overview of Food Security and Nutrition 2022 finds that 22.5% of the Latin America and the Caribbean population cannot afford a healthy diet. In the Caribbean this figure reaches 52%; in Mesoamerica, 27.8%; and in South America, 18.4%.
The publication reports that 131.3 million people in the region could not afford a healthy diet in 2020. This represents an increase of 8 million compared to 2019 and is due to the higher average daily cost of healthy diets in Latin America and the Caribbean compared to the rest of the world's regions, reaching in the Caribbean a value of USD 4.23, followed by South America and Mesoamerica with USD 3.61 and USD 3.47, respectively.
This problem is related to different socioeconomic and nutritional indicators. The report presents a clear relationship between the inability to afford a healthy diet and such variables as a country's income level, the incidence of poverty, and the level of inequality.
The report also reveals that the rise in international food prices experienced since 2020, exacerbated after the start of the conflict in Ukraine, and a regional increase in food inflation above the general level, have increased the difficulties for people to access a healthy diet.
The document also includes recommendations based on evidence and an analysis of policies already implemented to improve the availability and affordability of nutritious foods, focusing on supporting the most vulnerable people and low-income households that spend a more significant proportion of their budget on food.
"There is no individual policy that can solve this problem independently. National and regional coordination mechanisms need to be strengthened to respond to hunger and malnutrition," said Mario Lubetkin, FAO Assistant Director and Regional Representative for Latin America and the Caribbean.
"To contribute to the affordability of healthy diets, it is necessary to create incentives for the diversification of the production of nutritious foods aimed mainly at family farming and small-scale producers, take measures for the transparency of the prices of these foods in markets and trade, and actions such as cash transfers and improving school menus," Lubetkin concluded.
Trade and market policies can play a fundamental role in improving food security and nutrition. Greater transparency and efficiency improve inter-regional agri-food trade by replacing uncertainty with market predictability and stability.
"We are talking about the region of the world with the most expensive healthy diet, which particularly affects vulnerable populations – small farmers, rural women, and indigenous and Afro-descendant populations – who allocate a greater percentage of their income to the purchase of food," said IFAD Regional Director Rossana Polastri. "To reverse this situation, we must promote innovative solutions that diversify production and increase the supply of healthy food, and that improve small producers' access to markets and quality food, including digital solutions that articulate food supply and demand."
The report also describes how some nutrition-sensitive social protection programs have worked and are essential to support the diets of the most vulnerable population, particularly in periods of crisis.
“Food insecurity will continue to rise due to the food and fuel price crisis caused by the conflict in Ukraine and the aftermath of COVID-19,” said Lola Castro, WFP Regional Director. “We must act now, but how can we do it? Supporting governments to expand social protection networks because the pandemic once again demonstrated that social protection is useful to improve the affordability of a healthy diet, preventing crises like this from hitting affected populations even more”.
Other food policies, such as nutritional labelling, subsidizing nutritious foods, and taxing unhealthy or non-nutritious foods that do not contribute to healthy diets, if well designed, can improve the affordability of healthy diets and prevent debilitating conditions and diseases related to overweight and obesity.
"We must redouble efforts to address malnutrition in all its forms by promoting public policies to create healthy food environments, eliminate industrially produced trans fats, implement front-end warning labeling, regulate advertising of unhealthy foods, tax sugary drinks, and support healthy eating and physical activity in schools," PAHO Director Carissa F. Etienne said. "Understanding the factors that determine poor dietary practices is key to finding solutions and ensuring that everyone in the region has access to healthy foods," she said.
For example, countries with higher levels of poverty and inequality tend to have more significant difficulties accessing a healthy diet, which is directly associated with a higher prevalence of hunger, chronic malnutrition in boys and girls, and anemia in women aged 15 to 49.
“For children to grow up healthy, it is not only urgent to ensure the availability of nutritious food at affordable prices. It is also necessary to develop public policies that guarantee adequate nutrition, in addition to nutritional counseling, focusing actions on the most vulnerable populations,” said Dr. Garry Conille, UNICEF Regional Director for Latin America and the Caribbean.
The socioeconomic panorama of Latin America and the Caribbean is not encouraging. The most affected population groups are children under five and women, who suffer a higher prevalence of food insecurity than men.
The Regional Panorama of Food and Nutrition Security 2022 is a joint publication of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO); the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD); the Pan American Health Organization/World Health Organization (PAHO/WHO); the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations World Food Program (WFP).
The number of hungry people in the region continues to rise
Between 2019 and 2021, the number of hungry people in the region increased by 13.2 million, reaching 56.5 million hungry people in 2021. The highest increase was in South America, where an additional 11 million people suffered from hunger. Between 2019 and 2021, hunger reached a prevalence of 7.9% in South America, 8.4% in Mesoamerica, and 16.4% in the Caribbean.
In 2021, 40.6% of the regional population experienced moderate or severe food insecurity, compared to 29.3% worldwide. Severe food insecurity was also more frequent in the region (14.2%) than in the world (11.7%).
Other figures presented in the report indicate that the region registers an important and positive evolution regarding the prevalence of chronic malnutrition in children under five years of age. In 2020, this figure was 11.3% in Latin America and the Caribbean, approximately ten percentage points below the world average. However, 3.9 million children up to five years of age are overweight.
Read the report:
https://www.fao.org/3/CC2314EN/online/sofi-statistics-rlc-2022/key-messages-ch-1.html
https://www.fao.org/documents/card/en/c/cc3859en
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/216493-un-report-131-million-people-latin-america-and-caribbean-cannot-access-healthy-diet




Date: 16 January 2023
Title: United Nations Americas Division Director of the Departments of Political and Peacebuilding Affairs and Peace Operations conducts familiarization visit to Guyana
Content: 16 January 2023
Ms. Laura Flores, Americas Division Director of the Departments of Political and Peacebuilding Affairs (DPPA) and Peace Operations at the United Nations, will be in Guyana on a routine familiarization visit from January 16 to 17, 2023.

Ms. Flores will meet with His Excellency Dr. Mohamed Irfaan Ali, President of the Cooperative Republic of Guyana, other national authorities, members of the political opposition, civil society, and private sector. In addition, Ms. Flores will be received by Her Excellency Dr. Carla Barnett, Secretary-General of CARICOM. DPPA is the United Nations entity responsible for the UN’s relations with regional organizations.
After visiting Guyana, Ms. Flores will proceed to Suriname for a similar familiarization visit.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/215410-united-nations-americas-division-director-departments-political-and-peacebuilding-affairs




Date: 20 September 2022
Title: Food Insecurity in the Caribbean Continues on upward trajectory, CARICOM-WFP survey finds
Content: 20 September 2022
The number of people estimated to be facing moderate to severe levels of food insecurity in the English-speaking Caribbean has risen by an alarming 46 percent over the last six months.
BRIDGETOWN - Nearly 4.1 million people or 57 percent of the population now face food insecurity, according to a recent survey conducted by the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP).
While severe food insecurity in the region remained largely unchanged, when compared to February 2022, there has been a significant increase in households that have fallen into moderate levels of food insecurity. Overall, the number of food insecure people has increased by 1.3 million over the past six months. The deterioration has been attributed to rising costs for food and other commodities, as the ripple effect of the Ukraine conflict and a slow recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic is felt throughout Latin America and the Caribbean.
Nearly 6 percent of people in the English-speaking Caribbean reported going an entire day without eating in the week leading up to the survey, which is a 1 percent increase since February 2022. Another 36 percent of respondents skipped meals or ate less than usual, and 32 percent ate less preferred foods in the week leading up to the survey. In February these figures were at 30 and 25 percent, respectively.
"We are seeing worrying trends in the region with people selling off their assets and using their savings to meet basic needs. This was unheard of in the region previously," said Regis Chapman, Representative and Country Director WFP Caribbean Multi-Country Office. "These negative coping strategies are unsustainable, and we fear that these short-term measures will lead to a further increase in the number of people who are unable to meet their daily food requirements."
The Caribbean region continues to be impacted by external factors which threaten livelihoods and the ability of people to meet their basic needs. On average, food inflation in the English and Dutch-speaking Caribbean has risen by 10.2 percent across 20 countries as of March 2022. High energy prices are exacerbating the food price crisis. Ninety-seven percent of people surveyed reported seeing higher prices for food items compared to 59 percent in April 2020.
“For the first time in over two years, people’s inability to meet food and essential needs were top concerns, followed by unemployment,” said Joseph Cox, Assistant Secretary-General, Economic Integration, Innovation and Development, CARICOM Secretariat. “CARICOM recognizes that further support is necessary to reduce the level of need in the region and establish systems which facilitate access to nutritious food for all. Leaders in the region are actively engaging with decision makers across all relevant sectors to identify solutions for increasing food production and reducing import dependency within the region in order to reduce the cost of food.”
The most recent survey results and an interactive dashboard are available to carry out a full comparison of data across all five rounds of the survey and the different countries that are covered. The dashboard now has additional information specifically on the impact of economic conditions on the farming and fishing sectors along with livelihoods, markets, and food security.
CARICOM, WFP and other partners continue to work together to increase people’s resilience to shocks through stronger disaster management, social protection and food systems that are more effective, sustainable and responsive in meeting the needs of those most affected by crises. Social protection programmes and other government support has been scaled up throughout the Caribbean, helping offset the impacts of the crisis. Investments in agriculture are aimed at reducing the reliance on imports.
The survey has been made possible with the support of the European Union and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Bureau of Humanitarian Assistance.
Note to the editor:
Click here to view the dashboard
Click here to read the full report

About WFP
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
About CARICOM
The Caribbean Community (CARICOM) is a grouping of 20 countries: 15 Member States and five Associate Members, with the aims of promoting economic integration and cooperation in foreign policy, human and social development and security.  Caribbean economic integration, and cooperation amongst its members, including in foreign policy.
Follow us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/WFPCaribbean and https://www.facebook.com/caricom.org
For more information please contact:
Carla.alleyne@wfp.org,  WFP Caribbean Multi-Country Office, +1(246) 467-6085
Juliette.maughan@wfp.org, WFP Caribbean Multi-Country Office, +1(246) 467-6084
Shaun.baugh@caricom.org, CARICOM Secretariat (592) 222-0001 -0006 Ext: 2244
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/200061-food-insecurity-caribbean-continues-upward-trajectory-caricom-wfp-survey-finds




Date: 09 September 2022
Title: President of the UN General Assembly and Foreign Minister Engage in Bilateral Talks
Content: 09 September 2022
The Honourable Hugh Hilton Todd, Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, and President of the 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (PGA),
His Excellency Abdulla Shahid engaged in bilateral talks today at the Ramphal House on a range of issues of mutual interest.
The PGA is currently in Guyana for an official visit which concludes tomorrow, 10 September 2022. The PGA is also the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Maldives.
Honourable Minister Todd commended His Excellency Shahid for stewardship of the work of the General Assembly during his tenure and committed to working closely with the Maldives at both the bilateral and multilateral levels to build on the work that the PGA undertook during his presidency and to explore new ways of strengthening the relations between Guyana and the Maldives.
His Excellency Shahid thanked Minister Todd for the excellent support that Guyana provided to him in his role as President of the General Assembly and noted the key role that Guyana played in the process of the establishment of the UN Youth Office. On 8 September 2022, the UN Member States unanimously decided to establish a UN Youth Office dedicated to engagement and advocacy for the advancement of youth issues across the United Nations in the areas of peace and security, sustainable development and human rights.
His Excellency Shahid is the first Maldivian national to serve as President of the General Assembly and was intent on instilling hope to the membership by taking practical steps to address several of the challenges that are of concern to the United Nations. He focused on issues of gender equality and women’s empowerment, youth involvement in decision- making, financing for development, and climate change issues, among others.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/199052-president-un-general-assembly-and-foreign-minister-engage-bilateral-talks




Date: 08 September 2022
Title: Multiple crises halt progress as 9 out of 10 countries fall backwards in human development, UNDP report warns
Content: 08 September 2022
The world must jolt itself out of its global paralysis to secure the future of people and planet by rebooting its development trajectory.
The world is lurching from crisis to crisis, trapped in a cycle of firefighting and unable to tackle the roots of the troubles that confront us. Without a sharp change of course, we may be heading towards even more deprivations and injustices, warns the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
The latest Human Development Report, “Uncertain Times, Unsettled Lives: Shaping our Future in a Transforming World”, launched today by UNDP, argues that layers of uncertainty are stacking up and interacting to unsettle life in unprecedented ways. The last two years have had a devastating impact for billions of people around the world, when crises like COVID-19 and the war in Ukraine hit back-to-back, and interacted with sweeping social and economic shifts, dangerous planetary changes, and massive increases in polarization.
For the first time in the 32 years that UNDP have been calculating it, the Human Development Index, which measures a nation’s health, education, and standard of living, has declined globally for two years in a row. Human development has fallen back to its 2016 levels, reversing much of the progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals.
The reversal is nearly universal as over 90 percent of countries registered a decline in their HDI score in either 2020 or 2021 and more than 40 percent declined in both years, signaling that the crisis is still deepening for many.
While some countries are beginning to get back on their feet, recovery is uneven and partial, further widening inequalities in human development. Latin America, the Caribbean, Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia have been hit particularly hard.
“The world is scrambling to respond to back-to-back crises. We have seen with the cost of living and energy crises that, while it is tempting to focus on quick fixes like subsidizing fossil fuels, immediate relief tactics are delaying the long-term systemic changes we must make,” says Achim Steiner, UNDP Administrator. “We are collectively paralyzed in making these changes. In a world defined by uncertainty, we need a renewed sense of global solidarity to tackle our interconnected, common challenges."
The report explores why the change needed isn’t happening and suggests there are many reasons, including how insecurity and polarization are feeding off each other today to prevent the solidarity and collective action we need to tackle crises at all levels. New calculations show, for instance, that those feeling most insecure are also more likely to hold extreme political views.
“Even before COVID-19 hit, we were seeing the twin paradoxes of progress with insecurity and polarisation. Today, with one-third of people worldwide feeling stressed and fewer than a third of people worldwide trusting others, we face major roadblocks to adopting policies that work for people and planet,” says Achim Steiner. “This thought-provoking new analysis aims to help us break this impasse and chart a new course out of our current global uncertainty. We have a narrow window to re-boot our systems and secure a future built on decisive climate action and new opportunities for all.”
To chart a new course, the report recommends implementing policies that focus on investment — from renewable energy to preparedness for pandemics, and insurance—including social protection— to prepare our societies for the ups and downs of an uncertain world. While innovation in its many forms— technological, economic, cultural—can also build capacities to respond to whatever challenges come next.
“To navigate uncertainty, we need to double down on human development and look beyond improving people’s wealth or health,” says UNDP’s Pedro Conceição, the report’s lead author. “These remain important. But we also need to protect the planet and provide people with the tools they need to feel more secure, regain a sense of control over their lives and have hope for the future.”
To learn more about the 2022 Human Development Report and UNDP’s analysis on navigating the new uncertainty complex, visit Human Development Report 2021-22 | Human Development Reports (undp.org).
For media inquiries, please contact:
Carolina Given Sjolander | Communications Specialist | Mobile: +1 347 908 4008 | Email: carolina.given.sjolander@undp.org
Victor Garrido Delgado | Media Specialist, UNDP | Mobile:1-917-995-1687 | Email: victor.garrido.delgado@undp.org
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/198849-multiple-crises-halt-progress-9-out-10-countries-fall-backwards-human-development-undp




Date: 05 November 2021
Title: UNICEF donates 100 water tanks to Civil Defence Commission to support emergency response
Content: 05 November 2021
- will be distributed to flood-affected households and support COVID-19
response
UNICEF today handed over 100 water tanks to the Civil Defence Commission (CDC) which will be used to support the CDC’s response to emergencies. The tanks, each with a capacity to hold 450 gallons of water, were procured with support from the United States Government through the US Department of State’s Bureau for Population, Refugees and Migration (USBPRM). The water tanks will be distributed to households affected by flooding, as well as support the response to the COVID-19 pandemic by ensuring availability of water for infection prevention and control in key areas.
UNICEF Representative Nicolas Pron and United States Ambassador to Guyana, H.E Sarah-Ann Lynch handed over the tanks to CDC Director General, Lieutenant Colonel Kester Craig at the CDC Headquarters on Friday.
“UNICEF is pleased to deliver these water tanks to the CDC. These will ensure that children and their families affected by flooding have access to water. Clean and safe water is essential for children’s health, survival and development,” said Mr. Pron. The UNICEF Representative added that the CDC is a valued partner in UNICEF’s Emergency and Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) programmes in Guyana. He also thanked the US Government for its valuable support and partnership in responding to emergencies and ensuring that no child is left behind.
“The United States Government continues to support the commendable efforts of the Government of Guyana for COVID-19 and other emergency response. These water tanks will increase the accessibility and availability of water in the areas where people are in need,” said Ambassador Lynch. The ambassador added that the US government is proud to partner with UNICEF and the CDC to address the humanitarian needs of Guyanese and migrants.
In welcoming the donation, Lieutenant Colonel Craig said, “The significance of this contribution must not be downplayed, as it will not only ensure adequate and improved water access for the households, but it will greatly improve their standards for sanitation and hygiene, thereby helping to reduce these households’ risks to contracting infectious diseases, especially COVID-19 which continues to affect global populations at alarming rates.”
“The CDC commends and must acknowledge UNICEF and the US Government for their roles and partnership in this initiative, which is most definitely not a mere donation, but a tangible contribution towards our national and international goals for disaster resilience and sustainable development,” he added.
The donation of the water tanks complements emergency support provided by UNICEF to the Government of Guyana. In July, UNICEF provided over 2 million water purification tablets to the CDC as part of the flood response and since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, UNICEF has partnered with national authorities on the response to the crisis.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/157320-unicef-donates-100-water-tanks-civil-defence-commission-support-emergency-response




Date: 24 September 2021
Title: Guyana Spotlight Initiative Project -Sensitisation Session on the Partnership for Peace Violence Intervention Programme
Content: 24 September 2021
"...this intervention programme seeks to engage perpetrators to make the necessary changes in their lives to restore peace within their families and communities and to ensure safety to victims."
“I am especially heartened because I feel very often in our programmes we focus on women, intervening and getting them out of tough situations, and we also focus heavily on prevention when it comes to women and people who experience gender-based abuse; however, now we will also focus on this missing element where we're tackling people who are perpetrators of abuse and violence. I think the missing piece of the jigsaw has finally been put in place.”
These were some of the remarks made by the Honourable Minister Dr. Vindhya Persaud, Ministry of Human Services and Social Security in Guyana as she opened the sensitisation session for the Partnership for Peace (PfP) Violence Intervention Programme on September 20, 2021 which marks the beginning of the Programme in Guyana. The PfP Violence Intervention Programme, which has been rolled out since 2010 in other countries in the Caribbean such as Grenada, and Trinidad and Tobago, is a court-ordered 16-session psycho-educational programme designed for small-groups of court-sanctioned perpetrators which contains both therapeutic and educational components to support perpetrators to engage in non-violent behaviours.
A key objective of PfP Violence Intervention Programme is to ensure that perpetrators accept responsibility for their behaviours, and recognize the costs to their partners, children, families and communities. Ultimately, this intervention programme seeks to engage perpetrators to make the necessary changes in their lives to restore peace within their families and communities and to ensure safety to victims.
The Partnership for Peace Violence intervention Programme invites participants to examine their own lives to determine where the violent behaviour began, and takes a trauma-informed approach to persons with adverse childhood experiences. The sessions also model an atmosphere of respect within the group, prohibiting disrespectful and disruptive behaviour. Like the Spotlight Initiative, it includes a comprehensive approach to prevention, acknowledging violence as a lifecycle issue that must be deterred.
At the start of the sensitisation session, Representative, UN Women Multi Country Office – Caribbean, Tonni Brodber also highlighted the importance of the PfP intervention in continued efforts to eradicate violence against women and girls in Guyana.
Brodber explained: “…the PfP was recognised as an important strategy under the Prevention Pillar of the Spotlight Initiative Project in Guyana, and even in the wider Caribbean region. It is a secondary prevention strategy within the criminal justice sector… it focuses on rehabilitation and deterrence through building skills on themes such as effective communication, coping with stress, conflict resolution, negotiating and anger management, among others, in order to provide concrete alternatives to violent behaviours.”
Two experts, Jacqueline Sealy Burke and Shane Joseph, who were members of the UN Women PfP Expert Group that developed the PfP Programme Manual and PfP Tools, conducted the sensitisation session. The programme has been proven, when effectively implemented and embedded in multi-agency partnerships, to help reduce repeat cases of domestic violence, strengthening the effectiveness of efforts within the criminal justice system to make perpetrators effectively accountable for their actions and serving a protective function for victims.
The activity was conducted within the framework of Pillar 3 of the ongoing EU funded-Spotlight Initiative Project in Guyana, which focuses on gender inequitable social norms, attitudes and behaviours change at community and individual levels to prevent violence against women and girls and harmful practices.
-ENDS-
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/146872-guyana-spotlight-initiative-project-sensitisation-session-partnership-peace-violence




Date: 23 September 2021
Title: EU, United Nations & Government Launch Foundations Programme as a prevention method to tackle violence against women and girls
Content: 23 September 2021
The Ministry of Human Services and Social Security, in partnership with the EU funded-Spotlight Initiative, launched the ‘Foundations Programme: Strengthening Prevention Approaches To Address Gender-Based Violence In the Caribbean."
The Ministry of Human Services and Social Security, in partnership with the EU funded-Spotlight Initiative, launched the ‘Foundations Programme: Strengthening Prevention Approaches To Address Gender-Based Violence In the Caribbean’ on September 21, 2021 recognised as International Day of Peace.  The programme is organized under the Spotlight Initiative which was created in partnership with the United Nations, European Union (EU), the Government, and CSOs in Guyana to implement solutions to accelerate action towards eliminating Gender-Based Violence (GBV), specifically violence against women and girls within the context of family violence.
The Foundations Programme is aimed at targeting youth aged 13 to 24 to become advocates for the prevention of Gender-Based Violence. The programme will support participants in understanding how to address the root causes of GBV such as socially and culturally bound concepts of the values placed on women and men, in their personal lives as well as socially.
During the launch, the Honourable Minister of Human Services and Social Security, Dr. Vindhya Persaud called on all key stakeholders, including youths in the wider society, to become advocates of non-violent interactions, equipped with the necessary skills to address violence against women and girls which will result in transformative impact on sustainable development.
She added: “This means that very neatly the pieces of this jigsaw puzzle (GBV Intervention Programmes) are falling into place and that's important because for us to truly get to the root cause of gender-based violence and have impact in a tangible way in our country, all of these pieces need to be there and for these pieces to be effective, all stakeholders need to be equipped with a deep understanding of their roles and how to effectively collaborate to become passionate advocates and passionate workers in this monumental task.”
Recent data pinpoint that gender-based violence and more specifically, intimate partner violence (IPV) is pervasive in Guyana with more than one in every 2 women (55%) in Guyana between the ages of 16 to 64, experiencing IPV in their lifetime, which is more than the global average of 1 in every 3 women (30%). The recently appointed United Nations Resident Coordinator, Yesim Oruc reiterated the urgent need to tackle GBV at all ages, especially in youths, considering the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic resulting in spikes in reported violence against women and children.
She said: “Guyana Women’s Health and Life Experiences Survey 2018 highlighted that solutions must result in behavioral change in both men and women especially since women themselves identify with beliefs which perpetuate inequality and increase the risk of suffering and violence. The prevention pillar recognizes that tackling these beliefs at the root requires investments beyond sensitization [but] it needs us to look at this [gender-based violence] in a multi-pronged approach focusing on the individual, relationships, families, communities and the society.”
The launch of the Foundations Programme kicked off with the Training of Trainers component to equip twenty-one facilitators with the capacity to implement the 12-module curriculum at the community level. Representative of the UN Women Multi Country Office – Caribbean, Tonni Brodber further explained the background and the expected outcomes of the programme.
She outlined that: “The Foundations Programme was developed in 2017 by UN Women MCO – Caribbean, with the support of the Maria Holder Memorial Trust in response to the increasing calls for the development and scaling up of gender-responsive violence prevention programmes for young people. The Programme is based on teaching concepts and techniques that help to challenge harmful and hierarchical gender norms, values and attitudes and encourage the adoption of social and cultural norms and values which emulate gender equality, respect, justice, fairness, open communication and healthy relationships.”
Given the unacceptably high incidence of gender-based violence in Guyana before COVID-19 and the pandemic’s further impact on the risks for women and girls in this crisis situation, the Foundations Programme is a key step in eradicating social norms that perpetuate GBV in all its forms.
Brodber added: “The culture of a society is a very powerful source of influence in shaping how we feel about ourselves and one another. All people in a given community contribute to how we engage and value each other, especially women and girls.”
The programme will also provide practical approaches to achieving the six (6) key objectives outlined in the curriculum:
Guyana is the second Caribbean country currently implementing the Foundations Programme under Pillar 3, the Prevention Pillar of the Spotlight Initiative that focuses on gender inequitable social norms, attitudes and behaviours change at community and individual levels to prevent violence against women and girls and harmful practices. For more information on the Foundations Programme, please visit: https://caribbean.unwomen.org/en/materials/publications/2018/11/foundations-programme#view
In the words of the Honourable Minister of Human Services and Social Security, Dr. Vindhya Persaud:
“When we have the knowledge, when we have the wisdom and when we have all the tools and equipment at our disposal, we must use them to empower people to be transformative.”


107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/149911-eu-united-nations-government-launch-foundations-programme-prevention-method-tackle-violence




Date: 18 August 2021
Title: Secretary-General appoints new United Nations Resident Coordinator in Guyana
Content: 18 August 2021
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres has appointed Yesim Oruc of Turkey as the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Guyana, with the host Government’s approval. She will take up her post on 22 August.
Ms. Oruc brings more than 20 years of experience in international relations and sustainable development to her new role. At the United Nations, she held leadership positions with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), including, most recently, a senior role at the UNDP Representation Office in Washington D.C., USA where she managed key organizational strategies and partnerships. She also served as UNDP Country Director in Albania and led programme and partnership initiatives for UNDP country operations in Romania as well as Turkey.
Prior to joining the United Nations, Ms. Oruc worked as a copy editor in Cairo, Egypt.
She holds a master’s degree in Middle Eastern studies from the American University in Cairo, Egypt and a bachelor’s degree in political science and comparative governments from Yale University in Connecticut, USA.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/140810-secretary-general-appoints-new-united-nations-resident-coordinator-guyana




Date: 12 August 2021
Title: Ms. Mikiko Tanaka, United Nations Resident Coordinator departs Guyana
Content: 12 August 2021
Ms. Mikiko Tanaka, United Nations (UN) Resident Coordinator, will end her assignment in Guyana in August 2021.
Ms. Tanaka joined the UN System in Guyana in August 2016. From 2016 to 2018 she was the Resident Representative of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and UN Resident Coordinator.
In 2019, as part of global UN Reforms, Ms. Tanaka left her position as UNDP Resident Representative to concentrate on the wider responsibilities of the Resident Coordinator for the whole UN System in Guyana.
During her tenure in Guyana Ms. Tanaka led the implementation of the first ever Caribbean Multi-country Sustainable Development Framework (MSDF), a development partnership that supports Guyana in the achievement of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
Ms. Tanaka has deployed the UN System in Guyana to address challenges faced during the 2020 national and regional elections, to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, and to support people directly affected by flooding and forced migration.
With the European Union, she has enabled Guyana’s inclusion in the global Spotlight Initiative, which aims to eliminate violence against women.
Ms. Tanaka has maintained the closest strategic relations between the UN and successive Guyanese governments since 2016, supporting them in strategic planning, helping them prepare for the effects of the unfolding climate emergency, and highlighting the challenges faced by some of Guyana’s poorest and most marginalized communities.
Ms. Tanaka has worked tirelessly to ensure that the United Nations system supports Guyana to protect human rights, preserve democracy, and ensure that no-one, regardless of their circumstances, status or identity, is left behind from the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Ms. Tanaka’s successor will be announced in another release.


107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/139936-ms-mikiko-tanaka-united-nations-resident-coordinator-departs-guyana




Date: 12 August 2021
Title: UN Women and UNESCO partner on a black women, men and youth social justice and development programme
Content: 12 August 2021
UN Women and UNESCO have embarked on a partnership to strengthen women-and youth owned businesses in the cultural and creative industries in the Caribbean, Latin America and Africa.
The programme will also highlight Afro descendant women’s role and contribution to sustainable development through cultural exchanges, knowledge sharing and movement-building.
The announcement of this initiative came as part of activities to launch UN Women’s new Global Black Women Programme where Miss Universe 2019 Zozibini Tunzi moderated a panel discussion of black women creatives, entitled ‘“Ain’t I a Woman”: Black Women, Creativity and Development”. It was sponsored by UN Women MCO-Caribbean, in collaboration with NYU Africa House, UNESCO, and the EU-funded UNESCO-Transcultura Programme.
Representative UN Women MCO Caribbean Tonni Brodber explained the goal of the new project: “We will contribute to enhancing the economic empowerment and resilience of women-and youth owned cultural and creative MSMEs through strengthened networks and opportunities for employability and entrepreneurship in Latin America, the Caribbean and Africa; through strengthened digital transformation, financial management and basic and advanced digital technologies skills for women in the cultural and creative industries (including art, design, music, film, beauty) with particular focus on marginalized and economically disempowered groups.”
“At UN Women and UNESCO, we felt the need to be even more intentional and imaginative about our work to recognise and promote justice and development. We developed a project with the goal being, that Afro-descendent and ethnic minority women, men and youth are empowered through greater voice and agency, and resilient livelihoods to live free from violence and discrimination,” Ms. Brodber added.
Director and Representative of the UNESCO Cluster Office for the Caribbean, Ms. Saadia Sanchez-Vegas said: “This partnership programme harnesses the potential of culture and creativity to empower youth, women and men to transcend borders and build communities across the Caribbean, the African Continent and the entire African diaspora.”
Panellist, South African Carol Bouwer, Founder of Mbokodo Awards for Women in the Arts stressed that the world has not yet begun to understand that black women are a larger part of society whose creativity should be seen as creativity within the broader conversation of art, heritage and culture.
“Historically, we do not look at the intersection between art and the environment, the economy, society and the cultural diversity that carries communities together… Black people in particular, not just black women, we constantly have to apologise each time we come into spaces where we choose to talk about building each other. I am hoping that this healing space, this space of beauty and vibrant art will remind us that we have to be seen, we have to be able to celebrate ourselves and we have to be able to say to the world acknowledge me”.
Sierre Leone and Canadian filmmaker, Ngardy Conteh said there is a huge gap in opportunities for black women to thrive: “We don’t want to just to survive, we want to thrive. We have the creativity, and our creativity can only blossom when we have the space and the resources to do so. There needs to be an increase in opportunities.
UN Women also hosted a global art exhibition and online auction in New York City, featuring 25 women artists of African descent. Fifty percent of the proceeds will go to the artists, while the other fifty percent will support implementation of the UN Women’s Afro-descendant Women’s Programme.
30.
About UN Women
UN Women is the United Nations entity dedicated to gender equality and the empowerment of women. A global champion for women and girls, UN Women was established to accelerate progress on meeting their needs worldwide.
About UNESCO
UNESCO is the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. It seeks to build peace through international cooperation and inter-cultural dialogue through programmes in Education, the Sciences and Culture.

107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/139940-un-women-and-unesco-partner-black-women-men-and-youth-social-justice-and-development




Date: 09 July 2021
Title: UNESCO's Engaged Initiative and National Geographic call on Caribbean youth to submit ideas to protect the oceans and the environment
Content: 09 July 2021
The Engaged Initiative, a collaboration led by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, UNESCO, with Socialab, Ashoka, and National Geographic is inviting Caribbean youth aged 18-29 to submit project ideas to the Engaged for the Oceans and the Environment Challenge to combat the effects of climate change on the oceans. Three of the project ideas have the chance to win US$2,000 for developing their innovative solutions.
Ocean pollution is one of the biggest climate challenges facing our planet. Not only are the oceans responsible for producing at least 50 per cent of the world's oxygen, they also make up 70 per cent of the Earth's surface and are home to millions of species. However, 80 per cent of the world's plastic ends up in the oceans every year. The Caribbean Small Island Developing States (SIDS), are either surrounded by or bordered by the Caribbean Sea and rely heavily on the oceans for their livelihoods and sustainable development.
Encouraging Caribbean youth to participate in the Engaged for the Oceans and the Environment Challenge, Saadia Sanchez-Vegas, Director and Representative of the UNESCO Cluster Office for the Caribbean highlights, "The initiative has actively engaged over 10,000 young people from Latin America since 2015 in creating youth-led projects to promote sustainable development. Now, Engaged is expanding to the Caribbean, giving young people from the sub-region the opportunity to submit their ideas to better protect our Oceans, an ultimate source of life."
In Latin America, the initiative is known by its Spanish synonym "Comprometidos". Alejandra Rossi, Executive Director of Socialab, explains, "Engaged or also referred to as Comprometidos is a community of youth that provides both a home and a stepping stone to empower young changemakers. It offers a combination of training sessions, workshops, coaching, mentoring, and resources. We look forward to welcoming the new members from the Caribbean."
Mauricio Rodriguez, youth participant from Colombia shares his experience: "Engaged has become a big movement across Latin American countries, encouraging young people to believe in the importance of their social projects and giving them strategic tools to move forward. We have become a community where we explore different issues that make us think from a different tactical level. Now, with the call of Engaged for the Oceans and the Environment, it opens up a range of opportunities to explore ideas that impact our environment and that we need to act on."
Engaged for the Oceans and the Environment is an open call that invites young people aged 18-29 from Latin America and the Caribbean who have a project idea or ongoing project that impacts their community and aims to address an environmental challenge, contributing to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Under this open call, young people will receive mentoring support to strengthen their ideas and can receive up to USD 2,000 as seed funding to bring their ideas to life.
Young people can submit their ideas through the following platform: http://bit.ly/compoceanos by 18 July 2021.
For more information on Engaged, please visit: https://en.unesco.org/fieldoffice/montevideo/comprometidos
For further information please contact: contacto.comprometidos@gmail.com
or p.isturiz-cavero@unesco.org

107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/135822-unescos-engaged-initiative-and-national-geographic-call-caribbean-youth-submit-ideas-protect




Date: 06 July 2021
Title: World Bank Appoints New Country Director for the Caribbean
Content: 06 July 2021
Lilia Burunciuc is the new World Bank Country Director for Caribbean countries, effective July 1, 2021. She will be based in Kingston, Jamaica.
Ms. Burunciuc brings a wide range of development experience to her new position. A Moldovan national, she first joined the World Bank in 1996 and has held leadership positions in several countries and regions of the world, including in Europe and Central Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. Prior to her current assignment, Ms. Burunciuc served as Country Director for Central Asia.
“I look forward to continuing and deepening the World Bank’s strong partnership with Caribbean countries to increase their resilience and address their most pressing development challenges,” said Lilia Burunciuc. “Economically, Caribbean small states dependent on tourism have been disproportionately impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. I am committed to working closely with our partners in the Caribbean, including government, private sector, and civil society, to support the region’s green, resilient, and inclusive recovery.”
Ms. Burunciuc has extensive experience leading policy dialogue with governments on various aspects of development. Before joining the Bank, she was a Deputy Governor of the National Bank of Moldova (Moldova’s central bank). She holds a Master’s of Public Administration from George Washington University and a degree (master’s level) in Economics, Management, and Planning from the Technical University of Moldova.
As the new Country Director for the Caribbean, Ms. Burunciuc will lead the implementation of the World Bank’s program, which includes an active portfolio of 75 projects worth US$2.7 billion in 13 countries, financed by the International Development Association (IDA), the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), and various trust funds. The World Bank’s program focuses on building cross-cutting resilience, including climate change adaptation and mitigation, human capital development, fiscal sustainability, digital transformation, financial protection, disaster risk management, agriculture, and the blue economy. The World Bank is also providing a wide range of analytical and advisory services in the region.

For more information, please visit: www.worldbank.org/caribbean
Twitter: @WBCaribbean
YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/worldbank
Charmaine Wright
+1 876 960-0459
cwright2@worldbank.org
Peleg Charles
+509 4891 6327
pcharles@worldbank.org
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/134828-world-bank-appoints-new-country-director-caribbean




Date: 02 July 2021
Title: What footprint do you want to leave? UNESCO's Engaged Initiative and National Geographic call on young changemakers in Latin America and the Caribbean to join the ocean challenge
Content: 02 July 2021
The Engaged Initiative and National Geographic will award 3 initiatives with USD 2.000.
The climate emergency is keeping the world on alert. Ocean pollution is one of the biggest climate challenges facing the planet. Every year, 80 per cent of plastic ends up in the oceans. Not only are the oceans responsible for producing at least 50 per cent of the world's oxygen, they also make up 70 per cent of the Earth's surface and are home to millions of species.
Caribbean Small Island Developing States, SIDS, rely heavily on the oceans for their livelihoods and sustainable development.
The Engaged Initiative, led by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, UNESCO, Socialab and Ashoka in collaboration with National Geographic, invites youth from Latin America and the Caribbean, aged 18-29, to submit project ideas that will help address some of the challenges facing the oceans and the environment.
All ideas submitted will benefit from online mentoring from experts who will help develop and improve the proposals.
Engaged with the Oceans and the Environment is an open call for proposals which convenes youth between 18 and 29 years from Latin America and the Caribbean who have a project idea or an ongoing project which impacts their community and aims to address an environmental challenge, thus contributing to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
Taking action to tackle the problems the oceans and the environment face is paramount to address Climate Change. Youth can submit their ideas through the following platform: http://bit.ly/compoceanos by 15 July 2021.
For further information please contact: contacto.comprometidos@gmail.com
Engaged is an initiative jointly organized by Ashoka, Socialab and UNESCO since 2015 that has actively engaged over 10,000 young people from the region in creating youth-led projects to promote sustainable development.
For more information on Engaged, please visit: https://en.unesco.org/fieldoffice/montevideo/comprometidos
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/134831-what-footprint-do-you-want-leave-unescos-engaged-initiative-and-national-geographic-call




Date: 30 June 2021
Title: World Bank Approves US$6 Million in Additional Financing for COVID-19 Response and Vaccines in Guyana
Content: 30 June 2021
The World Bank approved US$6 million in additional financing for the Guyana COVID-19 Emergency Response Project to support affordable and equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines and ensure effective vaccine deployment in Guyana.
The project will also support general preparedness, resilience, and overall health system strengthening.
“An efficient and equitable rollout of COVID-19 vaccines will be critical to save lives and restore economic activities in Guyana,” said Ozan Sevimli, World Bank Resident Representative for Jamaica and Guyana. “The World Bank is closely coordinating with development partners and Government of Guyana counterparts to support the vaccination campaign, and long-term improvements to the country’s healthcare system.”
The pandemic has had socioeconomic impacts, including job losses, which disproportionately affect women. This additional financing to the Guyana COVID-19 Emergency Response Project will fund the acquisition of COVID-19 vaccines. It will help the Government of Guyana strengthen health system functions that are necessary for immunization, such as vaccine awareness communication, human resources, information systems, and waste management. The additional financing to this project also aims to increase overall health system preparedness to tackle future emergencies.
The original project was approved in November 2020 to support Guyana’s pandemic response and strengthen the country’s health system. US$5 million of the additional financing approved today comes from the International Development Association (IDA). Guyana receives interest-free financing from IDA, with a maturity of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years. An additional US$1 million is a grant from the Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Multi-Donor Trust Fund.
Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the World Bank Group has committed over US$125 billion to fight the health, economic, and social impacts of the pandemic, the fastest and largest crisis response in its history. The financing is helping more than 100 countries strengthen pandemic preparedness, protect the poor and jobs, and jump start a climate-friendly recovery. The Bank is also providing US$12 billion to help low- and middle-income countries purchase and distribute COVID-19 vaccines, tests, and treatments.
Charmaine Wright,
+1 876 960-0459
cwright2@worldbank.org
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/134827-world-bank-approves-us6-million-additional-financing-covid-19-response-and-vaccines-guyana




Date: 22 June 2021
Title: New Grant Approved for Guyana's Education Sector
Content: 22 June 2021
The World Bank approved a US$6.7 million grant from the Global Partnership for Education (GPE) for the Guyana Education Sector Program Project. The project aims to improve learning in nursery schools, increase technology use in primary schools, and improve functionality of the national education management information system.
“Guyana’s education sector has made progress in the last 15 years,” said Ozan Sevimli, World Bank Resident Representative for Jamaica and Guyana. “There have been improvements, however the learning outcomes remain low, and improving the quality of education at all levels will be the priority for Guyana to develop its human capital.”
“As the impact of the pandemic on education is still being felt around the world, GPE’s support to strengthen education in Guyana is more critical than ever,” said Alice Albright, GPE Chief Executive Officer. “GPE will continue to help make Guyana’s education system more resilient and effective so that the most vulnerable girls and boys can go to school and learn.”
At the nursery level, the project will support teacher training to improve pedagogy and delivery of a new curriculum. The training will include foundational skills, as well as student-centered pedagogy, formative assessments, and socio-emotional aspects, which are of particular importance during the pandemic. The project will also provide learning materials and deliver parental education. At the primary level, the financing will equip schools with computer tablets to enable them to use technology for foundational skills like mathematics and literacy, as well as smart classrooms to support learning. Given the inequitable access to learning during the school closures, technology-assisted learning can facilitate teaching and cater to more learning styles for students with different needs. Finally, the project will finance the further development and roll out of an integrated education management information system at the national level in the nursery, primary and secondary sectors. This enhanced system will generate information, enabling stakeholders across levels to make informed and evidence-based decisions.
This project will complement two ongoing projects financed by the World Bank’s International Development Association. The Education Sector Improvement Project aims to improve mathematics education and the University of Guyana’s Faculty of Health Sciences. The Secondary Education Improvement Project is also strengthening innovative teaching methods, increasing enrollment in secondary schools, and supporting school construction.
About the Global Partnership for Education
GPE is a shared commitment to ending the world’s learning crisis. It is the only global partnership and fund dedicated entirely to helping children in lower-income countries get a quality education, so they can unlock their potential and contribute to building a better world.
With nearly 20 years’ experience helping partner countries to get more girls and boys in school and learning, GPE convenes teachers, civil society, donors, United Nations agencies, development banks, businesses and philanthropists behind partner country leadership to finance and support solutions so that no child is left behind.
Tamara Kummer
+33 7 82 26 07 18
tkummer@globalpartnership.org
Hannah McDonald-Moniz
(202) 458-2896
hmcdonaldmoniz@worldbank.org
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/134826-new-grant-approved-guyanas-education-sector




Date: 21 May 2021
Title: Mainstreaming Sustainable Land Development and Management (SLDM) Project in Guyana
Content: 21 May 2021
In a rapidly changing world pressured by climate change and increasing populations, sustainable land management (SLM) is vital for development. It can help to improve livelihoods, achieve food security and protect ecosystems while ensuring that land, as an important resource, is also sustained for the benefit of future generations.
SLM includes technologies, policies and activities that allow the use of land resources – including soils, water, animals and plants – to produce goods that meet changing human needs, while ensuring the resources maintain productivity and environmental functions. For example, it may involve countries developing coherent policies and institutional framework that govern use and development of land. SLM is also supported through knowledge sharing and lessons learnt to scale up good land management practices including among land users. SLM recognizes that interaction between land resources, climate and human activities influence productivity and sustainability of land-use systems.
Globally and nationally, SLM remains a priority with partners like the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) actively involved in assisting member countries to create enabling environment for sustainable development of land resources to meet the ever-increasing needs and demands of the world’s rapidly growing population and as a means for achieving Food Security for All (SDG 2).
With regards to Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), SLM is also linked to SDG 15: “Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss.” More so, SLM is important to achieving SDG Target 15.3: “By 2030, combat desertification, restore degraded land and soil, including land affected by desertification, drought and floods, and strive to achieve a land degradation-neutral world.” While it is recognized that all forms of land degradation cannot be stopped, it can be offset by improved management of land for agriculture, pastoral systems, forestry, and mining.
GLSC and its role in sustainable land management
Countries like Guyana, whose socio-economic development has traditionally relied on land-based activities, mainly agriculture, mining and forestry, are recognized for their commitment and strategic actions to integrate SLM. Guyana is currently implementing a Project to Mainstream Sustainable Land Development and Management (SLDM) aimed at creating an enabling environment to promote sustainable, and climate-resilient land development, management and reclamation. The Guyana Lands and Surveys Commission (GLSC) is the national implementing counterpart and a main beneficiary of the SLDM Project.
FAO is the implementing agency with overall responsibility for executing the project, in collaboration with GLSC.
Mandated by the GLSC Act of 1999, “to have charge of and act as guardian over (all) public lands, rivers and creeks of Guyana,” the Commission has legal support in its functions of land administration and management in Guyana. Affirmed in GLSC’s functions, is responsibility for land use planning and land administration which contributes to sustainable land management. Land use planning involves the allocation of land for uses that provides the greatest sustainable benefits.  Land administration refers to the process of determining, recording and disseminating information about the rights, regulations, value and uses of land when implementing land management for agriculture, forestry, mineral extraction, conservation, tourism and urban development. The GLSC enables land users the rights to access lands for different purposes/land uses such as agriculture, residential, commercial, industrial, grazing, recreational, ecclesiastical (religious) and tourism.
The SLDM project, which started in 2018, is carrying out several activities to improve GLSC’s capacity and workflows for improved land administration and land use planning, building on land monitoring, surveying, valuation, mapping, etc. These entail application and use of updated equipment, technology, tools and systems and capacity building through training, formal and otherwise, for GLSC staff and other partner agencies.
SLM and combating land degradation
Overall, project outcomes seek to mainstream SLDM in policy and institutional and governance mechanisms to prevent degradation and restore degraded lands; and to boost Guyana’s institutional and human capacity for participatory and cohesive SLDM activities. The project also targets improvement of local governance in three (3) regions to implement and scale up SLM interventions
The SLDM project is supporting Guyana to achieve its goals and objectives for land use planning and development, reclamation, combating land degradation and SLM. These are activities linked to national strategies including the Low Carbon Development Strategy (LCDS) and framework for Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD+). The project is also assisting Guyana to meet its commitments to international obligations on land management matters. Included in these are Guyana’s commitment to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) and achieving Land Degradation Neutrality (LDN).

GLSC is Guyana’s National Focal Point agency to UNCCD with oversight for implementing measures to achieve LDN. The fundamental aim of LDN is to preserve the land resource base, by ensuring no net loss of healthy and productive land, at national level. This goal is to be achieved through a combination of measures that avoid, reduce and reverse land degradation. Achieving LDN requires estimating the likely cumulative impacts of land use and land management decisions, and counterbalancing anticipated losses through strategically-planned rehabilitation or restoration of degraded land, within the same land type.
Natural resource utilization and increasing settlement expansion are some factors contributing to land degradation in Guyana. UNCCD global data has shown Guyana’s area of degraded land to be 0.003%.
GLSC is engaged in transformative projects at the national and regional levels to reduce land degradation. As a part of a multi-country initiative with eight (8) other Caribbean states, Guyana would soon implement a SOILCARE Project.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/127480-mainstreaming-sustainable-land-development-and-management-sldm-project-guyana




Date: 10 May 2021
Title: Guyana receives second shipment of COVID-19 vaccines from COVAX
Content: 10 May 2021
Guyana today received 38,400 COVID-19 vaccine doses through the COVAX Facility, a partnership between the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Pan American Health Organization/World Health Organization (PAHO/WHO) and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) to ensure the equitable distribution of vaccines against COVID-19 globally.
This second delivery from the COVAX Facility adds to the first shipment of 24,000 doses of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, received on 29 March. According to the first round of COVAX allocations, Guyana is expected to continue receiving doses until it reaches 100,800, the amount specified by COVAX. Guyana is one of ten countries in Latin America and the Caribbean that are receiving vaccines at no cost through the COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC).
PAHO’s Revolving Fund, which is responsible for the procurement of COVID-19 vaccines for the countries of the Americas under the COVAX Facility, shipped 38,400 doses of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, manufactured by SK Bioscience of South Korea. The vaccines arrived today at the Cheddi Jagan International Airport in Georgetown.
This new shipment of COVID-19 vaccines will strengthen Guyana’s National COVID-19 Vaccination Programme, which is open to all eligible adults - 18 years and up. Guyana has so far vaccinated over 32% of the adult population with the aim of achieving herd immunity by the end of 2021.
“Guyana is happy to receive these 38,400 doses; this would complement the 24,000 doses received thus far through the COVAX mechanism. The Government of Guyana would like to thank COVAX, which is made up of CEPI, GAVI, WHO, the UN system and all the donor countries especially the United States for assisting the low and middle income countries to get access to vaccines. This is a step in the right direction as we work to end the COVID-19 pandemic globally,” said Dr. Frank Anthony, Minister of Health of Guyana.
Dr. Luis Codina, PAHO/WHO Representative in Guyana said, “We are very pleased to receive the second shipment for the country; we are expecting 40,000 doses at the end of this month or early next month. COVAX is a platform aimed to accelerate the development and manufacture of COVID-19 vaccines, and to guarantee fair and equitable access for every country like Guyana. The country now has three COVID-19 vaccines available, for the population to access in order to keep them safe and protected.”
The U.S. Ambassador to Guyana, Sarah-Ann Lynch expressed, “I am so pleased about the second COVAX delivery of vaccines to Guyana. You may know that the U.S. is providing the most funding to COVAX of any country in the world – $4 billion. As President Biden has made clear, the U.S. supports multilateral approaches, and will work as a partner to address global challenges. None of us face this threat alone; we must work together to vaccinate as many people as possible.”
UNICEF Representative in Guyana, Nicolas Pron remarked, “The arrival of additional COVID-19 vaccines for Guyana sets the course towards recovery as more families and communities will have access to the life-saving protection they offer. It brings hope for children, who have been out of classrooms and prevented from also playing together due to the pandemic, that soon they may be together again. It also serves as a reminder that health workers, teachers, parents, all who children rely on most in Guyana have the opportunity to take the vaccine and minimize the impact of the pandemic on our children. The vaccines are the best hope we have of ending this pandemic and rebuilding our lives. The more people who are vaccinated against COVID-19, the more opportunities and protection for the children who rely on them.”
Close to 136.4 million people have been immunized in the Americas, but only 24.2% of these are in Latin America and the Caribbean. Support is given to countries in vital areas including procurement of medications and supplies, oxygen management strategies, deployment of rapid tests to improve surveillance and response, and expansion of hospital capacity. To date, over 11.6 million doses of COVAX vaccines have been delivered and are being deployed.
Until vaccination is widespread among the population, basic public health measures remain the basis of the pandemic response. For public health authorities, this means continuing diagnostic testing, contact tracing, isolation, assisted quarantine, and quality care. And for individuals, it means continuing to practice physical distancing, hand hygiene, the use of masks, adequate ventilation of indoor environments, and avoidance of crowded spaces.
COVAX, the vaccines pillar of the Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator, is co-led by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, and the World Health Organization (WHO) – working in partnership with UNICEF as key implementing partner, as well as civil society organisations, vaccine manufacturers, the World Bank, and others. The Advance Market Commitment is funded through the generosity of governments, private sector, philanthropic and multilateral partners, See the AMC donor table for a complete list of pledges.

Notes to Editors
Full COVAX News Note to Editors: https://www.who.int/initiatives/act-accelerator/covax/covax-news-note-to-editors
List of donor pledges to the Gavi COVAX AMC: https://www.gavi.org/sites/default/files/covid/covax/COVAX-AMC-Donors-Table.pd
UNICEF COVAX page https://www.unicef.org/supply/covax-ensuring-global-equitable-access-covid-19-vaccines

Additional Media Contacts
CEPI Press office: +44 7387 055214; press@cepi.net

GAVI
Meghana Sharafudeen: +41 79 711 55 54; msharafudeen@gavi.org
Evan O'Connell: +33 6 17 57 21 26; econnell@gavi.org

PAHO/WHO Guyana
Angela Hoyte: +592 608 2045; hoyteang@paho.org

WHO Global: +41 22 791 2222; mediainquiries@who.int
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/128615-guyana-receives-second-shipment-covid-19-vaccines-covax




Date: 26 April 2021
Title: FAO serves up four challenges in Latin America and the Caribbean to encourage more consumption of fruits and vegetables
Content: 26 April 2021
Under the theme “Fruits and vegetables, your dietary essentials”, the International Year of Fruits and Vegetables (IYFV) offers the celebration of two food groups that we can all identify with and with which we all have a unique relationship. Its role in how we shape our ideas about the value of fruits and vegetables in our daily lives is important as it creates numerous avenues for us to educate, engage with and think about these food groups in imaginative and colourful ways.
In celebration of Earth Day on 22 April and IYFV, the need for the production and consumption of healthy and nutritious food remains at the forefront of discussions and efforts to ensure a healthy planet and the health of all people. While it is recognized that access and prices can affect the ability to consume healthier diets, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has come up with a unique initiative to encourage more consumption of fruits and vegetables.
It is against this background that FAO in Latin America and the Caribbean has launched a series of four fun, family-friendly social media challenges to raise awareness on the important role of fruits and vegetables in our nutrition, food security, health and in achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Renata Clarke, FAO Subregional Coordinator remarked that the four social media challenges present an educational and interactive way to encourage the consumption of fruits and vegetables. With the alarming cases of childhood obesity and diabetes across the region, she believes this platform not only provides an opportunity for learning, but for behavioral changes in food consumption which can lead to a longer and healthier lifespan.
She added that “since the first COVID19 pandemic lockdown in 2020, access to fruits and vegetables was a concern for many persons who started planting their own food and setting up backyard gardens to ensure their food supply was adequate and readily available. We also noted that many parents involved their children in backyard farming as a fun outdoor activity who had to find creative ways of educating their children as schools remained closed.”
FAO not only aims to raise awareness on IYFV, but also to encourage persons to get involved using their social media platforms, maintaining healthy diets, and sharing in this activity with family and friends in their safe spaces so that together we can influence the consumption of healthy diets inclusive of fruits and vegetables.
Social Media Challenges:
#BackyardChallenge
In this challenge, persons are encouraged to share a creative 60 seconds video/photo of the fruits or vegetables harvested from their gardens using the hashtags #IYFV2021 and #Backyardchallenge
#UglyFruitChallenge
In this challenge, persons are encouraged to share a creative 60 seconds video of a dish prepared from 'ugly fruit or vegetable' using the hashtags #IYFV2021 and #Uglyfruitchallenge.
In this challenge, if you have the ugly fruit fever and are eating fruits that look ugly to others, we invite people to share a creative 60 seconds video of this with us using the hashtags #IYFV2021 and #uglyfruitchallenge.
#Namethefruitchallenge or #Namethevegchallenge
In this challenge, persons are encouraged to share a creative 60 seconds video identifying a fruit or vegetable by looking at a photo or the actual fruit or vegetable and try to guess the name, using the hashtags #IYFV2021 and #Namethefruitchallenge or #Namethevegchallenge.
#Tastethefruitchallenge or #Tastethevegchallenge
In the final challenge, persons are encouraged to taste a fruit or vegetable blind-folded and to then identify the fruit based on the taste, using the hashtags #IYFV2021 and #Tastethefruitchallenge or #Tastethevegchallenge in a video of 60 seconds or less.
All four challenges are open to the public and persons may participate as often as they wish by posting their photos and videos on all social media platforms using the hashtags and tagging FAO accounts on Twitter in the Caribbean and Americas:
Twitter- @FAOAmericas @FAOCaribbean
Facebook- https://www.facebook.com/UNFAO/
Tik Tok- https://www.tiktok.com/@fao
Instagram- https://www.instagram.com/fao/
More information can also be found on FAO’s website at http://www.fao.org/americas/caribe/en/.

For more information:
Shara Seelall
Communication Consultant
FAO Guyana
Email: Shara.Seelall@fao.org

Chrishane Williams
FAO Communications Consultant
FAO Jamaica, the Bahamas and Belize
E-mail: chrishane.williams@fao.org

Marquita Sugrim
FAO National Communications Consultant
FAO Subregional Office for the Caribbean
E-mail: marquitajuanne.sugrim@fao.org
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/125784-fao-serves-four-challenges-latin-america-and-caribbean-encourage-more-consumption-fruits-and




Date: 22 April 2021
Title: Climate Action for People and Planet: The Time is Now
Content: 22 April 2021
In this pivotal year for humanity, now is the time for bold climate action.
The science is irrefutable and globally agreed: to stop the climate crisis from becoming a permanent catastrophe, we must limit global heating to 1.5 degrees Celsius.
To do this, we must get to net zero emissions of greenhouse gases by mid-century.  Countries making up about two-thirds of the global economy have committed to do so.  This is encouraging, but we urgently need every country, city, business and financial institution to join this coalition and adopt concrete plans for transitioning to net zero.
Even more urgent is for governments to match this long-term ambition with concrete actions now, as trillions of dollars are mobilized to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic.  Revitalizing economies is our chance to re-engineer our future.
The world has a strong framework for action: the Paris Agreement, in which all countries committed to set their own national climate action plans and strengthen them every five years.  Over five years later, and with damning proof that if we don’t act we will destroy our planet, it is time for decisive and effective action as the United Nations convenes all countries in Glasgow in November for COP26.
The new national plans must cut global greenhouse gas pollution by at least 45 per cent by 2030 compared to 2010 levels.  Many have been presented already, and set out clearer policies to adapt to the impacts of climate change and boost access to renewable energy.
But so far, those plans achieve less than a 1 per cent cut in emissions.  This is a true red alert for people and planet.
In the months ahead, beginning with the upcoming Leaders Summit hosted by the United States, governments must dramatically step up their ambitions – particularly the biggest-emitting countries that have caused the vast bulk of the crisis.
Phasing out coal from the electricity sector is the single most important step to get in line with the 1.5-degree goal.  Immediate action to remove the dirtiest, most polluting fossil fuel from power sectors offers our world a fighting chance.
Global coal use in electricity generation must fall by 80 per cent below 2010 levels by 2030.  This means that developed economies must commit to phase out coal by 2030; other countries must do this by 2040.  There is simply no reason for any new coal plants to be built anywhere.  One third of the global coal fleet is already more costly to operate than building new renewables and storage.  COP26 must signal an end to coal.
As the world moves toward clean air and renewable energy, it is essential that we ensure a just transition. Workers in impacted industries and the informal sector must be supported as they move jobs or reskill.  We must also unleash the vast power of women and girls to drive transformation, including as equal participants in governance and decision-making.
The countries that contributed least to climate change are suffering many of the worst impacts.  Many small island nations will simply cease to exist if we don’t step up the response.  The developed countries must deliver on their commitments to provide and mobilize $100 billion annually by:
The G7 Summit in June offers the opportunity for the world’s wealthiest countries to step up and provide the necessary financial commitments that will ensure the success of COP26.
While governments must lead, decision-makers everywhere have a vital role to play.
I ask all multilateral and national developments banks, by COP26, to have clear policies in place to fund the COVID recovery and the transition to resilient economies in developing countries, taking into account crippling debt levels and huge pressures on national budgets.
Many local governments and private business have committed to net zero emissions by 2050, and have engaged in significant reviews of their business models. I urge all to set ambitious targets and policies.
I encourage young people everywhere to continue to raise their voices for action to address climate change, protect biodiversity, stop humanity’s war on nature and accelerate efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
Time is running out, and there is much hard work ahead, but this is no time to raise the white flag.  The United Nations will keep flying our blue flag of solidarity and hope.  This Earth Day and over the crucial months ahead, I urge all nations and all people to rise together to this moment.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/125521-climate-action-people-and-planet-time-now




Date: 29 March 2021
Title: Guyana receives first shipment of COVID-19 vaccines through COVAX mechanism
Content: 29 March 2021
Guyana today received 24,000 COVID-19 vaccine doses through the COVAX Facility, a partnership between the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Pan American Health Organization/World Health Organization (PAHO/WHO) and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF).
The arrival marks a historic step towards ensuring equitable distribution of COVID-19 vaccines globally, in the largest vaccine procurement and supply operation in history. This delivery is part of the first phase of deliveries for Guyana, with more vaccines expected to arrive successively during 2021. According to the first round of COVAX allocations, Guyana is expected to continue receiving doses through May until it reaches 100,800, the amount specified by COVAX.
PAHO’s Revolving Fund, which is responsible for the procurement of COVID-19 vaccines for the countries of the Americas under the COVAX Facility, shipped 24,000 doses of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, manufactured by SK Bioscience of South Korea. The vaccines arrived today at the Cheddi Jagan International Airport in Georgetown.
"Seeing this arrival is very reassuring and it means that more people will be able to be protected from COVID-19," said Dr. Luis Codina, PAHO/WHO Representative in Guyana. "We will continue to work with the country to support vaccination along with the entire package of known public health and social measures that we know can help stop the spread of COVID-19, protect health services, and save lives."
Guyana is one of ten countries in Latin America and the Caribbean that are receiving vaccines at no cost through the COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC). Guyana is the first AMC country in the Caribbean to receive the vaccines through COVAX.
“The Government of Guyana welcomes the arrival of vaccines from COVAX AMC.  These vaccines will certainly help to expand the current vaccination efforts and assist in protecting many persons who are vulnerable to COVID-19. We will like to extend our gratitude to COVAX, PAHO/WHO, UNICEF and the UN family for their efforts in securing these vaccines for Guyana. These vaccines will definitely help to accelerate our efforts to reach herd immunity in a timely manner,” said Dr. Frank Anthony, Minister of Health of Guyana.
“The arrival of these vaccines and the future deliveries bring hope to families, especially children, who have suffered the consequences of the crisis caused by the pandemic, with profound impacts on education, mental health, protection and food security,” said Nicolas Pron, UNICEF Representative in Guyana. “With these vaccines more people will be protected: a key step to making sure that no one is left behind and that we are building together a better future for children and their families.”
Since the beginning of the pandemic, the UN System in Guyana has worked with government, civil society, and other partners to identify and assist the needs of the population in responding to the health crisis and its socio-economic effects.
“Under the leadership of UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, the United Nations system has come together to help countries respond to the devastating global impact of COVID-19,” said Mikiko Tanaka, UN Resident Coordinator for Guyana. "COVAX is a hard-won global partnership to ensure no one is left behind in the path to recovery and SDGs."
The first case of COVID-19 in Guyana was reported in March 2020. Since then, the country has confirmed 10,168 cases and 227 deaths as a result of infection with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes this disease, according to data from Guyana’s Ministry of Health as of March 28, 2021.
COVAX seeks to provide vaccines for at least 20% of the population of each participating country during 2021. In this first round of vaccine allocation, all COVAX participating countries will receive doses to vaccinate between 2.2 and 2.6% of their population. The only exceptions are Small Island Developing States, which will receive an allocation of vaccines to cover between 16 and 20% of their population, due to the high logistical cost of delivering small quantities of vaccines.
Until vaccination is widespread among the population, basic public health measures remain the basis of the pandemic response. For public health authorities, this means continuing diagnostic testing, contact tracing, isolation, assisted quarantine, and quality care. And for individuals, it means continuing to practice physical distancing, hand hygiene, the use of masks, adequate ventilation of indoor environments, and avoidance of crowded spaces.
COVAX, the vaccines pillar of the Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator, is co-led by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance Gavi, and the World Health Organization (WHO) – working in partnership with UNICEF as key implementing partner, as well as civil society organizations, vaccine manufacturers, the World Bank, and others.

Notes to Editors
Full COVAX News Note to Editors: https://www.who.int/initiatives/act-accelerator/covax/covax-news-note-to-editors
List of donor pledges to the Gavi COVAX AMC: https://www.gavi.org/sites/default/files/covid/covax/COVAX-AMC-Donors-Table.pdf
UNICEF COVAX page https://www.unicef.org/supply/covax-ensuring-global-equitable-access-covid-19-vaccines

Additional Media contacts
CEPI Press Office
Telephone: +44 7387 055214
Email: press@cepi.net
GAVI
Meghana Sharafudeen: +41 79 711 55 54 msharafudeen@gavi.org
Evan O'Connell +33 6 17 57 21 26 econnell@gavi.org

107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/125811-guyana-receives-first-shipment-covid-19-vaccines-through-covax-mechanism




Date: 27 January 2021
Title: Celebrating the International Year of Fruits and Vegetables
Content: 27 January 2021
AIFV 2021 offers a unique opportunity for FAO to work with stakeholders within the food system to raise awareness about the importance of fruits and vegetables for human nutrition, food security and health.
The Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), Mr. QU Dongyu, introduced the International Year of Fruits and Vegetables (2021) with an appeal to improve healthy and sustainable food production through innovation and technology, as well as to reduce food loss and waste.
Noting the challenges related to improving production and agri-food chains in a global pandemic, the FAO Director-General is encouraging countries to view the International Year as an opportunity to improve agricultural infrastructure and practices, thereby supporting small farmers. He also stressed that fruits and vegetables were a good way to create cash crops for farmers while increasing healthy food consumption to strengthen our immune systems.
The Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. António Guterres, called for a more comprehensive approach to nutrition and sustainability, noting that the upcoming United Nations Summit on Food Systems would also constitute an opportunity to examine the fragility of food systems.
Fruits and vegetables are good sources of dietary fiber, vitamins, and minerals, as well as beneficial phytochemicals. The FAO and the World Health Organization (WHO) recommend the consumption by each adult of at least 400 grams of fruits and vegetables per day to prevent chronic diseases such as cancer, diabetes, heart disease and obesity, as well as to counteract micronutrient deficiencies. Advocacy for fresh produce is in line with FAO’s goal to strengthen the role of small producers and family farmers and fostering broader business options for rural families. Opportunities for gender equity is also very important, as women often play a major role in their households in the production and consumption of fruits and vegetables.
Up to 50% of fruits and vegetables produced globally are lost along the supply chain, between harvest and consumption. The FAO Director-General noted that food loss and waste in the fruit and vegetable sectors continue to be a problem with considerable consequences, and that innovative technologies and approaches are of essential importance as they can help to maintain safety and quality, increasing the shelf life of fresh products and preserve its high nutritional value.
On the environmental side, reducing food loss and waste, improving food security and nutrition and reducing greenhouse gas emissions can reduce the pressure on land and water resources, and increase productivity and economic growth.
The International Year of Fruits and Vegetables (2021) is framed in the context of the United Nations Decade of Action on Nutrition (2016-2025)  and the United Nations Decade of Family Farming (2019-2028). These celebrations are mutually reinforcing while providing greater visibility to small-scale producers and helping to raise awareness of food security and nutrition.
FAO Guyana is dedicated to raising awareness on the important role that fruits and vegetables play in human nutrition, food safety and health. It is our aim to:
With the COVID-19 pandemic, the need to transform and rebalance the way food is produced and consumed has become even more apparent. To this end, FAO will continue to work with all stakeholders to encourage and promote healthy food consumption and sustainable food systems for an overall improved livelihood.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/109817-celebrating-international-year-fruits-and-vegetables




Date: 22 January 2021
Title: UNICEF hands over equipment to strengthen Ministry of Health’s cold chain capacity for vaccine management
Content: 22 January 2021
UNICEF today handed over two solar fridges and 50 vaccine carriers to the Ministry of Health which will support the Ministry’s Expanded Programme of Immunization and strengthen its cold chain capacity. The solar fridges will be deployed to regions Seven and Eight and the vaccine carriers will be distributed to all administrative regions. Nicolas Pron, UNICEF Representative, handed over the equipment to Minister of Health, Dr. Frank Anthony.
“They are primarily for the COVID-19 vaccine but they are also for the sustainability of the Expanded Programme of Immunization,” said Pron. “Immunization is one of the most cost-effective, sustainable, public investment one country can make to save the lives of many children and of course the goal here is save the lives of all children in Guyana and their relatives in the fight against COVID-19.”
In welcoming the donation, Minister Anthony said that it comes at an opportune time as Guyana’s National COVID-19 Vaccine Taskforce is examining the options for vaccines and preparations are ongoing to prepare for the roll out of the programme. “This has been a very timely donation because once we start doing that, we will be able to utilize these pieces of equipment to administer the vaccine,” said the minister.
He added that UNICEF has been an integral partner in the national response to the COVID-19 pandemic. “The work that you have funded here and have done here is already helping us to make sure that we respond more appropriately to COVID-19 in Guyana,” said Minister Anthony. Noting UNICEF’s vast experience with vaccination and immunization, the Minister said that outside of COVID-19, there are plans to examine other areas where UNICEF can assist, and the Ministry is looking forward to working with UNICEF.
Provision of the equipment followed a request from the Health Ministry. The solar direct drive fridges each have a 99-litre storage capacity. Solar Direct Drive refrigeration systems are a new generation of solar powered refrigeration systems and do not require a battery to store energy. The vaccine carriers, meanwhile, can keep vaccines at the correct temperature for over 40 hours while travelling.
Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, UNICEF has partnered with national authorities on the response to the crisis. Initiatives included surveys to understand the situation, monitor the behavior change continuum and make evidence informed interventions, communication and public awareness campaigns, provision of PPE kits for frontline workers, support to ensure continuity of learning, as well as support to ensure that services for children continue, among others.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/109816-unicef-hands-over-equipment-strengthen-ministry-health%E2%80%99s-cold-chain-capacity-vaccine




Date: 08 December 2020
Title: FAO - FISH4ACP improving Value Chain for Guyana – World’s Largest Seabob Producer
Content: 08 December 2020
Guyana is the world’s largest producer of Atlantic seabob, a commercially important shrimp that is caught from the Atlantic coast of the US all the way down to Brazil.
In Guyana, seabob is fished by both industrial trawlers and by artisanal fishers. Most of the industrial catch is processed into frozen, peeled shrimp to supply both local and international markets.  Artisanal fishers mainly catch seabob (coarse shrimp) and white belly shrimp (fine shrimp) which is then processed in two ways: 1) by drying and 2) by peeling to sell fresh in local markets.
Over 9,000 metric tonnes of seabob was exported in 2018, valued at just over G$7 billion dollars. The current annual harvest is approximately 20,000 tonnes, worth an estimated USD 50 million. This makes seabob Guyana’s most important seafood export. Approximately 87 licensed trawlers and 305 artisanal fyke net vessels do harvesting, as well as processing facilities. The three largest processing facilities employ some 1600 individuals, 45 percent of whom are women.
It is anticipated that local demand may rise due to more persons coming to work in the emerging oil and gas production.
A recent stock assessment of Guyana’s seabob population revealed that it is healthy but fully exploited. The continued success of the seabob industry is therefore dependent on strong management of the natural resources stock for sustainability, minimization of waste and detrimental practices, maintaining competitiveness in the global marketplace, and close collaboration and partnership by the key stakeholders.  The success of each stakeholder is heavily dependent on sustainable practices by everyone one in the industry.
The industry has already built a reputation of collaborative management including the recent MSC certification process of commercial fishers.   Building on this, the FISH4ACP was recently launched to enhance the productivity and competitiveness of the Atlantic seabob fisheries in Guyana, thereby strengthening the value chain.  By working closely with all stakeholders to understand the interlinkages of the entire industry (from input supplies, fishing, processing and packaging, marketing, distribution, export, and sales), it possible to identify and address issues and opportunities that can improve the incomes and livelihoods of all stakeholders.
The FISH4ACP is an initiative of the Organization of African, Caribbean and Pacific States (OACPS), working with selected countries in those regions to improve important fisheries industries. It is implemented by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, with funding from the European Union (EU) and the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ).
Globally, the FISH4ACP is working with twelve fisheries and aquaculture value chains from African, Caribbean, and Pacific to maximize their economic returns and social benefits while minimizing the detrimental effects on natural habitats and marine wildlife.
“In Guyana, our work with the seabob value chain started in November 2020, with a value chain assessment.  The results of this step will be of tremendous importance. We are working closely with the Fisheries Department, the University of Guyana, and other stakeholders to gather information on the main environmental, economic, and social challenges of the seabob fishery. The results of this assessment will lead to more sustainable practices in the fishery.
FISH4ACP is particularly focusing on maximizing the productivity of small-scale fishers and enhancing the potential of women and youth to contribute to efficiency in the sector. The programme will also assist efforts to reduce bycatch of endangered species such as the electric ray.
This project will be implemented over five years and success stories will be featured throughout the life of the project.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/104118-fao-fish4acp-improving-value-chain-guyana-%E2%80%93-world%E2%80%99s-largest-seabob-producer




Date: 01 December 2020
Title: As COVID-19 reduces access to HIV testing services, AIDS response partners call for Caribbean countries to adopt HIV self-testing
Content: 01 December 2020
On the occasion of World AIDS Day, Caribbean AIDS response stakeholders are calling for countries in the region to adopt HIV self-testing.
During the virtual launch of the “In Your Hands” Caribbean HIV self-testing campaign yesterday, partners advocated for self-testing policies to be developed and implemented as part of a comprehensive strategy to ensure that HIV diagnosis does not decline during the COVID-19 pandemic. The advocacy campaign is jointly endorsed by the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), Pan Caribbean Partnership against HIV and AIDS (PANCAP), President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and the Caribbean Med Labs Foundation (CMLF).
In order to achieve the Fast Track targets that would set countries on course to end AIDS by 2030, it is imperative that people living with HIV are diagnosed early, start treatment right away and achieve an undetectable viral load. People who are virally suppressed are not able to transmit the virus. Testing is the critical first pillar of this “treatment as prevention” strategy.
Even before COVID-19 the Caribbean was not on track to achieve the 90-90-90 testing and treatment targets due at the end of 2020. In 2019 77% of all people living with HIV in the Caribbean knew their status, 81% of diagnosed people were on treatment and 80% of those on antiretroviral therapy were virally suppressed. A survey conducted by PANCAP and PAHO showed that during 2020, facility-and community- based HIV testing services reduced in two-thirds (69%) of countries due to COVID-19.
“This decline means that people with undiagnosed HIV are not getting lifesaving antiretroviral treatment and, of course, continue to be unaware of their HIV status with the risk of potentially exposing others,” said Ms Sandra Jones,  PAHO’s Technical Advisor for HIV/STI, TB & Viral Hepatitis in the Caribbean.
“The COVID-19 pandemic… has presented the opportunity for us to explore new and innovative approaches that are result oriented. We cannot sit and continue to debate how we can increase the number of people who know their HIV status without seizing the opportunity to explore and implement initiatives such as HIV self-testing,” PANCAP Director, Dr Rosmond Adams said.
According to UNAIDS Caribbean Sub-regional Office Director, Dr James Guwani, it is particularly important to increase testing uptake among men who are more likely to be diagnosed late. In 2019 85% of Caribbean women living with HIV were aware of their status as compared to 72% of men. There is also a need to increase testing coverage among members of key population communities who have reduced access to HIV services due to stigma and discrimination.
HIV self-testing is a process whereby a person collects a saliva or pinprick blood specimen, performs a test, and receives the result in private. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that HIV self-testing be offered as an additional approach to facility- and community-based services. Evidence shows that self-testing is safe and accurate and increases testing uptake among people who may not test otherwise. National policies should include a communication package with information to link testers to prevention and treatment services, as well as minimum standards for the procurement and distribution of HIV self-test kits in the private and public sectors.
“We strongly believe that HIV self-testing can help close the gap on the first 90. It can be targeted to individuals not being reached by existing HIV testing services, particularly those populations with low testing coverage and at high risk of HIV. It's not a replacement for all testing services, but it should be included in the toolbox,” said Mrs. Victoria Nibarger, PEPFAR Caribbean Regional Programme Coordinator
At the launch, leaders from communities of people living with HIV and key populations endorsed the call for HIV self-testing. At the same time, they advised that increased investments are needed in post-test counselling and adherence counselling for the entire HIV response.
According to CMLF Director, Valerie Wilson, under the Global Fund Project for the region and in collaboration with PANCAP, the Caribbean Vulnerable Communities Coalition (CVC), the Centre for Orientation and Integral Research (COIN), the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States HIV/TB Elimination Project and PAHO, work is underway to conduct a verification and feasibility assessment for the introduction of HIV self-testing within the region.
“HIV self-testing has the potential to be a high impact, low-cost intervention to reach population groups that are not testing and to increase the number of people living with HIV who are identified and have initiated treatment,” Mrs Wilson said.

END
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/103348-covid-19-reduces-access-hiv-testing-services-aids-response-partners-call-caribbean-countries




Date: 29 November 2020
Title: UNAIDS calls on all countries to step up global action and proposes bold new HIV targets for 2025
Content: 29 November 2020
As COVID-19 pushes the Caribbean AIDS response even further off track and the 2020 targets are missed, UNAIDS is urging the region to step up action around HIV testing and prevention
In a new report, Prevailing against pandemics by putting people at the centre, UNAIDS is calling on countries to make far greater investments in global pandemic responses and adopt a new set of bold, ambitious but achievable HIV targets. If those targets are met, the world will be back on track to ending AIDS as a public health threat by 2030.
The global AIDS response was off track before the COVID-19 pandemic hit, but the rapid spread of the coronavirus has created additional setbacks. Modelling of the pandemic’s long-term impact on the HIV response shows that globally there could be at least 123 000 additional new HIV infections and 69 000 additional AIDS-related deaths between 2020 and 2022.
“The collective failure to invest sufficiently in comprehensive, rights-based, people-centred HIV responses has come at a terrible price,” said Winnie Byanyima, Executive Director of UNAIDS. “Implementing just the most politically palatable programmes will not turn the tide against COVID-19 or end AIDS. To get the global response back on track will require putting people first and tackling the inequalities on which epidemics thrive.”
New targets for getting back on track
High-performing countries have created a path for others to follow. UNAIDS has worked with its partners to distil those lessons into a set of proposed targets for 2025 that take a people-centred approach.
The targets focus on a high coverage of HIV and reproductive and sexual health services together with the removal of punitive laws and policies and on reducing stigma and discrimination. They put people at the centre, especially the people most at risk and the marginalized—young women and girls, adolescents, sex workers, transgender people, people who inject drugs and gay men and other men who have sex with men.
New HIV service delivery targets aim at achieving a 95% coverage for each sub-population of people living with and at increased risk of HIV. By taking a person-centred approach and focusing on the hotspots, countries will be better placed to control their epidemics.
The 2025 targets also require ensuring a conducive environment for an effective HIV response and include ambitious antidiscrimination targets so that less than 10% of countries have punitive laws and policies, less than 10% of people living with and affected by HIV experience stigma and discrimination and less than 10% experience gender inequality and violence.
Prevailing against pandemics
Insufficient investment and action on HIV and other pandemics left the world exposed to COVID-19. Had health systems and social safety nets been even stronger, the world would have been better positioned to slow the spread of COVID-19 and withstand its impact. COVID-19 has shown that investments in health save lives but also provide a foundation for strong economies. Health and HIV programmes must be fully funded, both in times of plenty and in times of economic crisis.
“No country can defeat these pandemics on its own,” said Ms Byanyima. “A challenge of this magnitude can only be defeated by forging global solidarity, accepting a shared responsibility and mobilizing a response that leaves no one behind. We can do this by sharing the load and working together.”
There are bright spots: the leadership, infrastructure and lessons of the HIV response are being leveraged to fight COVID-19. The HIV response has helped to ensure the continuity of services in the face of extraordinary challenges. The response by communities against COVID-19 has shown what can be achieved by working together.
In addition, the world must learn from the mistakes of the HIV response, when millions in developing countries died waiting for treatment. Even today, more than 12 million people still do not have access to HIV treatment and 1.7 million people became infected with HIV in 2019 because they did not have access to essential HIV services.
Everyone has a right to health, which is why UNAIDS has been a leading advocate for a People’s Vaccine against COVID-19. Promising COVID-19 vaccines are emerging, but we must ensure that they are not the privilege of the rich. Therefore, UNAIDS and partners are calling on pharmaceutical companies to openly share their technology and know-how and to waive their intellectual property rights so that the world can produce successful vaccines at the huge scale and speed required to protect everyone.
The Caribbean will not meet the Fast Track targets set for the end of 2020
There were an estimated 330,000 people living with HIV in the region at the end of 2019. Overall Caribbean adult HIV prevalence was 1.1% last year. In 2019 77% of people living with HIV in the Caribbean knew their status. This compares to the worldwide average of 81%. Eighty-one percent (81%) of diagnosed Caribbean people were on treatment last year. Eighty percent (80%) of those on antiretroviral therapy were virally suppressed. The global average was significantly higher at 88%.
Some countries have achieved elements of the 90–90–90 targets (90% of people living with HIV aware of their HIV status, 90% of diagnosed people on antiretroviral treatment and 90% of those on treatment virally supressed). Barbados has reached the target for testing while Guyana has exceeded it with 94% of people living with HIV diagnosed. Haiti has gotten 98% of diagnosed people on treatment. Suriname and Trinidad and Tobago have achieved viral suppression among at least 90% of people living with HIV who are on treatment.
“This shows that within the region there is the capacity to deploy the people, policies and programmes to end AIDS,” said UNAIDS Caribbean Sub-regional Office Director, Dr. James Guwani.
Last year there were 6,900 AIDS-related deaths in the Caribbean. Deaths due to AIDS decreased by 37% since 2010. Total antiretroviral treatment coverage for the region was 63%–71% for women and 56% for men.
New HIV infections decreased 29% in the region since 2010. One-third of new HIV infections in the Caribbean in 2019 were among young people ages 15 – 24.
While most Caribbean countries have been able to sustain HIV treatment access during COVID-19, there are concerns that other branches of the AIDS response have suffered.
“We need innovative strategies to ensure we do not lose ground around HIV testing and prevention because of COVID19,” said Dr. Guwani.
UNAIDS is collaborating with the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), Pan Caribbean Partnership against HIV/AIDS (PANCAP), President’s Emergency Fund for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and Caribbean Med labs Foundation (CMLF) on an advocacy strategy in support of HIV self-testing. The initiative will be launched on the Monday 30 November, the eve of World AIDS Day.
END
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/103349-unaids-calls-all-countries-step-global-action-and-proposes-bold-new-hiv-targets-2025




Date: 12 August 2020
Title: PAHO/WHO supports the Government of Guyana in the Fight against COVID-19
Content: 12 August 2020
Dr. William Adu-Krow, PAHO/WHO Representative Guyana, informed the media present that PAHO is a Secretariat of Member States and as part of the Secretariat, it is PAHO`s duty is to support the member states, hence the donations received today. Dr. Adu-Krow indicated that the country received a number of items including PPEs, medical supplies, sanitation supplies and computers along with printers.  He also indicated that the country will be receiving additional supplies in the following week including 30, 000 test kits, ventilators among others.
Hon. Dr. Frank Anthony, Minister of Health, expressed gratitude to PAHO/WHO for its continuous support to Guyana in fight against COVID-19, more so for the large donation received today. Minister Anthony stated that the donations received would be able to protect the frontline workers to deal with COVID-19 pandemic.  He indicated that on the global market the items are very scarce, but through PAHO Guyana is able to have the right connections in order to receive the items needed.
He indicated that he is grateful that the Ministry of Health has received over 10,000 test kits so far and also will be receiving 30, 000 more test kits within the following week. Minister Anthony stated, “If we are to understand the dynamics of the epidemic is that we need to do more testing. That would substantially increase the capacity to do testing and so by testing we will then know how many people are infected and what precautions we need to take”.
In closing, Dr. Adu-Krow also recognized the many other entities that are contributing to Guyana`s fight against COVID-19, including the Government of Canada, DIFID, Government of India and the World Bank and stated that this is done to prepare and respond appropriately to the needs of the Country.

107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/87330-pahowho-supports-government-guyana-fight-against-covid-19




Date: 10 July 2020
Title: Note to Correspondents in response to questions on Guyana
Content: 10 July 2020
In response to questions, the Spokesman had the following to say on Guyana:
The Secretary-General takes note of the 8 July ruling of the Caribbean Court of Justice, as final instance.
He stresses the importance of announcing final official results of the 2 March general and regional elections to the Guyanese people as soon as possible to end an impasse that has lasted more than four months.
The Secretary-General calls on all political leaders and their supporters to recognize and accept the final official results and refrain from any act or statement that may fuel tensions or incite violence.

107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/52797-note-correspondents-response-questions-guyana




Date: 03 July 2020
Title: UN Resident Coordinator's Statement on Elections - 3 July, 2020
Content: 03 July 2020
As the ruling of the Caribbean Court of Justice is awaited, we call on all political leaders and their supporters to remain patient and refrain from acts and remarks that could incite hostility or violence.  I would like to reiterate the United Nations' commitment to continue to support the people of Guyana.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/52755-un-resident-coordinators-statement-elections-3-july-2020




Date: 27 March 2020
Title: UN Resident Coordinator's Statement on COVID-19 - 27 March, 2019
Content: 27 March 2020
The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic rages worldwide with 465,915 confirmed cases and 21,031 deaths - an unprecedented scale and speed. Guyana is not insulated from the pandemic and even with the 5 cases and 1 death till today, there is no room for complacency as we have seen rapid acceleration from low numbers in many countries. Prevention is critical and urgent.
The Ministry of Public Health and national authorities initiated preventive measures in late January starting with health and border quarantine procedures. With the confirmation of the first case on 11 March, health response capacities have been enhanced and other measures were taken including the suspension of international commercial flights, temporary closure of schools, border closures and public information and advisories for hygiene and social distancing.  The private sector and religious community have started to take some voluntary measures to protect their staff and congregation and to help health workers and citizens.  Linden and New Amsterdam have taken the initiative to enforce lockdown measures to limit social gathering and movements.
We commend the health workers who are working around the clock in a high-stress and high-risk environment to respond to the outbreak. We have to protect the physical and mental health of these health workers and to keep the caseload manageable by stemming the spread.  Prevention is critical.
Social gatherings and movements of people are the biggest risk in the spread of COVID-19.  We are very concerned that social gatherings are continuing despite public advisories discouraging this for some time.  Reinforcing the advice from PAHO/WHO Representative in Guyana Dr. William Adu-Krow, the United Nations System calls on the Government to urgently introduce more stringent measures to stem COVID19.  This includes work-from-home in public and private institutions except for essential services, limiting people’s movements to essential errands.
The UN System stands ready to provide advice and assistance in elaborating and implementing a national response plan that covers the health sector and other socio-economic sectors to help citizens cope with the impact of the COVID-19 response and in particular to protect the most vulnerable.  This will build on the critical ongoing support from PAHO/WHO and other UN agencies.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/52757-un-resident-coordinators-statement-covid-19-27-march-2019




Date: 06 March 2020
Title: UN Resident Coordinator's Statement on Elections - 6 March, 2020
Content: 06 March 2020
We are following with concern the latest developments in Guyana.
We take note of the statements issued by international observers and Ambassadors accredited in Georgetown raising concerns regarding lack of compliance with national legal procedures and the need to resume the tabulation of results for Region 4.
We encourage the relevant Guyanese authorities to finalize the process in a manner which leaves no doubts as to the credibility of the results that reflect the will of the Guyanese people.
The United Nations calls upon all sides to act with calm, patience and in full respect of human rights, the rule of law and Guyana’s constitutional order.
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/52756-un-resident-coordinators-statement-elections-6-march-2020




Date: 27 January 2017
Title: The Government of the Co-operative Republic of Guyana and the United Nations launch 2017-2021 UN Co-operation Framework and sign the national annual Country Implementation Plan
Content: 27 January 2017
The new UN MSDF will focus on four priorities: An Inclusive, Equitable and Prosperous Caribbean; A Healthy Caribbean; A Safe, Cohesive and Just Caribbean; and A Sustainable and Resilient Caribbean.
The MSDF will be implemented in participating countries of the MSDF through an annual Country Implementation Plan (CIP). In Guyana there are several planned joint initiatives outlined for each priority area. These will focus UN contributions to national priorities implemented by various Ministries.
These programmatic interventions include:
The UN MSDF aims to ensure that no one is left behind in national development efforts, and exemplifies the commonly-shared belief that the similar development challenges of the Caribbean countries require a coherent and coordinated response by the United Nations. Eighteen (18) UN agencies will contribute to the implementation of the MSDF, which is expected to amount to USD$197.9 million for joint initiatives over a five-year period.
The UN MSDF acts as a mechanism that would decrease the administrative burden on national governments and prompt a more coherent response to regional and national challenges, needs, and priorities. This analysis was informed by the work of regional entities, national governments, and key actors such as the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) and the region’s Universities. It identifies the fundamental constraints to the development of the region related to a number of interconnected dimensions such as economic, social, and environmental challenges that are seen as critical for sustainable development and democratic governance.
The Framework is the successor to the six (6) current United Nations Development Assistance Frameworks (UNDAFs) that cover 18 countries in the English and Dutch speaking Caribbean. The UN MSDF supports the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the SAMOA Pathway and other international development aspirations, and the national development plans of the individual countries in the English and Dutch speaking Caribbean. It is also intended to support the promotion of all the international human rights that have been ratified in the English and Dutch speaking Caribbean. The UN MSDF is closely aligned with the CARICOM’s “Strategic Plan for the Caribbean Community” which outlines a comprehensive Plan for repositioning of the CARICOM community.
The participating countries and territories of the UN MSDF are Antigua and Barbuda, Anguilla, Aruba, Barbados, Belize, British Virgin Islands, Commonwealth of Dominica, Curaҫao, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saint Lucia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sint Maarten, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago

107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/52716-government-co-operative-republic-guyana-and-united-nations-launch-2017-2021-un-co-operation




Date: 16 June 2016
Title: UNDP-FAO collaborate on Disaster Risk Management and Reduction Project for Guyana’s Agriculture Sector
Content: 16 June 2016
The Inception Workshop saw engagement with key partners - the Ministry of Agriculture and Civil Defense Commission, and key stakeholders from the Ministries of Finance, Communities, Natural Resources and the Environment, the Office of the Presidency, Non-Governmental Organizations, and farmers.
In his remarks the Hon. Minister of Agriculture, Noel Holder highlighted that the project is significant and timely since the agriculture sector is tasked with attaining more resilient agricultural systems against both obvious and less visible disasters for the reduction of poverty and enhancement of food and nutrition security. Minister Holder emphasized the importance of the global focus on Governance within Disaster Risk Reduction and Management as a key point of the project. He expressed profound gratitude to the Government of Japan for its provision of financial support for the execution of the project.
The UNDP Resident Representative a.i. Ms. Shabnam Mallick in her remarks noted that “the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction ranks Guyana 13 out of 162 countries for flood risk and reported that 0.69% of its population and 0.42 % of GDP are exposed to the effects of flooding.” She stated that “the project represents the first case of disaster risk management mainstreaming implementation in the agriculture sector in Guyana. Considering the past experience and expertise of the two UN agencies in the country, the project provides an opportunity for UNDP and FAO to pool complementary technical expertise and use a collaborative approach, to support implementation of the project.”
Ms. Mallick added that “this project will not only support Guyana in contributing to the achievement of the outcome and goal of the Post 2015 Framework, but also Guyana’s commitment to mainstream disaster risk reduction related policies and programmes under the Small Island Developing States Accelerated Modalities of Action) Pathway. She stated that “UNDP looks forward to continued proactive partnership and collaboration with the FAO, the Ministry of Agriculture, Civil Defense Commission and other key stakeholders in Guyana’s transformation into a climate and disaster resilient country supported by a resilient agriculture sector that secures sustainable livelihood for the people of Guyana.
The implementation of the “Mainstreaming Disaster Risk Management and Reduction in the Agriculture Sector in Guyana” project will commence in July, 2016. The objectives of the project are to:

107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/52714-undp-fao-collaborate-disaster-risk-management-and-reduction-project-guyana%E2%80%99s-agriculture




Date: 05 December 2014
Title: United Nations to commemorate Human Rights Day with Concert
Content: 05 December 2014
The United Nations (UN) System in Guyana will host a free Human Rights Day Concert “Speak Out for Rights” at the National Cultural Centre at 19:00 hrs.
This concert will mark the anniversary of the adoption by the General Assembly of the landmark Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The United Nations recognizes that everyone can advance the struggle against injustice, intolerance, and extremism.
By using a cultural approach to bring attention to human rights the event will engage leading local musicians, spoken word artistes, dancers and prominent personalities to spread the message that “...each one of us, everywhere, at all times is entitled to the full range of human rights....”
Women’s Advocate and Goodwill Ambassador for the International Federation of Business and Professional Women Alison Hinds will be the feature performer of the evening. Known for her popular anthems such as “Roll it Gyal”, “Togetherness”, “King and Queen”, and “Faluma”, Hinds works as an advocate for various causes inclusive of women’s rights.
Limited tickets for the concert can be obtained from the National Cultural Centre from Saturday, December 6 on a first come first serve basis. Tickets can also be won during promotional giveaways on popular television and radio talk shows. The event will be streamed live on the United Nations Guyana website – www.un.org.gy.
This event is presented by the United Nations with support from Ariel soap powder-distributed by Ansa McAl Trading Limited, the National Communications Network, Digicel, Grand Coastal Hotel, Knight Rider Bus Service, Republic Bank (Guyana) Limited, and Courts Guyana.

107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/52710-united-nations-commemorate-human-rights-day-concert




Date: 18 June 2014
Title: United Nations and Government of Guyana holds Mid-Term Review of Guyana United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF)
Content: 18 June 2014
The United Nations Country Team (UNCT) in Guyana and the Government of Guyana will hold a Mid-Term Review of the Guyana United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) on Wednesday June 18, 2014 at the Grand Coastal Inn, commencing at 9:00 am.
The UNDAF is the collective response of United Nations agencies in Guyana to agreed developmental priorities, and covers the period 2012 to 2016.  The Mid Term Review examines the first two and a half years of the programme cycle and aims to both determine the status of implementation and propose any reorientations and recommendations for the remainder of UNDAF period.
The four thematic areas of the UNDAF are:
107-108 Duke Street, Kingston, Georgetown, Guyana.
URL: https://guyana.un.org/en/52709-united-nations-and-government-guyana-holds-mid-term-review-guyana-united-nations-development




