Date: 13 April 2024
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on the establishment of the Transitional Presidential Council in Haiti
Content: 13 April 2024
‎
The Secretary-General welcomes the publication on 12 April of the decree formally establishing the Transitional Presidential Council and urges all Haitian stakeholders to continue making progress in putting in place transitional governance arrangements, including the timely appointment of an interim Prime Minister and government, and the nomination of the members of the Provisional Electoral Council.
The Secretary-General takes note of the functions of the Transitional Presidential Council, including working with all members of the international community to accelerate the deployment of the Multinational Security Support (MSS) mission authorized by Security Council Resolution 2699 (2023). He reiterates his call on all Member States to contribute to the MSS.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-GeneralNew York, 13 April 2024
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/265986-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-establishment-transitional




Date: 12 March 2024
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General – on Haiti
Content: 12 March 2024
‎
The Secretary-General takes note of the agreement reached yesterday by Haitian stakeholders on a transitional governance arrangement, including the establishment of a Presidential Council and the appointment of an interim Prime Minister. He also takes note of Prime Minister Ariel Henry’s announcement that he would resign immediately upon the installation of a Transitional Presidential Council.
The Secretary-General expresses appreciation to CARICOM, and other international partners, for facilitating a way forward to resolve Haiti’s political crisis and calls on all Haitian stakeholders to act responsibly and to take steps towards the implementation of the agreement in order to restore the country’s democratic institutions through peaceful, credible, participatory and inclusive elections. The United Nations, through its mission, will continue to support Haiti on its path towards elections.
The Secretary-General reiterates his unwavering solidarity with the people of Haiti who are in need of safety, shelter, food and medical care, and to live their lives in dignity.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-GeneralNew York, 12 March 2024
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/263149-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-haiti




Date: 08 December 2023
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General – on Haiti
Content: 08 December 2023
New York, 07 December 2023 - The Secretary-General is concerned over the limited progress in the inter-Haitian dialogue towards a lasting and inclusive political solution to restore the country’s democratic institutions.
The Secretary-General extends his full support to the efforts of the CARICOM Eminent Persons Group and to BINUH to facilitate sustainable and nationally-owned solutions to Haiti’s political crisis.
He looks forward to the continued preparations for the deployment of urgently needed security support to the Haitian National Police, through a Multinational Security Support mission, as authorized by resolution 2699 (2023).
The Secretary-General underlines the importance of an agreement on the restoration of democratic institutions - providing for credible, participatory and inclusive elections - to achieving sustainable rule of law and security. He appeals to the full range of political actors and stakeholders in Haiti to come together and reach a broad consensus as a matter of priority.

15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/255228-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-haiti




Date: 01 December 2023
Title: Leadership Communautaire : Clé de Voûte de l'Éradication du SIDA en Haïti
Content: 01 December 2023
Joint press release
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, December 1st, 2023 – On World AIDS Day, celebrated each year on 1 December, UNAIDS is calling for action to further strengthen community leadership in Haiti, which represents a crucial element in defeating the pandemic by 2030.
This year, World AIDS Day is commemorated under the theme "Let Communities Lead". Indeed, the new UNAIDS report highlights that achieving the 2030 goal of ending AIDS as a public health threat, is only possible if communities on the frontlines obtain the full support they need from governments and donors.
With an estimated HIV prevalence of 1.7% among adults (15-49 years) in 2022, Haiti has made significant progress in its response to the pandemic, reducing new infections by 21% and AIDS-related deaths by nearly 75%, between 2010 and 2022. These achievements are a result of the determination of civil society organizations and community associations, social workers, and activists whose invaluable commitment has been instrumental in combating stigma and discrimination at national level.
The United Nations System in Haiti is calling for support to communities of people infected and affected by HIV and AIDS, and who are fully committed to and engaged in the response. "It is with them and their commitment that we can succeed in eliminating the threat of AIDS. Eliminating inequalities is equally critical to changing the lives of people living with HIV and the communities most vulnerable to HIV infection", stated Maria Isabel Salvador, Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations in Haiti.
"Community-based organizations have for a long time represented the backbone of the HIV response in Haiti. Their unwavering support is fundamental to eradicating the AIDS pandemic and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals ", highlights Ulrika Richardson, Resident Coordinator of the United Nations System in Haiti and Humanitarian Coordinator, simultaneously stressing the critical role of health in Haiti's development.
Recognizing the 20th anniversary of the U.S. Government President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), which coincides with this internationally-celebrated annual event, Dr. Christian Mouala, UNAIDS Country Director in Haiti, said: "PEPFAR has been a key partner for Haiti, establishing solid partnerships across key national and international stakeholders. We celebrate this dynamic collaboration and call for its continued strengthening to achieve our common goal.”
Since its first commemoration in 1988 by the United Nations General Assembly, 1 December has symbolized a day of global reflection, assessment of progress made and strategic readjustment in the global response to HIV/AIDS. UNAIDS' ambitious 95-95-95 targets for 2025 highlight the importance of accurate knowledge of HIV status, universal access to antiretroviral treatment, and viral load suppression among people on antiretroviral therapy.

*****
En savoir plus sur la Journée mondiale 2023 (ONUSIDA)

Pour plus d'informations, veuillez contacter :

Wegbert Chery, Conseiller Egalité et Droit pour Tous et Toutes (ERA) à l’ONUSIDA en Haïti ; Tél : +509 46512125; Courriel : cheryw@unaids.org

Igor Rugwiza, Responsable communication du Bureau de la Coordonnatrice Résidente ; Tel : +509 48084749 ; courriel : rugwiza@un.org

Béatrice Nibogora, Responsable communication du Bureau intégré des Nations Unies en Haïti ; Tel : +509 36537043 ; Courriel nibogorab@un.org

15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/254491-leadership-communautaire-cl%C3%A9-de-vo%C3%BBte-de-l%C3%A9radication-du-sida-en-ha%C3%AFti




Date: 14 June 2023
Title: MEDIA ADVISORY - SAVING LIVES: ADDRESSING FOOD SECURITY NEEDS OF HAITI
Content: 14 June 2023
ㅤ
Friday, 16 June 2023, 10:00am – 1:00pm
WHERE: Trusteeship Council Chamber, United Nations Headquarters, New York
WHAT: Nearly half of the population in Haiti doesn’t have enough to eat. In rural areas, 76 percent of people are affected by food insecurity. Restoring livelihoods is fundamental to the humanitarian response. Launched in April 2023, the UN Humanitarian Response Plan for 2023 called for an unprecedented $719 million - almost double from 2022. To date, the plan is only 20% funded. The recent floods and earthquake have shown that Haiti’s humanitarian needs remain considerable and will continue to grow as the hurricane season starts. Building on the work of ECOSOC Advisory Group on Haiti, ECOSOC will convene a special meeting to mobilize action and resources in support of food security in Haiti and to call on the international community to show solidarity with the Haitian people and contribute to the funding appeals.
WHO:
Opening will include:
· President of the United Nations Economic and Social Council, H.E. Lachezara Stoeva
· Prime Minister of Saint-Vincent and the Grenadines and Chair of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), H.E. Ralph Gonsalves
· Prime Minister of Jamaica, H.E. Andrew Holness
· Minister of Planning and External Cooperation of Haiti, H.E. Ricard Pierre
· Chair of the ECOSOC Ad Hoc Advisory Group on Haiti and Permanent Representative of Canada to the United Nations, H.E. Bob Rae
· Executive Director of the World Food Programme, Ms. Cindy H. McCain
· Executive Director of UNICEF, Ms. Catherine Russell
Followed by a roundtable:
· Permanent Representative of Rwanda to the United Nations, H.E. Claver Gatete (moderator)
· Vice Minister of Bilateral Affairs of the Dominican Republic, H.E. José Julio Gómez
· Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary General and Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator in Haiti, Ms. Ulrika Richardson
· Ms. Edem Wosornu, Director, Operations and Advocacy Division, OCHA
· Mr. Guangzhou Qu, Director, Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) Liaison Office with the United Nations
· Ms. Patrizia Tumbarello, Mission Chief for Haiti, International Monetary Fund (IMF)
· Mr. Laurent Msellati, Country Manager for Haiti, World Bank Group
· Mr. William O’Neill, Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in Haiti For a full programme, please visit http://bit.ly/HaitiFreeOfHunger
WEBCAST: The event will be streamed live on https://media.un.org
HASHTAG: #HaitiCantWait
ACCESS: The event is open to all UN accredited media.
MEDIA CONTACT: Paul Simon, Office for Intergovernmental Support and Coordination for Sustainable Development, Department of Economic and Social Affairs E: simonp@un.org
T: +1 917 367 5027 | M: +1 347 267 5618
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/236397-media-advisory-saving-lives-addressing-food-security-needs-haiti




Date: 20 April 2023
Title: The United Nations system and the Government of Haiti  sign a Cooperation Framework for Sustainable Development
Content: 20 April 2023
This new Framework Plan outlines a common vision and strategy for achieving sustainable development over the next five years.
Port-au-Prince, Haiti.- The Resident Coordinator of the United Nations system in Haiti, Ulrika Richardson, and the Minister of Planning and External Cooperation, Mr. Ricard Pierre, signed today, the Cooperation Framework for Sustainable Development for the period 2023-2027. This new Framework Plan outlines a common vision and strategy for achieving sustainable development over the next five years. It represents a major step in the partnership between the United Nations and the Government of Haiti.
This joint strategy comes at a time when the country is facing the consequences of successive economic recessions, with an unprecedented level of insecurity due to gang violence and more than 5.2 million people in need of humanitarian assistance and protection. Every day, more and more people are falling into extreme poverty.
This new Cooperation Framework sets out a comprehensive and integrated approach for the long term. It focuses on five priority areas, which were defined through a consultative process with national, public and private partners, as well as academia and civil society
It is a joint roadmap, aligned with national priorities and strategies, and designed to improve the coherence, effectiveness and efficiency of UN support to the Government. Priority areas of work include governance, security and rule of law, inclusive economic transformation, social services and the environment. A results-based management framework will make it possible to monitor progress and measure the impact of interventions and investments.
In her remarks, Ulrika Richardson stressed that the signing of the document marks a new milestone in the common story between Haiti and the United Nations. While commending the Government for its commitment to sustainable development, and for its collaboration with the UN, she also affirmed the UN's commitment to strengthening common approaches based on mutual support between peace, security and sustainable development.
The signing of the Cooperation Framework coincides with the launch of a humanitarian response plan for Haiti in 2023, launched yesterday, April 19, by the United Nations and estimated at $720 million. The response plan calls for helping 3.2 million people facing gang violence, hunger and cholera, among other things. "As the situation in the country rapidly deteriorates, the plan will address the most immediate humanitarian and protection needs," said Ulrika Richardson. Adding, "The Haitian people desperately want peace and security, and we should all support efforts to achieve this."
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/228321-united-nations-system-and-government-haiti-sign-cooperation-framework-sustainable




Date: 13 December 2022
Title: Haiti receives first shipment of cholera vaccines
Content: 13 December 2022
Port-au-Prince: With the support of the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), Haiti received on 12 December around 1.17 million doses of oral cholera vaccines as cases continue to rise in the country.
The vaccine (Euvichol) was provided by the International Coordinating Group on Vaccine Provision (IGC), which manages the global cholera vaccine stockpile, following a request by Haiti’s Ministry of Public Health and Population (MSPP, its acronym in French).
Haiti’s vaccination campaign is set to start in the next days, initially targeting populations over the age of one year in Cite Soleil, Delmas, Tabarre, Carrefour and Port-au-Prince in the Ouest Department and Mirebalais in the Centre Department – areas in which most of the cholera cases have been reported, to date.
“Haiti has experience in managing cholera, but the fragile security situation has slowed down response efforts, so the arrival of these vaccines is most welcome,” PAHO Director Carissa F. Etienne said. “PAHO has been working with Haiti since the resurgence of cholera and will continue to support the national authorities to quickly distribute vaccines, monitor cases and provide life-saving care.”
The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends the use of the oral vaccine in combination with other measures – particularly water, sanitation, and hygiene interventions – to prevent the spread of the water-borne disease.
PAHO is providing technical and financial assistance to the MSPP to implement the vaccination campaign, including training of health workers, guidance to identify priority communities and potential barriers, deployment of record management tools and risk communication and community engagement activities to encourage vaccine uptake.
“The arrival of oral vaccines in Haiti is a step in the right direction,” MSPP Director General Lauré Adrien said. “We are integrating this tool into our national strategy, which includes surveillance, water and sanitation interventions, social mobilization, and treatment.”
“We hope this first shipment will be followed by others so that the vaccine is available to all populations at risk in Haiti,” Adrien added. An additional batch of around 500,000 doses is expected to arrive in Haiti in the coming weeks.
Cholera has spread geographically within Haiti in the past weeks. As of today, the National Department of Epidemiology, Laboratories, and Research (DELR) reports 1,220 confirmed cases and over 280 deaths due to cholera in eight departments, with over 14,100 suspected cases spread across all 10 departments in the country.
“PAHO has been working closely with the MSPP to scale up critical operations to treat and prevent cholera,” said Maureen Birmingham, PAHO/WHO Representative in Haiti. “Vaccination is one additional strategy to help slow down transmission,” she added.
PAHO has so far provided over 49 tons of essential medical supplies to support Cholera Treatment Centers set up by national authorities and partners in the most affected areas. Materials include oral rehydration salts, Ringer’s Lactate solution and infusion sets, cholera beds, as well as non-medical supplies such as fuel to support operations and water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) supplies.
PAHO is also assisting the Government in setting up rapid response teams throughout the country to follow-up on alerts, raise awareness about preventive measures within communities, and address WASH issues.
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/211235-haiti-receives-first-shipment-cholera-vaccines




Date: 08 December 2022
Title: Haiti: UNICEF needs US$210 million to bring humanitarian aid to 2.7 million people next year
Content: 08 December 2022
Haitian children are plagued with cholera, malnutrition and gang-related violence
PORT-AU-PRINCE / PANAMA CITY, 7 December 2022 - UNICEF is requesting US$210.3 million to meet the needs of 2.7 million people in Haiti, including 1.6 million children in 2023. The upsurge in violence and social unrest, the resurgence of cholera and the residual needs of the most vulnerable earthquake-affected population have led to an increase in humanitarian needs and funding requirements compared with 2022.
“When a mother sees her malnourished child suffer from cholera, have diarrhoea, vomit, further lose weight and is on the brink of dying, and she cannot take them to the hospital because of insecurity, it’s sad. In Haiti, one in two children has not resumed going to school again, and risk falling in the trap of gangs, and due to violence, health workers or teachers cannot freely report to work, further obstructing women and children’s access to health, nutrition, education, and sanitation services,” said Bruno Maes, UNICEF Representative in Haiti.
After more than 3 years without any cases of cholera reported, Haiti declared on 2 October the resurgence of the disease. As of 5 December, the country passed the milestone of first 1,000 confirmed cholera cases. The Ministry of health reported more than 1,100 confirmed cases with over 13,400 suspected cases and 281 deaths. Nearly 50 per cent of confirmed cases are among children under 15 years old.
The cholera outbreak is layered over gang-related violence and major social unrest that erupted across the country. At the same time, severe fuel shortages restricted utilities and the delivery of basic services, including water and health care. In some areas, insecurity prevents patients to access medical facilities and health personnel to report to work, heavily impacting the response to the cholera outbreak, including data collection and transportation of test samples and results.
﻿Violent protests that had been building since mid-2021 due to gang violence and the killing of the President have directly affected access to health services for at least 1.5 million people, while more than 4 million children continue experiencing malnutrition and poor access to basic services. At least 96,000 people are internally displaced in Haiti due to gang violence and civil unrest, with unaccompanied children exposed to abuse, exploitation and violence.
A nutrition assessment in Cité Soleil, an impoverished neighbourhood in the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area, revealed that one in five children under the age of five suffers from acute malnutrition, while 4.7 million people in Haiti are facing acute hunger.
Tremendous efforts are made by the Ministry of National Education and Vocational Training (MENFP), but 47 per cent of schools have not yet opened. In 2022, three in five schools assessed by UNICEF and MENFP have been attacked or pillaged, leaving half a million children aged 5-19 years at risk of losing learning opportunities.
In 2023, UNICEF will provide life-saving goods and services to children and vulnerable populations in the context of insecurity, health and social and economic crises in Haiti, provided that sufficient and timely funding of US$210.3 million requested is received.

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit https://www.unicef.org/Haiti.
For more information, please contact:
Ndiaga Seck, UNICEF Haiti, +509 37 44 61 99, nseck@unicef.org
Laurent Duvillier, UNICEF Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean, + 507 6169 9886, lduvillier@unicef.org

15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/210689-haiti-unicef-needs-us210-million-bring-humanitarian-aid-27-million-people-next-year




Date: 30 November 2022
Title: Address inequalities to achieve the end of the AIDS pandemic in Haiti
Content: 30 November 2022
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, 30 November 2022: The UN in Haiti is calling on all people to further address persisting inequalities that continue to hold back progress towards ending the AIDS pandemic as a public health threat by 2030, a target included under the Sustainable Development Goals, to which Haiti has committed.
Speaking ahead of World AIDS Day 2022, commemorated around the world annually on 1 December, Ulrika Richardson, the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator said: “The inequalities which perpetuate the AIDS pandemic are not inevitable; we can tackle them. Ultimately, the end of AIDS can only be achieved if we address social and economic injustices.”
World AIDS Day is an opportunity for people to come together to show solidarity towards people living with and affected by HIV, the virus that leads to AIDS, and to remember those who lost their lives to AIDS.
The theme of this year’s commemoration is “Equalize”, a call to action to maintain financial support to the response and to prioritize the health and well-being of all people, especially vulnerable populations that are most affected by HIV-related inequalities.
Analysis presented in the latest UNAIDS report, “Dangerous Inequalities”, shows that inequalities, are hindering progress towards meeting meet globally agreed targets to end AIDS.
In Haiti, the 1 December commemoration is being led by the Ministry of Public Health and Population and accompanied by UNAIDS as well as national and international partners. The event focuses on the need to further adapt the national response to the unmet needs of key populations, in particular the LGBTQI community, including the elimination of persistent and viscous stigma and discrimination.
Gender inequalities are significantly contributing to the AIDS pandemic in Haiti. Women and girls have a higher prevalence of HIV (2.2 per cent) compared to men (1.4 per cent). The increased vulnerability of women and girls to sexual violence also perpetuated by gangs especially throughout the capital Port-au-Prince in 2022, needs to be urgently addressed as part of the response.
“Mitigating the risks and impact of HIV requires continued efforts for a community response with women and girls, men and boys, in all their diversity, who practice equitable social norms and gender equality and work to end gender-based violence...Let's Push for Equality”, said Dr. Christian Mouala, UNAIDS Country Director.

NOTE TO EDITORS: In close collaboration with the National Programme on HIV/AIDS (PNLS), the United Nations Joint Programme of HIV/AIDS in Haiti is supporting the national response, complementing activities implemented via GFATM and PEPFAR investments and working towards internationally agreed targets encapsulated in the 2021-2026 Global AIDS Strategy.
The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) is a joint venture of the United Nations family which brings together the efforts and resources of 11 UN system organizations to unite the world against AIDS. The participating organizations that form UNAIDS, also called the UNAIDS Cosponsors, are: ILO, UNDP, UNESCO, UNFPA, UNHCR, UNICEF, UNODC, UN Women, WHO, World Bank, World Food Programme.
For more information contact:
Daniel Dickinson, Office of the Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator dickinsond@un.org
Paola Solda, UNAIDS Country Office  Haiti soldap@unaids.org

15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/209618-address-inequalities-achieve-end-aids-pandemic-haiti




Date: 23 November 2022
Title: Haiti: Children account for 2 in 5 cholera cases
Content: 23 November 2022
Port-au-Prince
Nearly two months into the cholera outbreak in Haiti, UNICEF is warning that approximately 40 per cent of the growing number of confirmed cases are among children.
Since the onset of the cholera outbreak, 9 in 10 confirmed cholera cases in Haiti have been reported in areas most affected by the deepening nutrition crisis in the country.  Children suffering from severe acute malnutrition, also known as severe wasting, are more vulnerable to cholera and at least three times more at risk of dying from the disease.
“In Haiti right now, there is a triple threat to children’s lives –malnutrition, cholera and armed violence. And sometimes all three together,” said Manuel Fontaine, Director of the Office of Emergency Programmes, as he concluded a four-day visit to Haiti. “I was shocked to see many children at risk of dying in the cholera treatment centres. In just a few hours, acute watery diarrhoea and vomiting dehydrate and weaken them so much they may die without timely and adequate treatment. Cholera and malnutrition are a lethal combination, one leading to the other.”
During his visit, Fontaine visited UNICEF-supported cholera treatment centres in Cite Soleil and Port-au-Prince, where malnourished children receive life-saving care. He also went to a centre which provides medical, psychological, and psychosocial care to survivors of gender-based violence.
As of 21 November, the Ministry of Health reported 924 confirmed cholera cases, over 10,600 suspected cases, and 188 deaths.“In Haiti, the vicious cycle between malnutrition and cholera can be broken. Simple, affordable and effective treatment can save Haitian children’s lives, as long as we reach the most vulnerable families before it’s too late. But the urban-poor areas most affected by the cholera outbreak are also under the control of heavily armed gangs. Amid widespread armed violence and insecurity in large parts of the capital, humanitarian teams are walking on eggshells,” added Fontaine.
From July to date, UNICEF and its partners screened and assessed the nutritional status of nearly 6,200 children in the commune of Cité Soleil, the largest urban-poor area in the capital city. In total, about 2,500 under-five children suffering from severe and moderate acute malnutrition received quality treatment.
Amid an extremely insecure and volatile environment, UNICEF has stepped up efforts to respond to cholera in coordination with the national authorities and partners by delivering:
To step up its efforts to respond to the cholera outbreak in the next five months, UNICEF is appealing for US$27.5 million to provide humanitarian assistance in health, water, hygiene and sanitation, nutrition and protection for 1.4 million people.
Media Contact: Ndiaga Seck ,Chef de la Communication, UNICEF nseck@unicef.org
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/208393-haiti-children-account-2-5-cholera-cases




Date: 15 November 2022
Title: UN and partners appeal for $145.6 million to assist Haiti in response to cholera and other humanitarian emergencies
Content: 15 November 2022
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
The Government of Haiti, the United Nations and partners are today launching an appeal for $145.6 million to support the country's emergency response to a cholera outbreak and to provide life-saving assistance to 1.4 million people living in the most affected areas.
After more than three years without a reported case of cholera in Haiti, national authorities on 2 October 2022 reported two new confirmed cases of vibrio cholerae in the metropolitan area of Port-au-Prince. As of 14 November, the Ministry of Public Health and Population reported 8,708 suspected cases, 802 confirmed cases and 161 deaths across the country.
"Cholera is a preventable and treatable disease, and based on their experience and expertise, national institutions quickly put together a response strategy with the determined support of the entire local and international humanitarian community," said UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Ulrika Richardson adding that “however, the surge in cases in recent weeks and the rapid spread of cholera in the country is worrying.” According to PAHO/WHO, 500,000 people are at risk of contracting the disease.
The cholera crisis has hit already vulnerable populations hardest. The latest food security analysis for Haiti shows that 4.7 million people, nearly half the population, are experiencing high levels of food insecurity, with 19,200 people in a disaster situation, the first time this has happened in recent history. Haitians are also facing increased violence due to the activities of armed gangs. These gangs use sexual violence as a weapon to terrorise the population and to gain control over territory. Nearly 100,000 people have been displaced since June 2021 after fleeing violence.
The main roads linking the capital to the rest of the country are under the control or influence of gangs, which has limited or even deprived the population's access to basic services for many months. In this difficult context, humanitarian actors are dependent on costly alternative means of transport to continue providing assistance throughout the country, including in the fight against the cholera epidemic.
The UN and partners are calling for funding to support national authorities in their efforts to contain the spread of cholera through the provision of clean water, hygiene and sanitation, and health activities, while addressing urgent food security, nutrition, and protection needs in the most affected areas.
The entire humanitarian community stands alongside national institutions to overcome the challenges of Haiti's complex crises.
Find out how to support the Flash Appeal: Haiti 2022 Cholera Flash Appeal (November 2022) | ReliefWeb
For more information, please contact: Elsa Bedouk elsa.bedouk@un.org | +509.3702.5769
Public Information and Reporting Officer, UNOCHA in Haiti
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/207435-un-and-partners-appeal-1456-million-assist-haiti-response-cholera-and-other-humanitarian




Date: 24 October 2022
Title: UN Haiti Creole website to “reflect on and project the concerns of all people”
Content: 24 October 2022
Port-au-Prince
A new website in Creole launched on United Nations Day* by the UN in Haiti will “reflect on and project the concerns of people across Haiti” according to the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Ulrika Richardson.
It is the first time the UN Country Team which includes UN humanitarian and development agencies has published a website in Haitian Creole. [https://haiti.un.org/ht]
“I’m proud to launch this Creole version of the UN Haiti website, which we believe will make the United Nations more accessible to a greater number of Haitian people,” said Ms Richardson. “It is especially important during times of crisis that people understand the role of the United Nations in Haiti.  We hope this website will generate interest and an increased recognition of the UN and our partnerships in support of local, regional and national authorities and other actors such as private sector and civil society.”
The website, which is also available in French and English, highlights the challenges Haiti faces, but also the country’s great potential and how the United Nations is collaborating with Haitians to explore these opportunities and find solutions that will help accelerate the country’s progress on sustainable development.
“Human-focused articles which tell the stories of women, men and children from across the country feature prominently on the website,” said Ms Richardson.
Welcoming the launch of the website, Renauld Govain, the Dean of Linguistics at Haiti State University, said it demonstrates the UN is “beginning to understand the didactic role it must play in the formation and social transformation of communities through information.”
The website was launched with a range of stories providing information about the recent outbreak of cholera in Port-au-Prince.
It also features an archive of stories from the Faces of Recovery series which highlights how people affected by the August 2021 earthquake in the southern peninsula are rebuilding their lives and looking towards a safer and more prosperous future.
“We look forward to engaging with all Haitians and welcome feedback and suggestions of how to improve the website,” Ms Richardson said, “so we can better serve the people of this country in terms of providing the information they need about the activities of the UN in Haiti.”
United Nations Day is marked annually on 24 October, to mark the founding of the organization on 24 October 1945.
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/204027-un-haiti-creole-website-%E2%80%9Creflect-and-project-concerns-all-people%E2%80%9D




Date: 06 October 2022
Title: The UN and its partners in Haiti call for the creation of a humanitarian corridor
Content: 06 October 2022
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, October 6, 2022: The United Nations and the humanitarian community in Haiti are deeply concerned about the serious consequences of the blocking of the Varreux Terminal on the humanitarian situation, in particular the resurgence of cholera, and call for the immediate opening of a humanitarian corridor to allow the release of fuel to
meet the urgent needs of the population.
The blocking of the Varreux Terminal, the main entry point for fuel in Haiti, has led to the closure of health centers over the last weeks now, and caused the interruption of water treatment services of the National Directorate of Drinking Water and Sanitation of Haiti (DINEPA) and private treated water production and distribution companies. Access to potable water, sanitation and health care is severely disrupted, which is essential to prevent and respond quickly to cholera.
The crisis that Haiti is going through affects the population throughout the territory and the most vulnerable people are the first to suffer from the blockage. With the deterioration of the operating conditions of many health centers and hospitals, patients suffering from chronic illness, pregnant women, children and newborns are the first to be affected by the difficulty of accessing health care. base. Over the next three months, some 28,900 pregnant women and more than 28,000 newborns are at risk of not receiving health care, while 9,965 obstetric complications would go untreated. In addition, the fuel crisis could further aggravate food insecurity in the country, which would already reach 45 percent of the population according to projections made in March 2022.
The United Nations and humanitarian partners are particularly concerned about the precarious situation in the 36 spontaneous sites in the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area, which have some 21,600 displaced by recent gang violence. In some areas, access to basic services such as treated water, hygiene and sanitation is virtually cut off, reinforcing the conditions conducive to the spread of cholera. While it can be fatal without immediate medical attention, cholera is preventable and treatable. With more than 52 suspected cases of cholera and 5 confirmed by health authorities, there is still time to stop the spread of the disease.
The United Nations and its partners recall the importance of respecting the humanitarian principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence in establishing and maintaining access to emergency-affected populations.
– END –
For more information:
Jonathan Boulet-Groulx
Communication and Outreach, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Office in Haiti
jonathan.boulet-groulx@un.org | +509.3685.8610
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/202244-un-and-its-partners-haiti-call-creation-humanitarian-corridor




Date: 02 October 2022
Title: United Nations supports Government efforts following outbreak of cholera in Haiti
Content: 02 October 2022
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, 2 October 2022
The United Nations is supporting efforts by the Government of Haiti to contain an outbreak of cholera and provide life saving measures following the confirmation of a positive case and the identification of several suspected cases in the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area.
The case was identified using the cholera surveillance mechanism, established by the Haitian authorities and supported by the United Nations. It was confirmed as positive at the National Public Health Laboratory in Port-au-Prince on Sunday 2 October. Additional suspected cases are currently being investigated in the metropolitan area.
The United Nations is actively monitoring the situation and is working with the government to mount an emergency response to this potential outbreak, focused not only on limiting the spread of the disease, but also on informing the population how to take immediate lifesaving action at the household level.  Additional support will consist of expanded surveillance, increased water and sanitation provision, the opening of cholera treatment centers and the reinforcement of case management.
Specialized emergency response teams are ready to be deployed to support affected communities. However, in the current socio-political context, it is imperative that these teams be guaranteed safe access to areas where cases have been confirmed or suspected, to help mitigate the risk of a large or disruptive outbreak.
The United Nations calls on all Haitian citizens to remain vigilant and take proactive measures to prevent the spread of cases within the community. These measures include:
Anyone who exhibits symptoms of acute watery diarrhea and vomiting should seek medical attention immediately and should remain hydrated using oral rehydration salts which can be made at home by combining one litre of clean water, six teaspoons of sugar and ½ teaspoon of salt. Infants should be given a minimum of half a litre of oral rehydration salts per day while children should receive one litre. Adults should consume three litres per day.
The United Nations is committed to stand side by side with the Haitian people and Haitian authorities as they seek to contain this outbreak.
For more information:
Jonathan Boulet-Groulx
UN Resident Coordinator Office in Haiti
jonathan.boulet-groulx@un.org | +509.3685.8610


15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/201719-united-nations-supports-government-efforts-following-outbreak-cholera-haiti




Date: 26 September 2022
Title: Lives being lost in Haiti as life-saving health services risk coming to “standstill”
Content: 26 September 2022
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, 26 September 2022:
Lives are being lost in Haiti as life-saving health services risk coming to a “standstill” due to a lack of fuel, according to the United Nations most senior humanitarian official in the country.
Ongoing insecurity and instability in Haiti and the blockading by criminal gangs of the country’s main fuel terminal in the capital, Port-au-Prince, means the fuel needed to power hospitals is not being delivered.
Many health staff are unable to report to work and provide care to patients, according to several local associations and organizations
The ongoing situation is also negatively affecting the restocking of medicine and medical supplies.
“Lives are being lost in Haiti because hospitals are unable to access fuel,” said Ulrika Richardson, the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Haiti. “If this situation continues,” she added, “life-saving services risk coming to a standstill, including for pregnant women, newborns and children, as well as for persons suffering trauma and other life-threatening conditions.”
The lack of access to fuel is affecting around three-quarters of the major hospitals in the country, according to data recently collected by the UN’s World Health Organization/Pan American Health Organization (WHO/PAHO).
Some hospitals are unable to admit new patients and are preparing to close. Providing sterile conditions for medical interventions is becoming more challenging and conserving vaccines due to the disruption to cold-chain facilities has become problematic. Many hospitals are also experiencing a shortage of oxygen.
The shortage of fuel has also severely reduced the national ambulance service operations in Port-au-Prince which now functions with only three ambulances. Its services are severely curtailed or have stopped altogether throughout the rest of the country.
The UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) estimates that some 22,100 children under the age of five, and over 28,000 newborns are at risk of not receiving essential health care services for the next 4 weeks.
The majority of hospitals in Haiti are connected to the national electricity grid but have to rely heavily on fuel-powered generators, due to the unreliability of electricity supplies.
The UN together with international and local non-governmental organizations continue to support the health sector and provision of services in Haiti.
UNICEF and the UN Population Fund (UNFPA) have collaborated with hospitals, health authorities and partners to install solar power supplies which have improved cold-chain storage and enabled maternity services to continue in 12 locations. However, solar power is insufficient to keep hospitals fully functioning.
WHO/PAHO is working with health authorities and partners to refurbish emergency medical services at one major public hospital and provide medical supplies, alongside UNFPA, at two of the largest public hospitals in Port-au-Prince in order to strengthen lifesaving care.
UNAIDS, the UN agency that focuses on HIV and AIDS, is providing support to the Ministry of Health to support safe blood transfusions; unsafe transfusions account for up to 10 per cent of HIV infections.
For more information contact:  Daniel Dickinson, dickinsond@un.org
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/200859-lives-being-lost-haiti-life-saving-health-services-risk-coming-%E2%80%9Cstandstill%E2%80%9D




Date: 24 September 2022
Title: Haitian people remain priority as UN commits to continuing its support
Content: 24 September 2022
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, 24 September 2022
The priority of the United Nations in Haiti remains to stay and deliver on its mandate and support the people and Government of Haiti, as they face ongoing insecurity and uncertainty in the capital Port-au-Prince and across the country.
UN personnel who are required on the ground to support stability and security efforts and to conduct life-saving interventions as well as supporting activities to help Haitian people cope in the current situation and ultimately to build a life of dignity for all, are remaining in the country. A small number of staff members will be working remotely so that they can fulfil their duties more effectively.
The UN in Haiti condemns the violence that has been witnessed in the country in recent weeks and calls on all actors to work together to de-escalate the situation and ensure a return to calm.
The UN in Haiti is closely monitoring the evolving situation and is readying its surge capacity for possible increased humanitarian needs.
The UN continues to work relentlessly with Government representatives, political actors, civil society groups and private sector stakeholders in search of a peaceful, secure and prosperous future for Haiti.
For more information contact:
Daniel Dickinson, dickinsond@un.org
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/200661-haitian-people-remain-priority-un-commits-continuing-its-support




Date: 22 September 2022
Title: UN in Haiti calls for looting of humanitarian supplies to stop
Content: 22 September 2022
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, 22 September 2022
The United Nations in Haiti has called for an immediate stop to attacks on humanitarian infrastructure and the looting of humanitarian supplies, as the Caribbean country continues to suffer a second week of civil unrest.
A number of warehouses used by UN agencies have been attacked by protesters in cities including Gonaives and Les Cayes.
Ulrika Richardson, the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, the organization’s most senior humanitarian official in Haiti, has called for these attacks and the looting of supplies to stop. “What we are seeing is the result of people’s frustration and despair over very dire living conditions. Looting warehouses is not the answer; it only serves to makes an effective response and assistance to families in need more difficult. Today’s situation calls for additional efforts by the humanitarian community. For that to happen we need safe access for humanitarian workers and supplies.”
The UN’s World Food Programme (WFP), has lost over 2,000 metric tonnes of food in Gonaives and Les Cayes, which had been prepositioned as part of its emergency response for protecting the most vulnerable ahead of the hurricane season.
"We need the violence to stop so that food distributions can resume as soon as possible," said Jean-Martin Bauer, WFP Country Director in Haiti.
Other UN agencies have also reported theft, looting, and disruptions to their life-saving work across Haiti, due to the civil unrest.
In Gonaives, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) lost 2,000 non-food item kits, enough to support 10,000 people, in an attack on their warehouse. Facilities belonging to the UN Development Programme (UNDP) and the UN Office for Project Services (UNOPS) were also attacked and looted.
In Port-au-Prince, the UN-coordinated IDP taskforce – bringing together a range of local partners to help reach the most vulnerable – has now said it is unable to deliver support to most of the 22,000 internally-displaced people across the city, again as a result of the unrest.
And nationwide, the UN’s Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO) is currently unable to ensure the availability of essential medicines, vaccines and medical inputs where it is needed most.
“The safety and well-being of all Haitians, especially the most vulnerable children, women and men, is our priority right now. A strong, well-equipped humanitarian assistance operation and safe access for humanitarian workers is therefore of utmost importance,” said Ulrika Richardson, adding that “the UN, along with its humanitarian partners, will continue to uphold the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence in the delivery of humanitarian assistance.”
For more information contact:
Daniel Dickinson, Office of the Resident Coordinator dickinsond@un.org
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/200352-un-haiti-calls-looting-humanitarian-supplies-stop




Date: 16 September 2022
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the UN Secretary-General - on Haiti
Content: 16 September 2022
New York
The Secretary-General is deeply concerned about the current situation in Haiti where civil unrest has brought the country to a standstill. The Secretary-General is particularly preoccupied with the safety of all Haitians including the most vulnerable and calls for calm and maximum restraint. He urges all relevant stakeholders to take immediate steps to de-escalate the situation, avoid violence, and allow the Haitian National Police to fulfil its role to protect the population.
The Secretary-General reiterates his strong call for all stakeholders to rise above their differences and to engage, without further delay, in a peaceful and inclusive dialogue on a constructive way forward. He warns that if the current circumstances continue, the already dire humanitarian situation faced by Haiti’s most vulnerable people will deteriorate even further.
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/199473-statement-attributable-spokesperson-un-secretary-general-haiti




Date: 17 August 2022
Title: Reconstruction and recovery of earthquake-affected south of Haiti needs to accelerate
Content: 17 August 2022
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, 17 August 2022
The reconstruction and recovery of the south of Haiti which was devastated by an earthquake in August last year needs to accelerate according to the UN Humanitarian Coordinator, the organization’s most senior humanitarian official in the country.
Speaking at the end of a two-day joint-UN trip to the earthquake-affected south of the country, Ulrika Richardson paid tribute to those people who lost their lives while encouraging more to be done to support the Government’s integrated reconstruction and recovery plan for the south, known as PRIPS to allow for the urgent transition from humanitarian aid to reconstruction and recovery.
“The reconstruction and recovery of the southern peninsula of Haiti needs to accelerate to allow the population full access to permanent housing, social services and to revitalize the local economy.,” said Ms Richardson. “The Government produced the 5-year PRIPS reconstruction and recovery plan in February this year. This plan needs now to be operationalized at the local level. The UN will continue to engage with technical and financial partners to support the implementation of the plan.
“This plan should also strengthen resilience to future shocks and to the growing food insecurity that currently in on the rise,” she added “as the economic situation continues to deteriorate and threaten the livelihoods of the mainly rural population.”
Ms Richardson added as part of the recovery process it was important that communication between the capital, Port-au-Prince and the south, which has been blocked due to insecurity, is opened, so that “people, materials and commerce can flow in both directions, supporting the future livelihoods and prosperity of people living in the south.”
Some 2,250 people died and around 12,800 were injured in the earthquake which struck the southern peninsula of Haiti on 14 August 2021. Thousands of homes, schools and hospitals as well as key infrastructure such as roads and bridges were damaged or destroyed.
Of the 500,000 people targeted by the Government with support from the UN and local partners, at least 484,000, or nearly 97%, have received some form of assistance. One year after the earthquake, most of the 35,000 displaced people have been rehoused or returned home and the majority of the 340,000 children whose education was interrupted are now back at school, although many are not studying under adequate conditions.
For more information contact:  Daniel Dickinson, Office of the Humanitarian Coordinator: dickinsond@un.org
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/195258-reconstruction-and-recovery-earthquake-affected-south-haiti-needs-accelerate




Date: 25 July 2022
Title: UN humanitarian agencies deliver relief aid directly to people affected by violence in Cité Soleil
Content: 25 July 2022
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, 25 July, 2022
United Nations humanitarian agencies have started delivering humanitarian assistance directly to the most vulnerable inhabitants of the commune of Cité Soleil as well as to some of the most vulnerable people in other neighbourhoods of the metropolitan area of Port-au-Prince, Haiti, following the recent spike of violence.
Deliveries began on Tuesday, 19 July and have included basic relief items:
The UN Humanitarian Coordinator in Haiti, Ulrika Richardson, the organization’s most senior humanitarian official in the country said: “The humanitarian needs in Cité Soleil are immense and are growing due to poverty, lack of basic services, including security, and a recent spike in violence. The UN is committed to continuing to deliver aid to the most vulnerable children, women and men in need, in line with the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence.”
Protection remains a real concern. According to the UN, between 8 and 17 July 2022, over 471 people were killed, injured or unaccounted for. Serious incidents of sexual violence against women and girls as well as boys being recruited by gangs have also been reported. Around 3,000 people have also fled their homes, including hundreds of unaccompanied children, while at least 140 houses have been destroyed or burnt down.
Access to health care is limited or non-existent with many health centres closed and limited access for medical staff to the area, while food and water has been in short supply.
“UN humanitarian agencies are providing immediate life-saving assistance in Cité Soleil,” said Humanitarian Coordinator, Ulrika Richardson, “but a more sustainable and holistic approach needs to be found for the medium and longer-term development of this emblematic commune which has a strong human potential, so that unmet needs can be satisfied; this should include protection, and a return to a life of dignity for its inhabitants.”
The UN provided direct assistance to the most vulnerable based on a coordinated joint needs assessment undertaken by IOM, UNICEF and WFP in Cité Soleil. It is working with Haiti’s civil protection agency (DGPC), the Office for Citizen Protection (OPC), the Economic and Social Assistance Fund (FAES), other local and government agencies as well as other actors in order to provide a more comprehensive response to the vulnerable communities.
Cité Soleil with a current estimated population around 300,000 is one of the most deprived commune in Port-au-Prince and its humanitarian and development needs were huge even before the current upsurge in violence.
The Humanitarian Coordinator calls on all parties to remain committed to end the deadly violence and ensure an open humanitarian corridor to Cité Soleil to allow unhindered access to emergency humanitarian and medical assistance to civilians in need.
For more information contact:
Federica Cecchet, IOM Haiti, fcecchet@iom.int
Christian Cricboom, Head of Office OCHA, cricboom@un.org
Ndiaga Seck, Chief of Communications, UNICEF Haiti, nseck@unicef.org, +509 37446199
Jean-Martin Bauer, Country Director WFP Haiti jean-martin.bauer@wfp.org
Daniel Dickinson, Office of the Humanitarian Coordinator dickinsond@un.org
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/191932-un-humanitarian-agencies-deliver-relief-aid-directly-people-affected-violence-cit%C3%A9-soleil




Date: 15 July 2022
Title: UN humanitarian agencies “ready to provide assistance” to communities affected by gang violence in Haiti
Content: 15 July 2022
PORT-AU-PRINCE, 15 July 2022
United Nations humanitarian agencies in Haiti are “ready to provide assistance” to communities caught in the crossfire of gang violence “as soon as they can gain access to the affected people.”
A recent upsurge in fighting between rival gangs in the Cité Soleil neighbourhood of the capital Port-au-Prince has led to the deaths of 99 people with 135 injured according to data reported by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Haiti.
In less than one week and according to a report released by OCHA covering 7 to14 July, at least 2,500 people have also been forced to flee their homes because of the fighting. Twenty people have been reported missing. Every day, with continued fighting, more people will suffer and be forced to flee, often risking their lives.
Cité Soleil, with a population of around 300,000 is one of the poorest neighbourhoods in the Haitian capital, where gangs have gained more influence over the past several years. OCHA said that “a large proportion of the population are trapped in Cité Soleil as gangs attempt to exert their influence,” adding that “the people in some areas have not had access to food or water since July 8.” One child in five is suffering from severe malnutrition “a rate well above emergency thresholds.”
“As people continue to suffer in Cité Soleil, insecurity is preventing humanitarian agencies from entering the area,” said Ulrika Richardson, the UN Humanitarian Coordinator, the organization’s most senior humanitarian official in Haiti. “The UN is ready to provide assistance to the many children, women and men caught in the crossfire of gang violence as soon as humanitarian partners can gain access to the affected zones.”
‘The people of Cité Soleil are amongst the most impacted by the current waves of violence in Haiti,” she added, “and they desperately need support at this difficult time, particularly the children who increasingly suffer acute malnutrition, as well as the many women and girls who are raped and boys who are being mobilised by the gangs.”
Cité Soleil is not the only neighbourhood where gangs are able to operate with impunity. OCHA estimates that approximately 1.5 million people, or nearly 50% of the capital's population, are directly affected by violence, with restricted freedom of movement and a lack of access to basic services.
Half a million children in the capital are also reportedly out of school due to insecurity, according to the UN Children’s Fund, UNICEF.
United Nations agencies continue to support the most vulnerable Haitians in Port-au-Prince. In 2022, the World Food Programme (WFP) has assisted more than 62,000 people with emergency cash assistance of US$ 4.1 million targeting a total of 207,000 people in the metropolitan area. Since Mid-May, WFP has served displaced populations with 44,000 hot meals. The International Organization for Migration (IOM) has provided assistance to some 19,000 people.
UNICEF has supported the Ministry of Education in the reopening of schools in vulnerable areas such as Martissant, La Saline, Cité Soleil, Bas-Delmas, Bel and Tabarre by distributing thousands of school kits and materials to students, and by facilitating catch-up courses for high school students in sensitive areas to compensate the loss of many months of lessons.
For more information, contact:  Daniel Dickinson, Communications Officer, UN  Resident Coordinator’s Office, Port-au-Prince, Haiti. dickinsond@un.org +509 4638 6636
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/190501-un-humanitarian-agencies-%E2%80%9Cready-provide-assistance%E2%80%9D-communities-affected-gang-violence-haiti




Date: 09 February 2022
Title: The Government of the Republic of Haiti hosts an International Event to Finance the Reconstruction and Recovery of the Southern Peninsula
Content: 09 February 2022
Reconstruction and Recovery of the Southern Peninsula
The Government of the Republic of Haiti, with the support of the United Nations, is convening a conference to bring together the international community to support the reconstruction and recovery of the south of the country, which was heavily damaged by the earthquake of August 14, 2021.
This event will be held on February 16, 2022, from 11:00 am to 6:00 pm, at the Karibe Hotel Convention Center, in-person and by video conference for representatives of Member States who are unable to travel.  The Government will present its Integrated Recovery Plan for the Southern Peninsula (PRIPS) at this meeting.
On August 14, 2021, a magnitude 7.2 earthquake caused widespread death and destruction in the departments of Nippes, Grand'Anse, and Sud. Some 2,246 people died, more than 12,500 were injured and up to 800,000 people were directly impacted. More than 130,000 homes were destroyed or severely damaged and critical infrastructure, including roads and bridges, was destroyed. A total of 1,250 schools were damaged, affecting over 300,000 students; 97 hospitals and health centers were also impacted.
In November, the Government released its Post Disaster Needs Assessment (PDNA), which costs the reconstruction and recovery process at $1.978 billion. The largest needs are in social sectors such as housing ($1.027 billion), education ($401 million), food security ($54.5 million), and health ($31.9 million).
Transportation infrastructure needs have been estimated at $142 million, while water and sanitation will require $10.9 million. The PDNA also provides estimated costs for the agricultural sector ($41 million), trade and industry and financial services ($104.4 million), and tourism ($51.7 million).
Disaster risk reduction efforts will require $11.79 million and the environment sector $81.9 million.
-- ENDS --
For more information contact
Mr. Paul Villefranche, Ministry of Culture and Communication, +509 37218588
Mr. Daniel Dickinson, United Nations, WhatsApp +1 646 639 2339, dickinsond@un.org
Trello board link for information : https://trello.com/b/mHVnixFf/%C3%A9v%C3%A9nement-international-pour-le-financement-de-la-reconstruction-de-la-p%C3%A9ninsule-sud-dha%C3%AFti-16-f%C3%A9vrier-2022
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/171580-government-republic-haiti-hosts-international-event-finance-reconstruction-and-recovery




Date: 12 January 2022
Title: The United Nations remembers those affected by the 2010 earthquake
Content: 12 January 2022
On 12 January 2022, the United Nations remembers the hundreds of thousands of Haitians who lost their lives and the many thousands more who sustained permanent injuries in the earthquake that twelve years ago devastated the capital of Haiti and surrounding areas.
We also commemorate the memory of our 102 UN personnel who laid down their lives on that day.
Following one of the darkest days in its history, Haiti has drawn on the resilience of its people, the work of its institutions and the assistance of its many friends and supporters to overcome the ravages caused by that calamity. The same sense of resilience and solidarity allowed the Haitians to promptly respond to the dramatic earthquake that hit the southern regions of the country last August.
Today, we renew our deepest condolences to the families of the victims and our sympathy for all those whose lives continue to be affected by this tragedy.  We also renew our commitment to work alongside the Haitian people and with the country’s friends and supporters to help build a sustainable, inclusive, and brighter future for Haiti.

--END—
Contacts :
Beatrice Nibogora, Chief Strategic Communications and Public Information, Spokesperson, BINUH, nibogorab@un.org, +509 36537043.
Daniel Dickinson, Communications Officer, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office, Port-au-Prince, Haïti. dickinsond@un.org, +509 4638 6636.
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/167960-united-nations-remembers-those-affected-2010-earthquake




Date: 27 October 2021
Title: Lives “likely to be lost” in Haiti if fuel supplies do not reach hospitals
Content: 27 October 2021
Lives are “likely to be lost” in Haiti if fuel supplies do not reach hospitals immediately, according to the acting UN Humanitarian Coordinator in the country, Pierre Honnorat.
Hospitals in the capital, Port-au Prince and other cities in the country are reporting extremely low reserves of the fuel they need to power the generators which keep services running.  In two of the capital’s major hospitals, pediatric services for 300 children, maternal health care for 45 women and critical care for 70 other patients will be interrupted if supplies are not received by next Tuesday, 26 October, leading to a loss of lives.
The United Nations continues to provide emergency relief aid to the south-west of the country which was struck by a 7.2 magnitude earthquake in August. Some 2,200 people died and 800,000 remain affected. The upsurge in gang violence, along with the fuel shortages as a result of the blockades, have affected the delivery of assistance to the earthquake zone as well as to other areas of the country.
The United Nations and its partners in Haiti remain committed to helping people in need, but to do so we need to be able to access those people. The UN calls on all the actors in Haiti who have an influence over the current situation to ensure that fuel supplies can be delivered to hospitals so that life-saving services can be provided to those in need and to ensure that humanitarian access to earthquake-affected people in the south-west is not further impeded..
[End]
https://haiti.un.org/fr
For more information, contact:  Daniel Dickinson, Communication Officer, UN    Resident Coordinator’s Office, Port-au-Prince, Haiti. dickinsond@un.org +509 4638 6636
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/155661-lives-%E2%80%9Clikely-be-lost%E2%80%9D-haiti-if-fuel-supplies-do-not-reach-hospitals




Date: 25 August 2021
Title: UN and partners appeal for $187.3 million to support quake-stricken Haiti to recover
Content: 25 August 2021
The United Nations and partners appealed today for US$187.3 million urgently needed to provide vital relief assistance to more than 800,000 people affected by the devastating earthquake in Haiti.
The United Nations and partners appealed today for US$187.3 million urgently needed to provide vital relief assistance to more than 800,000 people affected by the devastating earthquake in Haiti, including shelter, water and sanitation, emergency healthcare, food, protection and early recovery.
A 7.2 magnitude earthquake struck Haiti on 14 August causing large-scale damage across the country’s southern peninsula. More than 2,200 people lost their lives and over 12,000 people have been injured. It was followed by Tropical Depression Grace that caused flooding in the quake-affected parts of the country. The situation has also heightened risk of another wave of COVID-19, as vaccinations against COVID-19 had only just started in Haiti in mid-July.
The Flash Appeal will target 500,000 of the most vulnerable people of the 650,000 identified to be in need of assistance.
In the immediate aftermath of the disaster, under the leadership of the Government, local and international humanitarian partners rapidly launched a massive relief operation. Search and rescue and medical teams are working to find survivors and providing urgent medical care in hard-to-reach areas.  Partners have begun providing safe drinking water and food to the quake victims.
Haiti’s Prime Minister Ariel Henry emphasized, “We need efforts for recovery and reconstruction to start in earnest and simultaneously with the humanitarian response.”
The United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Bruno Lemarquis, said, “Haiti and its people need the world’s solidarity more than ever today as they deal with multiples crises at the same time. We thank countries who have responded so quickly and generously with personnel and humanitarian aid and we hope they will continue to do so. In the context of this response, moving towards recovery, and taking into account lessons learned from the devastating 2010 earthquake, it will be absolutely essential to support and rally behind national leadership and coordination efforts, support national and local capacities, systems, economic actors, and to build on Haitian knowledge and expertise for a contextualized response.”
“The United Nations and its partners are working together with the Government of Haiti to address the urgent needs of Haitians affected by the earthquake and Tropical Depression Grace”, said the UN’s Deputy Emergency Relief Coordinator, Ramesh Rajasingham.  “To do this, we need immediate funding.”
He continued, “We need safe and unimpeded access to all people in need. All parties, including armed groups, must ensure that humanitarian organizations and aid supplies have sustained and safe access to the affected areas.”
A surge in gang-related violence since June has led to displacement of an estimated 19,000 people in areas near the capital, Port-au-Prince which has made access to the quake-affected southwestern peninsula difficult.
The appeal reflects both the scale of the needs and the significant logistical challenges linked to providing an effective large-scale humanitarian response in hard-to-reach areas. Partners will provide emergency basic services including shelter, WASH, health, food, education and protection services to 500,000 people.
The UN Central Emergency Response Fund has made $8 million available to jump-start humanitarian activities on the ground.

For further information, please contact:
Delphine Vakunta, Port-au-Prince, +509 37 02 5790; vakunta@un.org
Zoe Paxton, OCHA New York, + 1 917 297 1542, paxton@un.org
Vanessa Huguenin, OCHA Geneva, +41 79 202 68 44, huguenin@un.org
15, Rue Pipo, Juvénat 7
Pétionville, Haiti.
Code postal : HT6140
URL: https://haiti.un.org/en/141667-un-and-partners-appeal-1873-million-support-quake-stricken-haiti-recover




