Date: 05 June 2024
Title: WHO calls for bold, decisive legislative action to protect young people from tobacco industry interference
Content: 05 June 2024
---
Jakarta, 31 May 2024 – On World No Tobacco Day 2024, the World Health Organization (WHO) is urgently calling on legislators and policy makers in Indonesia to protect young people from tobacco industry interference amid a series of key legislative developments that have the potential to safeguard the health not just of the current generation of young Indonesians but every generation to come.
Globally, tobacco kills more than 8 million people every year, including an estimated 1.3 million non-smokers who are exposed to second-hand smoke. Indonesia has one of the highest rates of tobacco use anywhere in the world, with a staggering 35.4% of adult Indonesians using tobacco, equal to more than 70 million people.
Whereas the global prevalence of tobacco use among people aged 15 years and older is declining, from 26.4% in 2010 to a projected 18.1% in 2030, Indonesia is one of only six countries globally where it is projected to increase, from 33.2% in 2010 to 38.7% by 2030. This is reflected in Indonesia’s latest Global School-based Student Health Survey, which shows that tobacco use among youth aged 13–17 years increased from 13.6% in 2015 to 23% in 2023, meaning that more than 1 in 5 youth now use some form of tobacco product.
Alarmingly, tobacco companies are also seeking to addict young people to harmful novel and emerging nicotine and tobacco products (NENTPs), such as e-cigarettes, using a series of underhanded methods, not least youth-targeted advertising, youth-targeted sponsorship and youth-targeted flavourings.
Studies demonstrate that e-cigarette use increases conventional cigarette use, particularly among non-smoking youth, by nearly three times. Between 2011 and 2021, the use of NENTPs among Indonesians aged 15 years and above increased by 10 times, to 3% of the population. As of 2023, 12.6% of students aged 13–17 years are reported to use e-cigarettes – a rate significantly higher than the adult population.
Today, Indonesia ranks 87 out of 90 countries in the Global Tobacco Industry Interference Index, indicating a high level of industry interference in policy development. It is one of just 12 WHO Member States that are yet to become Parties to the WHO Global Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which empowers governments to resist tobacco industry interference.
However, with the passage last year of Indonesia’s groundbreaking Omnibus Health Law and amendments to the Broadcasting Law currently underway, legislators and policy makers have a historic opportunity to protect young people from tobacco industry interference and accelerate Indonesia’s overall health, social and economic development.
“Today, Indonesia is at a critical juncture in its health and development journey, especially when it comes to controlling tobacco and NENTPs and limiting the devasting health, social and economic impact they have,” said Dr N. Paranietharan, WHO Representative to Indonesia. “For the health and well-being not just of the current generation of young Indonesians but every generation to come, legislators and policy makers must take bold, decisive legislative action.”
Of specific focus must be ensuring that implementing legislation for the Omnibus Health Law bans tobacco and NENTP advertising, promotion and sponsorship not just on social media but the whole of the internet, in alignment with WHO MPOWER measures, a series of evidence-based interventions proven to reduce demand for tobacco products.
This should be accompanied by a ban on tobacco and NENTP advertising on billboards and in public areas, and on tobacco and NENTP advertising, promotion and sponsorship more broadly, especially at youth-focused events, such as for sports, music and the arts, in alignment with global standards.
Second, legislators should complement their proposed ban on the sale of tobacco products and NENTPs to those below 21 years of age by also banning the sale of so-called “kiddy packs” of cigarettes – i.e. those containing less than 20 cigarettes. This will make cigarettes less affordable for young people and should be accompanied by a ban on the use of flavourings in NENTPs, making them significantly less attractive.
Next, in the draft national Broadcasting Bill, legislators should impose a complete and total blackout on tobacco and NENTP advertising, promotion and sponsorship across all broadcast formats. This will make a significant dent in the exposure not just of young people but all Indonesians to traditional tobacco and NENTP advertising in media, which will help de-normalize smoking and vaping behaviours.
Finally, legislators should develop and implement a uniform excise structure for all tobacco products and NENTPs, and also abolish the current excise cap of 57% of the retail price. Both actions will enable legislators to more easily increase taxation to 75% or more of the retail price – another MPOWER best practice.
At this critical juncture, WHO will continue to support Indonesia to turn what is a generational threat into a generational opportunity, accelerating the country’s health, social and economic development today, and in the years and decades ahead.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/270642-who-calls-bold-decisive-legislative-action-protect-young-people-tobacco-industry




Date: 28 May 2024
Title: UN Headquarters Observes International Day of  United Nations Peacekeepers on 30 May
Content: 28 May 2024
Two Indonesian peacekeepers to be honored posthumously at UN ceremony
UN Headquarters will observe the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers on Thursday, 30 May 2024.
In 1948, the historic decision was made to deploy military observers to the Middle East to supervise the implementation of Israel-Arab Armistice Agreements, in what became the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization.
Since that time, more than two million peacekeepers from 125 countries have since served in 71 operations around the world. Today, some 76,000 women and men are serving in 11 conflict zones across Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East.
Indonesia is the 6th largest contributor of uniformed personnel to the United Nations.  It currently deploys more than 2,700 military and police personnel to the UN peace operations in Abyei, the Central African Republic, Cyprus, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lebanon, Somalia, South Sudan, and Western Sahara.
During formal ceremonies at United Nations Headquarters, Secretary-General, António Guterres, will lay a wreath to honour all UN peacekeepers who have lost their lives since 1948. He will also preside over a ceremony in the Trusteeship Council Chamber, at which Dag Hammarskjöld Medals will be awarded posthumously to 64 military, police, and civilian peacekeepers, who lost their lives serving under the UN flag, including 61 who perished last year.
Among the peacekeepers to be honoured posthumously with the Dag Hammarskjold medal are two from Indonesia:  E2 PVT Bibit Nailil HUDA, who served with the UN Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo (MONUSCO); and CSGT Dudi ISKANDAR who was deployed with the UN Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL).
The Secretary-General will also present the 2023 Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award to Major Radhika Sen, a military officer from India, who served with the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO).
Created in 2016, the Award “recognizes the dedication and effort of an individual peacekeeper in promoting the principles of UN Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women, peace and security”.
In his message, the Secretary-General said: “Today we pay tribute to the more than 76,000 United Nations peacekeepers who embody humanity’s highest ideal: peace. Day in and day out, at great personal risk, these women and men bravely work in some of the most dangerous and unstable places on earth to protect civilians, uphold human rights, support elections and strengthen institutions. More than 4,300 peacekeepers have paid the ultimate price while serving under the UN flag. We will never forget them.”
The theme for 2024 International Day of UN Peacekeepers is “Fit for the future, building better together.”   The theme denotes that while UN Peacekeeping has proven to be part of the solution for over 75 years -- assisting host countries in navigating the difficult path from conflict to peace --  the Secretary-General’s New Agenda for Peace policy brief sets out a path for multilateral peace and security operations to remain viable tools to address future crises and conflict.
“UN Peacekeeping remains a unique global partnership, with peacekeepers from over 120 countries making a meaningful difference every day to millions of people in some of the most world's most difficult places,” said Jean-Pierre Lacroix, Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations. "As we respond to tomorrow's challenges, UN Peacekeeping continues to evolve, leveraging partnerships to be nimble, responsive and fit-for-purpose, promote stability, protect the vulnerable and help to build a durable peace.”
The International Day of UN Peacekeepers was established by the UN General Assembly in 2002, to pay tribute to all men and women serving in peacekeeping, and to honour the memory of those who have lost their lives in the cause of peace.

*  *  *  *  *
Schedule of Events at Headquarters on 30 May
11:00 a.m. (EDT):  The Dag Hammarskjöld Medal and Military Gender Advocate of the Year ceremonies will be held in the Trusteeship Council Chamber and shown live on UN Webcast:  https://webtv.un.org/en/asset/k1u/k1udwgod6x
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/269786-un-headquarters-observes-international-day-united-nations-peacekeepers-30-may




Date: 21 May 2024
Title: World Water Forum 2024 UN Press Conference - Armida Salsiah Alisjahbana's Remarks
Content: 21 May 2024
Opening Remarks by UN Under-Secretary-General and Executive Secretary of ESCAP, Armida Salsiah Alisjahbana, at the World Water Forum 2024 UN Press Conference in Bali.
Bali, 21 May 2024
Good afternoon, members of the media,
I would like to share some initial remarks on the occasion of the 10th World Water Forum.
I will start by highlighting some of the main aspects of the challenges that confront us.
As we know, water is key to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Goal 6 on clean water and sanitation supports almost every other goal, but especially Goals 1 and 2 on poverty and hunger.
However, 2.2 billion people lack access to safe drinking water, and half of the global population does not have access to safe sanitation. UNICEF informs that 700 children under five die every day due to a lack of appropriate WASH services. WASH access is a major focus of the UN System’s efforts. As an example, between 2020 and 2024 UNICEF provided over 23 million people with climate resilient water services and over 17 million people with climate resilient sanitation services.
However, meeting the demand for water for WASH services, and for other uses, including agriculture and industry is becoming more challenging. One in ten people live in countries with high or critical water stress.
The latest World Water Report under the theme of “Water for Peace and Prosperity” points out that due to climate change, seasonal water scarcity is projected to increase even where it is now abundant, such as in Central Africa, East Asia and parts of South America.  Water will become even scarcer where supplies are already short.
At the same time the UN’s tracking of SDG progress shows that some 40 of monitored water bodies have poor water quality.
Combined with a projected increase in floods, water-related risks for economic sectors, cities, rural areas and communities are multiplying, and the costs will be high.
I would like to highlight just two ways to help ensure that seasonal water scarcity, drought and water-related disasters do not become rolling crisis.
The first is cooperation on shared water sources. Enhanced collaborative efforts between countries, regions, sectors and stakeholders are needed.
In addition to mobilizing new resources and promoting innovation, collaboration can help close financing gaps. Public-private partnerships on water efficiency, as championed by UNIDO can help.
Collaborative actions that bring mitigation, adaptation, and disaster risk reduction agendas, may also help narrow financing gaps. The unmet adaptation financing needs alone, are estimated by ESCAP at $144.74 billion annually, on average, for Asia and the Pacific alone.
Scientific assessment is another important focus for cooperation.
Next month, we look forward to the launch of the WMO-led Third Pole Climate Forum which will galvanize the best scientists and most competent development actors in the world on glacier melt.
Second, investments in data systems for early warning are essential.
Better data for effective early warning systems can decrease disaster losses by up to 60 per cent.
Following the direction of governments in the Asia-Pacific region, the UN system is coming together to deliver multi-hazard early warning systems. ESCAP, the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) are all working together, while UNICEF is mapping groundwater reserves as input to preparedness and adaptation planning.
In closing, I would like to share the UN’s strategy for action.
The UN takes its role seriously. The first UN Conference on water in over 50 years was convened in New York in 2023, marking a pivotal moment in sustainable development discourse.
This unprecedented gathering of UN Member States and stakeholders signaled the beginning of a new narrative in addressing water-related challenges. One of the outcomes of the 2023 United Nations Water Conference was over 830 voluntary pledges for action, the Water Action Agenda 2023.
Following this landmark Conference, UN member States adopted a resolution recognizing the imperative for improved, inclusive and transparent water cooperation and called upon the UN Secretary-General to present a comprehensive UN system-wide water and sanitation strategy.
The strategy will be officially launched on 16 July during the High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development in New York.
Developed through a collaborative effort spearheaded by the UN's coordination mechanism on water and sanitation, UN-Water, the System-wide strategy will elevate ambition and provide more integrated and coordinated support to member states, amplifying the UN’s impact.In closing, I would like to underline that I have shared only a few highlights of the UN’s actions to address water-related challenges. My colleagues from other parts of the UN system will be able to share further details.
I would also like to thank the members of the media who have taken the time to join us in Bali.
Also, on behalf of the UN System, I would like to express appreciation for the leadership shown by the Government of Indonesia in hosting this important Forum.
Thank you.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/269218-world-water-forum-2024-un-press-conference-armida-salsiah-alisjahbanas-remarks




Date: 20 May 2024
Title: FAO wins the King Hassan II of Morocco Great World Water Prize
Content: 20 May 2024
Statement by FAO Director-General QU Dongyu welcoming the award
Rome - QU Dongyu, the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) today welcomed the decision to award the King Hassan II of Morocco Great World Water Prize to the organization at the 10th World Water Forum, held in Bali.
Based on the theme “Securing water resources for food sovereignty and shared prosperity,” the award recognizes outstanding efforts in the protection, preservation, and sustainable management of water resources.
The FAO Director-General’s statement in full below:
“On behalf of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), I am delighted to accept the prestigious King Hassan II of Morocco Great World Water Prize. I thank the Jury Committee of this Prize for your recognition of FAO’s contributions to the global efforts towards water security.
It is indeed an honour to be awarded this prestigious Prize which recognizes and rewards actions that promote the protection and preservation of water resources, improvement in their management, and reuse of wastewater, as well as raising awareness among the population about water issues. The prize is awarded every three years during a special ceremony held during the World Water Forum.
Water is now fully integrated into the FAO Strategic Framework 2022-31, is at the core of the FAO thematic strategies on Climate Change, and on Science and Innovation, and their related action plans, and is well mainstreamed across all of FAO's work.
Last year, for the first time in the Organization's history, water was the theme of the 43rd Session of the FAO Ministerial Conference - the highest governing body of the Organization. The very same Conference endorsed the theme of water resources management for the 2024-25 biennium, consequently water has been on the agenda of all the FAO Governing Bodies and technical committees over the following two years, to focus discussions on mobilizing the needed knowledge and resources to advance FAO's work on water.
Water was also the theme for World Food Day 2023, which commemorates the establishment of FAO on 16 April 1945, and was celebrated during the World Food Forum: “Water is Life, Water is Food. Leaving no one behind”.
In December 2023, the FAO Council endorsed the Conceptual Framework for Integrated Land and Water Resources Management, which serves as an organizational strategy to guide our work on land, soil and water.
While these decisions set up FAO's internal working mechanisms on water, the annual Rome Water Dialogue and the High-Level Dialogue on the Global Framework on Water Scarcity in Agriculture (WASAG) are FAO platforms that facilitate knowledge sharing on water, mobilize leadership and resources, and foster sustainable solutions to achieve both water and food security.
These are just a few examples and milestones along FAO's new Water Journey that I launched at the very first Rome Water Dialogue in 2022.
Externally, FAO is supporting Members in sustainable agriculture development and water management, including supporting countries to develop their National Water Roadmaps towards achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, as well as to meet their irrigation needs and potential mapping, flood impacts assessment and risk management, among others. In addition, the FAO Water Productivity Open-access portal (WaPOR) technology assists Members in areas such as to enrich water data and information, water tenure dialogues, water scarcity initiatives, and drought management plans.
At the UN 2023 Water Conference, FAO played an active role and submitted eight commitments to the Global Water Actions. I am proud that we have made significant progress on all of them. FAO is a core member of the UN system to develop the UN system-wide strategy on water and sanitation, and I recently joined the other members of the UN Chief Executives Board (CEB) in Chile, who recognized and validated the work being undertaken.
FAO is promoting and implementing integrated water-food solutions to address the global challenges of food insecurity, water crisis and climate change through our field work, policy guidance and engagement through the dedicated COPs processes.
I am deeply appreciative to all colleagues across FAO, in particular from the Land and Water Division, and other technical divisions responsible for forestry, fisheries and aquaculture, climate and biodiversity, as well as those responsible for communication and governance, among others, who have supported me in implementing my vision and strategies through their specialized expertise, knowledge and capacities.
Let me take this opportunity to call for worldwide partners to work together on water management and the transformation of agrifood systems to be more efficient, more inclusive, more resilient, and more sustainable going forward, to achieve the vision of the Four Betters:  better production, better nutrition, a better environment and a better life, leaving no one behind.
Thank you once again to the Kingdom of Morocco for this prestigious honour and recognition.
上善若水，丰衣足食。水色人生，服务人类！(The highest virtue is like water, nurturing prosperity and ensuring food security. Water mirrors an ideal life, serving the humanity of whole world.)-----------------
This press release was originally publish by FAO through this link: https://www.fao.org/newsroom/detail/fao-wins-the-king-hassan-ii-of-morocco-great-world-water-prize/en
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/269217-fao-wins-king-hassan-ii-morocco-great-world-water-prize




Date: 20 May 2024
Title: 10th World Water Forum: UNESCO mobilizes the international community for sustainable water management
Content: 20 May 2024
-----
Bali, 20 May - UNESCO will promote international cooperation and innovative solutions to tackle the pressing global water challenges at the 10th World Water Forum from May 18-24 in Bali, Indonesia. The 2024 edition, held under the theme “Water for Shared Prosperity”, will bring together policymakers, scientists, and stakeholders from around the world and result in a joint global commitment to water availability and water cooperation.
This year’s World Water Forum, co-led by UNESCO, will emphasize the critical links between water management and climate disruption, highlighting how enhanced cooperation and better data collection can steer the world toward water security and resilience. UNESCO will be championing three core objectives: enhancing cooperation on water, improving knowledge and data collection, increasing education and awareness on water-related issues.
"As we face increasing water scarcity and climate variability, it’s imperative that we increase international cooperation to sustainably measure and manage water resources together and train and empower a new generation of water professionals." - Audrey Azoulay, UNESCO Director-General
Increasing cooperation on transboundary water From rivers and lakes to transboundary aquifers, states urgently need to collaborate and cooperate in managing the shared water resources that flow freely across their national borders.
The first step often lies in identifying shared water sources. As the leading organization for monitoring transboundary aquifers, UNESCO has helped to identify transboundary systems across 153 countries, including 468 aquifers and 286 rivers and lakes.
UNESCO’s decade-long Governance of Groundwater Resources in Transboundary Aquifers project (GGRETA) has provided assessment, governance and policy aspects of transboundary aquifers across three continents, in addition to other localized programmes in West-Africa, the Mediterranean, the Balkans and South America.
A shared water framework can be a major catalyst for collective development, however, only a minority of riparian countries have transboundary agreements in place. A best practice case lies in the Senegal River Basin where the Manantali Dam, while physically located in Mali, is collectively owned and managed by Senegal River Basin Development Authority which contributes to the energy sector of the countries of the basin (Guinea, Mali, Mauritania and Senegal), producing electricity at lower cost and from a clean source.
Improving knowledge and data collection on waterSince the 1980s, data collection on water has worsened and there is an urgent need to harness technological advances to improve it.
UNESCO plays a vital role in harmonizing and making water data and knowledge available through its Water Information Network System, a database of global and local water information which allows stakeholders to make informed decisions. Complementary to this, UNESCO’s Open Learning Platform helps users develop skills they need to turn this raw data into actionable insights.
As water and climate are intrinsically and increasingly linked, UNESCO has developed the Climate Risk Informed Decision Analysis (CRIDA) methodology to manage water resources in water-stressed areas by using a participatory, bottom-up approach that efficiently identifies hydro-climatic vulnerabilities. Flood and Drought Early Warning Systems have been implemented in Africa.
In addition to data coming from advanced technologies such as satellite surveillance, UNESCO calls for governments to invest more in training local communities to provide ground-truth data to complement, confirm and calibrate these measurements.
Systemic inefficiencies must also be addressed: today it is estimated that 5%-50% of water never reaches its destination due to leaky pipes and faulty systems. Improving the identification and resolution of these leaks represents a major opportunity to reduce water scarcity worldwide.
Increase awareness and understanding of water issuesTraining a new generation of water professionals who can advise governments to implement water policies that take into account economic, social, political, health and agricultural impacts, will be key to combat water scarcity in the future.
Each year, UNESCO and its partners trains around 20,000 people through a network of 29 Category-2 research centers, 84 UNESCO university chairs and national committees. This network improves and reinforces the knowledge exchange between countries and provides courses, training and activities on specific water issues.
UNESCO also works to increase water education for the general public, and especially children and youth. UNESCO’s awareness campaigns, including through the Global Network of Water Museums comprised of 89 institutions across 38 countries educate 10 million visitors per year on topics ranging from water science to water usage in daily life.
UNESCO also calls for a more inclusive approach to addressing water issues: ancestral knowledge and know-how related to water hold many solutions for sustainably managing this resource. UNESCO's LINKS programme is working to support indigenous peoples in sharing their approaches and methods of water management, governance and rights issues.
About UNESCO
With 194 Member States, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization contributes to peace and security by leading multilateral cooperation on education, science, culture, communication and information. Headquartered in Paris, UNESCO has offices in 54 countries and employs over 2300 people. UNESCO oversees more than 2000 World Heritage sites, Biosphere Reserves and Global Geoparks; networks of Creative, Learning, Inclusive and Sustainable Cities; and over 13 000 associated schools, university chairs, training and research institutions. Its Director-General is Audrey Azoulay.
“Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defenses of peace must be constructed” – UNESCO Constitution, 1945.
More information: www.unesco.org

Press contactSiska Widyawati, National Information Officer UNIC,  087884885489Aisyah Camila Agusty, Public Information Officer UNESCO, 0817456770
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/269116-10th-world-water-forum-unesco-mobilizes-international-community-sustainable-water-management




Date: 27 April 2024
Title: IOM Indonesia Receives Hasan Wirajuda Pelindungan WNI Award for its Assistance and Protection of Indonesian Citizens
Content: 27 April 2024
---
Jakarta - IOM, the UN Migration Agency on Friday, 26 April 2024 was presented the Hasan Wirajuda Protection of Indonesian Citizens Award (HWPA) by Retno L.P. Marsudi, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, for its assistance and protection of Indonesian citizens. Notably IOM is the first international organization ever to receive the award under the ‘Working Partner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ category.
The Hasan Wirajuda Pelindungan WNI Award is an annual honour awarded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to individuals and institutions from various sectors, including heads of Indonesian representatives abroad, officials/staff of Indonesian representatives, working partners of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and working partners of Indonesian representatives. Also eligible for the award are government or regional agencies, media, civil society, public services at Indonesian representatives, and inspiring figures that have made outstanding contributions to the protection of Indonesian citizens abroad. This year’s theme focuses on "Protection from Upstream to Downstream: Eradicating the Crime of Human Trafficking (TPPO) based on Technology.”
This year, a total of 23 individuals and six institutions were honoured with awards at the ceremony in Jakarta. RPTC Bambu Apus, a national working unit under the Ministry of Social Affairs, also received an award under the same Working Partner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ category.
The Government of Indonesia estimates that approximately 3,428 Indonesians were coerced into working in various forms of online criminal activity across the ASEAN region, between 2020 and 2023.
IOM’s Counter Trafficking Unit has provided tailored victim assistance consisting of repatriation, economic reintegration, psychological counselling, and financial literacy training for 71 Indonesian victims of trafficking for forced criminality. Furthermore, IOM Indonesia has supported numerous pieces of preventive and awareness raising work, such as the collaborative short film with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Creative Goods Inc., titled ‘Through the Screen.’ This short film illustrates how an average young person can fall victim to trafficking for forced criminal activities through a scam call centre in various countries in Southeast Asia. The film garnered more than 22,000 online views and the campaign has reached over 3 million views on various social media platforms.
Accepting the award on IOM’s behalf, Jeffrey Labovitz, IOM's Chief of Mission, affirmed the organization's steadfast dedication to collaborate with the Government of Indonesia in its battle against trafficking in persons. "Our commitment involves equipping Indonesian migrant workers with the information needed to make informed choices regarding their employment prospects and to ensure safe, orderly, and regular migration. We are honoured and grateful to receive this award and acknowledge it as recognition of our close and valuable collaboration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of Indonesia.”

For further information, please contact:
Eny Rofiatul N, National Counter Trafficking Officer IOM Indonesia, Telp: +62 812 1330 5121, E-mail: nenyrofiatul@iom.int
Shafira Ayunindya, National Labour Mobility and Social Inclusion Officer IOM Indonesia, Telp: +62 823 3993 8734, E-mail: sayunindya@iom.int

Media contact:
Josephine Imelda, Communications Assistant IOM Indonesia, Telp: +62 813 1869 3599, E-mail: jimelda@iom.int
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/267147-iom-indonesia-receives-hasan-wirajuda-pelindungan-wni-award-its-assistance-and-protection




Date: 23 April 2024
Title: Climate change and extreme weather impacts hit Asia hard
Content: 23 April 2024
-----
Geneva/Bangkok (WMO) 23 April -
Asia remained the world’s most disaster-hit region from weather, climate and water-related hazards in 2023. Floods and storms caused the highest number of reported casualties and economic losses, whilst the impact of heatwaves became more severe, according to a new report from the World Meteorological Organization (WMO).
Key messages
The State of the Climate in Asia 2023 report highlighted the accelerating rate of key climate change indicators such as surface temperature, glacier retreat and sea level rise, which will have major repercussions for societies, economies and ecosystems in the region.
In 2023, sea-surface temperatures in the north-west Pacific Ocean were the highest on record. Even the Arctic Ocean suffered a marine heatwave.
Asia is warming faster than the global average. The warming trend has nearly doubled since the 1961–1990 period.
“The report's conclusions are sobering. Many countries in the region experienced their hottest year on record in 2023, along with a barrage of extreme conditions, from droughts and heatwaves to floods and storms. Climate change exacerbated the frequency and severity of such events, profoundly impacting societies, economies, and, most importantly, human lives and the environment that we live in,” said WMO Secretary-General Celeste Saulo.
In 2023, a total of 79 disasters associated with hydrometeorological hazard events were reported in Asia according to the Emergency Events Database. Of these, over 80% were related to flood and storm events, with more than 2000 fatalities and nine million people directly affected. Despite the growing health risks posed by extreme heat, heat-related mortality is frequently not reported.
“Yet again, in 2023, vulnerable countries were disproportionately impacted. For example, tropical cyclone Mocha, the strongest cyclone in the Bay of Bengal in the last decade, hit Bangladesh and Myanmar. Early warning and better preparedness saved thousands of lives,” said Armida Salsiah Alisjahbana, Executive Secretary of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), which partnered in producing the report.
“In this context, the State of the Climate in Asia 2023 report is an effort to bridge gaps between climate science and disaster risk through evidence-based policy proposals. ESCAP and WMO, working in partnership, will continue to invest in raising climate ambition and accelerating the implementation of sound policy, including bringing an early warning to all in the region so that no one is left behind as our climate change crisis continues to evolve,” she said.
Approximately 80% of WMO Members in the region provide climate services to support disaster risk reduction activities. However, less than 50% of Members provide climate projections and tailored products that are needed to inform risk management and adaptation to and mitigation of climate change and its impacts, according to the report.
The report, one of a series of WMO regional State of the Climate reports, was released during the 80th session of the Commission in Bangkok, Thailand. It is based on input from National Meteorological and Hydrological Services, United Nations partners and a network of climate experts. It reflects WMO’s commitment to prioritize regional initiatives and inform decision-making.

Temperatures
The annual mean near-surface temperature over Asia in 2023 was the second highest on record, 0.91°C [0.84 °C–0.96 °C] above the 1991–2020 average and 1.87 °C [1.81 °C–1.92 °C] above the 1961–1990 average. Particularly high average temperatures were recorded from western Siberia to central Asia and from eastern China to Japan. Japan and Kazakhstan each had record warm years.
Precipitation
In 2023, precipitation was below normal in large parts of the Turan Lowland (Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan); the Hindu Kush (Afghanistan, Pakistan); the Himalayas; around the Ganges and lower course of the Brahmaputra Rivers (India and Bangladesh); the Arakan Mountains (Myanmar); and the lower course of the Mekong River. Southwest China suffered from a drought, with below-normal precipitation levels nearly every month of 2023, and the rains associated with the Indian Summer Monsoon were below average.

Cryosphere
The High-Mountain Asia region is the high-elevation area centred on the Tibetan Plateau and contains the largest volume of ice outside of the polar regions, with glaciers covering an area of approximately 100 000 km2. Over the last several decades, most of these glaciers have been retreating, and at an accelerating rate.
Twenty out of 22 observed glaciers in the High Mountain Asia region showed continued mass loss. Record-breaking high temperature and dry conditions in the East Himalaya and most of the Tien Shan exacerbated mass loss for most glaciers. During the period 2022–2023, Urumqi Glacier No. 1, in Eastern Tien Shan, recorded its second highest negative mass balance since measurements began in 1959.
Permafrost is soil that continuously remains below 0 °C for two or more years and is a distinctive feature of high-latitude and high-altitude environments. Monitoring carried out by the Russian Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring indicates that the most rapid thawing of permafrost is in the European north, the Polar Urals, and the western regions of Western Siberia. This is due to the continuing increase in air temperatures in the high latitudes of the Arctic.
Snow cover extent over Asia in 2023 was slightly less than the 1998–2020 average.

Sea surface temperatures and ocean heat
The sea surface in the areas of the Kuroshio current system (west side of the North Pacific Ocean basin), the Arabian Sea, the Southern Barents Sea, the Southern Kara Sea, and the South-Eastern Laptev Sea is warming more than three times faster than the globally averaged sea surface temperature.
In 2023, the area-averaged sea surface temperature anomalies were the warmest on record in the North-west Pacific Ocean. The Barents Sea is identified as a climate change hotspot because ocean surface warming has a major impact on sea-ice cover, and there is a feedback mechanism in which loss of sea-ice in turn enhances ocean warming because darker sea surfaces can absorb more solar energy than the highly reflective sea-ice.
Warming of the upper-ocean (0 m–700 m) is particularly strong in the North-Western Arabian Sea, the Philippine Sea and the seas east of Japan, more than three times faster than the global average.
Marine heatwaves- prolonged periods of extreme heat that affect the ocean-occurred in a large area of the Arctic Ocean, in the Eastern Arabian Sea and the Northern Pacific, and lasted three to five months.

Extreme events
In 2023, over 80% of reported hydrometeorological hazards in Asia were flood and storm events, according to EM-DAT data. Specifically, floods were the leading cause of death in reported events in 2023 by a substantial margin. In India, Yemen, and Pakistan, floods were the natural hazard event which caused the greatest number of fatalities, highlighting the continuing high level of vulnerability of Asia to natural hazard events, especially floods.
In 2023, a total of 17 named tropical cyclones formed over the western North Pacific Ocean and the South China Sea. This was below average but there were still major impacts and record-breaking rainfall in countries including China, Japan, the Philippines and Republic of Korea.
In the North Indian Ocean basin, Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm Mocha made landfall along the Rakhine Coast in Myanmar on 14 May, causing widespread destruction and 156 reported deaths.
Several extreme precipitation events took place in 2023. In June, July and August, several floods and storm events resulted in more than 600 reported deaths across India, Pakistan, and Nepal.
The Hong Kong Observatory Headquarters recorded an hourly rainfall total of 158.1 mm on 7 September, the highest since records began in 1884, as a result of a typhoon. Several stations in Vietnam observed record-breaking daily rainfall amounts in October.
Heavy rainfall led to flooding in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates in November. Yemen also suffered heavy rainfall and resulting widespread flooding.
In August and early September 2023, the far eastern part of the Russian Federation suffered catastrophic flooding in one of the largest disasters in recent decades, affecting about 40 000 hectares of rural land.
Many parts of Asia experienced extreme heat events in 2023. Japan experienced its hottest summer on record. China experienced 14 high temperature events in summer, with about 70% of national meteorological stations exceeding 40°C and 16 stations breaking their temperature records.
In India, severe heatwaves in April and June resulted in about 110 reported fatalities due to heatstroke. A major and prolonged heatwave affected much of South-East Asia in April and May, extending as far west as Bangladesh and Eastern India, and north to southern China, with record-breaking temperatures.

Challenges and opportunities
According to the WMO climate services checklist data, 82% of Member countries in the region provide data services to support disaster risk reduction.
However, currently less than 50% of National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHSs) in the region provide tailored products for the disaster risk reduction community.
Therefore, there is an urgent need to advance these efforts and provide more tailored support and services to address strategies and interventions to effectively mitigate rising disaster risks.
----------
The World Meteorological Organization is the United Nations System’s authoritative voice on Weather, Climate and Water
www.wmo.int

For further information contact:
Clare Nullis, WMO media officer, cnullis@wmo.int or media@wmo.int, Tel +41-79-709139
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/266799-climate-change-and-extreme-weather-impacts-hit-asia-hard




Date: 23 April 2024
Title: Secretary-General appoints Gita Sabharwal of India as the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Indonesia
Content: 23 April 2024
---
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres has appointed Gita Sabharwal of India as the United Nations Resident Coordinator (designate) in Indonesia, with the host Government’s approval.
Ms. Sabharwal, who takes up her post on 22 April, brings close to 30 years of experience in development supporting climate transition, sustainable peace, governance and social policy, while leveraging digital technology and data to accelerate Sustainable Development Goals.
Previously she served as UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand and as Peacebuilding and Development Advisor at the United Nations in Sri Lanka. Before joining the UN, Ms. Sabharwal was The Asia Foundation’s Deputy Country Representative for Maldives and Sri Lanka and has held positions as the Poverty and Policy Advisor for the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DFID) in India and Viet Nam.
Ms. Sabharwal holds a Master’s Degree in Development Management from the University of Wales, UK.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/266791-secretary-general-appoints-gita-sabharwal-india-united-nations-resident-coordinator




Date: 01 April 2024
Title: UN Human Rights Committee publishes findings on Chile, Guyana, Indonesia, Namibia, Serbia, Somalia and United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
Content: 01 April 2024
---
GENEVA (28 March 2024) -
The UN Human Rights Committee today issued its findings on Chile, Guyana, Indonesia, Namibia, Serbia, Somalia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland after examining the seven States parties in its latest session.
The findings contain the Committee’s main concerns and recommendations on the implementation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, as well as positive aspects. Highlights include:

Chile
The Committee noted with concern that a large number of human rights violations were committed in the context of “social outburst” due to the disproportionate and arbitrary use of force and brutality by the police and armed forces. It regretted that only a few cases had been formally processed and resulted in convictions. The Committee urged Chile to set up a control mechanism to prevent the excessive use of force during law enforcement operations, ensure accountability at all levels, guarantee that victims receive comprehensive reparations, and consider adopting a law on comprehensive reparations.
While welcoming Chile’s measures towards gender equality, the Committee, however, reflected its concern about the absence of comprehensive discrimination legislation explicitly guaranteeing the principle of equality between women and men, and the fact that parity has not yet been achieved at the electoral level, as well as the persistence of wage gaps and other inequalities. It called upon Chile to intensify efforts to finalize legislative projects that explicitly guarantee equality between men and women, continue its efforts to increase women’s participation in political and public life, and eliminate wage inequalities between men and women.

Guyana
The Committee was concerned about the insufficient recognition of indigenous peoples’ rights to the lands and territories and the lack of progress in amending the Amerindian Act. The Committee was also troubled by reports that inadequately regulated mining activities in Amerindian areas had caused environmental degradation and threatened Amerindians’ health and traditional way of life. The Committee called on Guyana to expedite revising the Amerindian Act 2006 to guarantee indigenous peoples’ rights to occupy, own, use, and develop their traditional lands, territories, and resources. The Committee also asked Guyana to speed up the demarcation and titling of the collective lands of indigenous peoples.
The Committee expressed concerns that the institutional framework to combat corruption is not yet sufficiently strong and effective in practice to adequately prevent or prosecute corruption. The Committee recommended that Guyana step up its efforts to promote good governance and combat corruption and impunity at all government levels.

Indonesia
While acknowledging the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the convictions of six law enforcement officers for the premeditated murder of Papuan individuals, the Committee, however, expressed regret over the lack of information on other cases, such as the acquittal of retired army major Isak Sattu and about investigations into past violations. It called on Indonesia to strengthen efforts to end impunity and hold perpetrators accountable for previous violations. The Committee recommended that Indonesia guarantee the independence of judicial and non-judicial accountability mechanisms, investigate all violations, provide full reparations to victims, and ensure that law enforcement agencies follow through on findings by the National Commission on Human Rights (Komnas HAM).
The Committee reflected concerns over allegations of undue influence on the 2024 general elections, along with a decision by the Constitutional Court lowering the minimum age of candidates to the advantage of the President’s son. The Committee was also disturbed by the harassment, intimidation, and arbitrary detention of opposition figures. It urged Indonesia to ensure free and transparent elections, foster genuine political pluralism, guarantee the independence of electoral commissions, revise restrictive legal provisions, ensure accessible polling stations, and prevent undue influence by high-ranking officials.

Namibia
The Committee was concerned that indigenous peoples are often excluded from political life and decision-making processes and that they are insufficiently consulted regarding the extraction of natural resources on their lands. The Committee called on Namibia to consider recognising communities such as the San, Himba, Ovatue, Ovatjimba and Ovazemba as indigenous peoples with concomitant rights, and to ensure meaningful consultation with them before granting any licences for the exploitation of resources on their lands, with a view to obtaining their free, prior and informed consent.
The Committee raised its concern about legislation authorising the use of potentially lethal force in situations that are not consistent with international human rights standards. It was also disturbed by the reported prevalence of excessive use of force by the Namibian Police Force. It called on Namibia to take additional measures to prevent and punish the excessive use of force by law enforcement officers, including aligning its legal framework with international standards, planning and conducting law enforcement operations properly to minimise the risks to human life, and investigating all allegations and holding those responsible to account.

Serbia
The Committee expressed concerns over the prevalence of hate speech in both online and traditional media by politicians and high-level officials targeting, in particular, journalists, Roma and other ethnic or national minorities, and LGBTI people. The Committee called on the Republic of Serbia to effectively implement and enforce existing legal and policy frameworks on combating hate crimes, to publicly condemn hate speech, and to intensify action to tackle the prevalence of hate discourse online.
The Committee noted with concern credible reports about numerous irregularities in the parliamentary and local elections held in December 2023, including abuse of public resources, intimidation and pressure on voters, cases of vote-buying, and stuffing of ballot boxes. The Committee called on the State party to undertake prompt, thorough and independent investigation of all allegations of irregularities, strengthen oversight of election campaigns and conduct comprehensive voter education programmes.

Somalia
The Committee voiced its grave concern over concrete incidents of excessive use of force and killing of civilians by armed forces, law enforcement officers, Al-Shabaab and other terrorist groups. It urged Somalia to take additional measures to effectively prevent the excessive use of force and the killing of civilians, as well as to punish perpetrators. The Committee also questioned the compatibility of the State party’s laws on the use of force and firearms with international standards, and the application of the Code of Military Criminal Law in Peace, which exempts law enforcement officers from prosecution. It called on the State party to ensure all legislative and regulatory provisions governing the use of force align with the UN Human Rights Guidance on Less-Lethal Weapons in Law Enforcement, and the Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials.
The Committee expressed concern about proposed constitutional changes that would lower the age of majority from 18 to 15, citing reports that children are exposed to violence, abductions, labour, and forced recruitment as child soldiers and that girls, in particular, are exploited and denied access to education. It asked Somalia to maintain the age of majority at 18, take all measures to protect children from violence, abductions, labour, and exploitation, and guarantee that all children have equal access to schooling. It also underscored that child victims of such abuses should be rehabilitated and reintegrated into society.

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
The Committee was particularly concerned about the conditional immunity under the Northern Ireland Troubles (Legacy and Reconciliation) Act 2023 for people who had committed serious human rights violations. The Committee also questioned the presumption against prosecution in favour of military personnel deployed overseas after five years, as stipulated in the Overseas Operations (Service Personnel and Veterans) Act 2021. It called upon the State party to repeal or amend its legislation, including the Overseas Operations (Service Personnel and Veterans) Act 2021 and the Northern Ireland Troubles (Legacy and Reconciliation) Act 2023, to ensure all past human rights violations committed by British officials and members of the armed forces are appropriately investigated and prosecuted, and duly sanctioned without time limits
The Committee voiced its concern over legislative initiatives, such as the Illegal Migration Act 2023, which contains elements to limit access to rights for asylum seekers, refugees, and migrants. The Committee regretted to see the State party’s arrangements with third countries, particularly Rwanda, to transfer asylum seekers, and its efforts to adopt the Safety of Rwanda (Asylum and Immigration) Bill despite the UK Supreme Court’s ruling that the arrangement would not be compliant with international law, particularly the prohibition of refoulement. It urged the State party to swiftly repeal the discriminative legislative provisions within the Illegal Migration Act 2023, and to withdraw the Safety of Rwanda (Asylum and Immigration) Bill, or repeal the bill if passed.

The above findings, officially known as Concluding Observations, are now available on the session page.

ENDS
For more information and media requests in Geneva, please contact:
Vivian Kwok at vivian.kwok@un.org, or
UN Human Rights Office Media Section at ohchr-media@un.org

Background:
The Human Rights Committee monitors States parties’ compliance with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which to date has been ratified by 174 States parties. The Committee is made up of 18 members who are independent human rights experts drawn from around the world, who serve in their personal capacity and not as representatives of States parties.
Learn more with our videos on the Treaty Body system and the Human Rights Committee.
Follow the UN Treaty Bodies on social media!
We are on Twitter @UNTreatyBodies
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/264793-un-human-rights-committee-publishes-findings-chile-guyana-indonesia-namibia-serbia-somalia




Date: 22 March 2024
Title: Those Not Left Behind: Uniting for Inclusive Development in Indonesia
Content: 22 March 2024
---
Jakarta, Indonesia March 21 – The United Nations, in collaboration with the Government of Indonesia and its development partners, today announced the launch of a new book presenting 22 real life stories that bring to life the principle at the heart of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): the commitment to leave no one behind. it is a reminder that development must benefit all segments of society, especially those most in need - the neglected, the remote, and the overlooked.
"The essence of sustainable development lies in our collective promise to leave no one behind. This book brings to life the stories of individuals whose lives have been transformed through our concerted efforts," said Valerie Julliand, Resident Coordinator of the United Nations in Indonesia.
Crafted through the lens of real-life heroes, from firefighters in Riau’s peatlands to educators in West Java special needs schools, refugees offering hope through education or CEOs championing gender equality, the book narrates 22 life experiences that illustrate the impact of the UN's diverse work in Indonesia. The online version is available here.
"The stories within these pages are more than just accounts of assistance and progress; they are a testament to the resilience and spirit of the Indonesian people. They remind us of the core of our mission here – to uphold the dignity and rights of every individual," Julliand added.
As the world's fourth most populous and archipelagic nation, Indonesia presents unique challenges and opportunities in sustainable development. The UN leverages its global expertise, coordinates with myriad development partners, and supports the Indonesian government with policy advice and ground projects, many of which are scaled to benefit broader populations.
“This book goes beyond programs. It lets 22 Indonesians tell their stories of positive change, showcasing the UN's impact on those who were most at risk of being left behind. Backed by the groundbreaking LNOB study, the book equips the UN and Bappenas with the data needed to dismantle systematic barriers and ensure no one is left behind in Indonesia's future,” said Vivi Yulaswati, Deputy Minister at the Ministry of National Development (BAPPENAS).
The cooperation between the government and the UN is anchored in the broader country-level Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework, a strategic partnership between the UN and the Government of Indonesia, developed in support of the country’s own development agenda.
Understanding the root causes of marginalization
Also today, the UN in Indonesia published a study providing insights into the development of resilience systems that could positively impact the lives of people with disabilities residing in under-developed areas. This group was identified in a 2022 UN in Indonesia study as one of the most marginalized in the country.
The objective of this new analysis was to acquire a nuanced understanding that could contribute to the advancement of the status of these marginalized communities.
The study findings highlight the specific challenges faced by persons with disabilities and elaborate on strategic insights for driving inclusive development. The study further offers an operational guide for leaving no one behind, which emphasizes the importance of adopting a rights-based approach, developing context-specific solutions, and fostering collaboration among stakeholders.
Contact: Siska Widyawati, National Information Officer UNIC 08788-488-5489
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/264050-those-not-left-behind-uniting-inclusive-development-indonesia




Date: 15 March 2024
Title: The United Nations, nationwide universities, and digital leaders join forces to enhance Indonesia's digital capabilities
Content: 15 March 2024
-----
Jakarta, Indonesia – March 15 – Today marked the launch of the "Indonesia's Digital Transformation Multi-Stakeholders Partnership," a new initiative to boost Indonesia's digital infrastructure and capabilities to support the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Seventy rectors from universities in Indonesia, heads of UN agencies, ambassadors, representatives from international organizations, and other stakeholders in Indonesia's digital development attended the launch in the Auditorium of BINUS University.
Based on Presidential Regulation 82/2023 Accelerating Digital Transformation and Integrating National Digital Services, the Government of Indonesia, with the Ministry of Administrative and Bureaucratic Reform (PAN RB) as the coordinator has committed to realising quality public services and strengthening cyber and information security.
"We fully understand that collaboration is very important. We are very open to support from UN agencies or other parties in various initiatives. With the upcoming government transition, the current momentum needs to be maintained and continued," Rini Widyantini, Secretary of the Ministry of PAN RB, said in her keynote speech at the launch of the partnership.
Rini also explained some of the government's priorities related to digital transformation that require mutual support including the strengthening of the Electronic Based Government System (SPBE) team, institutional evaluation, policy evaluation, and enhancing the digital capabilities of the state apparatus.
This initiative was conceived by ten UN agencies, the Nationwide University Network of Indonesia (NUNI), and the Indonesian Digital Leaders Association (APDI) wishing to support the digital transformation in Indonesia, lessen the digital divide and promote inclusive digital education that helps propel economic expansion.
"Addressing the digital divide is crucial for harnessing digital technology to tackle global challenges such as poverty and climate change," stated Valerie Julliand, UN Resident Coordinator in Indonesia. "Our collaboration seeks to ensure digital tools are accessible and benefit to all."
The partnership underscores the importance of digital access and literacy as foundational development elements, striving to address disparities in digital technology access and usage.
"BINUS University is proud to be one of the twenty-one universities in Indonesia (NUNI) that will collaborate closely with the United Nations (UN) and the Association of Indonesian Digital Leaders (APDI) to improve the digital literacy of Indonesian society and accelerate inclusive and sustainable digital transformation in the future," said Dr. Nelly, S.Kom., M.M., CSCA, Rector of BINUS University.
Addressing the Digital Divide for All
The initiative adopts a holistic approach, involving multiple societal sectors and concentrating on vital areas such as digital skills, security, ethics, culture, and the economy.
This collaborative effort includes government entities, UN agencies, educational institutions, the private sector, and community organizations, all working together to cultivate a society capable of thriving in the digital age.
"This partnership highlights the significance of collective action in creating a society that leverages digital technology for empowerment and progress where it aligns closely with one of four pillars, which is in research and innovation to contribute to societal development," remarked Prof. Dr. Ir. Y. Budi Widianarko, M.Sc. NUNI Chairperson.
This multi-stakeholder partnership also recognizes the crucial role of gender and disability inclusion in achieving a truly equitable digital landscape. By prioritizing these aspects, the "Indonesia's Digital Transformation Multi-Stakeholders Partnership" further strengthens Indonesia's position in advocating for these crucial aspects at the upcoming UN Summit of the Future 2024, contributing to the development of a global digital compact that prioritizes equitable access and participation for all.
Empowering the Youth with Digital Skills
One of the objectives of this initiative is to equip Indonesian youth with the digital skills necessary for the future, aiming to foster a dynamic digital economy characterized by innovation and knowledge.
"Our goal is to ensure fair access to digital opportunities, allowing all Indonesians to participate in and benefit from the digital economy," said Prof. Ignasius D.A. Sutapa, APDI Chair.
Aligned with Indonesia's National Medium-Term Development Plan and the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework, the initiative underscores the importance of innovation and partnerships in achieving the SDGs.
It also aligns with the goals of the United Nations Secretary-General's Roadmap for Digital Cooperation, focusing on digital inclusion and connectivity as global imperatives.
"With this partnership, we use digital technology to tackle developmental issues, making sure digital benefits reach all across Indonesia,” Valerie added.
This initiative supports several SDGs, including Quality Education, Gender Equality, Decent Work and Economic Growth, Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, Reduced Inequalities, and Partnerships for the Goals. The ten UN agencies backing this initiative include FAO, IOM, ITC, ITU, UNDP, UNESCO, UNHABITAT, UNICEF, UNIDO, and WHO.
END
UN in Indonesia:
The UN in Indonesia works to support development efforts by the Government of Indonesia with a focus on vulnerable population segments. Under the motto Leave No One Behind, 26 UN agencies, funds and programmes, work in a coordinated manner to provide integrated policy advice and implement projects using a rights-based approach in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In 2023, the combined delivery of UN in Indonesia exceeded US$ 110 million
NUNI
NUNI stands for Nationwide University Network in Indonesia (or in Bahasa: Jejaring Perguruan Tinggi Nusantara); A consortium of prominent 21 Indonesian universities that collaboratively strive for a strategic goal in enhancing the quality of Indonesian higher education via its four collaborative pillars (Student Mobility​, Faculty & Staff Mobility​, Research & Innovation​ and Global Reputation​).
APDI
Indonesia Digital Leadership Association (IDLA) at www.PemimpinDigital.id is a community of Digital Leaders to accelerate the Digital Transformation through collaboration in the digital era.
For further information, please contact
Siska Widyawati
National Information Officer
United Nations Information Center (UNIC)
+628788-488-5489
siska.widyawati@un.org

Hamzah Ramadhan
International Communication Section Head
BINUS University
(+62)811-11611-93
hamzah.ramadhan@binus.edu
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/263419-united-nations-nationwide-universities-and-digital-leaders-join-forces-enhance-indonesias




Date: 08 March 2024
Title: International Womans’ Day 2024: Investing in Women, a Catalyst for Economic Growth
Content: 08 March 2024
-----
March 7, 2024 -- Ahead of International Women's Day, March 8, we are reminded of the significant progress women have made globally in breaking down barriers and advancing gender equality.  From advocating for human rights to gaining ground in education and leadership roles, the progress is undeniable. Yet, challenges to the achievement of gender equality remain.
Billions of women and girls worldwide continue to face marginalization, injustice, and discrimination. Moreover, global crises disproportionately impact women and girls, magnifying their hardships in areas affected by conflict, climate change, poverty, and hunger. Statistics reveal a grim reality: in every region of the world, women are more likely to face hunger than men.
Israel Military Operation in Gaza,  has claimed over 30,000 lives, seventy percent of whom are women and children. One million women have been displaced and 3,000 women have become widows.
In Indonesia, gender parity in education has been achieved, but in some areas progress has been slow. According to BPS data in 2023, women labour force participation is 54.4%, significantly below the participation of men. In the entrepreneurial world, there are 64% women, but they only occupy micro-scale businesses.
Additionally, the prevalence of violence and harmful practices against women continues to be a pressing issue, with the 2021 National Survey on Women's Life Experiences reporting that 1 in 4 women aged 15-64 years have experienced violence in their lifetime.
Gender inequality also affects women and girls’ ability to make their own decisions about their own body, health, and future. When the sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights of women and girls are not fulfilled, the consequences are dire. A mother dies every hour due to complications from pregnancy and childbirth.  More than half of daughters of women aged 15-49 years who live together have undergone female genital mutilation/cutting (FGM/C).  One in 12 of women aged 20-24 were married before turning 18.
Only when women and girls can exercise her bodily autonomy and make their own informed choices, can they achieve their full potential, participate fully in social, economic, and political spheres, and contribute to development.
UN Resident Coordinator Valerie Julliand emphasizes the critical role of investment in advancing gender equality, stating, "We need public and private investment in programs to end violence against women, ensure decent work, and drive women’s inclusion and leadership in digital technologies, peacebuilding, climate action, and across all sectors of the economy."
This year theme “Invest in Women: Accelerate Progress”.  The United Nations estimates that $360 billion per year is required to close the gender gap in education alone, an investment that could significantly boost global GDP by 20% and create 300 million new jobs by 2035.
The United Nations Works in Indonesia for Gender Equality
The United Nations in Indonesia has been at the forefront of supporting Indonesia government in championing gender equality through various initiatives.  In the 2022 United Nations Annual Report for Indonesia, launched by the Ministry of National Development Planning/Bappenas, the UN's efforts in gender equality are highlighted.
UN Women has supported more than 7000 women entrepreneurs by providing them access to entrepreneurship and digital skills development and access to the community of learners. Furthermore, the Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs), led by UN Women and the Global Compact, are now signed by 9,000 companies globally, including 182 companies in Indonesia, serving as a guide to the private sector to integrate gender equality into business practices and culture.
Collaborative efforts between UN agencies and Indonesian ministries have led to significant strides in addressing gender-based challenges. The UNFPA supports the Ministry of Women's Empowerment and Child Protection (KemenPPPA) in conducting the National Survey on Women's Life Experiences to deepen understanding and enhance policy responses to violence against women, and strengthen services for gender-based violence survivors.
Furthermore, UNDP has worked tirelessly to ensure gender equality is incorporated in Indonesia's agenda for achieving the SDGs.  One notable example, UNDP has collaborated with the Government of Indonesia and other partners to publish guidelines and standards for gender considerations in various sectors, including artisanal and small gold mining (ASGM) and climate budgeting, showcasing the commitment to developing and advocating  gender-responsive policies.
UNICEF's roadmap for safely managed drinking water included integrating equity, gender equality, and job opportunities. UNAIDS, with the Indonesia Positive Women Network (IPPI), engaged community organizations in revising the Criminal Code to safeguard HIV and gender equality programs. UNESCO analyzed Indonesia's film sector for gender inclusivity, enhancing efforts with a Gender Equality and Social Inclusion syllabus for film schools, marking a significant step toward comprehensive gender equality in Indonesia.
Investing in women and girls is not merely an moral imperative but a strategic investment that yields substantial dividends for economic growth and sustainable development.
“As we observe International Women's Day, let us reaffirm our commitment to accelerating efforts towards achieving gender equality and empowering women and girls across the globe, “ Valerie added.

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/262737-international-womans%E2%80%99-day-2024-investing-women-catalyst-economic-growth




Date: 01 February 2024
Title: UN Joint Programme ASSIST Site Visits: Sustainable transformation in West Nusa Tenggara from local enterprises to community empowerment
Content: 01 February 2024
-----
1 February, West Nusa Tenggara – The United Nations Joint Programme 'Accelerating SDGs Investment in Indonesia' (ASSIST), conducted a site visit on January 30th and 31st, 2024, marking a significant milestone in the implementation of this collaborative initiative, funded by the Joint SDG Fund. Key stakeholders from participating UN agencies – UNDP, UNIDO, UNEP, and UNICEF – under the coordination of the UN Resident Coordinator in Indonesia, gained insights into the substantive benefits of the JP for local SMEs in the agrifood sector, startups in the blue sector, unlocking opportunities for community development by supporting the region's youth.
During the visit, Ms. Valerie Julliand, UN Resident Coordinator, conveyed appreciation for the unwavering support and fruitful collaboration with the Government of Indonesia. She highlighted the pivotal role played by the NTB Government in supporting the implementation of JP initiatives that have profoundly impacted local businesses, including support provided to more than 1,000 entrepreneurs, women-led and youth-led MSMEs and start-ups, resulting in a profoundly transformative impact on the local communities. She stated, “The program has not only provided tailored capacity-building initiatives to help enterprises expand but has also opened up increased access to financing opportunities aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Moreover, the program's assistance in navigating market entry has played a pivotal role in the remarkable growth of these SMEs and start-ups.”
The variety of support from JP ASSIST for West Nusa Tenggara
The collaborative technical assistance provided by UNIDO and UNEP has ensured the adoption of sustainable agricultural practices and a shift towards more circular and lower-input methods. The SME's learning center, a key aspect of its operations, serves as a central hub for over 200 farmer communities and villagers, who adopt environmentally sound and resource efficient farming techniques, laying an important foundation for the change of local paradigm leading to increased productivity, marketability and competitiveness, and ultimately - sustainable access to finance.
As demonstrated during the field visit to UD. Sasak Tani, one of the beneficiary SMEs in the agrifood sector has emerged as a catalyst for positive change in local communities. Beyond the fields, the SME's influence extends to the educational domain. Through active collaboration with schools to incorporate sustainable agriculture topics into the curriculum of the "Merdeka Belajar" initiative, the SME is empowering local school children with knowledge that will be beneficial for years to come. This holistic approach is a key component of a broader strategy to instill environmentally conscious mindsets among young people grounded in the understanding of the crucial role that responsible agriculture plays in shaping a sustainable future.
During the second site visit, four alumni enterprises of the Blue Finance Accelerator (BFA) program - a collaborative initiative launched by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in partnership with the Coordinating Ministry of Maritime and Investment Affairs and Instellar Indonesia- namely Conplas, Karya Pesisir, Lamops and Oganic. Since graduating from BFA, these ventures have forged partnerships with each other to expand operations and reach a wider customer base in Lombok. Lamops for instance, is a start-up that focusses on upcycling pearl waste. After graduating from BFA, they partnered with three pearl farms and managed to reduce 1 ton of pearl waste in NTB province, 100 people joined their workshops, and 10% of their trainees' secured jobs as artisans.
Going beyond traditional support, the BFA initiative empowers start-ups and SMEs to access impactful investment opportunities through UNDP's Impact Venture Accelerator (IVA) programs. The BFA focuses on capacity-building and support mechanisms for businesses engaged in blue sectors, such as sustainable fisheries, aquaculture, marine debris waste management, plastic pollution reduction, and climate change mitigation or adaptation. Participants received a tailored curriculum covering business, innovation, impact measurement and management, gender perspectives, and themes related to the blue economy, complemented by individual mentoring, consulting, and support from advisory teams to ensure sustained business growth.
The visit continued with an interaction with students from Madrasah Ibtidaiyah Negeri 4 who are recipients of the Program Indonesia Pintar, which is financed by the SDG Bond that the JP supported. To raise awareness on the SDGs, the visit concluded with an SDG Talk show at Madrasah Aliyah Negeri 1 which was attended by more than 100 students and teachers.
These interactions showcased the dynamic impact of the ASSIST JP on youth-led sustainability and green transition initiatives, as young people assume a vital role in advocating for the adoption of sustainable practices across sectors. The JP's comprehensive approach extends beyond mere technical interventions, encompassing educational institutions, creating sustainable economic ecosystems that uplift youth, and contributing to the broader landscape of community and economic development in West Nusa Tenggara and beyond.
Representing the Acting Governor of West Nusa Tenggara, Mr. Ibnu Salim, the Regional Secretary, expressed appreciation for the transformative impact of the ASSIST JP on local communities. He conveyed, "The invaluable support from the United Nations within the ASSIST Joint Programme has significantly benefited the entrepreneurial community across diverse sectors in West Nusa Tenggara by providing needs-driven guidance towards improved productivity, competitiveness and wider access to local and international markets. The project, while fostering local expertise in such topics as sustainability, circular economy, resource efficiency, productivity and market access, helps improve financial situation of beneficiary SMEs, making them resilient in the long run. The program offers immense social and economic benefits for the province, and we anticipate continued collaboration in the future”.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/259416-un-joint-programme-assist-site-visits-sustainable-transformation-west-nusa-tenggara-local




Date: 01 February 2024
Title: Indonesia joins UN-led Energy Compacts, commits US $122 billion to SDG7 and net zero
Content: 01 February 2024
-----

The Republic of Indonesia has officially launched its Energy Compact, joining a global community of Member States and non-state actors who have made commitments towards Sustainable Development Goal 7 (SDG7) and net-zero goals. This marks a significant milestone in the nation's energy transition trajectory and aligns with the country’s Roadmap for Sustainable Development Goals.
Finance committed under this Energy Compact is substantial, exceeding US $122 billion, for which several financing strategies are being considered, including feasibility gap financing, project development financing, credit enhancement for investment, as well as blended finance mechanisms. It will be used to increase the share of renewable energy, targeting 23 percent by 2029, with a focus on significant solar and wind power capacity expansions, reaching up to 5.3 GW. The Government of Indonesia also plans to accelerate grid connectivity in selected areas to enable more penetration of renewable energy, especially in industrial estates and economic zones.
Indonesia’s overall ambition for sustainable development goes beyond SDG7 and includes cross-cutting indicators such as strengthening economic resilience for equitable growth and climate mitigation, requiring substantial financial investments of up to US $272 billion by 2030. The Government has already identified US $5 billion worth of investments to expand renewable energy capacity by 2030.
The nation plans to improve the energy intensity of its economy, with a target of energy intensity reduction at 1% per annum. It also aims to achieve a higher reduction in annual greenhouse gas emissions in the energy sector by 2030, increasing its annual emission reduction capacity by 24.5%, from 358 MtCO2e to 446 MtCO2e. This is in line with the global objective of achieving net-zero emissions by 2060.
The Compact commitment is complimented by Indonesia’s Joint Energy Transition Plan (JETP), which focuses on community preparation and addressing challenges such as the creation of equitable green jobs. The Government is actively engaging with financial authorities and pushing regulatory efforts to create roadmaps for sustainable finance, utilizing instruments like green bonds and SDG-linked bonds.
Recently, the Government also issued regulations on energy conservation. The regulation mandates the nationwide implementation of energy efficiency programmes, including mandatory energy management, minimum energy performance standard (MEPS) and labelling of electrical appliances, electrification and electric vehicle (EV) implementation, fuel economy standards, and the promotion of public awareness through campaigns and awards. Through these initiatives, the Government will look to improve upon its overall SDG Index score of 70.2 – on a scale of 100 – according to the Sustainable Development Report.
Dr. Vivi Yulaswati, Deputy Minister for Natural Resources and Maritime Affairs and Head of SDG Secretariat at the National Development Agency (BAPPENAS), speaking of Indonesia’s commitment at COP28 said, “We seek to share achievements and accelerate conversations, considering the green economy as a game-changer. Through the Energy Compacts, Indonesia is focusing on massive development for renewable energy, including floating solar panels, mandatory biomass, and transitioning from diesel to renewable energy power plants.”
Congratulating Indonesia on this monumental achievement, Damilola Ogunbiyi, CEO and Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Sustainable Energy for All, and Co-Chair of UN-Energy, stated, “I'm delighted to extend my heartfelt congratulations to the Republic of Indonesia on its ambitious Energy Compact. This reflects Indonesia's unwavering commitment to sustainable development and a greener future. The Energy Compact aligns with global efforts to combat climate change and sets a high standard for others to follow. Sustainable Energy for All is proud to continue our support to the Government of Indonesia as it paves the way for a brighter and cleaner future for its citizens and the global community.”
The UN in Indonesia, under the coordination of the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office, along with Sustainable Energy for All, recently developed a One UN Strategy through which ten UN agencies will provide policy advice, capacity building, access to finance, knowledge sharing, and technical assistance.
Valerie Julliand, UN Resident Coordinator for Indonesia, commenting on the country’s Energy Compact said, “Supporting the Government of Indonesia towards a sustainable energy future has been a key focus area for the UN in Indonesia. We are pleased at the launch of this Energy Compact, which has ambitious targets on renewable energy, grid connectivity and energy conservation, among others. We will also continue to support the government on the Just Energy Transition Partnership.”
Energy Compacts are voluntary, trackable commitments launched at the High-Level Dialogue on Energy convened by the UN Secretary-General in September 2021. They are designed to spur action towards SDG7 in line with net-zero goals and were named a High-Impact Initiative for achieving the SDGs by the Secretary-General in 2023.
For more information, visit https://www.un.org/en/energycompacts
You can read Indonesia’s Energy Compact here.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/259291-indonesia-joins-un-led-energy-compacts-commits-us-122-billion-sdg7-and-net-zero




Date: 15 January 2024
Title: United Nations and IFI Commemorates Human Rights Day with "UNiTE", Urge Action to End Violence Against Women and Girls
Content: 15 January 2024
---
Jakarta, Indonesia - On Human Rights Day, the United Nations and IFI hosted "UNiTE: Music Concert and Performing Arts to End Violence against women" event at M Bloc, Jakarta, today December 10. This event, marking the conclusion of the global 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence campaign that aims to rally action for a violence-free future for women and girls.
The “UNiTE” event was jointly organized by the Embassy of France, Institut Français Indonesia (IFI), UN in Indonesia - UN Women, UNFPA, and UNDP  in collaboration with the Ministry of Women’s Empowerment and Child Protection, Komnas Perempuan and Yayasan Pulih.
The music and art festival aimed to draw attention, particularly among the youth to speak out on the prevention of violence against women and girls, as well as reinforcing solidarity with the victims and survivors of violence and collaborative efforts in this cause.
In her keynote speech Minister of Women's Empowerment and Child Protection, Bintang Puspayoga, underscored the importance of investing in the protection of women and girls’ rights free from violence for a better future.
“This campaign is not just a commemoration, it’s a call to work together to end all forms of violence against women and girls at all levels of society.”
Jamshed M. Kazi, UN Women Representative and Liaison to ASEAN, highlighted the significance of the event to emphasize the message that there is no excuse for gender-based violence.
"Violence against women must and can be prevented unless we choose to stay silent. Transforming harmful social norms and promoting zero tolerance to violence against women is a crucial step towards a safer world for everyone," he stated.
Data from WHO reveals that one in three women and girls globally experience such violence in their lifetime, underscoring the need for continuous action.
Further research by UNODC and UN Women shows that 55% of all female homicides are committed by family members or intimate partners, a harrowing fact that emphasizes the urgency of the issue.
In Indonesia, the reported cases of gender-based violence have seen a dramatic increase, rising from 216,156 in 2012 to 457,895 in 2022. Chair of Komnas Perempuan, Andy Yentriyani, said “The increase in reported cases could be an indication of increased confidence and access for victims to report. Therefore, let's not waste the trust of the victims. Let's work together to ensure that victims can enjoy their rights and include victims' experiences as lessons learned to strengthen efforts to prevent similar cases from recurring."
The event featured music performances from Danilla Riyadi and Hippotopia. Furthermore, this year’s UNiTE event opened applications for an “Open Stage”. The brief asked university students interested in gender equality to submit a video of music and art performances that promote ending violence against women and girls and empowerment.
Of more than 30 applicants, five performers from universities in Jakarta, Jayapura, Mataram, and Surabaya were selected to showcase their music, poetry, dance, and theatre performances, demonstrating their artistic skills while campaigning for social change.
“Music and art are powerful mediums, and their message to eradicate violence is impactful,” noted Danila Riyadi.
The United Nations in Indonesia continues to forge strong partnerships with government bodies, private sector entities, civil society organizations, and influencers to promote a zero-tolerance culture towards violence.
The participation of UNFPA champion Ayu Saraswati underscored the ongoing advocacy efforts necessary for this cause.
“We must end the permissive culture of normalizing violence against women. Each one of us plays a vital part in eliminating violence against women. We must continue to push for change at all levels,” said UNFPA Champion Ayu Saraswati.
Expressing the need for collective efforts to end violence against women and girls, Director of IFI and Counselor for Cooperation of the French Embassy in Indonesia, Jules Irrmann said "It is a priority for France, it is a world issue, it is our combat. We have to act together: say no to any forms of violence, stop to normalize, and break the silence. We have to speak up and support the victims."
Media Contact:
UN Women: Radhiska Anggiana I 08121347144 (radhiska.anggiana@unwomen.org)
UN Information Center: Siska Widyawati I 087884885489 (siska.widyawati@un.org)
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/257850-united-nations-and-ifi-commemorates-human-rights-day-unite-urge-action-end-violence-against




Date: 18 December 2023
Title: Marves, UN in Indonesia, International Partners Review Progress of Blue Agenda Partnership
Content: 18 December 2023
---
JAKARTA - The National Blue Agenda Actions Partnership (NBAAP), which was launched a year ago on the margins of the G20 Summit in Bali, supports Indonesia's ambitious Blue Agenda. In a meeting last week, representatives of the partnership, representing eight UN agencies, 8 Indonesian ministries and 12 international development partners, including the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), met to review progress to date.
During its first year of existence, the NBAAP achieved some important results, such as designing and launching sustainable ocean projects in support of Indonesia’s National Medium Term Development Plan (RPJMN), improving coordination and enhancing complementarity of projects supporting ocean development.
As an example, some projects focused on increasing access to export markets for small scale fisheries thanks to the implementation of good practices; improving working conditions of fishers thanks to strengthened labour inspections; and innovative financing for dealing with plastic debris.
The Coordinating Ministry for Maritime Affairs and Investment (Marves), which leads the initiative, UN in Indonesia and international development partners reviewed progress made and discussed priorities for 2024. They also discussed the gap analysis undertaken this year to identify through comprehensive mapping areas that still need to be strengthened under RPMJN and under Indonesia’s international commitments.
Recognizing the need for diverse voices and an increased membership under NBAAP, participants at the review meeting called on research institutions, academia, NGOs, and the private sector to join the partnership.
Participants at the meeting launched the NBAAP Data and      Information Center and discussed the establishment of a comprehensive framework for monitoring and evaluation of all projects in order to track progress.
“Today’s meeting marked a pivotal moment, demonstrating our joint, unwavering commitment to collaborative action for a sustainable ocean future,” said Firman Hidayat, Deputy Coordinating Minister for Maritime Affairs and Investment. “With a clear vision, focused plans, and a commitment to continuous improvement, the NBAAP is poised to strengthen the synergy and coordination to make a significant impact on the health and well-being of Indonesia's precious marine environment and the communities that rely on it.”
Valerie Julliand, Resident Coordinator of the UN in Indonesia said: “Under this partnership, UN agencies in Indonesia are committed to provide complementary expertise and resources to help Indonesia achieve its ambitious goals: develop a sustainable ocean-based economy, providing livelihoods while safeguarding the ocean for future generations .”
"The United States believes the National Blue Agenda Action Partnership (NBAAP) will play a crucial role in consolidating the efforts of the government and development partners," said Erin Nicholson, acting Mission Director of USAID Indonesia. “I hope today’s meeting will reinvigorate our strategic cooperation to develop Indonesia’s maritime resources in a sustainable, inclusive, and just manner.”
The NBAAP Steering Committee, which includes Marves, the Ministry of National Development Planning/National Development Planning Agency (Bappenas), the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries, the United Nations in Indonesia, and USAID is expected to discuss the 2024 annual work plan early next year.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/256166-marves-un-indonesia-international-partners-review-progress-blue-agenda-partnership




Date: 15 December 2023
Title: From peatland restoration to climate action: UN-Indonesia collaboration shared at COP28
Content: 15 December 2023
--
The United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) hosted a high-level panel discussion at COP28 to dive into Indonesia’s peatland restoration experiences and explore how the best practices could contribute to broader efforts in climate change mitigation.
The event featured senior officials and experts from the Government of Indonesia, the United Nations, international research institutes and local partners, with a shared interest in protecting peatlands for Goal 13 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.
Indonesia holds nearly 40 per cent of the world’s tropical peatlands, one of nature’s most effective ways for carbon absorption. The country faced significant challenges in 2015 when wildfires destroyed 2.6 million hectares of forest and peatland, affecting 43 million people and releasing 1.6 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide.
Recognizing peatland’s crucial role, UNOPS, with funding from Norway’s International Climate and Forest Initiative, launched a Results Enabling Facility (REF) programme to support Indonesia’s Peatland and Mangrove Restoration Agency (BRGM) from 2018 to 2022. BRGM-REF worked to restore peatlands while improving education, awareness, institutional capacity building and sustainable livelihood options for local communities. 159 peat villages across 22 districts and 30 peatland hydrological units benefitted from the project.
During the conversation, representatives from BRGM and Indonesian civil society organizations shared insights on the strategies, best practices and challenges faced during the UNOPS-BRGM cooperation, emphasizing the importance of national commitment, community engagement and the development of alternative livelihood opportunities.
Sharing his perspective, Dr Didy Wurjanto, Head of Cooperation, Law and Public Relations Working Group Peatland & Mangrove Restoration Agency (BRGM) emphasized,
"Efforts on restoring degraded peatland ecosystems in Indonesia will only be sustainable and impactful with collaboration at all levels - local, national and international levels. We appreciate the  collaboration with UNOPS and hope that our international partners continue to support our efforts through funding, institutional capacity enhancement and technical expertise."
Putting BRGM-REF in the national and international contexts, UN and international experts also discussed the current global collaboration on peatland research, monitoring and management as well as the role of peatland restoration and management in achieving Indonesia’s Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) and other climate commitments. They noted the potential for applying the BRGM-REF model in other climate-related initiatives at the national and international levels.
The session was moderated by Akira Moretto, Head of Partnerships at UNOPS South East Asia Pacific Multi-Country Office. To conclude the event, he said:
“We are proud to see our partnership with BRGM has led to an effective peatland restoration model, replicable for wider climate initiatives. At UNOPS, we recognise the significant implementation gap that we must bridge to respond to the climate emergency. We are ready to play our part, and committed to delivering practical solutions for our partners and the communities.”

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/255943-peatland-restoration-climate-action-un-indonesia-collaboration-shared-cop28




Date: 11 December 2023
Title: Dynamic Alliance Formed at COP28 for Sustainable Energy Transition in Indonesia
Content: 11 December 2023
--
Dubai, 5 December 2023 - Today at COP28, PT Sarana Multi Infrastruktur (SMI) and the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS)-supported Southeast Asia Energy Transition Partnership (ETP) announced a strategic partnership to accelerate Indonesia’s energy transition towards net zero emissions. PT SMI President Director Edwin Syahruzad and ETP Fund Director Philip Rose attended the ceremony.
Indonesia pledges to achieve net-zero emissions by 2060 through an effective and inclusive transition. The new partnership between ETP and PT SMI will support the ambition through collaborative efforts in energy transition and transition finance, engaging with government bodies, industry stakeholders, and global investors to advance and strengthen sustainable energy initiatives in Indonesia. The partnership also includes joint research to contribute insights and knowledge, driving innovative solutions to an equitable and sustainable transition. ETP and PT SMI will also actively participate in policy dialogues and best practice sharing at forums, conferences, and seminars.
Edwin Syahruzad, CEO of PT SMI, shared his expectation, "Through this strategic partnership, we aim to harness the collective strength of our organizations to accelerate the transition to a more sustainable and resilient energy future in Indonesia. PT SMI is proud to collaborate with ETP in driving positive change and making a lasting impact on the nation's energy landscape.”
Philip Rose, ETP Director, echoed the sentiment, saying, "This partnership represents a joint commitment to tackling Indonesia's energy transition challenges. With PT SMI, a key player in the energy transition field, we aim to offer support with real impact for advancing innovative solutions in the country's energy transition."
The ETP-SMI partnership will act as intermediaries to facilitate green infrastructure investment and identify effective energy transition mechanisms. A project preparation facility will be established to enhance energy transition readiness and advance transition financing initiatives in Indonesia.
Press contact details:
For all media inquiries, please contact:
Udani Sheshadri Kottearachchi, Senior Communication Officer, Southeast Asia Energy Transition Partnership, United Nations Office for Project Services, udanik@unops.org
Ramona Harimurti, Head of Corporate Secretary, PT Sarana Multi Infrastruktur (PT  SMI), corporatesecretary@ptsmi.co.id

About Southeast Asia Energy Transition Partnership (ETP)
The Southeast Asia Energy Transition Partnership (ETP) is a multi-donor partnership formed by governmental and philanthropic partners to accelerate sustainable energy transition in Southeast Asia in line with the Paris Agreement and Sustainable Development Goals. ETP combines the best of the public and private sectors with the UN to help mobilize and coordinate technical and financial resources to build the foundations for renewable energy, energy efficiency and sustainable resilient infrastructures. ETP empowers its partner countries – Indonesia, Vietnam and the Philippines to transition towards a sustainable energy system, generate economic growth and ensure energy security. Read more: www.energytransitionpartnership.org

About About PT Sarana Multi Infrastruktur (Persero) (“PT SMI”)
PT Sarana Multi Infrastruktur (Persero) (“PT SMI”) was established on February 26, 2009, as a State-Owned Enterprise under the coordination of the Ministry of Finance as a Non-Bank Financial Institution, with a role and mandate to act as a catalyst for the acceleration of infrastructure development.
PT SMI has various functions and unique products/features to support the acceleration of infrastructure development which not only functions as an infrastructure financing but also as an enabler through the implementation of a Public Private Partnership (PPP) scheme, which includes various financial institutions, both private and multilateral. PT SMI actively supports the energy transition in Indonesia. The Ministry of Finance appointed PT SMI as the ETM Country Platform Manager to develop the financing and investment framework for the ETM program in Indonesia. The ETM program will be funded through a blended finance scheme managed by PT SMI. The source of funding is from public and private investments, such as government agencies, development banks, commercial banks, climate change funds, equity investors, insurance companies, as well as local and international philanthropists, to mobilize the funds in the early retirement of coal-fired power plants and the development of clean and renewable energy. Read more: www.ptsmi.co.id

About UNOPS
UNOPS mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. We help the United Nations, governments and other partners to manage projects, and deliver sustainable infrastructure and procurement in an efficient way. Read more: www.unops.org
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/255480-dynamic-alliance-formed-cop28-sustainable-energy-transition-indonesia




Date: 06 December 2023
Title: We Are Able! We Are Capable! We Are Equal!” – Celebrating the Creative Spirit of People with Disabilities
Content: 06 December 2023
--
December 6, 2023 – In observance of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the United Nations in Indonesia, in cooperation with Bumilangit Entertainment, Indonesia’s  leading entertainment company, will showcase and celebrate the journeys of persons with disabilities who have overcome stigma and challenges. The Creative Week for People with Disabilities, to be held from 6-10 December at  Bloc Bar 2 (exfoya) MBloc Jakarta, under the motto “We are able! We are capable! We are equal" will spotlight the extraordinary talents and stories of people with disabilities.
This event will showcase over 70 objects and activities, including visual art, performance art, oral history, inclusive fashion, and technology. Alongside the exhibition, various activities will also be held. These include a talk show on inclusive technology for people with disabilities, discussions on young achievers with disabilities, and workshops on art therapy and glass painting.
Despite their remarkable contributions in diverse fields such as art, culture, technology, and sports, the broader society often underestimates the potential of people with disabilities, said Valerie Julliand, the Resident Coordinator of the United Nations in Indonesia. “This initiative will challenge mis-perceptions by showcasing the profound abilities and achievements of artists with disabilities,” she said. “Through compelling stories, art, and innovative solutions, this collaboration honours these artists and urges society to reassess biases and work towards a future of inclusion and empowerment.”
People with Disabilities are Underrepresented
Persons with disabilities, who make up approximately 15% of the global population, are frequently underrepresented. In Indonesia, according to the 2020 National Census, there are 38.8 million people identified as having disabilities. However, the ILO's disability labour market indicators reveal that nearly 90% of people with disabilities in Indonesia are inactive, i.e.  are not working or actively seeking work. Many of those who are employed work in the informal sector.
About 80% of young people with disabilities are not involved in employment, education, or training, according to International Labour Organization (ILO) Disability can affect anyone, regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, or social status, highlighting the need for inclusion," said Bismarka Kurniawan, CEO of Bumilangit Entertainment, one of the largest superhero comic book character libraries in Asia.
“This event is not just about celebrating the artistic talents of individuals with disabilities but also about recognizing their role as influential agents of change in our society,” he said. “They possess a wealth of skills, talents, and abilities, deserving of the same opportunities and freedoms as everyone else.”
Highlighting the importance of inclusivity for people with disabilities, Saphira Kusbandiyah, known as Sasha, a social media influencer focused on empowering people with disabilities, said, “The only true disability is the inability to accept and respect differences." Sasha, who works as an admin staff in an automotive company, has 250,000 followers on TikTok. On this social media app, she advocates for the rights of people with disabilities in Indonesia.
The theme of this year’s International Day of Persons with Disabilities, “United in action to rescue and achieve the SDGs for, with, and by persons with disabilities,” reflects the urgency of accelerating inclusive efforts towards the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The following UN agencies in Indonesia are collaborating to organize this event: ILO, UNDP, UNFPA, UN Global Pulse, UN Information Centre and UN Volunteers.
Contact: Siska Widyawati, National Information Officer  08788-488-5489
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/254980-we-are-able-we-are-capable-we-are-equal%E2%80%9D-%E2%80%93-celebrating-creative-spirit-people-disabilities




Date: 02 December 2023
Title: UNHCR Seeks Urgent Action to Provide Lifesaving Rescue at Sea for Boats Adrift in the Andaman Sea
Content: 02 December 2023
BANGKOK — UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is making an urgent appeal to all countries in the region, particularly those in the area surrounding the Andaman Sea, to swiftly deploy their full search and rescue capacities in response to reported vessels in distress with hundreds of Rohingya at risk of perishing.
While all details are not fully known, UNHCR has received reports from various sources of a distress situation at sea, where two overcrowded boats have engine failures and are now aimlessly drifting in unseaworthy vessels in the Andaman Sea. Weather conditions over the coming days are unpredictable with cyclones being an unfortunate, but real, possibility. Combined, the two boats carry approximately 400 individuals.
Another boat with 150 Rohingya was reported to have arrived in Sabang, an island north of Aceh early Saturday morning. Many more are reported to be still in distress in the open sea.
UNHCR is concerned that food and water may be running out and there is a significant risk of fatalities in the coming days if people are not rescued and disembarked to safety. In line with the principle of non-refoulement,  international obligations under the Laws of the Sea and  longstanding maritime traditions, the duty to rescue persons in distress at sea must be upheld, irrespective of nationality or legal status of the persons in need of rescue.
UNHCR commends Indonesia for respecting its international commitments by allowing more than 1,000 individuals to disembark since 14 November. Indonesia's example of solidarity and humanity needs to be followed by other States in the region.
UNHCR reiterates its call for a comprehensive regional response to address these perilous maritime movements. Since 2022 until today more than 570 people including Rohingya refugees have been reported as dead or missing at sea.
The UN Refugee Agency warns again that many more might die under the watch of many coastal States, without timely rescue and disembarkation to the nearest place of safety.
UNHCR and partners stand ready to support in providing any necessary humanitarian assistance for those disembarked.

END

This article has been published in the UNHCR Asia Pacific site through this link: UNHCR seeks urgent action to provide lifesaving rescue at sea for boats adrift in the Andaman Sea (https://www.unhcr.org/asia/news/press-releases/unhcr-seeks-urgent-action-provide-lifesaving-rescue-sea-boats-adrift-andaman)
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/254528-unhcr-seeks-urgent-action-provide-lifesaving-rescue-sea-boats-adrift-andaman-sea




Date: 24 November 2023
Title: UN Expert Calls for Emergency Response to Save Rohingya Lives at Sea
Content: 24 November 2023
GENEVA (23 November 2023) – A UN expert today called for a regional emergency response to the growing number of desperate Rohingya refugees who continue to arrive in Indonesia in overcrowded vessels, as conditions in refugee camps in Bangladesh continue to deteriorate, where food rations have been significantly cut.
“The crisis will only worsen without addressing its root cause – the illegal military junta of Myanmar,” warned Tom Andrews, the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar.
Over 1000 Rohingya refugees arrived by boat in Indonesia’s northernmost province of Aceh in the past week.
Andrews commended the Government of Indonesia for offering safety, shelter and support to Rohingya refugees, a majority of whom are women and children in urgent need of nutrition and medical assistance. The expert called on countries in the region to follow Indonesia’s lead by safely disembarking Rohingya refugees who may arrive by boat on their shores.
“The Government of Indonesia should be congratulated for again upholding the rights of the Rohingya and facilitating disembarkation in line with domestic law,” the Special Rapporteur said. “But they cannot do it alone. This is an emergency, and an emergency response is required, including a coordinated search and rescue operation to save the lives of those who may be stranded on overcrowded, unseaworthy vessels.”
Andrews warned that the crisis will continue to worsen unless the root cause of the crisis is finally addressed. “A resolution of the Rohingya refugee crisis is not possible so long as the junta prevents the formation of a government committed to human rights and citizenship for the Rohingya. The international community must address the root causes of the crisis by depriving the junta of the weapons, money, and legitimacy it uses to perpetuate its oppression of the people of Myanmar. Until such time as the Rohingya are able to return to Myanmar voluntarily, with safety and dignity and rights ensured, Member States must fund adequate humanitarian assistance and consider durable solutions for Rohingya refugees, including resettlement,” he said.
Andrews visited Rohingya refugees in Aceh Indonesia earlier this year, including a refugee camp in Pidie, where he was told that desperate Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh were preparing to make the perilous journey.
“I encourage Indonesian authorities to continue to work with humanitarian agencies to meet the needs of Rohingya refugees, including by establishing new shelters for recent arrivals. Services should be provided for the most vulnerable, including women and children, who may be at risk of exploitation and human trafficking,” the expert said.
Andrews expressed grave concern that the arrivals signal the beginning of significant numbers of Rohingya fleeing desperate conditions in Bangladesh.
“Frankly, who can blame them? Parents have reached a breaking-point as their children suffer from hunger and malnutrition and face the threat of increasing violence in the camps,” he said. “These families are not boarding overcrowded vessels because they want to, they are doing so because they are desperate and see no choice.”
“No state should—as some have done in the past—refuse Rohingya refugees disembarkation or push boats back out to sea,” he said.
*The expert: Mr. Thomas Andrews, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar
The Special Rapporteurs, Independent Experts and Working Groups are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
Country page: Myanmar
This article has been published in the United Nations Human Rights Office of the High Commissioner (OHCHR) site through this link: UN Expert Calls for Emergency Response to Save Rohingya Lives at Sea (https://www.ohchr.org/en/press-releases/2023/11/un-expert-calls-emergency-response-save-rohingya-lives-sea)
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/253732-un-expert-calls-emergency-response-save-rohingya-lives-sea




Date: 13 November 2023
Title: Indonesian Peacekeeper serving in the Central African Republic to receive 2023 United Nations Woman Police Officer of the Year Award
Content: 13 November 2023

New York, 13 November 2023 – The United Nations has announced that Police First Sergeant Renita Rismayanti, of Indonesia, will receive the 2023 United Nations Woman Police Officer of the Year Award on 16 November 2023.
The award will be presented during the annual United Nations Police Week, taking place at United Nations Headquarters from 13 to 17 November.
Police First Sergeant Rismayanti serves as a Crime Database Officer with the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA). In this role, she has helped conceptualize and develop a criminal database that enables UN Police to map and analyse crime and disorder hotspots which, in turn, helps the country’s security forces to better plan their operations in support of the local population.   
“Police First Sergeant Rismayanti’s innovation and efforts to leverage data within United Nations peacekeeping and the Central African Republic police has made a significant contribution to enhancing security for vulnerable communities, including women and girls,” said Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations, Jean-Pierre Lacroix.
“She serves as a great example of how the participation and leadership of women in peacekeeping improve the effectiveness of our protection and peacebuilding work to better meet the challenges of today and tomorrow.”
Police First Sergeant Rismayanti says she feels fortunate to be able to use her technological skills to improve security for people across the Central African Republic. “I hope the visibility that comes from winning this award will reinforce among women and girls that all fields of expertise in policing are open to us.”
At 27 years of age, she is the youngest-ever United Nations Woman Police Officer of the Year.
She began her career with the Indonesian National Police as a public information officer in 2014 and has also worked in training, administration, and logistics.
“Having accomplished so much by embracing technology in a traditionally male-dominated field, Police First Sergeant Rismayanti represents the future of United Nations policing,” said United Nations Police Adviser Faisal Shahkar. 
“She and her colleagues are helping to build trust and confidence between local authorities and communities, which makes the work of the United Nations Police more effective and people safer.”
The United Nations Woman Police Officer of the Year award was established in 2011 to recognize the exceptional contributions of women police officers to UN peace operations and to promote women’s empowerment.
BIOGRAPHY
Renita Rismayanti is an Indonesian Police Officer, now serving as individual police officer in MINUSCA (United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic) as a criminal database officer in Section Intelligence and Crime Analysis.
Before being deployed as an IPO in June 2022, she was posted in the Peacekeeping Training and Administration Office, where she excelled in various responsibilities including personnel selection, competency assessments, and logistics procurement for pre-deployment training for 5 years. She has also worked in the Public Information Officer and experienced in building people's awareness about crime prevention.
This 27-year-old woman dreams to drive positive change in the world. In her free time, she likes to travel to new places and look for any opportunity to turn ideas into reality.
*
The award will be presented during Police Week, the annual gathering of heads of United Nations police components from peacekeeping operations, special political missions and other offices, and includes interactive engagements with United Nations senior leadership and briefings to the United Nations Security Council and the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations of the General Assembly.
About 10,000 United Nations Police are authorized to serve in 16 United Nations peace operations, where they work to enhance international peace and security by supporting host countries in conflict, post-conflict, and other crisis situations.
Women’s participation in United Nations Police has doubled since 2015. As of today, the United Nations Police have exceeded all the 2023 targets set out in the Department’s Uniformed Gender Parity Strategy. And in two of four categories of personnel, the United Nations Police has already surpassed the 2028 target. As of September 2023, women police officers make up 43.1% of contracted professional officers in the United Nations Headquarters, 24.6% of contracted professional officers in the field, 31.8% of individual police officers and 15.6% of members of Formed Police Units. Women also occupy six out of 13 positions (i.e., 46.2%) as heads or deputy heads of police in Mali, Cyprus, Kosovo South Sudan Abyei.
The award ceremony will be held at United Nations Headquarters on 16 November 
from 1 to 2 PM EST and broadcast live on UN Web TV: https://media.un.org/en/webtv&nbsp;
Download digital assets on the United Nations Woman Police Officer of the Year Award here: https://trello.com/b/9UnA0xfJ/un-police-week-2023&nbsp;
Media contacts:
Douglas Coffman
Peace & Security Section
UN Department of Global Communications
Email : coffmand@un.org 
Cell : +1 917 361-9923
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/252599-indonesian-peacekeeper-serving-central-african-republic-receive-2023-united-nations-woman




Date: 18 October 2023
Title: Indonesia and the UN Release Annual Report on Sustainable Development Progress in 2022
Content: 18 October 2023
-
JAKARTA – The United Nations in Indonesia and the Indonesian Government, spearheaded by the Ministry of National Development Planning (Bappenas) unveiled the UN in Indonesia’s 2022 Annual Results Report.
This document highlights the progress made in the second year of implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF 2021-2025). It underscores Indonesia's resilience in addressing developmental challenges in 2022, a year of profound challenges worldwide. Indonesia's recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic is commendable, as are its achievements towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
"We must ensure the UN's collaboration with Indonesia continually promotes responsive and resilient policies and initiatives in the face of global crises," said Suharso Monoarfa, Minister of National Development Planning and Head of Bappenas.
Mr Monoarfa spoke at the launch of the report, which was also attended by the UN Resident Coordinator in Indonesia, Valerie Julliand, in Jakarta on Wednesday, October 18. The comprehensive report enumerates the results of the UN and Indonesia towards achieving the SDGs, snd is organized around the four strategic areas of the UNSDCF.
In the first area, Inclusive Human Development, results include the delivery of 550 million vaccine doses, including 434 million Covid-19 vaccine doses and over 116 million regular vaccine doses across Indonesia, as reported by an electronic immunization logistics system. Remarkably, about 4.2 million toddlers received their third dose of the DPT-HB-Hib vaccine (covering 96.1%), and over 3.7 million children received the Inactivated Polio Vaccine (87.5%), and 4.1 million were administered the Oral Polio Vaccine (95.3%).
Beyond vaccinations, the availability of Pre-exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) medications, assisting at-risk communities in HIV prevention, has expanded from 12 to 21 cities and districts. Indonesia also effectively conducted early detection training and referral for child wasting for 5,350 health workers and 6,464 caregivers. The report also showcases endeavours in promoting gender equality, particularly through the ratification of the Sexual Violence Eradication Law, backed by the UN.
Secondly, under the pillar of Economic Transformation, fish farming training was provided to 5,000 individuals, while livestock evacuation was integrated into disaster management efforts, and 10,000 doses of the foot-and-mouth disease vaccine were supplied and administered. Addressing gender equity, 33 new companies have adopted the UN-created Women's Empowerment Principles. Moreover, over 200 garment sector factories received support to enhance work conditions and competitiveness, benefiting nearly 400,000 workers, approximately 80% of whom are women.
In the third area, Green Development, Climate Change, and Natural Disasters, 11 studies related to climate change, disaster resilience, and greenhouse gas emissions reduction were published. Indonesia has also charted a roadmap for greenhouse gas mitigation in the maritime sector, expanded protected zones to prevent deforestation, while over 217,000 small-scale gold miners were trained to avert mercury risks.
Lastly, under Innovation to Accelerate Progress Towards the SDGs, Indonesia, with UN support, developed a new roadmap for safely managed drinking water, amassed $1.7 billion in financing from domestic and global markets for the achievement of the SDGs, while 40 prisons benefitted from an improved Health Information System.
Ms Julliand highlighted that this report stands as tangible evidence of the UN's successful partnership with the Indonesian Government, producing concrete results for the population. "The 2022 Annual Report portrays the unwavering commitment of both the UN and the Indonesian Government in driving post-pandemic recovery efforts, attaining SDGs, elevating the populace's living standards, and assisting those left behind," she said, speaking at the annual Bappenas-UN forum – the premier platform for strategic dialogue between the Indonesian Government and UN agencies since 2014.

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/249790-indonesia-and-un-release-annual-report-sustainable-development-progress-2022




Date: 19 September 2023
Title: Indonesian Government Showcases Four High Impact Initiatives at the SDG Summit
Content: 19 September 2023
-
With the demonstration of four high impact initiatives that will help the country accelerate its progress towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Indonesia’s delegation is playing an active role at the SDG Summit, taking place on 16-
19 September at United Nations headquarters in New York.
The summit focuses on carrying out a comprehensive review of the state of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals and identifying ways in which the goals can be reached by the 2030 target. Participants are expected to make binding commitments to move the SDGs back on track following a slow-down and in some cases even a reversal in global development due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Globally, the world is on track to meet only 12% of the 140 SDG indicators. Indonesia, whose own national development agenda is based on the SDGs, is doing better than most countries with 60% of indicators on track, according to the Ministry of National Development Planning.
There are 12 high impact initiatives highlighted at the summit aiming to accelerate the 2030 Agenda progress.
The Indonesian Government presented four High Impact Initiatives, developed
with the support of the UN in Indonesia. These are the following:
September 17, 21.30 WIB (GMT +7)
Recording available at: https://media.un.org/en/asset/k1t/k1tuvsyu85
September 17, 22.45 WIB (GMT +7)
Recording available at: https://media.un.org/en/asset/k1w/k1w68j5pae
September 17, 22.45 WIB (GMT +7)
Recording available at: https://media.un.org/en/asset/k18/k18jexfyux
September 18, 02.00 WIB (GMT +7)
Recording available at: https://media.un.org/en/asset/k1t/k1t3ajupq6

Head of the Indonesian delegation, Minister of Foreign Affairs Retno Marsudi, is scheduled to participate in the Leaders’ Dialogue on 19 September and deliver Indonesia’s commitment to the acceleration towards the SDGs.

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/249784-indonesian-government-showcases-four-high-impact-initiatives-sdg-summit




Date: 25 August 2023
Title: UN Insights Shared on Infrastructure Financing in ASEAN
Content: 25 August 2023
--
Jakarta, Indonesia, August 25 - Senior United Nations representative spoke at a high-level ASEAN dialogue to explore innovative financing solutions for infrastructure development. The event, titled “High-Level Dialogue on Promoting Sustainable Infrastructure Development by Enhancing Collaborative Effort Between Government and Private Sector”, was held on August 24 by the Ministry of Finance of Indonesia in alignment with its ASEAN Chairmanship agenda. Senior government officials across ASEAN countries joined representatives from the financial industry, multilateral development banks (MDB) and international organizations to identify points of collaboration to advance sustainable infrastructure.
As a side event to the Second ASEAN Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors’ Meeting 2023, the dialogue aimed to leverage diverse funding sources in sustainable infrastructure investment, and exchange learnings on innovative infrastructure financing tools from ASEAN countries.
At the invitation of H.E. Sri Mulyani Indrawati, Minister of Finance of the Republic of Indonesia, Mr. Akira Moretto, Indonesia Country Manager of the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS), spoke as part of a panel on innovative financing models. He highlighted how infrastructure development improves the delivery of public services, followed by concrete examples of sustainable infrastructure projects implemented by UNOPS through national pension funds.
UNOPS believes that infrastructure forms the backbone of a functioning society and understands the value of smart infrastructure solutions in underpinning every Sustainable Development Goal. It is estimated that more than USD 90 trillion is required in global infrastructure investment by 2030 to support sustainable development. As the fifth largest UN agency by delivery, implementing over USD 2.5 billion in development assistance globally in 2022, UNOPS provides technical support and services in identifying Financing for Development solutions in the infrastructure sector since 2015. As an Implementation Agency, UNOPS has demonstrated expertise in delivering infrastructure results in evolving Public Private Partnership (PPP) and innovative financing markets, in close collaboration with both government and investor stakeholders.
To conclude his presentation, Mr. Moretto highlighted that “The Global South, including ASEAN, can achieve way more in self reliance with proper support, transparency and new funding sources complementary to MDB loans. Building on its successful track record, UNOPS looks forward to working closely with countries across the ASEAN region in infrastructure and beyond.”
The High-Level Dialogue also featured a ministerial panel on the key enablers and challenges in innovative infrastructure financing in ASEAN and an interactive session with the audience. Discussions painted a positive picture for the region’s future, through the strong public-private collaboration displayed towards people-centred resilient infrastructure.
About UNOPS
UNOPS's mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. We help the United Nations, governments and other partners to manage projects, and deliver sustainable infrastructure and procurement in an efficient way. Read more: www.unops.org

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/243413-un-insights-shared-infrastructure-financing-asean




Date: 25 August 2023
Title: GQSP Indonesia Phase 2 Launched: UNIDO Continues Supporting Aquaculture Value Chains in Indonesia
Content: 25 August 2023
--
Jakarta, Indonesia 15/8: The Global Quality and Standards Programme (GQSP) Indonesia Phase 2 has been officially launched on Tuesday 15/8, at the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries (MMAF), Jakarta. The launch, jointly organized by UNIDO and MMAF,  attended by around 200 delegates (offline and online) from various representatives of national and regional government ministries/agencies, fisheries associations, the programme’s partners, NGOs and other stakeholders. The GQSP Indonesia Phase 2 is part of the global programme implemented by UNIDO United Nations Industrial Development Organization) and funded by Government of Switzerland through its State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) in the area of trade capacity development  involving 7 countries including Indonesia, Vietnam, Albania, Colombia, Peru, South Africa and Ukraine.
GQSP Indonesia Phase 2 will cover three aquaculture value chains namely Shrimp, Milkfish and Seaweeds focusing on improving productivity and quality of shrimp and milkfish from traditional/extensive shrimp farming integrated with mangrove rehabilitation in selected locations. Special emphasize will also  be given on the development of new species of seaweeds for improving livelihood of coastal communities and increase contribution of seaweeds to climate change mitigation and adaptation. The new programme runs from October 2023-Dec 2026 (39 months) and it has 3 Outcomes/Components namely Strengthening Quality Infrastructures, Increasing Compliance Capacity of SMEs of the Selected Value Chains; and Conducive Policy ad Culture of Quality. The MMAF and National Standardization Agency of Indonesia (BSN) are the main partners of the programme that will also involve private partners of selected value chain associations, farmer groups, cooperatives and companies.
The previous programme, GQSP Indonesia Phase 1 (2019-2023) was successfully concluded on 30 June 2023 achieving average 84% of the targeted 91 Key Performance Indexes (KPIs) of outputs, outcomes and impacts.


UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/243425-gqsp-indonesia-phase-2-launched-unido-continues-supporting-aquaculture-value-chains




Date: 18 August 2023
Title: World Humanitarian Day 2023
Content: 18 August 2023
--
(Jakarta, August 17, 2023): Ahead of World Humanitarian Day on August 19, the United Nations today warned that 2023 will be a year of high humanitarian casualties.
20 years after the deadly attack on the UN in Iraq, humanitarians remain committed to helping, #NoMatterWhat, despite the growing risks.
So far this year, 62 humanitarians have been killed in crises around the world, 84 injured and 33 kidnapped, according to provisional data from the Aid Worker Security Database research team at Humanitarian Outcomes. Last year's death toll stood at 116.
South Sudan ranks highest in terms of insecurity for several years in a row. Forty attacks on humanitarian actors and 22 deaths were reported on August 10.
Sudan came second, with 17 attacks on humanitarians and 19 deaths reported so far this year. These numbers surpass those not recorded since the height of the Darfur conflict between 2006 and 2009.
Other humanitarian casualties were recorded in the Central African Republic, Mali, Somalia and Ukraine. Last year, 444 aid workers were attacked. The previous year, 460 humanitarians were attacked, resulting in 141 deaths.
This year's World Humanitarian Day also marks 20 years since the 2003 suicide bomb attack on the UN headquarters at the Canal Hotel in Baghdad, Iraq, which killed 22 UN staff. Around 150 more people - local and international aid workers helping to reconstruct Iraq - were also injured on that dark day.
The challenges facing Indonesia as a hazard-prone country will remain. Our social capital to work together (gotong royong) is key to further improving the nation's resilience to disasters of various scales and magnitudes. Social conflicts, extreme weather events and other climate-related risks and residual impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to require a holistic and coordinated approach from the humanitarian community, government partners, civil society and vulnerable communities.
Despite security and access challenges, all layers of humanitarians campaigned this year to highlight their ongoing commitment to deliver for the communities they serve, no matter who, where and #NoMatterWhat.
In the face of skyrocketing humanitarian needs, the UN and its partners aim to help nearly 250 million people in crisis around the world - 10 times more than in 2003.
The commemoration of World Humanitarian Day highlights the importance of multi-stakeholder cooperation in humanitarian efforts to continuously adapt to create a better world.
This year's commemoration of World Humanitarian Day on 19 August 2023 is jointly organized by UN OCHA, in collaboration with other UN agencies in Indonesia, the Coordinating Ministry for Human Development and Culture, BNPB, and the Ministry of Social Affairs with the support of other government stakeholders, NGOs, interfaith organizations, and in collaboration with PT Integrasi Transit Jakarta.
Media contact:
Ronaldo Reario, UNOCHA, 0852-1994-2819
Siska Widyawati, UNIC, 0878-8488-5489

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/241738-world-humanitarian-day-2023




Date: 23 June 2023
Title: Pulse Lab Jakarta Transforms as United Nations Global Pulse Asia Pacific to Foster Innovation Across Region
Content: 23 June 2023
---
Jakarta, 23 June 2023—Pulse Lab Jakarta has officially transformed into a regional innovation powerhouse with the launch of United Nations Global Pulse Asia Pacific. This expansion as a regional hub is a concrete follow-up to the G20 Bali Leaders’ declaration and marks a considerable milestone for driving innovation and sustainable development across the region.
First initiated in 2012 as a joint innovation facility between the United Nations (via Global Pulse) and Indonesia (via the Ministry of National Development Planning/Bappenas), Pulse Lab Jakarta has evolved over the years from being a big data innovation lab to an analytical partnership accelerator. “The Government of Indonesia is grateful to have worked in close collaboration with Pulse Lab Jakarta over the last ten years and we are excited to host the new Global Pulse Asia Pacific hub”, said Mr. Taufik Hanafi, Executive Secretary from the Ministry of Development Planning. “This transformation signifies great possibilities for the future of the region and Indonesia looks forward to being part of the journey.”
An event was hosted from 22-23 June to celebrate Pulse Lab Jakarta’s achievements and to mark the official launch of the expanded Asia Pacific hub. The event showcased Pulse Lab Jakarta’s impact through an interactive exhibition and engaged in panel conversations with experts on inclusive data innovation, digital transformation, strategic foresight, and behavioral science, to stimulate knowledge sharing on key issues that the hub will potentially engage.
Long-term collaborations with a multitude of stakeholders, including the Government of Indonesia and the Government of Australia, have enabled the Lab to strengthen the effectiveness of governments, as well as the public and private sectors. Australia’s Minister Counsellor for Governance and Human Development, Ms Madeleine Moss said, “As a long-term supporter of Pulse-Lab Jakarta, Australia is delighted to support Indonesia’s leadership in transitioning Pulse-Lab to a new regional hub. Based on its own digital transformation journey Indonesia has much it can usefully share with the region. This joint effort solidifies both countries’ dedication to driving innovation and sustainable development in the Asia Pacific.”
As the spaces we operate in continue to rapidly evolve, there is a greater need to develop and apply innovative solutions that are better able to address the challenges of our modern world. The regional hub will build upon the track record of Pulse Lab Jakarta, which has over a decade of success in undertaking over 100 prototypes and establishing over 50 new partnerships and will position Indonesia and the United Nations at the forefront of regional innovation initiatives. “Over the years, the Lab has strengthened the capabilities and effectiveness of UN agencies and their stakeholders, and as the Asia Pacific hub, they will add even greater value to the region,” said Ms. Valerie Julliand, United Nations Resident Coordinator in Indonesia.
The regional hub will play the role of enabler for the UN system and its development partners by championing a UN 2.0 that is fit for the future. “The challenges of today are increasingly complex and require innovative and holistic solutions to address them,” said Ms Ayaka Suzuki, the Director of the Strategic Monitoring Unit in the Secretary-General’s Office. “The launch of Global Pulse Asia Pacific is a significant milestone. It will help advance the UN Secretary-General’s vision of a UN that can better support an inclusive and sustainable future.”
This new era of collaboration and innovation in the Asia Pacific region is an exciting opportunity for countries across the global south to collaborate, learn and grow together. In doing so, we can ensure that the impact of our work is not only timely and sustainable but we can also ensure that no one is left behind.
---------------------------------------------------------
The UN Global Pulse Asia Pacific hub launch comes to build on the successes of Pulse Lab Jakarta and will position the Jakarta based hub as an enabler for the UN system in the region. The regional hub will run portfolios of on-the-ground innovation projects that apply data, digital, foresight, and behavioral science methods to regional issues.
The Asia Pacific regional hub will be deeply rooted in regional partnerships and will facilitate access to identify challenges, map solutions and test with end-users on the ground. It will work in support of Resident Coordinators and in partnership with the UN specialized agencies, funds, and programmes that lead country-level work.
This year marks a decade of Pulse Lab Jakarta’s operations and its transition to United Nations Global Pulse Asia Pacific. To this end, Pulse Lab Jakarta intends to hold an event celebrating the 10 years of achievements and impacts and announcing the launch of United Nations Global Pulse Asia Pacific to create wider impacts across the region.
A Decade of Pulse Lab Jakarta and Launch of UN Global Pulse Asia Pacific event will take place on 22-23 June 2023. This event will bring together a diverse group of stakeholders, including representatives from government agencies, Asia-Pacific country representatives, UN Agencies, donor organizations, civil society organizations, academics, development partners, PLJ staff and alumni, youth and the general public.
Visit our event website for more information: https://pulselabjakarta.org/asiapacificlaunch.
Pulse Lab Jakarta is a joint data innovation facility of the United Nations (Global Pulse) and the Government of Indonesia (via the Ministry of National Development Planning). Functioning as an analytic partnerships accelerator, the Lab operates in the problem, solution and identity spaces. As part of its mandate, PLJ is focused on catalyzing connections across the United Nations, governments, the private and development sectors, as well as civil society to support policies and action for effective development and humanitarian practice.
Contact: plj@un.or.id
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/237778-pulse-lab-jakarta-transforms-united-nations-global-pulse-asia-pacific-foster-innovation




Date: 21 June 2023
Title: UN Expert Urges Coordinated Action by Indonesia and Other Nations to Address the Myanmar Crisis
Content: 21 June 2023
---
JAKARTA (21 June 2023) – The UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar, Tom Andrews wrapped up a nine-day mission to Indonesia today by calling for coordinated action by Indonesia and others to address the deepening crisis in Myanmar. He expressed his appreciation to Indonesia for its support for the people of Myanmar and urged the country to play a bigger role in resolving the crisis both as current Chair of ASEAN and as a leader in Southeast Asia and on the world stage.
“I came to Indonesia because the human rights situation in Myanmar is dire and getting worse, and because I believe that Indonesia is positioned to play a critical role in the resolution of this crisis,” Andrews said in a statement that was released today at a news conference in Jakarta.
“I’m worried that the deepening crisis in Myanmar has become invisible to much of the world, and that some governments are beginning to think that the junta’s tyranny is inevitable. This narrative is exactly what the junta wants and needs to prevail,” he said.
In meetings with Indonesian and ASEAN officials during his visit, Andrews noted that the world was looking to Indonesia and ASEAN for leadership in resolving the Myanmar crisis.
“There are two different time zones when it comes to ASEAN and the crisis in Myanmar: one being the reality of the people of Myanmar who face daily attacks by junta forces and rapidly deteriorating conditions. The other is the world of ASEAN officials who caution that progress could take years, even decades,” the Special Rapporteur said. “The people of Myanmar do not have decades nor years – some do not even have days – for the junta to be held accountable,” he said.
Andrews called on Indonesia to show continued leadership on Myanmar not only for the remainder of its ASEAN chairmanship, but beyond.
“It is time to consider alternative options to break the deadly stalemate. I urge ASEAN to take measures to hold the junta accountable for its grave human rights violations and blatant disregard for implementation of the Five-Point Consensus. Even if ASEAN remains deadlocked, Indonesia should work with allies to isolate the junta and reduce its capacity to attack the people of Myanmar,” the expert said.
During his mission, Andrews traveled to Aceh Province and visited a Rohingya refugee camp in Pidie District, where he heard directly from Rohingya who undertook dangerous boat journeys across the Bay of Bengal and Andaman Sea and disembarked in Indonesia. “What was overwhelmingly apparent is the extreme vulnerability of refugees with whom I met. Fleeing atrocity crimes in Myanmar, and facing increasingly dire conditions in Bangladesh, they carry with them deep trauma. They want and deserve a safer, more peaceful life.”
“The Rohingya refugees recounted their harrowing experiences at sea. A woman told me that over 20 persons died on her boat and that they had to throw the bodies overboard. Another woman cried as she recalled the lack of food and water, and how she had to give her child seawater to drink,” Andrews recalled.
The expert said he was inspired by the widespread empathy for Rohingya among  Acehnese fishermen, local civil society groups providing aid and services, and UN staff working with the refugees.
Andrews cautioned, however, that there remain many challenges for Rohingya refugees in Indonesia and the region.
“Responsibility for the rights of the Rohingya, including their right to redress as survivors of atrocity crimes, rests primarily with Myanmar. But it also extends to the countries where they seek refuge and to the broader international community,” said Andrews. He emphasized that Indonesia is well-positioned to play a global leadership role to defend and support the Rohingya.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mr. Thomas Andrews (United States of America) is the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar. A former member of the US Congress from Maine, Andrews is a Robina Senior Human Rights Fellow at Yale Law School and an Associate of Harvard University’s Asia Center. He has worked with the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs and parliamentarians, NGOs and political parties in Cambodia, Indonesia, Algeria, Croatia, Serbia, Ukraine and Yemen. He has been a consultant for the National Coalition Government of the Union of Burma and the Euro-Burma Network and has run advocacy NGOs including Win Without War and United to End Genocide.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Comprising the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, Special Procedures is the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, country page – Myanmar
For more information and media requests please contact: Jacqui Zalcberg jacqui.zalcberg@un.org
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Maya Derouaz (maya.derouaz@un.org) or Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.

Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone's rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/237327-un-expert-urges-coordinated-action-indonesia-and-other-nations-address-myanmar-crisis




Date: 24 May 2023
Title: UN Headquarters Observes International Day of  United Nations Peacekeepers on 25 May
Content: 24 May 2023
PRESS RELEASE
23 MAY 2023
-- Indonesian peacekeeper among those to be honoured posthumously at ceremony --
UN Headquarters will observe the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers and mark the 75th anniversary of UN Peacekeeping on Thursday, 25 May.
In 1948, the historic decision was made to deploy military observers to the Middle East to supervise the implementation of Israel-Arab Armistice Agreements, in what became the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization.
Since that time, more than two million peacekeepers from 125 countries have since served in 71 operations around the world. Today, 87,000 women and men are serving in 12 conflict zones across Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East.

Indonesia is currently the 8th largest contributor to UN Peacekeeping with more than 2,700 military and police personnel deployed to Abyei, the Central African Republic, Cyprus, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lebanon, Mali, South Sudan and the Western Sahara.
During formal ceremonies at United Nations Headquarters, Secretary-General, António Guterres, will lay a wreath to honour the more than 4,200 UN peacekeepers who have lost their lives since 1948. He will also preside over a ceremony in the General Assembly Hall at which Dag Hammarskjöld Medals will be awarded posthumously to 103 military, police, and civilian peacekeepers, who lost their lives serving under the UN flag last year.
Among the peacekeepers to be honoured posthumously with the Dag Hammarskjold medal is one from Indonesia:  2nd Corporal Jarot BUDI UTOMO who served with the UN Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO).
The Secretary-General will also present the 2022 Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award to Captain Cecilia Erzuah, a military officer from Ghana who served with the UN Interim Security Force for Abyei (UNISFA).
Created in 2016, the Award “recognizes the dedication and effort of an individual peacekeeper in promoting the principles of UN Security Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security”.
In his message, the Secretary-General said: “United Nations peacekeepers are the beating heart of our commitment to a more peaceful world. For 75 years, they have supported people and communities rocked by conflict and upheaval across the globe. Today, on the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers, we honour their extraordinary contributions to international peace and security.”
Jean-Pierre Lacroix, Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations, said: “Peacekeeping is a powerful example of how strong partnerships and collective political will can result in meaningful change. Working together with local communities and other partners, our personnel protect civilians, advance political solutions, and help end conflicts in the pursuit of sustainable peace. We appreciate the support of all stakeholders to ensure that UN Peacekeeping can continue to work as an effective multilateral tool for global peace and security.”
The International Day of UN Peacekeepers was established by the UN General Assembly in 2002, to pay tribute to all men and women serving in peacekeeping, and to honour the memory of those who have lost their lives in the cause of peace.
# # # # #

Media Contacts:  Douglas Coffman, Department of Global Communications -+1 (917) 361-9923,  e-mail: coffmand@un.org; or Oana Raluca Topala, Department of Peace Operations     e-mail: topala@un.org
For more information, please visit the Peacekeepers Day websites here: https://www.un.org/en/observances/peacekeepers-day; or
https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/international-day-of-peacekeepers-2023
*  *  *  *  *
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/232927-un-headquarters-observes-international-day-united-nations-peacekeepers-25-may




Date: 23 May 2023
Title: New carpooling initiative to lead to greener, leaner UN in Indonesia
Content: 23 May 2023
The UN in Indonesia today joined a carpooling initiative through UN Mobility to decrease its carbon footprint and its contribution to congestion on Jakarta’s roads. The move is part of the UN Secretary General’s reform effort to align the UN with today’s realities.
Indonesia is among the first countries in Asia where the UN has launched a carpooling scheme in a non-emergency situation under its UN Mobility programme. It is expected to increase operational efficiencies and avoid certain costs.
The carpooling initiative promotes environmental sustainability through increased ridesharing, which participants can book through a mobile application. It offers on-demand transportation for UN staff, encourages car sharing, and thereby boosts operational efficiency.
“The UN reform calls for increased efficiencies in our operations to save money for our Member States and leave more funding for substantive development work,” said Valerie Julliand, the UN Resident Coordinator in Indonesia. “Furthermore, the UN wants to set the right example in being more conscious in our transport choices: where and when we can, we will share our resources.”
The first ride under this initiative took place on 23 May, when the car and driver of the UN Information Center (UNIC) took a United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) official from UN offices in Central Jakarta to another UN agency, located in Setiabudi and back. Seven UN agencies are participating in the project initially: the International Labour Organization, the UN Development Programme, the UN Information Centre, the United Nations Population Fund, UNOPS, UN WOMEN as well as the Resident Coordinator’s Office.
Experience from other locations where the UN has already implemented such a scheme suggests that it can generate cost savings of around US $5,500 annually for each participating agency.  The efficiency gains achieved by this initiative from 700 global locations in 2022 was $3.75 M.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/232829-new-carpooling-initiative-lead-greener-leaner-un-indonesia




Date: 19 May 2023
Title: Inauguration of the First PCBs Destruction Facility in Indonesia
Content: 19 May 2023
-----
The Ministry of Environment and Forestry (MoEF), with support from the UN Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), has taken a major step today towards meeting Indonesia’s obligations under a key international convention and ridding the country of a toxic chemical, whose use has been banned worldwide. The opening of the country’s first facility to treat, in an environmentally friendly fashion, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), a highly carcinogenic substance, will help the country get rid off 200,000 tons of the substance and another 600,000 tons of PCB-contaminated materials.
Indonesia’s commitment to support the achievement of the global target of PCB elimination by the end of 2028 was highlighted by the Director General of Solid Waste and Hazardous and Toxic Wastes Management, Rosa Vivien Ratnawati, SH, M.Sc, during the launch and inauguration of the PCB Wastes Destruction Facility located at PT. Prasadha Pamunah Limbah Industri Industrial (PPLi) in Nambo Village, Bogor Regency, West Java Province. "Today, 22 years since the adoption of the Stockholm Convention and 14 years since ratification, the Ministry of Environment and Forestry affirms that there has been no change in that commitment. In fact, the commitment has only grown stronger and will soon be integrated and implemented through the strengthening of various national mechanisms related to environmental management performance monitoring, including through the PROPER mechanism."
PCBs are highly hazardous and toxic compounds that are still present in electrical transformers and capacitors, especially in the dielectric oil contained in such equipment. Besides causing various types of cancer, PCBs can cause nerve damage, digestive system disorders, infertility and hormonal imbalances (including sterility). PCBs can contaminate soil, water and air for decades or even longer as they cannot be naturally degrade and eventually contaminate the food chain through bioaccumulation. Research conducted by several researchers from the National Research and Innovation Agency (BRIN) and the MoEF revealed PCB contamination in the Citarum, Ciliwung and Cisadane rivers. PCBs have contaminated dozens of economically-important fish species in rivers and coastal areas of Indonesia, and have even been detected in breast milk in several cities in Java and Sumatra.
The PCB Processing Facility inaugurated on Wednesday, May 17, 2023, is one of the important outputs of the technical cooperation "Introduction of an Environmentally-sound Management and Disposal Systems for PCBs Wastes and PCB-contaminated Equipment" funded by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and by technical assistance from UNIDO. The technology is environmentally sound for not emitting CO2 or toxic gases dioxin and furan. UNIDO globally promotes the use of non-combustion methods for PCB destruction as recommended by the Stockholm Convention, said Salil Dutt, UNIDO representative in Indonesia.
"UNIDO is committed to supporting the parties to the Stockholm Convention in eliminating PCBs by referring to the Best Available Technology (BAT) recommended by the Stockholm Convention, especially non-combustion methods. To date, UNIDO has supported the destruction of PCBs in 32 countries in Asia, Africa, Europe, and America through a cooperation scheme with the GEF. The total GEF Trust Funds managed has a value of more than US$ 80 million, and it has supported more than US$ 360 million in co-financing by key project partnersSo far, the total amount of PCB waste that has been treated with the support of the UNIDO-GEF project has been more than 24,000 tons and will continue to increase until the end of 2028," Dutt said.
The roadmap towards elimination of PCBs in Indonesian is challenging as a result of the high amount of PCB stockpile in the country. To manage this, a public-private partnership approach has been chosen by MoEF and UNIDO by collaborating with PT. Prasadha Pamunah Limbah Industri (PPLi) as the Operating Entity. PT. PPLi is an experienced waste processing company with activities in processing PCB waste dating back to 1997. PPLi has now been granted an official operating license to operate the facility. The public-private partnership between the Indonesian Government and PT. PPLi is an important mechanism to ensure sustainable operation of the PCB destruction facility following the end of the MoEF-UNIDO PCB Project by the end of September 2023. A business-to-business approach between PPLi and owners of PCB wastes will facilitate sustainable operation in providing competitive services to PCB waste producers, said Ms Ratnawati.
"The synergy between MoEF, UNIDO, the GEF and PPLi in the installation and operation of this PCB destruction facility is expected to yield lessons learned not only for Indonesia but also for other countries, especially in the Asia-Pacific region. It is also important to emphasize that this synergy serves as a real support and solution for companies that produce and own PCB waste in Indonesia, particularly those who have a commitment to protect the environment towards sustainable and inclusive development." she said.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/232239-inauguration-first-pcbs-destruction-facility-indonesia




Date: 04 May 2023
Title: Indonesia and Australia Boost Innovation in Asia Pacific with Pulse Lab Expansion
Content: 04 May 2023
Indonesia and Australia are joining forces to transform Pulse Lab Jakarta (PLJ) into a regional innovation powerhouse. This pledge, announced during the Multi-stakeholder Forum on Science, Technology, and Innovation for Sustainable Development Goals (STI Forum 2023), marks a new era of collaboration and innovation in the Asia Pacific region.
With a decade of success, over 100 unique projects, and 50 new partnerships, PLJ is now set to become a key facility serving the Asia Pacific region. The expansion of PLJ into the United Nations Global Pulse Asia Pacific Hub is a concrete follow-up to the G20 Bali Leaders' Declaration. This positions Indonesia at the forefront of regional innovation initiatives and as a champion for the Secretary-General’s vision of a UN 2.0 - fit for the 21st century.
Commenting on the expansion, the Executive Secretary of the Ministry of National Development Planning of the Republic of Indonesia said, “Government of Indonesia is pleased to support the establishment and running of the first three years (2023-2026) of the United Nations Global Pulse Asia-Pacific hub”.
In addition, the Australian Government, a key supporter since 2015, pledged AUD $1,000,000 for the first year of operations. Australia’s Permanent Representative to the UN, H.E. Mitch Fifield said ‘We are delighted to support Indonesia’s leadership in the transition from Pulse Lab Jakarta to a new regional hub. Based on its own digital transformation journey Indonesia has much it can usefully share with the region’. This joint effort solidifies both countries' dedication to driving innovation and sustainable development in the Asia Pacific.
“This transformation marks a significant milestone in our quest for innovation and sustainable development. Indonesia and Australia’s steadfast commitment will empower the region to reach new heights and make significant contributions to a better tomorrow,” said Ms. Ayaka Suzuki, the Director of the Strategic Monitoring Unit in the Secretary-General’s Office.
The panel discussion at the STI Forum 2023 focused on how to scale innovation for impact, building on new research from Global Pulse and the UN Innovation Network in partnership with Member States. The research report will inform Global Pulse’s transformation strategy, ensuring future innovations leave a lasting legacy.
Launched in 2012 as a joint innovation facility between the United Nations and Indonesia, PLJ has evolved over the years, encompassing a wide range of support and expertise in data innovation, behavioral insights, and strategic foresight. This expansion builds upon PLJ's impressive track record, further advancing the development ecosystem in the region.
To celebrate PLJ’s achievements over the last decade and to mark the launch of the Asia Pacific hub, a launching event will be hosted in Jakarta, Indonesia, in June 2023.

About the Scaling Innovations for Impact Side Event at the STI Forum 2023
(Scaling Innovations for Impact’: How the United Nations can support Member States to expand promising ideas to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals)

The side event presents key findings of the ‘Scaling the Summit’ research and proposes recommendations for how the UN and its multi-stakeholder network can support innovations to reach scale for impact. The programme also showcase examples to illustrate successful innovation scaling practices, and bring together diverse voices from across the UN and other sectors on an inclusive, interactive forum to discuss shared experiences in scaling innovations.
This event is hosted by the Government of Finland, in collaboration with the Government of the Republic of Indonesia, the Government of Australia, the UN Innovation Network and UN Global Pulse.

About UN Global Pulse
UN Global Pulse is the Secretary-General’s Innovation Lab. The team works at the intersection of innovation and the human sciences to inform, inspire and strengthen the ability of the United Nations family and those it serves to anticipate, respond and adapt to the challenges of today and tomorrow.
Contact: info@unglobalpulse.org

About Pulse Lab Jakarta
Pulse Lab Jakarta is a joint data innovation facility of the United Nations (Global Pulse) and the Government of Indonesia (via the Ministry of National Development Planning). Functioning as an analytic partnerships accelerator, the Lab operates in the problem, solution and identity spaces. As part of its mandate, PLJ is focused on catalyzing connections across the United Nations, governments, the private and development sectors, as well as civil society to support policies and action for effective development and humanitarian practice.
Contact: plj@un.or.id
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/230036-indonesia-and-australia-boost-innovation-asia-pacific-pulse-lab-expansion




Date: 24 April 2023
Title: Thousands are Gathering at UN Data Forum to Find Bold Solutions for Leveraging the Power of Data, Central to Achieving the SDGs
Content: 24 April 2023
---

Hangzhou, 24 April 2023 – With most of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) still far from being achieved at this mid-point of the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, over 2,000 data experts from 140 countries are gathering in Hangzhou, China in person — almost 20,000 people will participate virtually — at the 2023 UN World Data Forum from 24 to 27 April to find solutions for equitable and open access to data. Better data is central to accelerating progress towards the SDGs and addressing the multiple crises that are threatening poverty eradication, food security, the environment and peace and security.
“We can’t carve out effective solutions to the problems we’re facing if we don’t fully understand the who, what, when, where, and why of the sources and the impacts. We need robust data that can give us the insights we need,” said Li Junhua, UN Under-Secretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs, and head of the Forum secretariat.
“By convening such a diverse range of practitioners across the global data and statistics landscape, this Forum can help generate the solutions, partnerships and pathways that we need to better leverage data for decision-making and bring the world closer to achieving the SDGs.”
The rapid expansion in new sources of data – from national statistical offices (NSOs) to citizen-generated data and private sector data for public good – are creating large-scale opportunities for innovative approaches and partnerships for better data to achieve a more sustainable future for all.
The fourth of its kind and the first to be held in the Asia-Pacific region, the 2023 UN World Data Forum will bring together major data producers and users of data from NSOs, policymakers, the geospatial community, business, civil society and scientific institutions to collaborate and launch innovative initiatives that will deliver better data on health, education, climate, natural resources, gender, human rights, refugees and other aspects of sustainable development.
“The theme of the 2023 UN World Data Forum 2023 is ‘Towards Data that Empowers Our World’ which emphasizes the impact of data on improving lives and societies while highlighting the enormous value of data resources,” said Mao Shengyong, Deputy Commissioner of the National Bureau of Statistics of China.
“The forum will be an opportunity for in-depth discussions and expanded cooperation amongst global statistics and data communities who will join hands to shoulder the responsibilities of the digital era and charter the future of digital civilization.”
High-level plenaries of the Forum will address the use and value of data for better policymaking; the value of innovation for timely and broader disaggregated data; public transparency and rights to privacy; the difficulties in establishing partnerships across different data ecosystems while addressing digital infrastructure; and the national and international data and statistical capacities.

Core Issues
The 2023 UN World Data Forum will focus on core issues related to the following four themes:

About the UN World Data Forum
The 2023 UN World Data Forum is hosted by the National Bureau of Statistics of China and the People’s Government of Zhejiang Province, with support from the Statistics Division of the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN DESA). The UN World Data Forum was agreed upon by the UN Statistical Commission based on a recommendation by the UN Secretary-General’s Independent Expert and Advisory Group on a Data Revolution for Sustainable Development. Improved use of data and statistics will be crucial to achieving the transformational vision of a better future for people and the planet, set out in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted by world leaders at the UN in September 2015.
For Media: More information can be found on the media page at UNDataForum.org, or on Twitter @UNDataForum.
The Plenary sessions will be livestreamed on: https://oep.unwdf2023.org.cn/en

Media contacts:
United Nations Information Centre Indonesia
Miklos Gaspar, email: miklos.gaspar AT un.org
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/228787-thousands-are-gathering-un-data-forum-find-bold-solutions-leveraging-power-data-central




Date: 07 March 2023
Title: UN Calls All Stakeholders to Bridging the Digital Divide Between Men and Women as part of the International Women’s Day Observance
Content: 07 March 2023
--
Yogyakarta, 7 March 2023 – The representative of the United Nations (UN) Secretary-General in Indonesia, Valerie Julliand, visited Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) today and delivered a public lecture on the growing gender inequality including the digital divide between men and women. Under the theme of “DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality”, Ms Julliand highlighted the importance of breaking stereotypes, biases, and structural barriers in realising gender equality, in an exchange with the Social and Political Science Faculty (FISIPOL) students and general public, as part of the International Women’s Day observance.

In Indonesia, according to the National Socioeconomic Survey 2020, nationally, the percentage of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) graduates in higher education is still low – 32% - and dominated by men graduates. According to UNESCO, 61% of women consider gender stereotype when looking for employment; 50% of women is least attracted to work in the STEM field because of men's domination. Meanwhile, globally, men are 21 percent more likely to be online than women, and that in the tech industry, men outnumber women two to one, with an even worse ration - five to one - in Artificial Intelligence.

To address these issues, the UN calls for action on several fronts, including closing all gaps in digital access and skills, removing systemic barriers and supporting women and girls’ participation and leadership in STEM education and careers, creating technology that meets the needs of women and girls, and addressing technology-facilitated gender-based violence. Speaking at the lecture, Ms Julliand said “The UN system in Indonesia works with multiple stakeholders to provide access to digital entrepreneurship skills development, strengthening and pushing for an enabling environment for women’s economic empowerment, and promoting women and girls in STEM and innovation incubators, and continuously cultivating champions of change”.

Dean of FISIPOL, Dr. Wawan Mas’udi said, “We would like to thank UNRC Indonesia for coming to our Faculty. FISIPOL UGM has triple concerns (we called Triple Disruptions), which are COVID-19, Climate Change issues and Digital Transformation (Digital Revolution). It is a pleasure to us and we are very open to other opportunities that can lead us to cooperation and collaboration in the future”.

The public lecture was held with support from FISIPOL, Global Engagement Office and the Centre for Digital Society. As part of her visit to Yogyakarta, Ms Julliand also visited a few UN-supported programs e.g., the project of women-led startups, called Banoo which helps fish farmers de-risk their operations through an automation system and a platform that connects them to high-quality fish seed suppliers. This web/mobile app allows the farmer to monitor the whole process through a dashboard.
***
Contact:
UN: Andri Suryo – UN Information Centre (+628118456709 andri.suryo@un.org)
UGM: Bagian Humas dan Media Fisipol UGM, 0822-2074-2201 (Alfian), email: fisipol@ugm.ac.id, alfiann@ugm.ac.id
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/222009-un-calls-all-stakeholders-bridging-digital-divide-between-men-and-women-part-international




Date: 03 March 2023
Title: UNESCO AND IGCN JOIN FORCES FOR THE FUTURE OF EDUCATION IN INDONESIA
Content: 03 March 2023
--
Recognizing that the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) requires a concerted alliance between intergovernmental organizations, governments, non-governmental organizations and private sector entities, the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), and the Indonesia Global Compact Network (IGCN) are joining forces to support the Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology in Indonesia in order to strengthen and further develop the Indonesian Education system paving the way for achieving the 2030 Agenda.

On the 28th of February, UNESCO and IGCN signed a Framework of Agreement at the United Nations Office in Jakarta, in the presence of Ms. Valerie Julliand, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Indonesia and Dr Itje Chodidjah, Executive Chair of the Indonesian National Commission for UNESCO Ministry of Education, Culture, Research and Technology, Indonesia.

This partnership will enable the cooperation between UNESCO and IGCN to act as a catalyst to support efforts to improve access and quality of education in Indonesia through capacity-building and training for school principals and teachers to improve the school management, instructional and learning materials in line with the national curriculum.

UNESCO's work promotes a culture of peace, celebrates diversity and defends human rights while encompassing quality educational development from pre-school to higher education and beyond.

“In a world experiencing rapid change, and where cultural, political, economic and social upheaval challenges traditional ways of life, education has a major role to play in promoting social cohesion and peaceful coexistence. UNESCO has the belief that through programmes that encourage dialogue between students of different cultures, beliefs and religions, education can make an important and meaningful contribution to sustainable and tolerant societies”, said Mr. Mohamed Djelid, Director of the UNESCO Regional Science Bureau for Asia and the Pacific and UNESCO Representative for Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Timor-Leste.

IGCN’s mission is to promote, facilitate and mainstream the implementation of the UN Global Compact 10 Principles in Indonesia covering the area of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. IGCN is committed to support the achievement of SDGs in Indonesia. IGCN believes that an equal and equitable improvement in the quality of education is required in order to achieve SDG4 (Quality Education for All).

“Human Development is one of the most critical requirements for the achievement of all the SDGs. Therefore, we need to urgently scale up these efforts, in a collaborative action with all actors. It is not only to accelerate the achievement of SDGs, but also to ensure that the sustainability approach will be continued by the next generation. It is a long-term investment. The IGCN’s “SDGs Thematic Focus” includes the SDG4 - Education Transformation program called “KUPUKU” a technology platform dedicated to address the current challenges in the Indonesian education system,” said Mr. Y.W. Junardy, President of Indonesia Global Compact Network.

UNESCO and IGCN hope that this partnership will inspire stakeholders, especially the private sector in joining this initiative to promote Intercultural Education in the interests of peace and understanding.

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/221712-unesco-and-igcn-join-forces-future-education-indonesia




Date: 23 February 2023
Title: “Together We Say No”: United Nations in Indonesia ramps up its effort to prevent sexual exploitation and assault among frontline workers
Content: 23 February 2023
22 February 2023, Jakarta – The United Nations (UN) in Indonesia through the UN Agency for Migration (IOM), and the UN World Food Programme (WFP) recently launched “Together We Say No” – an initiative in mainstreaming the effort to prevent sexual exploitation and abuse among frontline workers in Indonesia.

First developed in 2022, this global initiative was developed by IOM, UNHCR, and Translators Without Borders (TWB) to better identify, respond to, and report sexual exploitation, and abuse, as well as become strategic allies in its prevention in the form of a communications/advocacy package. The initiative targets frontline workers who provide humanitarian assistance and interact with beneficiaries and community populations on a daily basis – such as drivers, security guards, enumerators, translators, aid distributors and financial service providers. The materials are in the form of illustrated print materials, audio messages and multimedia resources which have been made available in 22 languages, including Indonesian, and are ready to be distributed to frontline workers, and to other UN agencies and partners to use.

Speaking at the launch, the UN Resident Coordinator in Indonesia, Valerie Julliand, complemented this initiative for its relevance to the overall Prevention of Sexual Exploitation and Harassment (PSEAH) Network and its work plan for 2023:  “Parallel to the launch today, the PSEAH Network is implementing a robust annual work plan which, similar to this campaign, prioritizes further strengthening of coordination, capacity building, establishing an inter-agency community-based complaints mechanism prioritizing a victim-centred approach, and cross-cutting awareness-raising among UN personnel, implementing partners, and the wider communities we serve.”
The UN team in Indonesia has already taken concrete steps at the country level to uphold its commitment to zero tolerance for all forms of sexual exploitation, abuse, and harassment. In 2022, IOM conducted a training of trainers and cascade training for its staff and implementing partners/ vendors. Awareness-raising sessions were also conducted at IOM-managed refugee accommodations. Aasavri Rai, Programme Officer at IOM in Indonesia stated  IOM has a zero-tolerance policy to sexual exploitation and abuse and the launch of the Together We Say No campaign is part of IOM Indonesia's commitment to continue prevention and response efforts through raising awareness, capacity building, and collaboration with our partners and vendors.

The launch was supported by the United States Government in Indonesia including @America. It brought frontline workers and IOM’s refugee focal points together to discuss the challenges and opportunities for the PSEAH approach in Indonesia. A talk show was conducted following a brief presentation on the campaign materials by IOM. Speakers at the event included IOM, WFP Acting Country Director (Jennifer Rosenzweig), Resident Legal Advisor of the U.S. Embassy Jakarta (Kavitha J. Babu), and representative from the Indonesian Society for Disaster Management (Indah Putri).

With the campaign launched, the agencies will now move to adopting and implementing the resources in their respective organisations and tracking inter-agency, collective progress towards PSEAH across the country.

***
Contact:
IOM: Aasavri Rai, arai@iom.int
WFP: Patricia Norimarna, patricia.norimarna@wfp.org

For further information about PSEA, please contact Aasavri Rai at IOM Indonesia arai@IOM.int.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/220476-%E2%80%9Ctogether-we-say-no%E2%80%9D-united-nations-indonesia-ramps-its-effort-prevent-sexual-exploitation




Date: 15 December 2022
Title: Launch of Joint Report by Bappenas and UN Global Pulse: "Strategic Foresight: The Future of MSMEs in Indonesia"
Content: 15 December 2022
---
15 Desember 2022, Jakarta — Today the Ministry of National Development Planning/National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) and the United Nations Global Pulse (UNGP) launched a joint report "Strategic Foresight: The Future of MSMEs in Indonesia" in Jakarta. This report, which can be downloaded via the following link, displays the findings from horizon scanning activities carried out to identify new issues that could affect Indonesian MSMEs (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises) in the future.
MSMEs provide employment opportunities for 97% of the total national workforce or around 117 million workers, of which 64.5% are women. This sector is very important and is often considered the backbone of the Indonesian economy. However, the recent pandemic and global crisis show that MSMEs are very vulnerable to negative shocks. So it is very important for MSMEs to prepare themselves to face rapid changes amidst uncertainty.
Therefore, Bappenas and UNGP through Pulse Lab Jakarta (PLJ) ​​and Pulse Lab Finland (PLF) are collaborating to use strategic foresight methods to help anticipate future possibilities. This foresight method is useful for planning policies and taking action with a long-term and anticipatory approach, which will be useful for ensuring that various scenarios and assumptions that may occur in the future have been integrated into policy making. By using the 'horizon scanning' technique as one of the main foresight instruments, several questions were examined, especially regarding what issues are developing in the sector and what factors can change and disrupt the future of MSMEs as we currently imagine them. After a long process, five main driving factors were identified, namely: climate change, increasing partnerships for a sustainable economy, the emergence of emerging sectors and shifting consumer preferences, engaging technology as a new way of working, and precarious work in the gig economy .
This activity aims to build a common understanding of the importance of anticipatory and forward-looking approaches in policy planning. In his remarks, Secretary of the Ministry of National Development Planning/Main Secretary of Bappenas, Mr. Taufik Hanafi, conveyed the importance of looking to the future and strengthening MSMEs, "Currently the business climate is always changing. The business world, especially MSMEs, is of course also affected by quite extensive changes, starting from production to marketing aspects. We must see this change as an opportunity for MSMEs to be able to change business processes by utilizing digital technology and also carrying out various innovations. "For this reason, we must have the ability to look further into the future, be visionary, and develop and implement preventive strategies to build MSMEs to be more resilient and adaptive."
Head of UN Representative in Indonesia, Ms. Valerie Julliand, also emphasized the importance of strategic foresight. “In order for a policy to be useful [...], it needs to be created in a specific context in which the policy will be implemented. In this case, strategic foresight is useful in realizing anticipatory action and designing policies that are more focused on the future. "The UN will continue to support the Indonesian Government in adapting various innovative methods and helping these methods to be used well to benefit the country and society," he explained.
Through the launch of this report, Bappenas and UNGP invite various stakeholders to discuss the driving factors of the entire MSME ecosystem that have the potential to shape the future landscape of MSMEs in Indonesia, and to build a common understanding of how the use of foresight can support and strengthen policy planning.
For more complete information regarding this report, please visit the page https://pulselabjakarta.org/ourwork/foresight or contact us via plj@un.or.id.

***
About Pulse Lab Jakarta (PLJ)
Pulse Lab Jakarta is a data innovation facility which is an initiative of the United Nations (Global Pulse) and the Government of Indonesia (through the Ministry of National Development Planning, Bappenas). Functioning as an analytical partnership accelerator, Pulse Lab Jakarta applies a combined methods approach using quantitative and qualitative analysis in identifying problems, solutions and identity spaces, also functions as a network catalyst that connects the private sector, government and civil society to support effective development policies and humanitarian responses.
https://pulselabjakarta.org
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/211543-launch-joint-report-bappenas-and-un-global-pulse-strategic-foresight-future-msmes-indonesia




Date: 15 December 2022
Title: Bappenas and UN Global Pulse Launch the “Strategic Foresight: The Futures of MSMEs in Indonesia” Joint Report
Content: 15 December 2022
---
15 December 2022, Jakarta — Today, the Indonesian Ministry of National Development Planning (Bappenas) and United Nations Global Pulse (UNGP) hosted the “Strategic Foresight: The Futures of MSMEs in Indonesia” joint report launch in Jakarta. The report, which can be read here, presents the results of the horizon scanning activity conducted to identify potential emerging issues that can affect Indonesian MSMEs 10-20 years in the future.
MSMEs provide employment for 97% of Indonesia's total workforce or around 117 million workers, 64.5% of which are women. This sector is crucial and often considered the backbone of the Indonesian economy, however, as the recent pandemic and global crises has proven, they are particularly vulnerable to negative shocks. In times of high uncertainty and amidst rapid changes, it is vital to prepare for the unexpected, particularly as it relates to MSMEs.
In view of this, Bappenas and UNGP through Pulse Lab Jakarta (PLJ) and Pulse Lab Finland (PLF) collaborated to use the Strategic Foresight method to help anticipate what lies ahead. The foresight method is useful for thinking and acting in a long-term and anticipatory way, which is helpful for ensuring that likely scenarios and assumptions are integrated into policymaking. By utilizing the horizon scanning technique as one of the main foresight tools, several questions were addressed, namely what are the key emerging issues for the sector and what could potentially alter and disrupt the future of MSMEs as we currently envision it. Following a rigorous process, five drivers were identified: climate change, increasing sustainable economic partnerships, the rise of emerging sectors and change in consumer preferences, technology as a new way of working, and precarious work in the gig economy.
This event seeks to build a collective understanding of the importance of anticipatory and forward thinking approaches in policy planning. In his keynote speech, the Executive Secretary of National Development Planning, Mr. Taufik Hanafi, speaks of the importance of looking forward and strengthening MSMEs, “The business world, particularly MSMEs, are affected by a broad range of changes from production to marketing. We should see these changes as an opportunity for MSMEs to adapt their business processes by utilizing digital technology and undertaking various innovations. For this reason, we must have the ability to look forward, be visionary, and develop strategies that enable MSMEs to be more resilient and adaptive.”
UN Resident Coordinator in Indonesia, Ms. Valerie Julliand, also emphasized the importance of strategic foresight by stating that, “for policies to be effective […] they need to be rooted in the particular context in which they will be implemented. Strategic foresights are helpful in this regard as it enables anticipatory action and the design of more forward-looking policies.The UN will continue to support the Indonesian government in adapting innovative methods and to ensure that these methods are put to good use for the country and its people.”
With the launch of this report, Bappenas and UNGP invite various stakeholders to discuss the broader ecosystemic drivers that could potentially shape the futures of MSMEs in Indonesia, and to build a common understanding of how using foresight can support and strengthen policy planning moving forward.
For more information regarding our report please visit https://pulselabjakarta.org/ourwork/foresight or contact plj@un.or.id.
***
About Pulse Lab Jakarta
Pulse Lab Jakarta is a joint data innovation facility of the United Nations (Global Pulse) and the Government of Indonesia (via the Ministry of National Development Planning, Bappenas). Functioning as an analytic partnerships accelerator, the Lab applies mixed-methods approaches in the problem, solution and identity spaces, and is focused on catalyzing connections across the private sector, government and civil society to support policies and action for effective development and humanitarian practice.

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/211541-bappenas-and-un-global-pulse-launch-%E2%80%9Cstrategic-foresight-futures-msmes-indonesia%E2%80%9D-joint




Date: 13 December 2022
Title: UN Recognizes Indonesian Effort to Restore Mangrove Forests  with Special Award
Content: 13 December 2022
The United Nations has recognized an initiative to protect Indonesia’s coast against flooding as one of 10 pioneering efforts to revive the natural world. The UN designated the push, which is using mangrove trees to form a natural barrier against the sea, as one of its inaugural World Restoration Flagships. These initiatives are eligible to receive UN support, funding or technical expertise.
Human activity has significantly altered three-quarters of the Earth’s land and two-thirds of its marine environment, pushing 1 million species towards extinction. The announcement came as leaders gathered in Montreal, Canada for the UN Biodiversity Conference, where governments from around the world will agree to a new set of goals for nature over the next decade. Talks are expected to include a potential global target for ecosystem restoration. Indonesia, an archipelago of 17,000 islands, is replete with mangrove forests, which are a haven for wildlife. They also help shelter coastal communities from rising seas and storm surges, problems expected to become more severe as the climate crisis sets in. But in many places mangroves have been cut down to make space for development and ponds for fish farming. The ‘Building with Nature’ initiative seeks to restore those forests. Concentrating in Demak, a district on the island of Java, Wetlands International together with Indonesia’s government and other partners helping local communities regrow mangroves along a 20km stretch of coastline.
Instead of simply planting mangroves, the initiative is applying an innovative approach using semi-permeable sea walls made of natural materials to trap mud and sediments. Mangroves then regrow naturally, with a survival rate of 70 per cent - significantly higher than the 15-20 per cent of planted mangroves. Over time, soil builds up in the roots of the mangroves, which can prevent rising seas from inundating communities. The work will increase the resilience of 70,000 people to aspects of climate change.
Experts have also helped 277 shrimp farmers construct shrimp-rearing ponds that can coexist with mangroves and improve the sustainability of their operations. These farmers have seen their shrimp yields triple. The effort and other flagship initiatives were selected under the banner of the United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration, a global movement coordinated by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). It is designed to prevent and reverse the degradation of natural spaces across the planet.
UNEP Executive Director Inger Andersen said: “Indonesia’s ‘Building for Nature’ initiative, part of the inaugural group of World Restoration Flagships, is a stellar example of smart and forward-looking adaptation work in action. It’s a model worth replicating for how countries can use nature to both ward of the severe impacts of climate change while simultaneously creating new economic opportunities for people.”
Qu Dongyu, Director General of the FAO, said: “FAO, together with UNEP, as co-lead of the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration, is pleased to award the 10 most ambitious, visionary and promising ecosystem restoration initiatives as 2022 World Restoration Flagships. Inspired by these flagships, we can learn to restore our ecosystems for better production, better nutrition, a better environment and a better life for all, leaving no one behind.” Muhammad Yusuf, Director of Coastal and Small Island Management, at the Indonesian Ministry of Marine Affairs, said: “The region of Demak is badly affected by climate change. Hundreds and thousands of hectares of land are disappearing. This method emulates the mangrove tree root system. So, sediment goes in. Sea water gradually recedes to the sea. When the mangrove trees are rooted there collectively, it’ll act as a natural barrier to reduce the effect of erosion.”
Pieter van Eijk, the programme head of deltas and coasts for Wetlands International, said: “Our experiences from the Demak Building with Nature project have helped create a formula that can be used in other locations. We will now use these lessons to take Building with Nature projects to other parts of Asia.” Countries have already promised to restore 1 billion hectares – an area larger than China – as part of their commitments to the Paris climate agreement, the Aichi targets for biodiversity, the Land Degradation Neutrality targets and the Bonn Challenge. However, little is known about the progress or quality of this restoration. Progress of all 10 World Restoration Flagships will be transparently monitored through the Framework for Ecosystem Restoration Monitoring, the UN Decade’s platform for keeping track of global restoration efforts.
***
Note to editors
About the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration
The United Nations General Assembly has declared the years 2021 through 2030 the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration. Led by the UN Environment Programme and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN, together with the support of partners, it is designed to prevent, halt, and reverse the loss and degradation of ecosystems worldwide. It aims at reviving billions of hectares, covering terrestrial as well as aquatic ecosystems. A global call to action, the UN Decade draws together political support, scientific research, and financial muscle to massively scale up restoration.
About Building with Nature in Indonesia
This World Restoration Flagship is coordinated by the Indonesian Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries and the Indonesian Ministry of Public Work and Housing, Wetlands International and Ecoshape with support from Witteveen + Bos, Deltares, TU Delft, Wageningen University & Research, UNESCO-IHE, Blue Forests, Kota Kita, Von Lieberman, the Diponegoro University, and local communities. To learn more about the project, watch this video or download these knowledge products.
About the UN Environment Programme (UNEP)
UNEP is the leading global voice on the environment. It provides leadership and encourages partnership in caring for the environment by inspiring, informing and enabling nations and peoples to improve their quality of life without compromising that of future generations.
For more information, please contact: Moses Osani, Media Officer, UN Environment Programme. For media interviews with officials from Indonesia, please reach out to Apri Susanto Astra, Coordinator, Nature-based solutions, Wetlands International Indonesia
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/212655-un-recognizes-indonesian-effort-restore-mangrove-forests-special-award




Date: 13 December 2022
Title: UN honors Indonesia's efforts to restore mangrove forests with special award
Content: 13 December 2022
The United Nations has recognized Indonesia's initiative to protect coastal areas from tidal flooding as one of ten pioneering efforts to restore nature.
The UN named this initiative, which uses mangrove trees as a natural defense from the sea, as one of its inaugural World Restoration Flagships. These initiatives, which are eligible to receive support, funding and technical expertise from the UN, demonstrate how environmental advocates are repairing damaged ecosystems around the world. Human activities have significantly altered three-quarters of the Earth's land and two-thirds of its waters, threatening 1 million species with extinction.
The announcement was made in front of leaders joining the UN Diversity Conference in Montreal, Canada, where governments from around the world will agree on a new set of goals for nature for the next decade.
Topics of discussion at the event are expected to include potential global goals for ecosystem restoration.
Indonesia, an archipelago of 17,000 islands, is rich in mangrove forests that are sanctuaries for wildlife. Mangrove forests also help protect coastal communities from sea level rise and storm surges that are expected to become more severe as the climate crisis unfolds.
However, in some locations, mangrove forests have been cut down and transformed into land for development purposes and fish farms. The 'Building with Nature' initiative aims to restore these forests. Based in Demak, a district on the island of Java, Wetlands International together with the Indonesian government and other partners are helping local communities to replant mangrove forests on a 20km stretch of coastline.
Instead of just planting mangrove trees, the initiative applies an innovative approach using semipermeable sea walls made of natural materials that act as "traps" for mud and sediment. The mangrove trees will grow naturally with a survival rate of 70 percent - significantly higher than the 15-20 percent survival rate of traditionally planted mangrove trees. Over time, soil will settle on the roots of the mangrove trees, preventing sea level rise from inundating the community.
This will increase the resilience of 70,000 people to climate change. Experts have also helped 277 shrimp farmers to reconstruct their shrimp ponds to coexist with the mangrove forest and improve the sustainability of their operations. Their shrimp harvests have tripled.
These and other flagship initiatives have been selected for inclusion in the United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration, a global movement coordinated by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). The movement is designed to prevent and restore degraded areas to natural state across the planet.
UNEP Executive Director, Inger Andersen, said, "Indonesia's 'Building with Nature' initiative, which is part of the inaugural group of World Restoration Flagships, is an excellent example of smart, future-proof adaptation in action. It is a replicable model for how countries can use nature to counteract the severe impacts of climate change while creating economic opportunities for communities."
Qu Dongyu, Director General of FAO, said, "FAO, together with UNEP as the leader of the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration, is pleased to recognize ten of the most ambitious, visionary and promising ecosystem restoration initiatives as World Restoration Flagships 2022. Inspired by these flagship initiatives, we can learn how to restore our ecosystems for better production, better nutrition, a better environment and a better life for all without leaving anyone behind."
Muhammad Yusuf, Director of Coastal and Small Island Utilization (P4K), Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Fisheries of the Republic of Indonesia, said, "The Demak region is severely affected by climate change. Hundreds and thousands of hectares of land often disappear. This method follows the root system of mangrove trees. Therefore, sediment can enter. Sea water slowly recedes back into the sea. When mangrove trees take root in the area collectively, they act as a natural defense to reduce the effects of erosion."
Pieter van Eijk, head of the delta and coastal program at Wetlands International, explains, "Our experience from the Building with Nature project in Demak has helped create a formula that can be used in other locations. We will use these lessons to replicate the Building with Nature project in other parts of Asia."
Countries have pledged to restore 1 billion hectares-an area larger than the size of China-as part of their commitments to the Paris Climate Agreement, which is also part of the Aichi diversity targets, Land Degradation Neutrality (LDN) targets and the Bonn Challenge. However, little is known about the progress or quality of these restoration efforts. The progress of the ten World Restoration Flagships initiatives will be monitored transparently through the Framework for Ecosystem Restoration Monitoring, the UN Decade's platform for tracking the progress of global restoration efforts.

NOTES FOR EDITORS
About UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration
The United Nations General Assembly has declared 2021 to 2030 as the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration. Led by the UN Environment Programme (UNEP) and the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) with the support of partners, the movement is designed to prevent, halt and reverse ecosystem loss and degradation around the world. It aims to restore billions of hectares of terrestrial and marine ecosystems. Serving as a global voice for action, the UN Decade draws on political support, scientific research and financial strength to scale up restoration en masse.
About Building with Nature in Indonesia
This World Restoration Flagship initiative is coordinated by the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries of the Republic of Indonesia, the Ministry of Public Works and Housing of the Republic of Indonesia, Wetlands International, and Ecoshape with support from Witteveen + Bos, Deltares, TU Delft, Wageningen University & Research, UNESCO-IHE, Blue Forests, Kota Kita, Von Lieberman, Diponegoro University, and local communities. For more information about the project, please watch this video or download this product knowledge.
About UN Environment Programme (UNEP)
UNEP is the global voice for environmental issues. The organization takes a leadership role and promotes partnerships to protect and care for the environment by inspiring, educating and enabling countries and communities to improve their quality of life without harming future generations.
For more information, please contact:
Moses Osani, Media Officer, UN Environment Programme
Untuk wawancara media dengan personel dari Indonesia, silahkan hubungi:
Apri Susanto Astra, Coordinator, Nature-based solutions, Wetlands International Indonesia
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/212657-un-honors-indonesias-efforts-restore-mangrove-forests-special-award




Date: 10 December 2022
Title: Musicians and Comics Unite to End Violence against Women and Girls
Content: 10 December 2022
--
Jakarta, 10 Desember 2022 – This Saturday, renowned comics and musicians united to voice support for the elimination of gender-based violence in Indonesia. The performance was the culmination of the "UNiTE" event held at M Bloc Space, Jakarta, and marked the last day of the 16 Days of Activism Against Violence Against Women.
The "UNiTE" event was organized by the French Embassy, Institut Français Indonesia, and the United Nations Agencies in Indonesia - UNDP, UNFPA, UN Information Centre, UN Women and WHO, in collaboration with Komnas Perempuan and Jakarta Feminist. Today's art and music festival aims to mobilize public support, especially young people to speak out against gender-based violence.
"Violence against women cannot be tolerated under any circumstances," said UN Resident Coordinator for Indonesia Valerie Julliand. "We work with governments and civil society organizations to combat gender-based violence, change behaviors, and at the same time support victims and survivors."
Women in Indonesia, like in many other countries, face high levels of violence. According to a report by Komnas Perempuan, 338,496 cases of violence against women were recorded during 2021, about a 50 percent increase in cases reported in 2020, a higher number than in 2019, where 302,686 cases were reported. For every case reported, many remain hidden due to stigma, shame, and fear of the perpetrator.
Komnas Perempuan's Annual Report 2022 noted that in the last five years the forms of violence experienced by women: 36% were psychological violence, 33% sexual violence, 18% physical violence and 13% economic violence. "From these numbers we can see the magnitude of psychological violence in each year," said Komnas Perempuan Commissioner Mariana Amiruddin. "But in Indonesia, psychological violence assistance still lacks experts and resources. This is one of the reasons victims do not want to talk or report the violence they experience, due to their mental state."
The "UNiTE" event featured performances from musicians hara, The Dare, and Yacko. Comedy for Equality, a stand-up comedy showcase for gender equality, featured performances from six Indonesian comics mentored by multi-awarded comedian Sakdiyah Ma'ruf. The Comedy for Equality initiative, started last year by the United Nations (UN) in Indonesia, provided an opportunity for 20 comics to participate in a stand-up comedy workshop led by Sakdiyah Ma'ruf. She helped each comedian perform comedy that supports gender equality, changes misogynistic stereotypes, and supports the 16 Days of Violence Against Women global campaign.
"Comedy may not change behavior directly, but it can drive change by opening up discussion on sensitive topics and helping to fight stigma and stereotypes," said Sakdiyah Ma'ruf. "The Comedy for Equality initiative provides a safe space for women and men to speak out, including on the issue of violence against women."
"A work, including music, is also a medium of knowledge. Consciously or unconsciously, music is also present in the community to convey messages, values, feelings, as well as the partisanship of musicians and the community about something. Music is one of the important mediums to convey the large number of violence against women, the importance of eliminating violence against women, as well as the importance of building empathy, solidarity and collectivity to fight violence. The presence of music that is always tied to a space - such as a concert - also provides an opportunity to gather with more people and strengthen each other in togetherness," said Rara Sekar.
"The education and power of victims who speak up and share their stories, as we saw in the #MeToo movement, has a greater impact on society than national policies. This is why we are proud to partner with Sakdiyah, and six other female comics, as well as Rara Sekar (hara), the Dare, and Yacko. By speaking out about gender equality and the elimination of gender-based violence, they are powerful actors for social change," said Stephane Dovert, Director of the IFI and Cooperation Counselor of the French Embassy in Indonesia.

###

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/211550-musicians-and-comics-unite-end-violence-against-women-and-girls




Date: 10 December 2022
Title: Stand-up Comedians and Musicians Unite in Ending Violence against Women and Girls
Content: 10 December 2022
“UNiTE” - a stand-up comedy and music concert to commemorate 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence and Human Rights Day
--
Jakarta, 10 December 2022 - Some of Indonesia’s top stand-up comedians and music performers on Saturday banded together to voice their support to end gender-based violence in the country. The performance was the highlight of the “UNiTE” event at M Bloc Space, Jakarta, and marked the conclusion of the 16 Days of Activism against gender-based violence.
The “UNiTE” event was jointly organized by the Embassy of France, Institut Français Indonesia, UNDP, UNFPA, the UN Information Centre, UN Women and WHO, in collaboration with Komnas Perempuan and Jakarta Feminist. The one-day music and art festival aimed to mobilize public support, particularly among the youth to speak out against gender-based violence.
“Violence against women is unacceptable under any circumstances,” said UN      Resident Coordinator for Indonesia Valerie Julliand. “We work closely with both the government and civil society organizations to combat gender-based violence, to change attitudes and at the same time support victims and survivors.”
Women in Indonesia, like many other countries, experience high levels of violence. According to Komnas Perempuan’s report, 338,496 cases of violence against women were recorded throughout 2021, about 50 per cent increase from cases reported in 2020 and higher than in 2019, when 302,686 cases were reported. For every case reported, many more remain hidden because of stigma, shame, and fear of the perpetrator, experts said.
Komnas Perempuan's Annual Report 2022 noted that in the last five years, women experienced violence: 36% of them psychological violence, 33% sexual violence, 18% physical violence, and 13% economic violence. “According to this data, we can see how many experiences psychological violence,” said Commissioner of Komnas Perempuan, Mariana Amiruddin. “However, in Indonesia, support for psychological violence victims still lacks expertise and resources. This is why victims don't report the violence they experienced related to their mental condition.”
The "UNiTE" event featured live performances from music groups hara, The Dare, and Yacko. Under the Comedy for Equality showcase, it featured performances from six Indonesian comedians mentored by the      multi-award-winning Indonesian comedian Sakdiyah Ma'ruf. The Comedy for Equality Initiative, started last year by the UN in Indonesia, provided opportunities to 20 aspiring comedians to participate in a stand-up comedy workshop led by Ms Ma'ruf. She helped each aspiring comedian craft routines that reflected humorously on gender inequalities, misogynistic stereotypes, and supported the global 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence initiative.
“Comedy may not change attitudes directly but can bring about change by allowing open conversations on sensitive topics and helps debunk stigma and stereotypes," said Ms Ma'ruf. "The Comedy for Equality initiative provides a safe platform for women and men to speak up, including on violence against women.”
“Art, including music, is a medium of knowledge. Consciously or unconsciously, music has become part of society to deliver messages, values, and feelings, and musicians stand on social issues. Music is an important medium to raise awareness of violence against women, the importance of ending violence against women, to build empathy, solidarity, and collective action to stop violence against women. Music is always bound by space—such as concerts. Concerts provide an opportunity to reach more people and strengthen one another,” Rara Sekar.
“Education, and the power of victims who stand up and tell their story, as we saw with the #MeToo movement, have more impact on society than national policies on their own. That is why we are proud today to partner up with Sakdiyah, and six other wonderful female comedians, as well as Rara Sekar (hara), the Dare and Yacko. By being vocal about gender equality and against gender-based violence, they are powerful actors of social change,” said Stéphane Dovert, Director of IFI and Counsellor for Cooperation of the French Embassy in Indonesia.

###

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/211552-stand-comedians-and-musicians-unite-ending-violence-against-women-and-girls




Date: 02 December 2022
Title: UN report highlights disability data gaps in Indonesia
Content: 02 December 2022
--
People with disabilities are being left behind. Their full and effective participation in society and equal access to basic services is hampered because they are unemployed, undereducated and still underrepresented in national statistics, according to a new report on disability data launched by the UN in Indonesia today. Published on the occasion of International Disability Day, December 3, the report is the first comprehensive analysis of how people with disabilities are represented in government statistics.
Data is needed not only to highlight gaps, but also to develop evidence-based policies to address the needs of people with disabilities and related economic and social inequalities.
"To get support from governments, people need to be made 'visible' - and those living with disabilities are not 'visible'," said Valerie Julliand, Chief UN Representative in Indonesia. "This is a big issue that we support the government to address.".
According to the report, disability statistics in Indonesia are insufficient because the data collected does not provide enough information about people with disabilities, their needs, capacities and well-being. The purpose of population statistics is not only to count people with disabilities, but also to consider what is needed to ensure that they can access education, buildings, transportation, employment, health services, legal services, and political participation. Inclusive development is central to the UN Agenda 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals.
The UN and the Central Bureau of Statistics (BPS) are working with groups representing people with disabilities to fill gaps in official statistics. "With the right data, Governments and development partners will be able to focus resources to support those facing disability challenges," said Julliand.
Under-reporting starts at the macro level: the ratio of Indonesians living with a disability according to official government figures varies between 4% and 5% in stark contrast to the global average of 15%.
There are several reasons for under-reporting, according to the analysis:
- People with disabilities, especially those with visual or hearing impairments, are often ostracized, more reluctant or less able to participate in surveys than the rest of the population.
- The stigma associated with disability in society at large prevents many people with disabilities from disclosing.
- Different government agencies have different ways of approaching disability issues and use different definitions and methodologies for disability, making it difficult to reconcile and collect data.
The theme of this year's International Day of Persons with Disabilities is "Transformative solutions for inclusive development: the role of innovation in driving an accessible and equitable world". This is a reminder to ensure people with disabilities are not left behind. Transformative data solutions and innovations can help address these issues, Julliand emphasized.
The report was developed and prepared in collaboration with various stakeholders based on 2021 data; it is expected to be the starting point for official disability data collection in Indonesia.
The UN in Indonesia also launched a repository of reports on disability-related topics by all Agencies, available here: https://disability.un.or.id/
***
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/209912-un-report-highlights-disability-data-gaps-indonesia




Date: 02 December 2022
Title: UN report highlights disability data gaps in Indonesia
Content: 02 December 2022
--
People with disabilities are left behind. Unemployed, under-educated and still underrepresented in national statistics, their full and effective participation in society and equal access to basic services are hindered, according to a new report on disability data launched by the UN in Indonesia today. Published on the occasion of International Disability Day, 3 December, it is the first comprehensive analysis of the way people with disability are represented in government statistics.
Data is needed not only to highlight where deprivation and disparities exist, but also to develop evidence-based policies to address the needs of people with disabilities and related economic and social inequalities.
“To get the support of the government, people need to be made visible – and those living with disability are not,” said Valerie Julliand, the UN Resident Coordinator in Indonesia. “This is a major issue we are supporting the government in addressing.”.
According to the report, disability statistics in Indonesia remain insufficient as the data collected does not provide useful information about persons with disability, their needs, capacities and well-being. The aim of population statistics is not only to count people with disability, but also to consider what is needed to ensure that they are able to access education, buildings, transportation, employment, health services, legal services and political participation. Inclusive development is at the heart of the United Nations 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals.
The UN and Statistics Indonesia (BPS) are working with groups representing people with disabilities to fill gaps in official statistics. “With correct data, the Government and development partners will be able to focus resources on supporting those who face disability challenges,” Ms. Julliand said.
The underreporting starts at the macro level: the ratio of Indonesians living with disability according to official government figures varies between 4% and 5% in stark contrast to the global average of 15%.
There are several reasons for the underreporting, according to the analysis:
This year's theme for the International Day of Persons with Disabilities is “Transformative solutions for inclusive development: the role of innovation in fueling an accessible and equitable world”. It is a reminder to ensure people with disabilities are not left behind. Transformative data solutions and innovations can help address this issue, Ms. Julliand emphasized.
The report was developed and prepared in cooperation with various stakeholders based on 2021 data; it is expected to be the starting point of official data collection on disability in Indonesia.
The UN in Indonesia also launched a repository of reports on disability-related topics by all agencies. It is available here: https://disability.un.or.id/&nbsp;

***
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/209911-un-report-highlights-disability-data-gaps-indonesia




Date: 14 November 2022
Title: United Nations in Indonesia and Government of Indonesia Launch National Blue Agenda Actions Partnership for Sustainable Ocean Development
Content: 14 November 2022
---

Nusa Dua, November 14, 2022 - Indonesia has moved a step further in achieving the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda with the signing of the Blue Agenda Action Partnership in Nusa Dua, Bali, today. Under this comprehensive partnership, eight UN agencies and several other international development partners will support the Government of Indonesia in sustainable ocean development. The partnership was officially signed on the sidelines of the 17th G20 Leaders' Summit.
The Coordinating Minister for Maritime Affairs and Investment of the Republic of Indonesia, Luhut B. Pandjaitan, stated that building a sustainable blue economy is very important for Indonesia as it can help increase revenue from marine and fisheries activities, as well as preserve marine biodiversity and maintain ocean health conditions through the restoration and protection of marine ecosystems, and the sustainable use of marine resources. "The launch of this partnership provides an opportunity for Indonesia to take concrete actions and collaborate to bring social, economic and environmental change in the maritime sector," he said at the Blue Agenda launch event. "This partnership will help us recover faster, emerge stronger, with a focus on the interests of future generations."
UN Representative in Indonesia, Valerie Julliand, highlighted the complementarity between partners in achieving the common goal of sustainable ocean economic development. "The UN agencies and development partners participating in this partnership share experiences, expertise and innovative approaches, and deliver projects that support the Government of Indonesia in accelerating the Blue Agenda," she said.
The world at large is only now realizing how badly the ocean has deteriorated due to overexploitation of marine resources and increased dumping of waste into the high seas. The UN Oceans 2022 Conference in Lisbon earlier this year highlighted the plight of our oceans with countries expected to commit to the protection and sustainable use of marine resources. This focus will also take center stage at the UN Biodiversity Conference in Montreal in December.
Indonesia, as the world's largest archipelago, is setting an example with its balanced, long-term approach to ocean development, said Peter Thomson, the UN Secretary-General's Special Envoy for Oceans. "The world is watching, and together we can make a difference!"
The partnership will focus on the ocean and maritime sectors, ensuring a healthy environment and contributing to prosperity under four pillars: blue health, blue food, blue innovation and blue finance.
Here is how eight UN organizations will contribute to the Blue Agenda partnership.
FAO, the UN agency specialized in food and agriculture, will work with various stakeholders to support sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture to enrich marine resources and habitat health.
ILO, the UN's global employment agency, will support the government in the development of programs that provide maritime industry workers with labor protections as well as the necessary skills in maritime sectors such as shipbuilding, international logistics and shipping.
UNDP, the UN's global development agency, stands ready to assist by ensuring the investment needs for the Blue Agenda are met by supporting the government in the development of a Blue Financing Strategy as well as a Blue Bond/Sukuk portfolio to fund marine-related initiatives.
UNEP, the UN's lead environmental agency, will work with the Government of Indonesia on the development of a Master Plan for the Blue Economy, and will also support efforts to tackle marine pollution, with a focus on land- and ocean-based natural resources, monitoring and enabling conditions for all life.
UNESCO's Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, the UN agency for education, science and culture, will support scientific research, data collection and capacity building to help experts understand the risks and potential of the ocean. This will also contribute to improving tsunami preparedness at the community level, minimizing impacts and building community resilience to disasters.
UN Women, the UN agency working to achieve gender equality, will partner with companies working with women in coastal areas to promote economic empowerment and support skills development through the application of the Women's Empowerment Principles.
UNIDO, a UN agency focused on improving industrialization processes, will support thousands of small and medium-sized fisheries and marine enterprises to meet quality requirements and international standards, including implementing sustainability principles. This will improve local companies' access to global markets and increase revenues.
UNOPS, a UN agency focused on infrastructure and procurement, works to combat plastic pollution by supporting ASEAN member states in developing and strengthening policies and regulatory frameworks that reduce plastic production and consumption, increase recycling rates, and minimize leakage of waste from landfills.
With the cooperation partners signed, the parties concerned will move quickly to the implementation phase, said Jamshed M. Kazi, UN Women Representative for Indonesia.
"This form of cooperation is completely 'made in Indonesia' by actors who are very active in their respective fields in sustainable ocean development. This ensures that the ideas discussed can be turned into action as soon as possible."
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/207285-united-nations-indonesia-and-government-indonesia-launch-national-blue-agenda-actions




Date: 14 November 2022
Title: UN, Government of Indonesia launch National Blue Agenda Actions Partnership for sustainable ocean development
Content: 14 November 2022
---
Nusa Dua, 14 November 2022 - Indonesia has moved an important step closer to achieving its goals under the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development with the signing of the National Blue Agenda Actions Partnership in Nusa Dua, Bali, today. Under this new, comprehensive partnership, eight United Nations agencies and several international development partners will support the Government of Indonesia in the sustainable development of the ocean. The partnership was signed on the margins of the 17th G20 Leaders’ Summit.
The Coordinating Minister of Maritime Affairs and Investment of Indonesia (Marvest), Luhut B Pandjaitan, stated that building a sustainable blue economy is vital for Indonesia as it helps boost revenues from ocean-based activities while conserving marine biodiversity and the health of the ocean through the restoration of marine ecosystems and protection measures as well as sustainable use. “The launch of this partnership provides an opportunity for Indonesia to unlock concrete actions and collaboration for bringing social, economic and environmental change within the maritime sector,” he said at the occasion of the launch. “It will help us recover better, and recover stronger, with a focus on the interest of future generations.”
The Resident Coordinator for the UN in Indonesia, Valerie Julliand, highlighted the complementarities between the various partners in support of the shared goal of sustainable ocean development. “UN agencies and development partners are sharing their experience, expertise and innovative approaches, and are running projects complementing those of the Indonesian government in order to accelerate the blue agenda,” she said.
The world at large is only now realizing the dire straight of the ocean, due to an unsustainable exploitation of marine resources and the dumping of waste into the high seas globally. The 2022 UN Oceans Conference in Lisbon earlier this year highlighted the plight of the ocean, which will also take centre stage at the UN Biodiversity Conference in Montreal in December, where countries are expected to make commitments towards more sustainable ocean use.
Indonesia, the largest archipelago nation in the world, is setting an example with its balanced, long-term approach for ocean development, said Peter Thomson, the UN Secretary General’s Special Envoy for the Ocean. “The world is watching, and together we can make a difference!”
The Partnership will focus on the marine and maritime sectors, ensuring a healthy environment and contributing to prosperity under four pillars: blue health, blue food, blue innovation and blue finance.
Here is how the eight UN organizations will contribute to the partnership.
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) is working with various stakeholders to support sustainable fisheries and aquaculture management to enrich marine and inland biodiversity and habitat health.
The International Labor Organization (ILO) is supporting the government in developing programmes that provide workers in coastal communities with labour protection and the necessary skills in the maritime sector such as shipbuilding, international logistics and seafaring.
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is helping to ensure the necessary investment is available for the blue agenda by supporting the government with the development of a Blue Financing Strategy and on the potential issuance of a Blue Bond/Sukuk to finance ocean-related initiatives.
The UN Environment Programme (UNEP) is working with Indonesia in the development of its Master Plan for the Blue Economy, and also supports efforts to combat marine pollution, with a focus on both land-based and sea-based sources, monitoring and enabling conditions.
UNESCO's Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission supports scientific research, data sampling and capacity building to help Indonesian experts better understand ocean-related risks and opportunities. It also contributes to improved coastal community preparedness and response to tsunamis, to minimize their impacts and build resilient communities.
UN Women is partnering with companies working with women in coastal areas to promote economic empowerment and support skills development through the implementation of Women’s Empowerment Principles.
The UN Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) is supporting thousands of small- and medium-sized enterprises in the fishery sector to comply with international standards and quality requirements, including sustainability. This improves market access and leads to higher incomes.
The UN’s Office for Project Services (UNOPS) is working to combat plastic pollution through supporting the member countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in developing and strengthening policies and regulatory frameworks that reduce plastic production and consumption, increase recycling rates and minimize leakages from landfills.
With the agreement signed, the parties will now move quickly to implementation, said Jamshed M. Kazi, Country Representative of UN Women.
“This partnership is fully ‘made in Indonesia’, by the very actors who are active in their respective areas on the sustainable development of the ocean. This guarantees that we can hit the ground running and convert swiftly the ideas we discussed here today into action.”
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/207284-un-government-indonesia-launch-national-blue-agenda-actions-partnership-sustainable-ocean




Date: 29 September 2022
Title: Turning the Tide for Ocean Sustainability
Content: 29 September 2022
Jakarta, 29 September 2022 – The United Nations and the Government of Indonesia will closely cooperate and complement each other in desgining and implementing projects to protect and sustainably develop the oceans. Coordinating Minister for Maritime Affairs and Investment Luhut B. Pandjaitan and UN Resident Coordinator Valerie Julliand discussed today concrete implementation steps under the National Blue Agenda Actions Partnership, to be launched on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Bali in November.
Indonesia, the center of the world’s marine biodiversity, is turning the tide on the sustainable use of the oceans  with the support of the UN and other development partners, Coordinating Minister Luhut said.
“Indonesia is committed to support the completion of the National Blue Agenda Actions Partnership,” he said, adding that the Partnership will help Indonesia achieve its national medium-term plan targets. Indonesia has committed to a healthy and sustainable ocean. I believe we can recover together and recover stronger on a sustainable blue road.
The Partnership will focus on the marine and maritime sectors, ensuring a healthy environment and contributing to prosperity under four pillars: blue health, blue food, blue innovation and blue finance.
Ms Julliand, said: “Protecting oceans, and their resilience is important not just for food security and economic growth, but also in the fight against climate change. This is a good example of why development objectives need to be tackled in a holistic manner across sectors. And we are doing exactly that in Indonesia.”
Healthy and resilient marine and coastal ecosystems are fundamental to sustainable development. They are a source of food, energy and minerals, allow transport of goods across the globe and regulate the climate. However, coastal and marine ecosystems in Indonesia have begun to show signs of degradation from infrastructure development, extractive industries and pollution, threatening the livelihoods of ocean-dependent communities.
At a workshop earlier this week, organized by the UN in collaboration with the Coordinating Ministry for Maritime Affairs and Investment (CMMAI / Kemenko Marves) and other government partners, speakers mapped out the areas of the Partnership. They reviewed a wide range of ongoing and planned initiatives, from paying fishers to collect plastic debris in the ocean to diversifying job opportunities for coastal communities in sectors such as tourism, and more. Speakers also discussed ways to finetune blue finance to balance food production and the conservation of the environment.
The Partnership is based on complementarities between international and national endeavours, ensuring higher overall impact. It involves several UN agencies in Indonesia (FAO, ILO, UNDP, UNEP, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNOPS and UNWOMEN), working closely with relevant ministries and government agencies as well as the international development community in support of Indonesia’s role as a global leader on a sustainable Blue Agenda.
As the Chair of the G20 Presidency, Indonesia is the initiator Ocean 20 and promotes – in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals – three main issues on ‘life on land, and below water’: supporting a stronger sustainable recovery, promoting effective land and marine ecosystem management and resource mobilisation to support climate change mitigation and adaption.
Ms Julliand added: “This Blue Partnership, including a Plan of Action, comes at an auspicious time, as the world looks at Indonesia during this year of the presidency of the G20. As the largest archipelagic nation in the world, Indonesia can be an example to other countries in sustainable, ocean-based development.”
***
About the UN in Indonesia:
The United Nations (UN) is an international organisation founded in 1945. It is currently made up of 193 Member States. The mission and work of the United Nations are guided by the purposes and principles contained in its founding Charter. In Indonesia, the UN is committed to supporting the Government of Indonesia in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. The UN Country Team is led by the UN Resident Coordinator (RC), the representative of the UN Secretary-General at the country level. RCs lead UN Country Teams in consultations with the Government to define and agree on the UN strategic response to the Government’s development priorities in implementing the 2030 Agenda.
About the National Blue Agenda Partnership:
There are four main pillars of the Partnership:
Contacts:
-Miklos Gaspar, Director of the UN Information Centre in Jakarta (UNIC): miklos.gaspar AT un.org
-Andreas A. Hutahaean, Coordinating Ministry of Maritime and Investment Affairs (Kemenko Marvest): andreashut@maritim.go.id
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/201413-turning-tide-ocean-sustainability




Date: 29 September 2022
Title: Changing Currents for Ocean Sustainability
Content: 29 September 2022
Jakarta, 29 September 2022 –
The United Nations (UN) and the Government of Indonesia will work closely together and complement each other in designing and implementing programs to protect and sustainably develop the oceans. Coordinating Minister for Maritime Affairs and Investment, Luhut Binsar Pandjiatan, and UN Resident Representative in Indonesia, Valerie Julliand, today discussed concrete implementation steps under the National Blue Agenda Actions Partnership, which will be launched on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in Bali in November.
Indonesia, the world's center of marine biodiversity, is changing the course of sustainable ocean use with the support of the UN and other development partners, Luhut said.
"Indonesia is committed to supporting the fulfillment of the National Blue Agenda Action Partnership," he said, adding that the Partnership will help Indonesia achieve its national medium-term plan targets. Indonesia has committed to a healthy and sustainable ocean. I believe we can recover together and recover stronger on a sustainable blue path.
The Partnership will focus on the marine and maritime sector, ensuring a healthy environment and contributing to prosperity under four pillars: Blue Health, Blue Food, Blue Innovation and Blue Finance.
Valerie Julliand, said "Protecting the oceans, and their resilience, is important not only for food security and economic growth, but also in the fight against climate change. This is a good example of why development goals cannot be addressed in isolation, but holistically across sectors. And that is what we are doing in Indonesia."
Healthy and resilient ocean and coastal ecosystems are fundamental to sustainable development. They are sources of food, energy and minerals, enable the transportation of goods around the world and regulate our climate. However, coastal and marine ecosystems in Indonesia are beginning to show signs of degradation from infrastructure development, extractive industries and pollution that threaten the lives of many ocean-dependent communities.
In a workshop organized by the UN team and CMMAI/Mo Marves and other relevant ministries earlier this week, speakers reviewed various initiatives both ongoing and newly planned, from paying fishermen to collect plastic waste at sea to diversifying employment opportunities for coastal communities in sectors such as tourism, and more. Speakers also discussed ways to organize blue finance to balance food production and environmental conservation.
The partnership is based on complementarity between international and national efforts, ensuring higher overall impact. Involving several UN agencies in Indonesia (FAO, ILO, UNDP, UNEP, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNOPS and UNWOMEN), working closely with relevant government ministries and agencies as well as the international development community in supporting Indonesia's role as a global leader in the field of a sustainable Blue Agenda.
As Chair of the G20 Presidency, Indonesia initiated Ocean 20 and promoted - in line with the Sustainable Development Goals - three key issues on 'life on land, and under water': supporting stronger sustainable recovery, promoting effective management of terrestrial and marine ecosystems and resource mobilization to support climate change mitigation and adaptation.
Valerie Julliand adds: "This Blue Partnership, including the Action Plan, comes at an opportune time, as the world looks to Indonesia during this year of the G20 presidency. As the world's largest archipelago, Indonesia can set an example for other countries in ocean-based sustainable development."
***
About the UN in Indonesia:
The United Nations (UN) is an international organization founded in 1945. It currently consists of 193 Member States. The mission and work of the United Nations is guided by the purposes and principles contained in its founding Charter. In Indonesia, the UN is committed to supporting the Government of Indonesia in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. The UN Country Team is led by the Resident Coordinator (RC) of the UN Chief of Mission, the representative of the UN Secretary General at the country level. The RC leads the UN Country Team in consultation with the Government to define and agree on the UN's strategic response to the Government's development priorities in implementing the 2030 Agenda.
About the National Blue Agenda Partnership:
There are four main pillars of the Partnership:
Contact:
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/201414-changing-currents-ocean-sustainability




Date: 22 September 2022
Title: For the People, Planet, Prosperity, Peace and Partnership: United Nations Boost its Cooperation with Indonesia
Content: 22 September 2022
Inspired by the pattern of the Ulap Doyo Kalimantan woven cloth, the design of the annual UN-Indonesian report illustrates the closeness and synergy between UN agencies, the Government of Indonesia, and the general public
Jakarta, 22 September 2022 – The United Nations (UN) team in Indonesia stands in solidarity with the people and the Government of Indonesia in responding to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021. The UN worked with the Government to bring 87 million vaccination doses to the country through the international COVAX mechanism, trained more than 180,000 Indonesian health workers, and formed a dedicated taskforce to coordinate responses to oxygen scarcity issues at the height of the pandemic.
These are just three of thousands of UN and Indonesian Government results and interventions detailed in the UN in Indonesia Country Results Report 2021 which is now available in a more optimized format for online use (https://arr.un.or.id/).
This report – initially launched in June 2022 – shows that throughout 2021, despite the COVID-19 pandemic, Indonesia and the United Nations have remained true to the Sustainable Development Goals—a roadmap to a better, fairer, more sustainable future for all.
The UN Resident Coordinator in Indonesia, Valerie Julliand, said the results report is a testament to the way the UN and the Government came together to navigate those challenges. “Now, we must redouble our efforts if we are to remain true to our promise to leave no one behind and achieve the SDGs by 2030,” Julliand said. “This report serves as a record of our extraordinary achievements in 2021. I trust that it will also galvanize us for the tough road ahead.”

***
Contact: Miklos Gaspar – Director, UN Information Center (miklos.gaspar AT un.org)

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/200302-people-planet-prosperity-peace-and-partnership-united-nations-boost-its-cooperation




Date: 12 September 2022
Title: Secretary-General Appoints Miklos Gaspar of Hungary as Director of United Nations Information Centre in Jakarta
Content: 12 September 2022
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres has appointed Miklos Gaspar of Hungary as Director of the United Nations Information Centre in Jakarta, Indonesia.  Mr. Gaspar assumed his duties on 5 September.
A field office of the United Nations Department of Global Communications, the United Nations Information Centre in Jakarta provides services to Indonesia.
Mr. Gaspar has more than 25 years of experience in public information, communications and international relations, acquired at the United Nations and externally.  Since 2014, he has worked as Chief of Digital Media and Public Information Materials of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), where he formulated, implemented and managed IAEA’s online communications strategy, internal communications, as well as impact reporting and donor communication.
Previously, Mr. Gaspar was the Chief of Communications and Events at the International Trade Centre, where he managed all communications, advocacy and outreach activities, from strategic conceptualization to implementation.
Outside the United Nations system, Mr. Gaspar held several senior-level positions in the private sector, including as Editor-in-Chief of the Budapest Business Journal and Chief Operating Officer and Vice-President of Pressflex, LLC.
Mr. Gaspar holds a doctoral degree in Linguistics from the Eötvös Loránd University in Budapest. He is fluent in English, French and Hungarian, and has working knowledge of German.
***
About the UN Information Centre: United Nations Information Centres (UNICs) are the principal sources of information about the United Nations system in the countries where they are located. UNICs are responsible for promoting greater public understanding of and support for the aims and activities of the United Nations by disseminating information on the work of the Organization to people everywhere, especially in developing countries.
Contact: Andri Suryo (andri.suryo@un.org), National Information Officer, UNIC Jakarta
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/198805-secretary-general-appoints-miklos-gaspar-hungary-director-united-nations-information-centre




Date: 08 September 2022
Title: Blue Agenda Development Accelerated Through Indonesia-UN Partnership
Content: 08 September 2022
Jakarta, 8 September 2022 – Perwakilan dari Perserikatan Bangsa-Bangsa, pemerintah Indonesia dan mitra pembangunan internasional memulai inisiatif baru minggu ini untuk mendukung Indonesia dalam implementasi Agenda Biru, dan mengembangkan pertumbuhan ekonomi kelautan yang lebih berkelanjutan.
A sustainable ocean economy is critical for Indonesia, as well as for other coastal countries. It contributes to higher revenues from ocean-based activities, which are channeled back into marine conservation, encourages sustainable livelihoods and blue food for coastal communities, and conserves marine biodiversity with recovering marine and coastal ecosystems.
Jodi Mahardi, Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs at the Coordinating Ministry for Maritime Affairs and Investment, said: "We and the UN are working together to build a strategic partnership to encourage accelerated development in the field of sustainable maritime resources in accordance with the government's main objectives. We appreciate the assistance to the Government of Indonesia in accelerating the achievement of the government's development targets, both short and medium term in the maritime sector."
UN Representative in Indonesia, Valerie Julliand, said: "Healthy oceans are essential for the survival of humanity. The UN system in Indonesia is pleased to join the government and development partners to build a sustainable marine economy". She emphasized the "three Cs" - coordination, collaboration and commitment - to ensure that the work of all stakeholders is complementary, effective and efficient and contributes significantly to the government's National Medium-Term Development Plan targets related to marine resources. It can also support the unleashing of the country's blue economy potential in achieving the SDGs.
Under the National Blue Agenda Action Partnership, Kemenko Marvest and the UN team in Indonesia work closely with other relevant ministries and agencies as well as the diplomatic community in supporting Indonesia's role as a global leader in the Blue Agenda. The Blue Agenda seeks to support sustainable growth in the marine and maritime sectors. Coordinated strategic support for Indonesia by the UN will focus on four pillars: blue health, blue food, blue innovation and blue finance. Deputy Mahardi called on all relevant stakeholders to join the Partnership, which is scheduled to be launched on November 14 at the Ocean 20 side event to the G20 Summit in Bali.
***

About National Blue Agenda Action Partnership:
There are four pillars of Partnership:
1. Blue Health: (blue biodiversity and conservation, restoration, ecosystem management, coastal spatial planning, )
2. Blue Food (production, consumption, marine and aquaculture, market penetration and access to supply chains, food security systems, small-scale producers, sustainability certification and product competitiveness, innovation and investment angles)
3. Inovasi Biru (science and technology applications, human development, capacity building, employment, livelihoods, e-applications)
4. Blue Finance: (creative financing, payment for ecosystem services, blue economy, blue bonds, blue Sukuk, incubation/start-ups).
***
About the UN in Indonesia:
The United Nations (UN) is an international organization founded in 1945. It currently consists of 193 Member States. The mission and work of the United Nations is guided by the purposes and principles contained in its founding Charter. In Indonesia, the UN is committed to supporting the Government of Indonesia in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. The UN Country Team (UNCT) is led by the UN Resident Coordinator (RC), the representative of the UN Secretary-General at the country level. The RC leads the UNCT in consultation with the Government to define and agree on the UN's strategic response to the Government's development priorities in implementing the 2030 Agenda.
About the Coordinating Ministry for Maritime Affairs and Investment
The Coordinating Ministry for Maritime Affairs and Investment (Kemenko Marvest) is an Indonesian government ministry tasked with coordinating the synchronization and control of policies in the marine and investment sectors led by Mr. Luhut B. Pandjaitan.
As stipulated in Presidential Regulation No. 10/2015, Kemenko Marvest has the following functions:
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/198257-blue-agenda-development-accelerated-through-indonesia-un-partnership




Date: 08 September 2022
Title: Blue Agenda Development Fast Tracked through Indonesia-United Nations Partnership
Content: 08 September 2022
Jakarta, 8 September 2022 – Officials from the United Nations, the Indonesian government and international development partners kicked off a new initiative this week to support Indonesia in the implementation of its Blue Agenda, and develop a more sustainable ocean economy growth.
A sustainable ocean economy is vital for Indonesia, as well as for other coastal nations. It contributes to higher revenues from ocean-based activities, which channel back into ocean conservation, encourage sustainable livelihoods and blue foods for coastal communities, and preserve ocean biodiversity with a recovering ocean and coastal ecosystem.
Jodi Mahardi, Deputy Coordinating Minister for Maritime Resources at the Coordinating Ministry of Maritime and Investment Affairs (Kemenko Marvest), said: “We and the UN are working together to build a strategic partnership on encouraging the acceleration of development in the field of maritime resources sustainably in accordance with the government's main objectives. We appreciate assistance to the Government of Indonesia in accelerating the achievement of government development targets, both short and medium terms in the maritime sector.”
The UN Resident Coordinator for Indonesia, Valerie Julliand, said: “Healthy oceans are critical to humanity’s survival. The UN system in Indonesia is pleased to join forces with the government and development partners to build a sustainable ocean economy”. She emphasised the “three Cs” – coordination, collaboration and commitment – to ensure that the work of all players is complementary, effective and efficient and contributing significantly to the government's Mid-term National Development Plan’s targets related to marine resources. It can also support unleashing the country’s blue economy potential in achieving the SDGs.
Under the National Blue Agenda Actions Partnership, Kemenko Marvest and the UN team in Indonesia are working closely with other relevant ministries and government agencies as well as the diplomatic community in support of Indonesia’s role as a global leader on the Blue Agenda. The blue agenda seeks to support sustainable growth in the marine and maritime sectors. The coordinated strategic support for Indonesia by the UN will focus on all four pillars: blue health, blue food, blue innovation and blue finances.
Deputy Mahardi urged relevant stakeholders to join the Partnership, which is scheduled to be launched on 14 November at Ocean 20 side event to the G20 summit in Bali.
***
About the National Blue Agenda Actions Partnership:
There are four main pillars of the Partnership:

About the UN in Indonesia:
The United Nations (UN) is an international organisation founded in 1945. It is currently made up of 193 Member States. The mission and work of the United Nations are guided by the purposes and principles contained in its founding Charter. In Indonesia, the UN is committed to supporting the Government of Indonesia in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. The UN Country Team is led by the UN Resident Coordinator (RC), the representative of the UN Secretary General at the country level. RCs lead UN Country Teams in consultations with the Government to define and agree on the UN strategic response to the Government’s development priorities in implementing the 2030 Agenda.

About the  Coordinating Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Investment Coordinating Ministry for Maritime and Investment Affairs (Kemenko Marvest)
Is the Indonesian government ministry in charge of coordinating synchronizing as well as controlling policies in maritime affairs and investment led by Mr. Luhut B. Pandjaitan.  As stipulated in the Presidential Regulation No. 10/2015, Kemenko Marvest has the following functions:

Contacts:
Miklos Gaspar, Director of the UN Information Centre in Jakarta (UNIC): unic-jakarta@un.org
Andreas A. Hutahaean, Coordinating Ministry of Maritime and Investment Affairs: andreashut@maritim.go.id
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/198256-blue-agenda-development-fast-tracked-through-indonesia-united-nations-partnership




Date: 25 August 2022
Title: United Nations Fast-tracks Indonesia’s Blue Economy Development Through the “Blue Finance Accelerator” Program
Content: 25 August 2022
Through UNDP, the UN team in Indonesia joined forces with ADB and the Government of Indonesia to further unleash the country’s blue economy potential in achieving the SDGs.
Jakarta, 23 August 2022 — The United Nations team in Indonesia, through a joint UN program – Accelerating Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Investment in Indonesia (ASSIST) – led by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), kicked off the implementation of the Blue Finance Accelerator program today, together with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Indonesian Coordinating Ministry of Maritime and Investment Affairs.
Launched in December 2021, with support from the UN’s global SDG Joint Fund, ASSIST endeavors to fast-track Indonesia’s blue economy development through the “Blue Finance Accelerator” program. This program aims to increase the national and local government capacity and awareness of the blue economy and improve access to finance for select blue sector start-ups and Small, Medium Enterprises (SMEs) through capacity-building support and scale-up projects focused on the Blue Economy through the venture accelerator program.
The event also included consultations with relevant line ministries and government agencies to promote institutional awareness of the country’s blue economy agenda.
“The Blue Finance Accelerator is unique in that it targets the growth of impactful ventures in line with the Sustainable Development Goals. Through the Venture Accelerator program in this initiative, UNDP will help integrate impact into business acceleration by providing our Impact Measurement and Management advisory. By practicing impact, businesses are expected to become more sustainable as they generate positive outcomes for their surrounding people and the planet”, said Mr. Nicholas Booth, Officer-in-Charge UNDP Indonesia.
“Before the COVID-19 pandemic, the ocean economy was expected to double from 2010 to 2030, to reach USD 3 trillion and employ 40 million people. We need to be aware of the opportunities that healthy oceans can provide”, said Mr. Basilio Araujo, Deputy Minister for Maritime Sovereignty and Energy Coordination, Coordinating Ministry of Maritime & Investment Affairs said, in his keynote speech. “A healthy ocean and blue economy have a pivotal role in turning the global economic system around to rebuild human prosperity and well-being through the ocean, to restore biodiversity, and to restore ocean health,” he added.
Mr. Jiro Tominaga, Indonesia Country Director, ADB said ``We want to achieve with this Accelerator and the training sessions to be deployed throughout the program is primarily to promote Sustainable Blue Projects that would help to meet the targets set in the updated Government of Indonesia’s National Determined Contribution which fully recognizes oceans as a newly contributing element within its enhanced adaptation ambition to climate change impacts.‘’
Under the Blue Finance Accelerator program, UNDP will develop and implement the venture accelerator program to scale up participating startups and SMEs through capacity-building support, increased access to finance, and involvement in blue sector projects. Similarly, ADB will deliver and facilitate government training workshops to build knowledge and enhance the capacities of both central and local government and State-owned Enterprises.
The Blue Finance Accelerator program aims to enhance the Government of Indonesia’s commitments and capacities for the Blue Economy and to leverage innovative financing instruments toward infrastructure programs supporting ocean preservation, community resilience, and the overall growth of the Blue Economy.
It is hoped that the participating startups and SMEs can build their capacity in business scalability and impact as well as receive access to financing to support the local and central government in generating a pipeline of blue and bankable projects to contribute to the development of sustainable oceans and resilient coastal communities in Indonesia.  Central in the implementation of the Accelerator Program is the incorporation of women’s empowerment, which is key to transforming the local value chain of the blue economy and their role in uplifting livelihoods in coastal communities.
***

About Blue Finance Accelerator Program
To accelerate the Government of Indonesia’s objectives in the blue sector and the SDGs targets in Indonesia, UNDP Indonesia and ADB have partnered to launch and deliver a Blue Finance Accelerator. The Accelerator aims to) strengthen the Government’s capacity and knowledge in implementing blue-related projects; improve access to finance for selected Indonesian blue sector start-ups/SMEs through capacity-building support, and enable scale-up towards the Blue Economy in relevant to the public-private partnership approach through joint training sessions, matchmaking activities, knowledge-sharing, and policy dialogues.
About the UN SDG Joint Fund
The Joint SDG Fund supports countries in accelerating their progress toward the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and delivering on the commitment of the 2030 Agenda to leave no one behind. Providing a new generation of Resident Coordinators (RCs) and United Nations Country Teams (UNCTs) with a critical instrument to incentivize the adoption of new solutions for longer-term sustainability. UN Joint SDG Fund is operated with contributions from the following donor countries: Denmark, the European Union, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland.

MEDIA CONTACTS
UNDP Indonesia Communications Specialist, Tomi Soetjipto, suryo.tomi@undp.org
Head of the Innovative Financing Lab at UNDP Indonesia, Muhammad Didi Hardiana, muhammad.hardiana@undp.org
Asian Development Bank Project Origination & Structuring Specialist, Alexis Lebel, alebel.contractor@adb.org
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/196351-united-nations-fast-tracks-indonesia%E2%80%99s-blue-economy-development-through-%E2%80%9Cblue-finance




Date: 22 August 2022
Title: The United Nations and Government of Indonesia Stand in Solidarity With all Victims of Terrorism
Content: 22 August 2022
Remembering and honouring all victims of terrorism as part of the International Day of Remembrance and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism 2022.
Jakarta, 21 August 2022 – The United Nations (UN) through its peace initiative in Indonesia (the Guyub Project) has joined forces with the National Counter-Terrorism Agency (BNPT) and Witness and Victim Protection Agency (LPSK) to further support victims and survivors of terrorism, in the spirit of the International Day of Remembrance and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism.
People who suffered because of terrorist attacks in the past must cope with the COVID-19 pandemic on top of the challenges thrust upon them by terrorism. Against this backdrop, the UN, together with BNPT and LPSK, provided a platform where victims of terrorism were invited to share their experiences and testimonies. In line with a National Moment of Silence initiated in Indonesia in 2020 to take place every 21 August, a moment of silence was held in recognition of all victims and survivors of terrorism.
The Coordinating Minister for Political, Legal, and Security Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia, Prof. Dr. Mohammad Mahfud MD delivered keynote remarks at the remembrance event. “This occasion is an important moment to remember and honour the victims of terrorism and raise awareness to ensure that they are not forgotten, and their rights are fulfilled”, said Coordinating Minister Mahfud MD. He added, “the Government of Indonesia is deeply committed to fulfilling the rights of the victims of terrorism as stipulated in Law no. 5/2018 and Government Regulation no. 35/2020.” The Government, through LPSK and BNPT, has identified 1370 victims eligible to receive compensation and already provided compensation to 650 of these victims. Coordinating Minister Mahfud MD also expressed appreciation for BNPT, LPSK, and the United Nations for their continued commitment to honouring and fulfilling the rights of victims of terrorism.
This year’s commemoration, the fifth International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism, highlighted the theme of “Memories” – the power of memories and the importance of memories. “We are guided by, and pay deep respect to, the memories of the victims and survivors of terrorism. Whether they are the memories of those who we have lost or the memories held by those who are with us today.” said Ms. Valerie Julliand, United Nations Resident Coordinator in Indonesia. She added, “The memories we share and commemorate together today will raise awareness of the importance of preventing violent extremism that leads to terrorism”.
LPSK Chief Hasto Atmojo Suroyo said that the commemoration day for the victims and survivors of terrorism is an important occasion to ensure that the State always honor and fulfil the rights of the victims. “We are grateful that we are able provide compensation for victims of past terrorism incidents as mandated by Government Regulation no. 35/2020”, said Chief Hasto. Chief Hasto added that LPSK and BNPT has completed the facilitation for victim’s compensation in 2022. LPSK also established a programme called Penyintas Tangguh to engage more people, especially fellow survivors to join hand with LPSK to facilitate the provision of protection and rehabilitation supports for the victims.
Head of BNPT, Commissioner-General Police Boy Rafli Amar said that BNPT is strongly committed to taking comprehensive and sustainable measures to provide support for victims of terrorism. “BNPT has implemented several flagship programmes which involve the victims of terrorism over the past several years, as mandated by Law no. 5/2018 and Government Regulation no. 35/2022”, said Commissioner-General Boy. These programmes include Silaturahmi Kebangsaan, the development of a BNPT regulation on reconciliation between victims and former violent extremist prisoners, and various psychosocial rehabilitation support programmes.
The commemoration event was also attended by representatives of survivors from past terrorism incidents, diplomatic missions in Jakarta, UN agencies and civil society organisations.
For further information, please contact:
UNODC Indonesia: Kristian Patrasio (kristian.patrasio@un.org)
National Counter-Terrorism Agency (BNPT): Igor Tanjung (ezraigor@gmail.com)
Witness and Victim Protection Agency (LPSK): Tiara Rachmawati (tiara.rachmawati@lpsk.go.id)
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/195979-united-nations-and-government-indonesia-stand-solidarity-all-victims-terrorism




Date: 11 August 2022
Title: UNOPS partners with Government of Japan to aid COVID-19 preparedness in Indonesia
Content: 11 August 2022
In collaboration with the Government of Japan, the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) has delivered essential medical equipment, medical supplies and personal protective equipment to support the Government of Indonesia’s COVID-19 preparedness and response.

In collaboration with the Government of Japan, the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) has delivered essential medical equipment, medical supplies and personal protective equipment to support the Government of Indonesia’s COVID-19 preparedness and response.

Since May 2020, UNOPS and the Government of Japan have been working with the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia to equip hospitals with medical equipment, and medical supplies for COVID-19 patients, as well as strengthen the health preparedness and COVID-19 response of the country’s healthcare system. With $4 million in funding from the Government of Japan, UNOPS delivered medicine and medical equipment - including ICU Ventilators, COVID-19 testing kits, PCR machines, an ambulance and other items aimed at effectively and timely preventing and treating COVID-19 cases. Since the start of the project, the Joint-Partnership is estimated to have helped over 16,000 critically-ill patients, as well as supported the work of 1,750 health workers across 30 hospitals.

The 2 year project has now come to an end with the procurement, installation and training in the use of the last 65 ventilators.

The Government of Japan also provided an additional $ 5.6 million for a 4-month project that saw UNOPS supporting Indonesia’s Health Crisis Centre through the delivery of 2,800 Oxygen Concentrators; to help the country’s healthcare system respond to the outbreak of the COVID-19 Delta Variant in 2021.

Speaking about the project:

His Excellency Mr. Kenji Kanasugi, Ambassador of Japan to Indonesia said: “I am pleased that this Japan-UNOPS project is ending with concrete achievements, namely procurement of various essential medical equipment that have saved many lives and enhanced health preparedness in Indonesia. Let me reiterate Japan's strong commitment to the partnership with Indonesia, especially at the time of crisis.”

Ms. Samina Kadwani, UNOPS Director for Indonesia, Thailand, Papua New Guinea and the Pacific said: “UNOPS is proud to have partnered with the Government of Japan to support Indonesia’s COVID-19 preparedness and response. Through the delivery of medical equipment and medicine, we remain committed to helping the Government of Indonesia strengthen the country’s healthcare system.”

ENDS

Press contact details:

About UNOPS:
UNOPS mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. We help the United Nations, governments and other partners to manage projects, and deliver sustainable infrastructure and procurement in an efficient way. We respond to our partner’s needs in the world’s most challenging environments, by combining the best of the UN and the private sector, as we build foundations for countries to achieve sustainable development. Read more: www.unops.org


UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/194346-unops-partners-government-japan-aid-covid-19-preparedness-indonesia




Date: 01 August 2022
Title: World Breastfeeding Week: UNICEF and WHO Urge Greater Support for Breastfeeding in Indonesia as Rates Decline During COVID-19
Content: 01 August 2022
-
Jakarta, 1 August 2022 – As World Breastfeeding Week begins today, UNICEF and WHO are urging the government and partners in Indonesia to support mothers with early, exclusive and continued breastfeeding amid a decline in breastfeeding rates during the COVID-19 pandemic.
According to data from the 2021 National Basic Health Research Survey (RISKESDAS), 52.5 per cent – or only half of 2.3 million infants of less than six months of age – are exclusively breastfed in Indonesia, representing a 12 per cent decline from 2019. The early initiation of breastfeeding rate also decreased from 58.2 per cent in 2019 to 48.6 per cent in 2021.
Early and exclusive breastfeeding is crucial to child survival and protects children against childhood malnutrition as well as many common and life-threatening illnesses such as diarrhoea and pneumonia. Growing evidence shows that breastfed children perform better on intelligence tests, are less likely to be obese or overweight, and are less prone to diabetes later in life. Increasing breastfeeding globally could save more than 820 000 children each year and prevent an additional 20 000 cases of breast cancer in women annually.
Breastfeeding is even more critical now as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has strained the health system in Indonesia, making counselling and skilled lactation support far less accessible. A national survey by the Ministry of Health with support from UNICEF in 2021 found that less than 50 per cent of mothers and caregivers of children under the age of two received breastfeeding counselling during the pandemic. The situation has been worsened by ongoing practices of inappropriate marketing of breastmilk substitutes.
“Optimal breastfeeding practices are key to reduce stunting in children less than five years of age, to achieve the global and national target of reducing stunting by 40 per cent. Early initiation and continuation of exclusive breastfeeding for six months provides protection against gastrointestinal infections and necessary nutrients to prevent stunting," said WHO Representative Dr  N. Paranietharan. “Continued breastfeeding after six months up to two years along with complimentary feeding is the most adequate and safest way to prevent growth faltering and ensure cognitive development in this critical phase of life," he said.
“Breastfeeding is one of the most effective ways to safeguard child and maternal health and provides all children with the best start in life," said Acting UNICEF Representative Robert Gass. “Amid the global pandemic, it is essential that all stakeholders continue to protect, promote and support breastfeeding, which is a proven life-saving strategy and the foundation for a healthy, smart and productive society."
In line with this year’s theme for World Breastfeeding Week, Set Up for Breastfeeding: Educate and Support, WHO and UNICEF are calling for greater efforts from a range of stakeholders – including government at national and sub-national level, policy makers across various sectors, media entities and communities – to support mothers to continue optimal breastfeeding practices and scale up investments needed to promote and protect breastfeeding. These include:
UNICEF and WHO remain committed to support the government in protecting, promoting and supporting optimum breastfeeding practices by sharing tools and resources to help adopt the Ten Steps to Successful Breastfeeding, strengthening the country’s capacity to scale up access to quality breastfeeding counselling services, and generating evidence to foster stronger measures against inappropriate marketing of breast-milk substitutes.
During the pandemic, UNICEF and WHO encourage mothers with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 and who are isolated at home to continue breastfeeding and practice skin-to-skin contact with necessary hygiene precautions during feeding. Mothers also need to be supported to continue breastfeeding if their infant or young child becomes sick with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 or any other illness.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/192935-world-breastfeeding-week-unicef-and-who-urge-greater-support-breastfeeding-indonesia-rates




Date: 26 July 2022
Title: KOICA and UNOPS Partner to Strengthen Indonesia’s COVID-19 Response
Content: 26 July 2022
-
The Korean International Cooperation Agency (KOICA), in partnership with the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS),  supported the Indonesian Ministry of Transportation in strengthening COVID-19 prevention measures in railway facilities across the country.
Since 14 December 2021, KOICA and UNOPS have been working to support the Government of Indonesia’s Ministry of Transportation and the Jakarta Light Rail Transit (LRT), through the procurement of hygiene materials concerning railways safety, public health items for mass transportation, and audit and safety inspection equipment, to respond to the logistical and transportation challenges created by the spread of COVID-19 in the country.
The handover event - held at Hotel Harris in Bekasi on 26 July 2022 - marked the official delivery of all project items to the Ministry of Transportation. Attended by Dr. Edi Nur Salam, Director of Railway Safety for the Republic of Indonesia and Yun Gil Jeong, Country Director for KOICA Indonesia and others, the event included speeches by Dr. Edi Nur Salam and Yun Gil Jeong, as well as singing Indonesia Raya, prayers and the symbolic delivery of the KOICA Grant in the form of Safety Inspection Equipment, Occupational Health Equipment, and Health Equipment for train stations.
Project Impact:
Aimed at strengthening the COVID-19 response capacity of both LRT stations in Jakarta and railway facilities around the country, the project has sought to improve hygienic conditions for the public, and enable a safer working environment for Transportation Government Staff through the delivery of COVID-19 prevention items. The distributed items - which included Air Filtration Systems, Air Purifier Masks, Thermal Scanner Equipment, Oxygen Concentrators, and UV Light Sterilizers for escalators - are set to ensure early detection of cases, disinfect surfaces and limit the spread of infection through close contact; thereby minimizing the risks of possible transmission of the virus in stations. The new installations are expected to enhance the safety and support the work of 6,000 Transportation Government Staff, in addition to the estimated 315,075 passengers using LRT services every day.
With $660,000 in funding, the project represents Phase 2 of the Joint Partnership between KOICA and UNOPS, building on the previous work of Phase 1 that sought to support Indonesia’s Ministry of Transportation and Ministry of Health and the Indonesian National Board for Disaster Management (BNPB) strengthen the country’s health infrastructure systems by equipping hospitals with medical equipment and medical supplies for COVID-19 patients. Through the procurement of N95 masks, PCR machines, testing kits, and more, Phase 1 was instrumental in helping the Ministry of Transportation, Ministry of Health, and BNPB in strengthening the health preparedness and COVID-19 response of the healthcare system in Indonesia, and effectively and timely prevent and treat COVID-19 cases.
Speaking about the project:
Mr. Yun Gil Jeong, KOICA Indonesia Country Director,  said: “the donation of the distributed items is expected to strengthen the partnership of both countries by improving the hygiene of LRT and mass transportation in Indonesia. KOICA has a commitment to continue supporting the government of Indonesia in fighting the spread of Covid-19 in the LRT, in the train, and in the stations. “
Ms. Samina Kadwani, UNOPS Director for Indonesia, Thailand, Papua New Guinea and the Pacific, said: “UNOPS, in partnership with the Korean International Cooperation Agency, is proud to contribute to the strengthening of public health systems in Indonesia through the efficient delivery of health and hygiene items that will protect both passengers and workers of railway facilities across the country. “
Mr. Zulfikri, Director General of Railways, said: “The Ministry of Transportation greatly appreciates the donation from KOICA and for sure, it will give high benefits for all passengers of mass transportation in Indonesia. We are thankful to KOICA for choosing the Ministry of Transportation as the partner of this grant.”

ENDS
Notes to the editors:
Photos of the project can be found here - credit: @UNOPS/KOICA

Press contact details:
About KOICA: KOICA was established as a governmental agency of the Republic of Korea under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1991. It implements Korea's grant aid and technical cooperation programs for inclusive and sustainable development of partner countries. Main areas of operations include education, health, rural development, public administration, and technology environment and energy. KOICA manages its ODA programs through its country offices in 44 partner countries. Read more: http://www.koica.go.kr

About UNOPS:
UNOPS mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. We help the United Nations, governments and other partners to manage projects, and deliver sustainable infrastructure and procurement in an efficient way. We respond to our partner’s needs in the world’s most challenging environments, by combining the best of the UN and the private sector, as we build foundations for countries to achieve sustainable development.
Read more: www.unops.org

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/192198-koica-and-unops-partner-strengthen-indonesia%E2%80%99s-covid-19-response




Date: 11 July 2022
Title: Launch of World Population Prospects Report 2022
Content: 11 July 2022
World population to reach 8 billion on 15 November 2022
Amid falling growth rates, global population 
projected to peak around 10.4 billion in the 2080s
New York, 11 July – The global population is projected to reach 8 billion on 15 November 2022, and India is projected to surpass China as the world’s most populous country in 2023, according to World Population Prospects 2022, released today on World Population Day.
“This year’s World Population Day falls during a milestone year, when we anticipate the birth of the Earth’s eight billionth inhabitant. This is an occasion to celebrate our diversity, recognize our common humanity, and marvel at advancements in health that have extended lifespans and dramatically reduced maternal and child mortality rates,” said UN Secretary-General António Guterres.  “At the same time, it is a reminder of our shared responsibility to care for our planet and a moment to reflect on where we still fall short of our commitments to one another,” he added.

The global population is growing at its slowest rate since 1950, having fallen under 1 per cent in 2020. The latest projections by the United Nations suggest that the world’s population could grow to around 8.5 billion in 2030 and 9.7 billion in 2050. It is projected to reach a peak of around 10.4 billion people during the 2080s and to remain at that level until 2100.
World Population Prospects 2022 also states that fertility has fallen markedly in recent decades for many countries. Today, two-thirds of the global population lives in a country or area where lifetime fertility is below 2.1 births per woman, roughly the level required for zero growth in the long run for a population with low mortality. The populations of 61 countries or areas are projected to decrease by 1 per cent or more between 2022 and 2050, owing to sustained low levels of fertility and, in some cases, elevated rates of emigration.
More than half of the projected increase in the global population up to 2050 will be concentrated in eight countries: the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, India, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines and the United Republic of Tanzania. Countries of sub-Saharan Africa are expected to contribute more than half of the increase anticipated through 2050.
“The relationship between population growth and sustainable development is complex and multidimensional” said Liu Zhenmin, UN Under-Secretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs. “Rapid population growth makes eradicating poverty, combatting hunger and malnutrition, and increasing the coverage of health and education systems more difficult. Conversely, achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, especially those related to health, education and gender equality, will contribute to reducing fertility levels and slowing global population growth.”
In most countries of sub-Saharan Africa, as well as in parts of Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean, the share of population at working age (between 25 and 64 years) has been increasing thanks to recent reductions in fertility. This shift in the age distribution provides a time-bound opportunity for accelerated economic growth per capita, known as the “demographic dividend”. To maximize the potential benefits of a favourable age distribution, countries should invest in the further development of their human capital by ensuring access to health care and quality education at all ages and by promoting opportunities for productive employment and decent work.
The share of global population at ages 65 and above is projected to rise from 10 per cent in 2022 to 16 per cent in 2050. At that point, it is expected that the number of persons aged 65 years or over worldwide will be more than twice the number of children under age 5 and about the same as the number under age 12. Countries with ageing populations should take steps to adapt public programmes to the growing numbers of older persons, including by establishing universal health care and long-term care systems and by improving the sustainability of social security and pension systems.
Global life expectancy at birth reached 72.8 years in 2019, an improvement of almost 9 years since 1990. Further reductions in mortality are projected to result in an average global longevity of around 77.2 years in 2050. Yet in 2021, life expectancy for the least developed countries lagged 7 years behind the global average.
The COVID-19 pandemic has affected all three components of population change. Global life expectancy at birth fell to 71.0 years in 2021. In some countries, successive waves of the pandemic may have produced short-term reductions in numbers of pregnancies and births, while for many other countries, there is little evidence of an impact on fertility levels or trends. The pandemic severely restricted all forms of human mobility, including international migration.
“Further actions by Governments aimed at reducing fertility would have little impact on the pace of population growth between now and mid-century, because of the youthful age structure of today’s global population. Nevertheless, the cumulative effect of lower fertility, if maintained over several decades, could be a more substantial deceleration of global population growth in the second half of the century,” added John Wilmoth, Director of the Population Division of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs.

For more information, please visit: https://bit.ly/3Hqihke
Media contacts:
Sharon Birch
United Nations
Department of Global Communications
birchs@un.org
Bela Hovy
United Nations
Department of Economic and Social Affairs
hovy@un.org
World population to reach 8 billion on 15 November 2022
Amid falling growth rates, global population 
projected to peak around 10.4 billion in the 2080s
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/189877-launch-world-population-prospects-report-2022




Date: 28 June 2022
Title: The UN in Indonesia and the Government of Indonesia Launched the 2021 Country Results Report  on Sustainable Development Goals’ 5 Pillars: People, Planet, Prosperity, Peace, and Partnership
Content: 28 June 2022
Inspired by the pattern of the Ulap Doyo Kalimantan woven cloth, the design of the UN in Indonesia 2021 Country Results Report symbolizes the closeness and synergy between UN agencies, the Government of Indonesia, and the Indonesian public.
Jakarta, 28 June 2022 - As Indonesia navigated one of the world’s severest COVID-19 outbreaks in 2021, the UN worked with the government to bring 87 million vaccination doses to the country through the international COVAX mechanism, trained more than 180,000 Indonesian health workers, and formed a dedicated task force to coordinate responses to oxygen scarcity issues at the height of the pandemic.
These are just three of thousands of UN and Indonesian Government results and interventions detailed in the UN in Indonesia Country Results Report 2021, which UN Resident Coordinator in Indonesia Valerie Julliand officially presented to BAPPENAS’ Deputy Minister for Development Funding Scenaider C.H. Siahaan and Secretary for the Ministry of National Development Planning/BAPPENAS, Taufik Hanafi on June 28, 2022. Officially launched at the annual BAPPENAS–UN Forum 2022, the 2021 results report breaks down the achievements of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2021–2025 (UNDSCF) in its first year of implementation and details the ways in which the UN and the government worked to bring the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through a year that posed unprecedented challenges.
UN Resident Coordinator in Indonesia Valerie Julliand said the results report is a testament to the way the UN and the Government came together to navigate those challenges. “Now, we must redouble our efforts if we are to remain true to our promise to leave no one behind and achieve the SDGs by 2030,” the Resident Coordinator said. “This report serves as a record of our extraordinary achievements in 2021. I trust that it will also galvanize us for the tough road ahead.”
Secretary for the Ministry of National Development Planning/BAPPENAS, Taufik Hanafi, on behalf of Minister Suharso Monoarfa said, “The Government of Indonesia has been engaged in effective partnerships with UN Bodies in Indonesia through various supports, collaborations, and mobilization of resources to support the achievement of national development priorities in the past decades.   Going forward, the Government of Indonesia will continuously advancing innovative financing for Sustainable Development Goals and strengthening data analysis, technology, youth empowerement and digitalisation.”
Established in 2014, the annual BAPPENAS–UN forum is the main platform for strategic dialogue between the Government of Indonesia and the United Nations. This year, the forum brings together 300 participants from the UN in Indonesia and BAPPENAS,representatives from Indonesia’s line Ministries and other stakeholders, including private sector and civil society partners.
The UN in Indonesia’s 2021 Country Results Report structure aligns with the four strategic priorities of the UNSDCF. Below are a several notable results under each of the UNSDCF’s four outcome areas in 2021.
Outcome 1: Inclusive Human Development (People, Peace)
Outcome 2: Economic Transformation (Prosperity)
Outcome 3: Green Development, Climate Change & Natural Disasters (Planet)
Outcome 4: Innovation to Accelerate Progress Towards the SDGs (Partnership)

***
Editor's note:
Visit the following link to download the United Nations Annual Report – Indonesia 2021:
https://indonesia.un.org/en/179261-united-nations-indonesia-country-results-report-2021
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/188025-un-indonesia-and-government-indonesia-launched-2021-country-results-report-sustainable




Date: 21 April 2022
Title: UNODC and Second Chance Foundation Mark Kartini Day With Batik and Ecoprint Auction
Content: 21 April 2022
-
JAKARTA – United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and UN Women support Second Chance Foundation in holding the batik and ecoprint auction to mark Kartini Day, which falls on 21 April 2022. The event is also supported by the Directorate General of Corrections and Hi-App.
Kartini Day commemorate the birth of national heroine Raden Ajeng Kartini, who is hailed as a symbol of women’s empowerment in Indonesia for promoting gender equity and women’s rights during the 19th century in Central Java.
The online auction features 24 selected batik and ecoprint products crafted by the female inmates of the Semarang Correctional Facility in Semarang, Central Java. The products feature patterns and colours that symbolize Kartini’s spirit of empowerment and grace.
Since 2019, UNODC and Second Chance Foundation has been supporting the Semarang Correctional Facility in providing batik-making workshops for the inmates in a bid to prepare them with new skills.
All the auction proceedings will be directed to support the continuation of the batik-making workshops for the inmates.
Join the online auction from 18 to 21 April 2022 by following Instagram account of @hiappofficial and filling out the registration form.
Learn more about programs that support female inmates in Indonesia on an online discussion “Bangkitkan Semangat Emansipasi Kartini” (Raise Kartini’s Emancipation Spirit):

Date: Thursday, 21 April 2022
Time: 16:00 – 18:00 WIB (Jakarta time)
Speakers:
MC: Ni Luh Puspa, News Anchor Kompas TV

Registration link: bit.ly/IkutKegiatan
Contact person: Dylan (drachman@hiapp.id)
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/178905-unodc-and-second-chance-foundation-mark-kartini-day-batik-and-ecoprint-auction




Date: 12 April 2022
Title: The United Nations in Indonesia welcomes the Indonesian Parliament’s approval of the Sexual Violence Crime Bill (RUU TPKS) into law on 12 April 2022
Content: 12 April 2022
-
PRESS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

The United Nations in Indonesia welcomes the Indonesian Parliament’s approval of the Sexual Violence Crime Bill (RUU TPKS) into law on 12 April 2022

Jakarta, 12 April 2022–The United Nations (UN) in Indonesia extends its congratulations to the House of Representatives of the Republic of Indonesia (DPR-RI) and to all government and civil society partners involved in approving the sexual violence crime bill, RUU Tindak Pidana Kekerasan Seksual (RUU TPKS), into law.

The bill’s passage is a testament to the leadership of the Ministry of Women’s Empowerment and Child Protection (Kemen PPPA) and the National Commission on Violence against Women (Komnas Perempuan), and to the vigorous advocacy of civil society and women's rights activists across the country. It is a victory for all women, girls, and victims and survivors of sexual violence in Indonesia who have the fundamental right to protection under a comprehensive legal umbrella. It is also a fitting tribute to the legacy of women’s rights activist Raden Adjeng Kartini, whose April 21, 1879 birthdate Indonesians commemorate nationwide.

The Sexual Violence Crime Bill delivers a long-awaited legal framework for handling sexual violence. Although the bill has its shortcomings in terms of adopting a narrower scope of types of violence considered, it is an important step in the right direction. The bill’s passage into law will enable survivors of sexual violence to seek justice and hold perpetrators accountable. It will also create a safer environment for women and girls.

The UN in Indonesia has strongly supported the passage of RUU TPKS, through partnerships with Kemen PPPA, Komnas Perempuan, and civil society organizations. The bill’s passage reaffirms Indonesia’s commitment to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW).

The UN in Indonesia stands with all survivors of sexual violence, and with women and girls in Indonesia. Today marks a promising step towards our ultimate goal of creating a world free of gender-based violence, but our work does not end here. We call for multi-sectoral collaboration among national stakeholders and the public to support and monitor the new law’s full implementation. As an integral part of the 2030 (Sustainable Development Goals) agenda adopted by all member states, we must continue to work together to create a just and equitable world where everyone lives with dignity and free from violence.

For more information, please contact:

About the UN in Indonesia:

The United Nations (UN) is an international organization founded in 1945. It is currently made up of 193 Member States. The mission and work of the United Nations are guided by the purposes and principles contained in its founding charter. In Indonesia, the UN is committed to supporting the Government of Indonesia in the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. The UN Country Team is led by UN Resident Coordinator Valerie Julliand, the highest-ranking representative of the UN development system at the country level. RCs lead UN Country Teams in consultation with the Government to define and agree on the UN strategic response to the Government’s development priorities in implementing the 2030 Agenda.

About UNFPA:

UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, works to deliver a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every child birth is safe and every young person’s potential is fulfilled. Since 1972, UNFPA has been one of Indonesia’s most prominent partners in reproductive health, youth, population and development, and gender equality.

UNFPA Indonesia strives to achieve Three Zeros, a global commitment to end preventable maternal deaths, unmet need for family planning, and gender-based violence and harmful practices, guided by the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2030 Agenda. To learn more, please visit https://indonesia.unfpa.org/
About UN Women:

UN Women is the United Nations organization dedicated to gender equality and the empowerment of women. A global champion for women and girls, the organization was established in 2010 to accelerate progress on women’s rights worldwide. UN Women’s efforts are based on the fundamental belief that every woman has the right to live a life free from violence, poverty, and discrimination, and that gender equality is a prerequisite to achieving global development.

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/177437-united-nations-indonesia-welcomes-indonesian-parliament%E2%80%99s-approval-sexual-violence-crime




Date: 17 December 2021
Title: THE UN JOINT STATEMENT ON THE DELAY OF THE PASSING OF THE SEXUAL VIOLENCE BILL (RUU TPKS)
Content: 17 December 2021
-
We regret the decision of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Indonesia (DPR-RI) to delay the passing of the sexual violence crime bill (RUU TPKS).
The delay is a setback to the tireless advocacy and dedication of civil society and women's rights activists, who have long fought for a comprehensive legal umbrella that protects the rights of victims and survivors of sexual violence. And ultimately, the delay affects all women, girls, and survivors of sexual violence in Indonesia who have been waiting for legal reform towards the elimination of sexual violence.
Along with the new Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and Technology Regulation (Permendikbud) No. 30/2021 on Preventing and Addressing Sexual Violence in Universities, we trust that the passing of the bill would send the strong message that there is zero-tolerance for violence against women and girls in Indonesia.
Today, the UN reaffirms its support for the government of Indonesia and civil society in the protection of the rights of women and girls in accordance with the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW). We must continue to work together against gender-based violence as an integral part of the 2030 (Sustainable Development Goals) agenda adopted by all member states. We cannot afford to rest until we get there.

UN Resident Coordinator - Valerie Julliand
UNFPA Representative - Anjali Sen
UN WOMEN Representative and Liaison to ASEAN - Jamshed Kazi
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/165774-un-joint-statement-delay-passing-sexual-violence-bill-ruu-tpks




Date: 17 December 2021
Title: UN JOINT Statement Regarding the Delay of Ratification of the TPKS Bill
Content: 17 December 2021
-
We regret the decision of the People's Representative Council of the Republic of Indonesia (DPR-RI) to postpone approval of the Draft Law on the Crime of Sexual Violence (RUU TPKS).
This delay is a setback to a long process of advocacy and high dedication from civil society and women's activists who have long fought for a comprehensive legal umbrella that protects the rights of victims and survivors of sexual violence. Ultimately, this delay has an impact on all women, girls and survivors of sexual violence in Indonesia who have been waiting for a long time for legal reform to eliminate sexual violence.
As with the Minister of Education, Culture, Research and Technology Regulation (Permendikbud) No. 30/2021 concerning the Prevention and Handling of Sexual Violence (PPKS) in Higher Education Environments, we believe that the ratification of this bill will send a strong message that there is zero tolerance for violence against women and girls in Indonesia.
Today the UN reaffirmed its support to the Government of Indonesia and civil society in protecting the rights of women and girls in accordance with the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW). We must continue to work together to prevent gender-based violence, which is an integral part of the 2030 agenda (Sustainable Development Goals) adopted by all UN member states. We cannot remain silent until this goal is achieved.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/165775-un-joint-statement-regarding-delay-ratification-tpks-bill




Date: 03 December 2021
Title: The UN in Indonesia launches a new joint programme to spur fresh investment on SDGs in Indonesia
Content: 03 December 2021
-
The United Nations (UN) in Indonesia publicly launched a joint UN Programme today, entitled Accelerating Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Investment in Indonesia – ASSIST, paving the way for much-needed fresh investment and financing mechanism to fill SDGs funding gap in Indonesia. The Programme utilises various innovative financing instruments from government and non-government sources (e.g., public, private, and Islamic capital) to fill the SDGs funding gap of USD 4.7 trillion.
With strategic leadership from the Head of the UN in Indonesia, Ms Valerie Julliand, four UN agencies on the ground – United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) work side-by-side with the Government of Indonesia to closing the funding gap for SDGs.
On this occasion, Ms Julliand said, “Achieving the SDGs requires the mobilisation of tremendous resources and capital. And the key to achieving this rests both in leveraging existing financing and unlocking new financing sources. It is incumbent upon us to ensure that we carry forward the spirit of collaboration and partnership for this Decade of Action. This public launch comes only two days after Indonesia began its presidency of the G20. It is an opportune moment to discuss SDG financing, which Indonesia has committed to keeping on the agenda under the finance track. I express my gratitude to the Government of Indonesia for its cooperation in implementing the ASSIST Joint Programme.”
Under the Programme, the UN will collaborate with the government to develop thematic bonds, blended finance instruments, and SDG-linked loans with other stakeholders: local financial institutions, development partners, association and non-state actors. The Programme also provides capacity building for relevant stakeholders, including women- and youth-led Small and Medium Enterprises (SME), and provides them with the knowledge to access financing to boost green and sustainable businesses.
Mr Luky Alfirman, Director General of Budget Financing and Risk Management, Ministry of Finance, expressed his support to the programme in his remarks. “I believe this programme will enhance multi-stakeholder collaboration, encouraging more actors to also take part in re-orienting investments and efforts towards accelerating the SDGs achievements. This collaborative and strategic move also highlight Indonesia’s innovative and forward-thinking approach to raise new funds for SDGs projects and keep us on track for the final 9-year sprint towards 2030.” said Mr Alfirman.
“The funding gap for Indonesia's SDGs has grown as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The country must strike a balance between regaining economic strength and advancing toward the Sustainable Development Goals. To move forward, it is imperative that we make additional investment in the SDGs at this transitional point.” said, Ms Vivi Yulaswati, Ministry of National Development Planning / Bappenas as The Head of SDGs Secretariat]
“The public and private sector including financial institutions, businesses, and civil society have a crucial role to play in closing the financing gap on SDGs. As a lead agency, UNDP is pleased to be part of this distinct multi-stakeholder collaboration that can unlock much-needed funding opportunities to fast-track SDG achievement in Indonesia,” said Mr Norimasa Shimomura, Resident Representative of UNDP Indonesia.
At the launch, the panelists from the program's key partners emphasized the importance of multi-stakeholder collaboration and partnerships in addressing the challenges of SDG investment.  The Ministry of Finance’s Director of Government Debt Securities, Deni Ridwan underlined the need to raise additional capital for SDGs financing, especially in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Enrico Hariantoro, Group Head of Integrated Financial Services Sector Policy of the Financial Services Authority (OJK), said that progress had been made to ensure Indonesia’s financing ecosystem is supportive of the SDG financing needs. Kris Hananto, Head of Compliance Division of Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and Emmy Astuti, Executive Director, Association for Women in Small Business Assistance shared how businesses can take significant roles in the collaborative effort to mobilize funds for SDGs.
ASSIST Joint Programme got underway in April 2021 upon successfully submitting a project proposal to the Joint SDG Fund, led by UNDP. Indonesia was one of four countries that received a total of USD 9.7 million in funding out of 155 proposals from more than 100 countries globally.
With the support of the ASSIST Joint Programme, the Indonesian government has issued the country's first sovereign SDG Bond successfully with the amount of EUR 500 million. The Programme will continue collaborating with other organisations to develop and implement more innovative financing instruments for sustainable development.
END

About the UN Joint SDG Fund
The Joint SDG Fund supports countries to accelerate their progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and to deliver on the commitment of the 2030 Agenda to leave no one behind. They are providing a new generation of Resident Coordinators (RCs) and United Nations Country Teams (UNCTs) with a critical instrument to incentivize the adoption of new solutions for longer-term sustainability. UN Joint SDG Fund is operated with contributions from the following donor countries: Denmark, the European Union, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland.
About the United Nations in Indonesia
The United Nations (UN) is an international organization founded in 1945. It is currently made up of 193 Member States. The mission and work of the United Nations are guided by the purposes and principles contained in its founding Charter. In Indonesia, the UN is committed to supporting the Government of Indonesia in the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. The UN Country Team is led by the UN Resident Coordinator (RC for short) the highest-ranking representative of the UN development system at the country level. RCs led UN Country Teams in consultations with the Government to define and agree on the UN strategic response to the Government’s development priorities in implementing the 2030 Agenda. The Resident Coordinator is the designated representative of – and reports to – the UN Secretary-General.
About UNDP
The United Nations Development Programmes (UNDP) is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality, and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and planet. Learn more at www.undp.org or follow at @UNDP
About UNEP
The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) is the leading global environmental authority that sets the global environmental agenda, promotes the coherent implementation of the environmental dimension of sustainable development within the United Nations system, and serves as an authoritative advocate for the global environment.
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org. Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook.
About UNIDO
United Nations Industrial Development Organization is a specialized UN agency whose mission is to promote and accelerate inclusive and sustainable industrial development (ISID) in Member States for poverty reduction, inclusive globalization and environmental sustainability: www.unido.org
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/165380-un-indonesia-launches-new-joint-programme-spur-fresh-investment-sdgs-indonesia




Date: 03 December 2021
Title: PBB luncurkan program baru untuk pacu investasi SDGs di Indonesia
Content: 03 December 2021
-
Perwakilan Perserikatan Bangsa-Bangsa (PBB) di Indonesia hari ini meluncurkan program kerjasama lembaga PBB yang berjudul Mempercepat Investasi Tujuan Pembangunan Berkelanjutan (TPB) di Indonesia/Accelerating Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Investment in Indonesia – ASSIST, membuka jalan bagi mekanisme investasi dan pembiayaan baru yang sangat dibutuhkan untuk mengisi kesenjangan pendanaan SDGs di Indonesia. Program ini memanfaatkan berbagai instrumen pembiayaan inovatif dari sumber pemerintah dan non-pemerintah (misalnya, publik, swasta, dan Syariah) untuk mengisi kesenjangan pendanaan SDGs sebesar 4,7 triliun dolar AS.
Dipimpin Kepala Perwakilan PBB di Indonesia, Valerie Julliand, empat lembaga PBB yaitu United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), dan United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) bekerja bersama Pemerintah Indonesia untuk menutup kesenjangan pendanaan untuk SDGs.
Pada kesempatan ini, Julliand mengatakan, “Pencapaian SDGs membutuhkan sumber daya dan dana yang sangat besar. Kuncinya ada pada pemanfaatan pembiayaan yang telah ada dan sumber pembiayaan baru. Kita harus meneruskan semangat kolaborasi dan kemitraan untuk Dekade Aksi ini. Peluncuran program ini dilakukan hanya dua hari setelah Indonesia menjadi Presiden G20. Ini adalah saat yang tepat untuk membahas pembiayaan SDGs, yang telah menjadi komitmen Indonesia. Saya mengucapkan terima kasih kepada Pemerintah Indonesia atas kerjasamanya dalam pelaksanaan Program ASSIST.”
Di bawah program ini, PBB akan berkolaborasi dengan pemerintah untuk penerbitan obligasi dan sukuk tematik bertema SDGs, instrumen blended finance, dan pinjaman terkait SDGs bersama pemangku kepentingan lainnya yang meliputi lembaga keuangan lokal, mitra pembangunan, serta asosiasi dan aktor non-pemerintah. Program ini juga memberikan peningkatan kapasitas bagi pemangku kepentingan terkait, termasuk Usaha Kecil dan Menengah (UKM) yang dipimpin oleh perempuan dan pemuda, dan memberi mereka pengetahuan untuk mengakses pembiayaan guna mendorong bisnis hijau dan berkelanjutan.
Bapak Luky Alfirman, Direktur Jenderal Pengelolaan Pembiayaan dan Risiko Kementerian Keuangan Republik Indonesia menyampaikan “Saya percaya program ini akan meningkatkan kolaborasi lintas pemangku kepentingan, mendorong lebih banyak aktor untuk juga mengambil bagian dalam me-reorientasi investasi dan upaya untuk mempercepat pencapaian Tujuan Pembangunan Berkelanjutan. Langkah kolaboratif dan strategis ini juga menyoroti pendekatan Indonesia yang inovatif dan berorientasi ke depan dalam mengumpulkan pendanaan baru untuk proyek-proyek TPB, memastikan Indonesia tetap berada di jalur yang tepat dalam 9 tahun terakhir menuju 2030.”
“Kesenjangan pendanaan untuk SDGs Indonesia telah meningkat sebagai akibat dari pandemi COVID-19. Indonesia harus menyeimbangan pemulihan ekonomi dan kemajuan pencapaian Tujuan Pembangunan Berkelanjutan. Ke depan, kita perlu melakukan investasi tambahan untuk SDGs di masa transisi ini.” ujar Vivi Yulaswati, Kepala Sekretariat SDGs, Kementerian PPN/Bappenas.
Kepala Perwakilan UNDP di Indonesia, Norimasa Shimomura menyatakan “Sektor publik dan swasta termasuk lembaga keuangan, dunia usaha, dan masyarakat madani memiliki peran penting untuk menutup kesenjangan pembiayaan SDGs. Sebagai lembaga utama PBB, UNDP berkomitmen menjadi bagian dari kolaborasi multi-pihak ini yang dapat membuka peluang pendanaan yang sangat dibutuhkan untuk mempercepat pencapaian SDGs di Indonesia,”
Acara peluncuran tersebut menekankan pentingnya kolaborasi dan kemitraan multi-pihak untuk mengatasi tantangan investasi SDGs. Direktur Surat Utang Negara Kementerian Keuangan, Deni Ridwan menggarisbawahi perlunya penambahan modal untuk pembiayaan SDGs, terutama di tengah pandemi COVID-19.
Enrico Hariantoro, Kepala Grup Kebijakan Sektor Jasa Keuangan Terintegrasi OJK, mengatakan kemajuan telah dicapai untuk memastikan ekosistem pembiayaan Indonesia mendukung kebutuhan pembiayaan SDGs. Kris Hananto, Kepala Divisi Kepatuhan Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) dan Emmy Astuti, Direktur Eksekutif Asosiasi Pendamping Perempuan Usaha Kecil Mikro (ASPPUK) berbagi bagaimana dunia usaha dapat mengambil peran penting dalam upaya kolaboratif untuk penggalangan dana SDGs.
Program ASSIST dimulai pada April 2021 setelah pengajuan proposal yang dipimpin oleh UNDP ke UN Joint SDG Fund berhasil mendapat persetujuan. Indonesia adalah salah satu dari empat negara yang menerima total pendanaan sebesar 9,7 juta dolar AS dari 155 proposal dari lebih dari 100 negara.
Dengan dukungan Program ASSIST, Pemerintah Indonesia telah menerbitkan surat utang negara bertema SDGs (SDG Bond) yang pertama di Asia Tenggara sebesar 500 juta Euro. Program ini akan terus berkolaborasi dengan organisasi lain untuk mengembangkan dan menerapkan instrumen pembiayaan inovatif untuk pembangunan berkelanjutan.
SELESAI

About the UN Joint SDG Fund
The Joint SDG Fund supports countries to accelerate their progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and to deliver on the commitment of the 2030 Agenda to leave no one behind. They are providing a new generation of Resident Coordinators (RCs) and United Nations Country Teams (UNCTs) with a critical instrument to incentivize the adoption of new solutions for longer-term sustainability. UN Joint SDG Fund is operated with contributions from the following donor countries: Denmark, the European Union, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland.
About the United Nations in Indonesia
The United Nations (UN) is an international organization founded in 1945. It is currently made up of 193 Member States. The mission and work of the United Nations are guided by the purposes and principles contained in its founding Charter. In Indonesia, the UN is committed to supporting the Government of Indonesia in the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. The UN Country Team is led by the UN Resident Coordinator (RC for short) the highest-ranking representative of the UN development system at the country level. RCs led UN Country Teams in consultations with the Government to define and agree on the UN strategic response to the Government’s development priorities in implementing the 2030 Agenda. The Resident Coordinator is the designated representative of – and reports to – the UN Secretary-General.
About UNDP
The United Nations Development Programmes (UNDP) is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality, and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and planet. Learn more at www.undp.org or follow at @UNDP
About UNEP
The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) is the leading global environmental authority that sets the global environmental agenda, promotes the coherent implementation of the environmental dimension of sustainable development within the United Nations system, and serves as an authoritative advocate for the global environment.
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org. Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook.
About UNIDO
United Nations Industrial Development Organization is a specialized UN agency whose mission is to promote and accelerate inclusive and sustainable industrial development (ISID) in Member States for poverty reduction, inclusive globalization and environmental sustainability: www.unido.org
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/165381-pbb-luncurkan-program-baru-untuk-pacu-investasi-sdgs-di-indonesia




Date: 02 December 2021
Title: WHO asks countries in South-East Asia Region to be vigilant as cases surge globally and new Variant of Concern is detected
Content: 02 December 2021
&nbsp;
New Delhi, 27 November 2021 –  In view of surge in COVID-19 cases elsewhere globally and detection of new variant of concern Omicron, the World Health Organization today appealed to countries in South-East Asia Region to scale up surveillance, strengthen public health and social measures, and enhance vaccination coverage.
“Though COVID-19 cases have been declining in most countries of our Region, the surge in cases elsewhere in the world and confirmation of a new Variant of Concern, is a reminder of the persisting risk and the need for us to continue to do our best to protect against the virus and prevent its spread. At no cost should we let our guards down,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region.
Countries must enhance surveillance and sequencing. They should assess the risk of importation through international travel based on updated information on circulating variants and response capacities, and take measures accordingly.
“Comprehensive and tailored public health and social measures to prevent transmission must continue. The earlier the protective measures are implemented, the less restrictive they would need to be in order to be effective. The more COVID-19 circulates, the more opportunities the virus will have to change and mutate, and the pandemic will last longer,” the Regional Director said.
The most important thing people must do is reduce their risk of exposure to the virus – wear a mask and wear it properly covering nose and mouth;  keep distance; avoid poorly ventilated or crowded spaces; keep  hands clean; cover cough and sneeze; and get vaccinated.
“As of today 31% of the Region’s population is fully vaccinated, 21% partially vaccinated while nearly 48%, or about a billion people are yet to receive even a single dose of the COVID-19 vaccine,” she said, adding that they continue to be at risk of contracting severe disease due to the virus and spreading it further.
Even after getting vaccinated, everyone must continue to take precautions to prevent becoming infected and to infect someone else who may get severely affected by the virus.
WHO’s Technical Advisory Group on Virus Evolution met yesterday and designated B.1.1.529 as a variant of concern and named it Omicron. Researchers are working to understand how transmissible or virulent this variant is, and how it will impact diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines.
“We must not forget that the pandemic is far from over. As societies open up, we should not get complacent. Festivities and celebrations must include all precautionary measures. Crowds and large gatherings must be avoided. The current situation warrants further stepping up efforts on all fronts,” the Regional Director said.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/161410-who-asks-countries-south-east-asia-region-be-vigilant-cases-surge-globally-and-new-variant




Date: 09 November 2021
Title: Minamata Convention COP-4 focuses on global commitment to end mercury
Content: 09 November 2021

The first segment of the fourth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Minamata Convention on Mercury (COP-4) takes place online from 1 to 5 November with over a thousand participants and an ambitious programme of work.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/157349-minamata-convention-cop-4-focuses-global-commitment-end-mercury




Date: 14 September 2021
Title: High Level Event Bappenas – United Nations Forum on Development Cooperation 2021
Content: 14 September 2021

Launch of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2021 – 2025 and the UN Joint Work Plan
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/144463-high-level-event-bappenas-%E2%80%93-united-nations-forum-development-cooperation-2021




Date: 13 September 2021
Title: UNOPS partner with Japan to deliver COVID-19 relief to Indonesia
Content: 13 September 2021

In partnership with the Government of Japan, UNOPS delivered 2,800 oxygen concentrators to strengthen Indonesia’s healthcare system and medical response to the ongoing COVID-19 delta variant outbreak.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/144459-unops-partner-japan-deliver-covid-19-relief-indonesia




Date: 12 July 2021
Title: The UN Stands in Solidarity With Indonesia As COVID-19 Cases and Deaths Surge
Content: 12 July 2021

On the same day that United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres announced that 4 million people have died of COVID-19 worldwide, Indonesia recorded its highest ever daily rise in COVID-19 cases and deaths. Indonesia’s ongoing public health crisis underscores the fact that a comprehensive global response remains urgent if the world is to navigate through the pandemic. “The crisis we are working to mitigate here serves as a stark reminder that none of us is protected until we all are,” says Valerie Julliand, UN Resident Coordinator for Indonesia.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/135595-un-stands-solidarity-indonesia-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-surge




Date: 22 April 2021
Title: Indonesia and UN agree on Joint Commitment to Village Based Social Protection Programs that are Child-focused and Gender Responsive
Content: 22 April 2021
A Partnership of Ministry of Village and the UN in Indonesia
In 2020, the Village Fund (Dana Desa or DD) has been used for Child-focused and Gender Responsive Village-Based social protection programs in Indonesia. The effectiveness of this programming will be discussed in webinar “Inclusive Social Protection Program: Towards Child-focused and Gender Responsive Village-based Social Protection Program”. This initiative is supported by the United Nations (UN) in Indonesia with support from the COVID-19 Program Multi-Partner Trust Fund (MPTF). This program supports the Government of Indonesia (GoI) to enhance policy and capacity to scale up and expand social protection coverage and fiscal space to include the affected and marginalized population, particularly women and children.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/125469-indonesia-and-un-agree-joint-commitment-village-based-social-protection-programs-are-child




Date: 30 March 2021
Title: World leaders to meet on strengthening financial measures to boost efforts to cope with COVID-19 fallout
Content: 30 March 2021
Calls for additional measures to reduce debt burden and increase liquidity in low and middle-income countries to ensure full recovery
With many countries continuing to struggle to overcome the human and economic devastation from COVID-19, UN Secretary-General António Guterres is convening a meeting of world leaders on Monday, 29 March from 10 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. EDT to urge the international community to take additional and urgent action to ensure a robust recovery.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/124795-world-leaders-meet-strengthening-financial-measures-boost-efforts-cope-covid-19-fallout




Date: 22 March 2021
Title: International Day for Forests 2021:  Restoring forests will help recovery and well-being
Content: 22 March 2021
Today, we commemorate the International Day of Forest in the midst of the COVID 19 global pandemic in Indonesia and across the world.
Today, we commemorate the International Day of Forest in the midst of the COVID 19 global pandemic in Indonesia and across the world.
Human health has never seemed more important as we look to build back better and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.  Healthy forests also contribute to human health.  Forests provide health benefits for everyone, such as fresh air, nutritious foods, clean water, and space for recreation. In developed countries, up to 25 percent of all medicinal drugs are plant-based; in developing countries, the contribution is as high as 80 percent.
Forest also provide healthy diets. "Adat" communities typically consume large amounts of food harvested in forests.  But so do we all: who doesn’t love jackfruit, durian, salak, duku, mango, rambutan, peanuts, tengkawang, petai, palm hearts and so many other foods that are derived from forests!
“Forest destruction is unhealthy for the environment and for people –  as well as increasing carbon emissions and reducing biodiversity we should remember that nearly a third of emerging infectious disease are linked to land-use change such as deforestation." said Richard Trenchard, FAO-Representative ad interim for Indonesia.
The world is losing 10 million hectares of forest a year – more than half the size of Sulawesi –  and land degradation affects almost 2 billion hectares, an area larger than South America. Forest loss and degradation emit large quantities of climate-warming gases, and it is estimated that more than eight percent of forest plants and five percent of forest animals are at “extremely high risk” of extinction.
The Indonesian government released recent data showing that last year’s deforestation rate was the lowest in five years. In 2019, MOEF has rehabilitated around 400 thousand hectares of forests and during the pandemic, MoEF plans on increasing number of seedlings that will be planted in 2021.
Welcoming the Government’s efforts, Trenchard added “The progress is really good news for all of us. The restoration and sustainable management of forests will help address the climate-change and biodiversity crises simultaneously while producing goods and services needed for sustainable development."
Forests provide more than 86 million jobs worldwide and support the livelihoods of many more people. The 2020 State of Indonesia’s Forests report, prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry, reports that more than 400,000 people are directly employed in timber and non-timber forest production each year in Indonesia. Wood from well-managed forests supports diverse industries, from paper to the construction of tall buildings. Investment in forest restoration will help economies recover from the pandemic by creating even more employment.
Every tree counts
Small-scale planting and restoration projects can have big impacts.  And not just in rural areas. City greening creates cleaner air and more beautiful spaces and has huge benefits for the mental and physical health of urban dwellers.
Investing in ecosystem restoration will help to restore the health of people, communities and the environment. It offers the prospect of putting trees and forests back into degraded forest landscapes at a massive scale, thereby increasing ecological resilience and productivity.
“We can recover from our planet’s health, environmental and economic crises. Forests can help defeat poverty and hunger and reduce inequality.  Let’s restore our forests, build back better and achieve the future we all want.“ Trenchard added.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/122895-international-day-forests-2021-restoring-forests-will-help-recovery-and-well-being




Date: 22 March 2021
Title: Hari Hutan Internasional 2021: Restorasi hutan pulihkan kesehatan, ekonomi dan kesejahteraan manusia
Content: 22 March 2021
Hari ini kita memperingati Hari Hutan Internasional di tengah pandemi global COVID 19 di Indonesia dan di seluruh dunia
Hari ini kita memperingati Hari Hutan Internasional di tengah pandemi global COVID 19 di Indonesia dan di seluruh dunia. Saat ini, kita menyadari bahwa kesehatan merupakan hal yang amat penting.  Kita ingin membangun semua dengan lebih baik untuk mencapai Tujuan Pembangunan Berkelanjutan (SDG) pada tahun 2030. Hutan dalam kondisi baik juga berkontribusi bagi kesehatan manusia.
Hutan memberikan manfaat kesehatan bagi semua orang, seperti udara segar, makanan bergizi, air bersih, dan ruang rekreasi. Di negara maju, hingga 25 persen dari semua obat-obatan berasal dari sumber nabati; di negara berkembang, kontribusinya mencapai 80 persen.
Hutan juga menyediakan pangan sehat. Masyarakat Adat biasanya mengonsumsi makanan dalam jumlah besar yang dipanen di hutan. Kita semua juga mengonsumsi makanan yang bersumber dari hutan seperti Nangka, durian, salak, duku, mangga, rambutan, petai, ati hati, dan banyak lagi makanan lain yang berasal dari hutan!
"Kerusakan hutan merusak kesehatan lingkungan dan manusia - serta meningkatkan emisi karbon dan mengurangi keanekaragaman hayati. Kita harus ingat bahwa hampir sepertiga dari penyakit menular baru terkait dengan perubahan penggunaan lahan seperti penggundulan hutan." Kata Richard Trenchard,  Kepala Perwakilan  FAO  untuk Indonesia ad interim.
Dunia kehilangan 10 juta hektar hutan setahun - lebih dari setengah luas Sulawesi - dan degradasi lahan mempengaruhi hampir 2 milyar hektar, sebuah wilayah yang lebih luas dari Amerika Selatan. Deforestasi dan degradasi hutan menyebabkan meningkatnya gas rumah kaca, dan menyebabkan lebih dari delapan persen tumbuhan hutan dan lima persen hewan hutan berada pada “risiko sangat tinggi” kepunahan.
Pemerintah Indonesia merilis data terbaru yang menunjukkan bahwa laju deforestasi tahun lalu mencapai titik terendah selama lima tahun terakhir. Pada tahun 2019, KLHK telah merehabilitasi sekitar 400 ribu hektar hutan dan saat terjadi pandemi KLHK berencana menambah jumlah bibit yang akan ditanam pada tahun 2021.
Menyambut upaya Pemerintah, Trenchard menambahkan, “Kemajuan tersebut benar-benar kabar baik bagi kita semua. Restorasi dan pengelolaan hutan yang lestari akan membantu mengatasi perubahan iklim dan krisis keanekaragaman hayati secara bersamaan serta menghasilkan barang dan jasa yang dibutuhkan untuk pembangunan berkelanjutan. ”
Hutan menyediakan lebih dari 86 jutasumber mata pencaharian di seluruh dunia dan mendukung penghidupan lebih banyak orang. State of Indonesia Forest (SOIFO) 2020, yang diterbitkan oleh Kementerian Lingkungan Hidup dan Kehutanan, melaporkan bahwa lebih dari 400 ribu orang dipekerjakan secara langsung dalam produksi hutan kayu dan non-kayu setiap tahun di Indonesia.
Kayu dari hutan yang dikelola dengan baik mendukung beragam industri, mulai dari pembuatan kertas hingga pembangunan gedung-gedung tinggi. Investasi dalam bentuk restorasi hutan akan membantu pemulihan ekonomi dari pandemi dengan menciptakan lebih banyak lapangan kerja.
Setiap pohon berarti
Proyek penanaman dan restorasi skala kecil dapat berdampak besar. Dan tidak hanya di daerah pedesaan. Penghijauan kota menciptakan udara yang lebih bersih dan ruang yang lebih indah serta memberikan manfaat besar bagi kesehatan mental dan fisik penduduk perkotaan.
Berinvestasi dalam restorasi hutan dan lahan akan membantu memulihkan kesehatan manusia, komunitas, dan lingkungan. Restorasi menawarkan prospek untuk mengembalikan pohon dan hutan ke lanskap hutan yang kritis dan terdegradasi dalam skala besar, sehingga meningkatkan ketahanan ekologi dan produktivitas.
“Kita dapat pulih dari krisis kesehatan, lingkungan, dan ekonomi planet kita. Hutan dapat membantu kita mengatasi kemiskinan dan kelaparan serta mengurangi ketimpangan. Mari pulihkan hutan! Kita bangun semua dengan lebih baik dan raih masa depan yang kita semua inginkan. "tambah Trenchard.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/122896-hari-hutan-internasional-2021-restorasi-hutan-pulihkan-kesehatan-ekonomi-dan-kesejahteraan




Date: 15 March 2021
Title: UN launches new campaign, Only Together, to support global vaccine equity call
Content: 15 March 2021
The United Nations today launched a new global campaign, Only Together, to support its call for fair and equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines around the world
The United Nations today launched a new global campaign, Only Together, to support its call for fair and equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines around the world.
The campaign stresses the need for coordinated global action to ensure vaccines are accessible in all countries, starting with health-care workers and the most vulnerable.
"Over the past year, we’ve all missed out on doing the things we love to do with others—eating, hugging, and going to school and work,” said UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina J. Mohammed.
“Millions of us have lost someone we love or had our livelihoods taken away. An unprecedented global scientific effort for vaccines has given us hope to defeat the virus — but only if we work together to ensure everyone, everywhere has access to COVID-19 vaccines. Only together can we end the pandemic and transform a new era of hope.”
More than 2.5 million people around the world have died from COVID-19, according to the World Health Organization. The COVID-19 vaccines will stop people from dying, prevent new variants from emerging, reignite economies and offer the best hope to end the pandemic.
The biggest vaccine roll out in history is now underway with millions of doses being delivered around the world, including to some of the world’s poorest countries, through the efforts of COVAX, the global vaccine equity mechanism.
But these doses will initially only cover a small segment of the populations — healthcare workers and the most vulnerable. By the end of 2021, COVAX aims to offer vaccines to nearly 30 per cent of each participating country’s population. But that progress pales compared to 10 rich countries who possess nearly 80 per cent of all COVID-19 vaccines, with some planning to vaccinate their entire population within the next few months.
COVAX, which is led by the World Health Organization, GAVI and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), and in partnership with UNICEF, has 190 participating countries. It needs more than US$2 billion to fully meet its goal to vaccinate those most in need by the end of the year.
Pledging new funding for COVAX is critical, but more can be done to scale up vaccine access by sharing excess vaccines, transferring technology, offering voluntary licensing or even waiving intellectual property rights.
“If the world’s scientists were able to develop safe and effective vaccines in just seven months, the aims of world’s leaders must be equally record-breaking — to provide enough funding and to ramp up manufacturing to enable everyone on earth to be vaccinated,” said UN Under-Secretary-General for Global Communications Melissa Fleming.
ENDS

For interviews, please contact:
Devi Palanivelu | palanivelu@un.org | +1 917 495 5424
Rob Cole | crobcole@btinternet.com | +44 7768 464864

Editors Notes:

Verified is a United Nations initiative launched in response to the global Covid-19 pandemic in 2020. Designed in collaboration with Purpose as well as civil society groups, media partners, social media platforms and influencers, its purpose is to provide content that cuts through the noise to deliver life-saving information, fact-based advice and stories from the best of humanity. For more information, please visit https://shareverified.com/en

COVAX is the vaccines pillar of the Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator.  The ACT Accelerator is a ground-breaking global collaboration to accelerate the development, production, and equitable access to COVID-19 tests, treatments, and vaccines. COVAX is co-led by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi and the World Health Organization (WHO), alongside key delivery partner UNICEF. Its aim is to accelerate the development and manufacture of COVID-19 vaccines, and to guarantee fair and equitable access for every country in the world.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/116398-un-launches-new-campaign-only-together-support-global-vaccine-equity-call




Date: 08 March 2021
Title: UN further allocates USD 1.7 million funding package in empowering local economy and vulnerable groups
Content: 08 March 2021
The COVID-19 MPTF funding package was firstly allocated to Indonesia in June 2020 (USD 2 million)
The United Nations (UN) renews its strong commitment in supporting countries to recover better from the pandemic – while leaving no one behind. Today, the UN has allocated USD 1.7 million funding package to bolster local economic empowerment of women and vulnerable populations in Indonesia and to protect their livelihood further from the devastating socioeconomic fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/115212-un-further-allocates-usd-17-million-funding-package-empowering-local-economy-and-vulnerable




Date: 26 January 2021
Title: WESP21 Global Press Release
Content: 26 January 2021
Global economic recovery remains precarious, rebound of 4.7% to barely offset 2020 losses
Stimulating investments, revitalizing global trade and preventing premature austerity, financial bubbles and widening inequalities remain critical for resilient recovery, says new UN report
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/109460-wesp21-global-press-release




Date: 10 December 2020
Title: WFP to Receive Nobel Peace Prize December 10
Content: 10 December 2020
The United Nations World Food Programme is honored to accept the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize on December 10, in a ceremony that recognizes our role in fighting hunger and fostering peace in conflict-affected areas, and our efforts to prevent the use of hunger as a weapon of war.
“In Indonesia, WFP ’s work focuses on supporting the Government in enhancing food security and nutrition thus feeding peace and dignity” said Christa Räder, Country Representative WFP Indonesia. “We are proud to be a partner for the country’s journey to SDG 2, zero hunger, especially at this point when COVID 19 causes many health and economic challenges”.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/107150-wfp-receive-nobel-peace-prize-december-10




Date: 19 November 2020
Title: WFP Press Release - New Country Strategic Plans 2021 to 2025
Content: 19 November 2020
With a new Country Strategic Plan, WFP continues its support to the Government towards Food Security and Good Nutrition for all
The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate, today released its new Country Strategic Plan (CSP) 2021-2025, recommitting its support to the Government in its quest towards improving food security, nutrition and sustainable food systems for all.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/107153-wfp-press-release-new-country-strategic-plans-2021-2025




Date: 13 November 2020
Title: Press Release Bappenas UN Forum
Content: 13 November 2020
The Forum is a great opportunity for the Government of Indonesia and the United Nations to discuss challenges and opportunities to recover better from the COVID-19 pandemic and at the same time accelerate the progress on national development priorities and the SDGs 2030 - Highlighted by the Minister of National Development Planning/ Chairperson of National Development Planning Agency (Bappenas), H.E. Suharso Monoarfa
The United Nations (UN) team in Indonesia together with the Indonesian Ministry of National Development Planning/National Development Planning Agency (Bappenas) met virtually today to take stock and to reflect on the progress of the jointly implemented partnership framework - the United Nations Partnership for Development Framework (UNPDF) 2016-2020. The Bappenas – UN Forum on Development Cooperation provides an avenue for a strategic dialogue and close coordination between the Government of Indonesia and the UN in the context of development cooperation.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/107152-press-release-bappenas-un-forum




Date: 09 October 2020
Title: New United Nations Resident Coordinator in Indonesia Assumes Office
Content: 09 October 2020
The United Nations in Indonesia welcomed the newly appointed United Nations Resident Coordinator (RC) for Indonesia, Ms. Valerie Julliand, this week who officially assumed the office, with the host Government’s approval.
The United Nations in Indonesia welcomed the newly appointed United Nations Resident Coordinator (RC) for Indonesia, Ms. Valerie Julliand, this week who officially assumed the office, with the host Government’s approval.
Upon arriving in Indonesia and taking up her post as the highest UN official in Indonesia, Ms. Julliand said: “2020 is a momentous year for the United Nations and Indonesia, as both turn 75. Together, we are committed to building a nation that is prosperous, democratic and just, where development benefits all people, and where the rights of future generations are protected. As the COVID-19 pandemic plunged us into an acute health and economic crisis with severe socio-economic impacts, the pandemic has underscored the need for strengthened and renewed solidarity and cooperation.”

She further added: “I am inspired by the country’s continued commitment to multilateralism and global solidarity amidst this challenging time and I am also honoured to take on this new journey together. As part of the United Nations family in Indonesia, I am looking forward to working closely with partners, change-makers and youths, and to bring the UN closer to the people it serves.”

Previously, Ms. Julliand was the Resident Coordinator in Nepal since 2016. Prior to her post in Nepal, she held the position of Resident Coordinator/Resident Representative in Guatemala (2013-2016) and in the Dominican Republic (2009-2013). From 1994 to 2008 Valerie was with the UN Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA) where she served as Head of IRIN News, Regional Office for West Africa (2006-2008) and Head of the Regional Office for East Africa and the Great Lakes (1999-2006). She worked in Angola for four years on various assignments as Senior Humanitarian Affairs Officer, Demobilization and Reintegration Program Manager and Vulnerable Groups Program Officer.

Prior to joining UNOCHA, Ms. Julliand undertook voluntary work in Bukavu in Eastern DRC (1995) and was Program Director for Handicap International in Serbia and Bosnia (1993-1994). From 1984-1992, she worked in various positions in publishing companies in Paris, most notably as General Director of BIBA (a French women's magazine) and Publisher of various magazines in the "Groupe Express" in France.

Ms. Julliand, a French national, holds a Masters in Political Science from the Institute d'Etudes Politiques, France and an MPhil in Human Resources Management from the Institute de Gestion Sociale, France.  She speaks French, Spanish and English.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/107146-new-united-nations-resident-coordinator-indonesia-assumes-office




Date: 29 September 2020
Title: Launching of UNIDO "Impact Assesment of COVID 19 – SME in Indonesia"
Content: 29 September 2020
The United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) has launched its Report Assessment, “COVID 19 – Impact Assessment on SME in Indonesia” today. The report is based on the results of an online survey, conducted between June and July among over a hundred target SMEs whose businesses have been impacted by the government’s COVID-19 containment measures. The focus consideration for assessing SME based on the reason that more than 90% of business entities in the country are categorized as SMEs and they are the core of the country’s economic growth. The report also highlights the government’s response to business insecurity, by outlining the governmental financial framework to support businesses. Finally, the assessment proposes several recommendations, based on the findings of this survey.
The result of the study show that SME have suffered the most from the COVID-19 pandemic and the containment measures with at least half of the employees have not been able to come to their workplace due to the government restrictions. These factors have lead to a decrease in business operation, due to the disruption of value chains and logistics. The shortage of cash flow is reported as the main operating problem during the pandemic, because of the inability to process and complete consumer orders. An additional challenge for SMEs is the inability to fulfill the conditions laid out in their contracted work with other businesses. The survey shows that the majority of respondents (81%) expected a year-on-year revenue loss of more than 50%, causing severe liquidity shortages and increasing the likelihood of reducing staff numbers.
This study will assist government institutions to design relevant policies to enable SMEs to benefit from  existing financing schemes and stimulus to  mitigate the economic impacts of COVID 19. The study showed that  there must be a clear redefinition of SMEs and empower them to be more competitive with global competitors from abroad. The Indonesian government has been trying to support SMEs by providing various types of support. The results indicate that 64% of the firms consider the interest subsidy and the recap guarantee relief programmes as the most effective form of governmental support.
In light of the financial difficulties that SMEs face, the respondents fear that businesses will be closed down within six months, as cash flow issues constrain their operations. In contrast to this group of respondents,  a minority of technologically advanced SMEs claimed that  their businesses may survive a possible year-long restriction period. Moreover, many SMEs displayed their agility by shifting out of their core products to produce goods that are in demand  in the context of the pandemicThe survey also highlights the importance of tailoring policies aimed at mitigating the impact of the pandemic by building  a resilient and competitive industrial base.
“There are set of relevant policies that can be drafted based on the findings of the survey, to help industries and SMEs to overcome the impacts of COVID 19. The Industry 4.0 can also enhance the SME supply chain, business performance, improve digital enterprise, opens new manufacturing, technological career opportunities and integrates the human capacity in the digital world too. Therefore, it is important for UNIDO playing the role to assist Government of Indonesia in implementing Making Indonesia 4.0” said Mr. Esam Alqararah as the UNIDO Representative for Indonesia and Timor Leste during the launch of their report.
Information About UNIDO (United Nations of Industrial Development Organizations)
UNIDO is the specialized agency of the UN that promotes inclusive industrial development. Within UNIDO’s mandate to foster economically efficient, ecologically friendly and socially desirable patterns of industrial development across developing countries, the UNIDO development cooperation programme in Indonesia covers four thematic priorities: poverty reduction, energy for all, environment & clean production and partnership and sustainable development. The programmatic intervention of UNIDO in the context of Indonesia’s development priorities aims at creating an enabling environment to bring about necessary changes required as well as ensure a holistic approach in the implementation of technical programmes. Our approach is inline with the Government of Indonesia vision thathighlighted strategic development goals in order to build and consolidate international development partnership in the pursuit of promoting Indonesia’s visibility as an emerging economy.

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/93078-launching-unido-impact-assesment-covid-19-%E2%80%93-sme-indonesia




Date: 22 September 2020
Title: UN75: The Future We Want, The UN We Need
Content: 22 September 2020
In January 2020, the United Nations launched the global consultation to mark its 75th anniversary. Through surveys and dialogues, it asked people about their hopes and fears for the future – representing the UN’s most ambitious effort to date to understand expectations of international cooperation and of the UN in particular. It is also the largest survey to date on priorities for recovering from the COVID-19 pandemic
As of 21 September 2020, over a million people from all countries and all walks of life had taken part. Their answers provide unique insights into what the public wants at this challenging time for the world. They are released today to coincide with the UN General Assembly’s official commemoration of the 75th anniversary, held under the banner: the future we want, the UN we need. Key findings include:
Priorities for action
Perceptions of the UN
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/92827-un75-future-we-want-un-we-need




Date: 22 May 2020
Title: FAO, IFAD, UNFPA, WFP, WHO and UNICEF joint statement on Food Security and Nutrition in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic in Indonesia
Content: 22 May 2020
United Nations in Indonesia, especially the United Nations Working Group for Food Security and Nutrition, comprising FAO, IFAD, UNFPA, WFP, WHO and UNICEF, is concerned about the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the nutrition status of those most affected, particularly the poor and vulnerable. This Joint Statement is issued by the UN Resident Coordinator Indonesia and is intended to provide recommendations on a prioritized set of actions and policy guidance to support nutrition in the context of COVID-19. The actions outlined in this statement cover the six domains of healthy diets; maternal, infant and young child nutrition; management of wasting; micronutrient supplementation; school feeding and nutrition, and nutrition surveillance.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/92976-fao-ifad-unfpa-wfp-who-and-unicef-joint-statement-food-security-and-nutrition-context-covid




Date: 30 April 2020
Title: New UNFPA projections predict calamitous impact on women’s health as COVID-19 pandemic continues
Content: 30 April 2020
As the COVID-19 pandemic rages on, the number of women unable to access family planning, facing unintended pregnancies, gender-based violence and other harmful practices could skyrocket by millions of cases in the months ahead, according to data released today by UNFPA, the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency.
The research reveals the enormous scale of the impact COVID-19 is having on women as health systems become overloaded, facilities close or only provide a limited set of services to women and girls, and many choose to skip important medical checkups through fear of contracting the virus. Global supply chain disruptions may also lead to significant shortages of contraceptives and gender-based violence is expected to soar as women are trapped at home for prolonged periods.
“This new data shows the catastrophic impact that COVID-19 could soon have on women and girls globally. The pandemic is deepening inequalities, and millions more women and girls now risk losing the ability to plan their families and protect their bodies and their health,” said Dr. Natalia Kanem, UNFPA Executive Director. “Women’s reproductive health and rights must be safeguarded at all costs. The services must continue; the supplies must be delivered; and the vulnerable must be protected and supported."
KEY PROJECTIONS:
UNFPA is working with governments and partners to prioritize the needs of women and girls of reproductive age and to respond urgently during the challenging public health emergency. Our priorities are focusing on strengthening health systems, procuring and delivering essential supplies to protect health workers, ensuring access to sexual and reproductive health and gender-based violence services, and promoting risk communication and community engagement.
The research was conducted by UNFPA, with contributions from Avenir Health, Johns Hopkins University (USA) and Victoria University (Australia). Its projections were based upon recent UNFPA research into what will be required to achieve the organization’s goals by 2030. For each estimate, researchers projected the direct impact of COVID-19 on the issue in question and combined it with the disruption to global prevention programmes caused by the pandemic.
About UNFPA
UNFPA is the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency. Our mission is to deliver a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person's potential is fulfilled. We work in developing countries and humanitarian emergencies to make sure women can access family planning, to end preventable maternal deaths and stamp out gender-based violence and harmful practices like female genital mutilation and child marriage.
For media and interview enquiries, please contact:

UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/92860-new-unfpa-projections-predict-calamitous-impact-women%E2%80%99s-health-covid-19-pandemic-continues




Date: 15 April 2020
Title: ILO: COVID-19 causes devastating losses in working hours and employment
Content: 15 April 2020
The COVID-19 crisis  is expected to wipe out 6.7 per cent of working hours globally in the second quarter of 2020 – equivalent to 195 million full-time workers.
Large reductions are foreseen in the Arab States (8.1 per cent, equivalent to 5 million full-time workers), Europe (7.8 per cent, or 12 million full-time workers) and Asia and the Pacific (7.2 per cent, 125 million full-time workers).
Huge losses are expected across different income groups but especially in upper-middle income countries (7.0 per cent, 100 million full-time workers). This far exceeds the effects of the 2008-9 financial crisis.
The sectors most at risk include accommodation and food services, manufacturing, retail, and business and administrative activities.
The eventual increase in global unemployment during 2020 will depend substantially on future developments and policy measures. There is a high risk that the end-of-year figure will be significantly higher than the initial ILO projection, of 25 million.
“Workers and businesses are facing catastrophe, in both developed and developing economies... We have to move fast, decisively, and together. The right, urgent, measures, could make the difference between survival and collapse."
    Guy Ryder, ILO’s Director-General
More than four out of five people (81 per cent) in the global workforce of 3.3 billion are currently affected by full or partial workplace closures.
“Workers and businesses are facing catastrophe, in both developed and developing economies,” said ILO Director-General Guy Ryder. “We have to move fast, decisively, and together. The right, urgent, measures, could make the difference between survival and collapse.”
The ILO Monitor 2nd edition: COVID-19 and the world of work , which describes COVID-19 as “the worst global crisis since World War II”, updates an ILO research note published on 18 March. The updated version includes sectoral and regional information on the effects of the pandemic.
According to the new study, 1.25 billion workers are employed in the sectors identified as being at high risk of “drastic and devastating” increases in layoffs and reductions in wages and working hours. Many are in low-paid, low-skilled jobs, where a sudden loss of income is devastating.
Looked at regionally, the proportion of workers in these “at risk” sectors varies from 43 per cent in the Americas to 26 per cent in Africa. Some regions, particularly Africa, have higher levels of informality, which combined with a lack of social protection, high population density and weak capacity, pose severe health and economic challenges for governments, the report cautions.
Worldwide, two billion people work in the informal sector (mostly in emerging and developing economies) and are particularly at risk.
Large-scale, integrated, policy measures are needed, focusing on four pillars: supporting enterprises, employment and incomes; stimulating the economy and jobs; protecting workers in the workplace; and, using social dialogue between government, workers and employers to find solutions, the study says.
“This is the greatest test for international cooperation in more than 75 years,” said Ryder. “If one country fails, then we all fail. We must find solutions that help all segments of our global society, particularly those that are most vulnerable or least able to help themselves.”
“The choices we make today will directly affect the way this crisis unfolds and so the lives of billions of people,” he added. “With the right measures we can limit its impact and the scars it leaves. We must aim to build back better so that our new systems are safer, fairer and more sustainable than those that allowed this crisis to happen.”
This Article is taken from ILO website
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/92863-ilo-covid-19-causes-devastating-losses-working-hours-and-employment




Date: 23 March 2020
Title: On the COVID-19 Crisis
Content: 23 March 2020
Press Remarks by António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations.
We are facing a global health crisis unlike any in the 75-year history of the United Nations — one that is spreading human suffering, infecting the global economy and upending people’s lives.
A global recession – perhaps of record dimensions – is a near certainty.
The International Labour Organization has just reported that workers around the world could lose as much as 3.4 trillion U.S. dollars in income by the end of this year.
This is, above all, a human crisis that calls for solidarity.
Our human family is stressed and the social fabric is being torn.  People are suffering, sick and scared.
Current responses at the country level will not address the global scale and complexity of the crisis.
This is a moment that demands coordinated, decisive, and innovative policy action from the world’s leading economies.   We must recognize that the poorest countries and most vulnerable — especially women — will be the hardest hit.
I welcome the decision by G20 leaders to convene an emergency summit next week to respond to the epic challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic – and I look forward to taking part.
My central message is clear:  We are in an unprecedented situation and the normal rules no longer apply.  We cannot resort to the usual tools in such unusual times.
The creativity of the response must match the unique nature of the crisis – and the magnitude of the response must match its scale.
Our world faces a common enemy.  We are at war with a virus.
COVID-19 is killing people, as well as attacking the real economy at its core – trade, supply chains, businesses, jobs.  Entire countries and cities are in lockdown.  Borders are closing.  Companies are struggling to stay in business and families are simply struggling to stay afloat.
But in managing this crisis, we also have a unique opportunity.
Done right, we can steer the recovery towards a more sustainable and inclusive path.  But poorly coordinated policies risk locking in -- or even worsening -- already unsustainable inequalities, reversing hard-won development gains and poverty reduction.
I call on world leaders to come together and offer an urgent and coordinated response to this global crisis.
I see three critical areas for action:
FIRST, TACKLING THE HEALTH EMERGENCY.
Many countries have exceeded the capacity to care for even mild cases in dedicated health facilities, with many unable to respond to the enormous needs of the elderly.
Even in the wealthiest countries, we see health systems buckling under pressure.
Health spending must be scaled up right away to meet urgent needs and the surge in demand – expanding testing, bolstering facilities, supporting health care workers, and ensuring adequate supplies – with full respect for human rights and without stigma.
It has been proven that the virus can be contained.  It must be contained.
If we let the virus spread like wildfire – especially in the most vulnerable regions of the world – it would kill millions of people.
And we need to immediately move away from a situation where each country is undertaking its own health strategies to one that ensures, in full transparency, a coordinated global response, including helping countries that are less prepared to tackle the crisis.
Governments must give the strongest support to the multilateral effort to fight the virus, led by the World Health Organization, whose appeals must be fully met.
The health catastrophe makes clear that we are only as strong as the weakest health system.
Global solidarity is not only a moral imperative, it is in everyone’s interests.
SECOND, WE MUST FOCUS ON THE SOCIAL IMPACT AND THE ECONOMIC RESPONSE AND RECOVERY.
Unlike the 2008 financial crisis, injecting capital in the financial sector alone is not the answer.  This is not a banking crisis – and indeed banks must be part of the solution.
And it is not an ordinary shock in supply and demand; it is a shock to society as a whole.
The liquidity of the financial system must be guaranteed, and banks must use their resilience to support their customers.
But let’s not forget this is essentially a human crisis.
Most fundamentally, we need to focus on people –low-wage workers, small and medium enterprises, the most vulnerable.
That means wage support, insurance, social protection, preventing bankruptcies and job loss.
That also means designing fiscal and monetary responses to ensure that the burden does not fall on those who can least afford it.
The recovery must not come on the backs of the poorest – and we cannot create a legion of new poor.
We need to get resources directly in the hands of people.  A number of countries are taking up social protection initiatives such as cash transfers and universal income.
We need to take it to the next level to ensure support reaches those entirely dependent on the informal economy and countries less able to respond.
Remittances are a lifeline in the developing world – especially now.  Countries have already committed to reduce remittance fees to 3 percent, much below the current average levels.  The crisis requires us to go further, getting as close to zero as possible.
In addition, G20 leaders have taken steps to protect their own citizens and economies by waiving interest payments.  We must apply that same logic to the most vulnerable countries in our global village and alleviate their debt burden.
Across the board, we need a commitment to ensure adequate financial facilities to support countries in difficulties.  The IMF, the World Bank and other International Financial Institutions play a key role.  The private sector is essential in seeking, creative investment opportunities and protecting jobs.
And we must refrain from the temptation of resorting to protectionism.  This is the time to dismantle trade barriers and re-establish supply chains.
Looking at the broader picture, disruptions to society are having a profound impact.
We must address the effects of this crisis on women.  The world’s women are disproportionally carrying the burden at home and in the wider economy.
Children are also paying a heavy price.  More than 800 million children are out of school right now — many of whom rely on school to provide their only meal.  We must ensure that all children have access to food and equal access to learning – bridging the digital divide and reducing the costs of connectivity.
As people’s lives are disrupted, isolated and upturned, we must prevent this pandemic from turning into a crisis of mental health.  And young people will be most at risk.
The world needs to keep going with core support to programs for the most vulnerable, including through UN-coordinated humanitarian and refugee response plans.  Humanitarian needs must not be sacrificed.
THIRD, AND FINALLY, WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO “RECOVER BETTER”.
The 2008 financial crisis demonstrated clearly that countries with robust social protection systems suffered the least and recovered most quickly from its impact.
We must ensure that lessons are learned and that this crisis provides a watershed moment for health emergency preparedness and for investment in critical 21st century public services and the effective delivery of global public goods.
We have a framework for action – the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.  We must keep our promises for people and planet.
The United Nations – and our global network of country offices – will support all governments to ensure that the global economy and the people we serve emerge stronger from this crisis.
That is the logic of the Decade of Action to deliver the Sustainable Development Goals.
More than ever before, we need solidarity, hope and the political will to see this crisis through together.
Thank you.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/92973-covid-19-crisis




Date: 07 February 2020
Title: The UNCT in Indonesia Joins the UN75 Conversation
Content: 07 February 2020
To mark its 75th anniversary in 2020, the United Nations is igniting a people’s debate, UN75. Launched by UN Secretary-General António Guterres, it promises to be the largest and furthest-reaching global conversation ever on building the future we want.
Through UN75, the United Nations will encourage people to put their heads together to define how enhanced international cooperation can help realize a better world by 2045, the UN’s 100th birthday.
The United Nations Country Team in Indonesia joined the UN75 conversation sharing what world they wish to see in the future. Listen to what they had to say.
Now, it is your turn. “We want to hear your opinions, your strategies, and your ideas for us to be able to better deliver for the people of the world that we must serve. It is absolutely essential that you all join the conversation.” – UN Secretary General, António Guterres.
Take the UN75 survey today: https://un75.online/
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/92974-unct-indonesia-joins-un75-conversation




Date: 10 January 2020
Title: Indonesia breaks into high human development category group
Content: 10 January 2020
Indonesia has joined the ranks of countries in the world with high human development, and the Asia-Pacific region witnessed the steepest rise globally in human development.
These are among the key findings of the 2019 Human Development Report, released today by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and entitled “Beyond income, beyond averages, beyond today: inequalities in human development in the 21st Century.”
Asia Pacific leads the world in access to broadband internet and is gaining on more developed regions in life expectancy, education, and access to health care. Yet it continues to grapple with widespread multidimensional poverty and may be vulnerable to a new set of inequalities emerging around higher education and climate resilience.
The Human Development Report (HDR), which pioneers a more rounded way to measure countries’ progress beyond just economic growth, says that as the gap in basic standards is narrowing, with an unprecedented number of people escaping poverty, hunger and disease, the necessities to thrive have evolved. The next generation of inequalities is opening up, particularly around technology, education, and the climate crisis.
“This is the new face of inequality,” says UNDP Administrator, Achim Steiner. “And as this Human Development Report sets out, inequality is not beyond solutions.”
The report analyzes inequality in three steps: beyond income, beyond averages, and beyond today, proposing a battery of policy options to tackle it.
Indonesia’s HDI value for 2018 is 0.707— which put the country in the high human development category—positioning it at 111 out of 189 countries and territories.
Between 1990 and 2018, Indonesia’s HDI value increased from 0.525 to 0.707, an increase of 34.6 percent. During the same period, Indonesia’s life expectancy at birth increased by 9.2 years to 71.5 years, mean years of schooling increased by 4.7 years to 8 years and expected years of schooling increased by 2.8 years to 12.9 years. Indonesia’s GNI per capita increased by about 155.9 percent between 1990 and 2018.
“Making it into the group of countries with a high development status is an historic milestone for Indonesia, which the Office of UNDP in Indonesia is delighted to see. This achievement is a result of a strong national commitment to human development, that is not only economic growth but also people’s well-being, in particular health and education measured by the HDI.” said UNDP Indonesia Resident Representative Christophe Bahuet. “The Report also brings messages that needs to be heeded for Indonesia to further progress in human development, including the needs to reduce existing inequalities and to anticipate the new inequalities that the future brings”. UNDP will continue to be Indonesia’s partners for further progress in human development.” he added, ” said Resident Representative Christophe Bahuet.
17.4 percent of Indonesia’s HDI value is lost on account of inequalities — a greater loss compared to most of its East Asian and the Pacific neighbors (the average loss for the region is 16.6 percent).  This confirms that inequality remains a challenge for Indonesia as it progresses economically, though the Government of Indonesia has attempted to ensure that the gains of economic development are shared widely and reach the farthest first.
Table A: Indonesia’s HDI trends based on consistent time series data and new goalposts

Life expectancy at birth
Expected years of schooling
Mean years of schooling
GNI per capita (2011 PPP$)
HDI value
1990
62.3
10.1
3.3
4,399
0.525
1995
64.3
10.1
4.2
5,838
0.560
2000
65.8
10.6
6.7
5,422
0.604
2005
67.3
10.9
7.4
6,506
0.633
2010
69.2
12.2
7.4
8,234
0.666
2015
70.8
12.8
7.9
10,029
0.696
2016
71.0
12.9
8.0
10,419
0.700
2017
71.3
12.9
8.0
10,811
0.704
2018
71.5
12.9
8.0
11,256
0.707

Figure 1 below shows the contribution of each component index to Indonesia’s HDI since 1990.
Table B: Indonesia’s HDI and component indicators for 2018 relative to selected countries and groups

HDI value
HDI rank
Life expectancy at birth
Expected years of schooling
Mean years of schooling
GNI per capita (2011 PPP US$)
Indonesia
0.707
111
71.5
12.9
8.0
11,256
China
0.758
85
76.7
13.9
7.9
16,127
Philippines
0.712
106
71.1
12.7
9.4
9,540
East Asia and the Pacific
0.741
—
75.3
13.4
7.9
14,611
High HDI
0.750
—
75.1
13.8
8.3
14,403

### ### ###
2019 HDR Broadcast Package:
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/vl0qjm3g1nvcg4k/AABXqgDA86UkT9MLTjURmGE4a?dl=0
For more information and media interviews, contact:
Bangkok: Cedric Monteiro; cedric.monteiro@undp.org; +66 92 256 7835
New York: Adam Cathro; adam.cathro@undp.org; +1 212 906 5326 and Anna Ortubia; anna.ortubia@undp.org; +1 212 906 5964
Jakarta: Tomi Soetjipto ; suryo.tomi@undp.org; +62 811888814
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/92873-indonesia-breaks-high-human-development-category-group




Date: 18 December 2019
Title: Closing the gap in skills development through the acceleration of digital and e-learning programmes
Content: 18 December 2019
The advancement of digitalization and technology has eliminated time and space boundaries, providing an opportunity for people living in rural areas to have a greater access to good quality training at an affordable cost through distance and e-learning. With Indonesia’s internet penetration reaching 64.7 percent of its total population, according to the 2018 data from the Indonesian Internet Service Providers (APJII), Indonesia has a good potential to harness the power of digital technologies to accelerate its human resource development.

“While TVET in Indonesia has been improving and helping youth to gain skills and find jobs; regional disparities still exist due to the geographical condition of Indonesia. We can learn from other countries how to integrate digital and e-learning in our TVET systems and address inequalities in the access to skills development between urban and rural areas." Mahatmi Parwitasari Saronto, Director of Employment and Job Opportunity Expansion of Bappenas
To further discuss and examine the use of digital technology to deliver quality skills development, particularly in rural areas, the Ministry of National Development Planning (Bappenas) in collaboration with the International Labour Organization (ILO) is conducting a one-day national policy dialogue, titled “The Future of Indonesia’s Digital and E-Learning” in Jakarta today (18/12). The event is conducted with support from the Governments of Japan and Australia.

The national policy dialogue provides a venue for key policy makers and stakeholders to discuss and share good practices, lessons learnt, experiences and challenges on the implementation of digital and e-learning programmes in the country, particularly youth in rural areas including girls, women and people with disabilities. The dialogue also further examines ways forward in integrating these technology enhancements into teaching and learning systems of the technical and vocational educations and trainings (TVETs) in the country.

Mahatmi Parwitasari Saronto, Director of Employment and Job Opportunity Expansion of Bappenas, emphasized the importance of access to quality education and training, particularly in rural and remote areas, to create competent and skilled generation of Indonesia. The Government of Indonesia is now developing the National TVET Strategies that is part of the policy discussion of today’s national dialogue.
“While TVET in Indonesia has been improving and helping youth to gain skills and find jobs; regional disparities still exist due to the geographical condition of Indonesia. We can learn from other countries how to integrate digital and e-learning in our TVET systems and address inequalities in the access to skills development between urban and rural areas,” Mahatmi remarked.

“In the era of deepening digitalization, it is important to utilize technologies in education and training programmes to ensure equal access to quality learning opportunities for all people of Indonesia. The Government of Japan is very pleased to be a partner and support ongoing reforms of the Indonesian TVET systems,” said Tadayuki Miyashita, Minister for Economic Affairs of the Embassy of Japan in Indonesia.

In this national policy dialogue, good practices in digital and e-learning education is explored by representatives from Rumah Belajar under the Ministry of National Education and Culture, the Open University of Indonesia, Ruang Guru, an online learning platform provider and Labtech, an e-vocational training provider.

Good practices on the application of digital and e-learning programmes from neighbouring countries present experts and practitioners from Australia and the Philippines: Charles Darwin University of Australia and The National Centre for Vocational Education Research of Australia (NCVER), and the National Institute for Technical Education and Skills Development of the Philippines (TESDA).
“The ILO continue to support initiatives taken by the Government of Indonesia and social partners on human development and on the reformation of TVET-system. We believe that skills development is essential to create competent and skilful generation of Indonesia who can stay competitive and productive in the fast changing world of work." Michiko Miyamoto, Country Director of the ILO in Indonesia
The interactive discussion concludes with a policy dialogue on the future of quality skills development in the country, particularly in rural areas, through the effective use of technology. The dialogue presents key representatives from the Ministry of Manpower; the Ministry of Village, Development of Disadvantaged Regions and Transmigration; the Ministry of Education and Culture; Indonesia Chamber of Commerce and Industry; and a National Confederation of Trade Unions.

“Human-centred agenda is the ILO’s main focus for future of work, placing the investment in people’s capabilities as one of the three important pillars of action. The ILO continue to support initiatives taken by the Government of Indonesia and social partners on human development and on the reformation of TVET-system. We believe that skills development is essential to create competent and skilful generation of Indonesia who can stay competitive and productive in the fast changing world of work,” stated Michiko Miyamoto, Country Director of the ILO in Indonesia.
UN Resident Coordinator Office
Menara Thamrin Lt. 7, Jl. MH.
Thamrin, Kav. 3, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia, 10250
Phone: +62 (21) 2980 2300
URL: https://indonesia.un.org/en/92872-closing-gap-skills-development-through-acceleration-digital-and-e-learning-programmes




