Date: 06 June 2024
Title: Unlocking Iraqi Talent in the Agricultural Sector
Content: 06 June 2024
Erbil, Iraq - 5  June 2024, The Kurdistan Regional Government’s (KRG) Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources, in collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), proudly announces the graduation of 200 women from a training program for doing business in the agriculture food industry.
"The agriculture food industry holds immense potential for economic growth and sustainable development in the Kurdistan Region," said H.E. Mr. Qubad Talabani, Deputy Prime Minister, KRG. "Through our partnership with UNDP and USAID, we have taken a significant step towards harnessing these women’s potential by equipping them with the necessary skills to thrive in this sector," added Talabani.
Participants across 9 locations in IKR, including Erbil, Sulaymaniyah, Dohuk, Halabja, Garmian, Soran, Rapareen, Zakho, and Akre, were trained on cultivating various agricultural products, marketing strategies, and entrepreneurship skills tailored to the specific needs of each location.
“This collaboration exemplifies our commitment to supporting inclusive and sustainable development in Iraq. By investing in the capacity and untapped potential of Iraqi women, we are not only fostering equitable economic empowerment, but also contributing to the overall advancement of the agriculture sector in Iraq’s Kurdistan Region. This wouldn’t have been possible without the generous contribution of our steadfast partner, USAID," said Mr. Auke Lootsma, Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq.
"The successful completion of this training underscores the importance of partnerships in driving positive change. By working together, we can create opportunities for every Iraqi to play a transformative role in the agriculture food industry, ultimately contributing to food security and economic prosperity in Iraq," said Ms. Elise Jensen, USAID/Iraq’s Mission Director.
The program's emphasis on producing diverse food products, tailored to local market demands, reflects a holistic approach to strengthening the agriculture food industry. Participants were trained in various skills, including pickling olives and vegetables, making jams and sauces, preparing natural sweets, producing vinegar and juices, creating tomato paste, drying fruits and vegetables, and handling frozen products.
Through this training, the KRG, UNDP, and USAID aim to enable today’s graduates to not only enter the agriculture food industry, but to establish their own businesses, thereby fostering sustainable livelihoods and contributing to Iraq’s economic growth.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/270879-unlocking-iraqi-talent-agricultural-sector




Date: 03 June 2024
Title: UNDP Launches Trial Monitoring Report Spotlighting Progress in Iraq’s Anti-Corruption Efforts
Content: 03 June 2024
Baghdad, June 2, 2024 - The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), with funding from the European Union, today launched the Trial Monitoring Report in collaboration with Iraq's Supreme Judicial Council and the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) Human Rights Office.
"The findings of this report underscore the Government of Iraq's commitment to curbing corruption and creating a more transparent and equitable society," said Auke Lootsma, UNDP Iraq’s Resident Representative. "UNDP remains steadfast in our partnership with the Supreme Judicial Council to support critical judicial reforms that will help attract much-needed foreign investment to Iraq."
The report, a key component of UNDP's Anti-Corruption and Commercial Dispute Resolution initiatives, highlights significant progress in the Iraqi judiciary's handling of high-level corruption cases. Through comprehensive quantitative and qualitative analysis, the report offers tailored recommendations to further strengthen Iraq's anti-corruption efforts and promote the rule of law. “Iraq is committed to continue taking steps to curb corruption, build a transparent society and strengthen the citizen trust. We will follow up on the findings and the recommendations of the report” said Najem Abdullah Ahmed Mohammed, The Head of Public Prosecution, Supreme Judicial Council.
“Moving forward, the European Union, along with UNDP and UNAMI will continue to work closely with the Supreme Judicial Council to implement the report's recommendations and provide targeted assistance where necessary. We are proud to say that these collaborative efforts are aligned with the Government of Iraq's broader priorities in addressing corruption and bolstering the country's economic development,” said Thomas Seiler, European Union Ambassador to Iraq.
Positive developments in the fight against corruption
The report, covering August 2022 to July 2023, examined significant anti-corruption progress in Iraq, with a focus on the work of the country's Central Anti-Corruption Criminal Court. The report analyzed 184 monitored cases and 173 verdicts issued between 2019 and 2022, particularly high-profile corruption cases involving large sums of money, senior government officials, and cases of public interest or against whistleblowers. The monitoring found the specialized court to be effective at focusing efforts on prosecuting high-level corruption cases. There was an observable increase in the number of resolved cases between the review and monitoring periods. Additionally, it noted a rise in convictions, including of senior government officials, as well as a decrease in the number of cases returned to the pre-trial stage. However, there was also an uptick in trials conducted in absentia. Most importantly, the report raised genuine concerns that inconsistent penalties and the existing amnesty regime could have a negative effect on the deterrent role of anti-corruption criminal offenses.
The report found that over half (55%) of the monitored corruption cases were concentrated in the Baghdad governorate. In terms of sectors, graft was most prevalent at the governorate and municipal levels, as well as within the Ministries of Finance and Industry. Despite ongoing limitations in civil society engagement with anti-corruption adjudication and investigations, the UNDP program observed positive developments in the implementation of fair trial rights, in accordance with international and Iraqi legal standards.
Improving transparency and accountability in Iraq’s anti-corruption efforts
The report recommends a range of measures to improve transparency and accountability in Iraq's anti-corruption efforts, involving the government, judiciary, civil society, and international community. Key proposed actions include enhancing investigative capabilities, amending the Penal Code and other legislation to exclude major corruption cases from amnesty, developing unified sentencing policies, and strengthening oversight mechanisms. Additionally, the report emphasizes the need for better legal representation, capacity building for civil society, cross-border cooperation for asset recovery, and the creation of a court information management system.
Access to Report
Access to Infographics
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/270431-undp-launches-trial-monitoring-report-spotlighting-progress-iraq%E2%80%99s-anti-corruption-efforts




Date: 26 May 2024
Title: Integrating decent work and affordable green housing is an important step towards supporting developmental programs in Iraq
Content: 26 May 2024
The European Union continues its support to Iraq by funding many development projects with strategic horizons, including decent work and affordable housing, as shown by the recently launched Building Equitable and Inclusive Transformation (BEIT) Towards Decent Work and Affordable Housing in Iraq Project, jointly implemented by UN-Habitat, International Labor Organization (ILO), and the International Trade Centre (ITC) partnering with the Government of Iraq and various other national entities.
Baghdad, 21 May 2024
The BEIT program aims, among other things, to increase affordable green housing, provide decent job opportunities in Iraq, improve the business environment, and engage local micro, small, and medium enterprises, and investors in the construction sector.  It will also provide an avenue for establishing and implementing a national public works programme in Iraq.On Sunday, May 19th, 2024, representatives from the Ministry of Planning, the European Union Delegation to Iraq, and the United Nations agencies partnering in implementing the project convened a joint meeting to discuss the project objectives, coordination and implementation mechanisms, the roles of government institutions, social partners, and the private sector benefiting from the project activities, and the duties of each United Nations agency partnering in implementation.Mr. Lennart Deridder, Head of Cooperation at the Delegation of the European Union to Iraq, outlined how the project interventions would provide affordable green housing, decent job opportunities and promote good practices by dealing with the needs of vulnerable groups in Iraq.  It was further noted that the European Union has worked hard with its partners in Iraq, to develop a strategic vision, with continued commitment to support Iraqi efforts as the BEIT project provides great opportunities for a model of collaboration with national partners in provision of affordable housing, decent work, improving the construction sector business enabling environment and stimulating medium and large projects.Representatives of the United Nations organizations partnering in implementing the BEIT project presented the programme and key action items. In ensuing discussions, officials of the Ministry of Planning revealed that there is a real housing crisis in Iraq, with a demand for approximately 3.5 million housing units. The BEIT project provides an opportunity to link employment, housing in line with the government program and regional and local development plans, revealing that it is possible to provide Iraq with meaningful experiences that can be used to achieve this integration between decent work for most vulnerable groups or youth and the housing sector.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/269653-integrating-decent-work-and-affordable-green-housing-important-step-towards-supporting




Date: 23 May 2024
Title: Iraq Announces Inception of a Five-Year Climate Investment Plan (CIP)
Content: 23 May 2024
Baghdad, 23 May 2024 - Iraq’s first Climate Investment Plan was announced on May 16, 2024. The goal of the CIP is to offer viable options for public and private investments to fulfill the climate commitments of Iraq into the investment strategies for the period 2025-2030. This initiative aims to drive Climate Action and attract investments, while creating a safe and secure environment for both foreign and local investors.
Two announcement events occurred:
On May 16, 2024, the National Investment Commission (NIC) hosted a federal level event attended by several ministries, including the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Planning. The second event occurred on May 19, 2024, in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI) attended by the President of the Board of Investment (BoI), Mr. Mohammed Shukrey Saeed, and the advisor to the PM-KRG on Climate Change, Ms. Bayan Sami Abdulrahman. The Climate Investment Plan, developed with technical support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and funding from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), aligns with Iraq’s vision to promote Climate Action through a broader investment strategy.
The President of the NIC, Dr. Haider Muhammad Makiya, stated, "Today, we announced the Climate Investment Plan, along with UNDP and USAID. Technical teams from all ministries will be formed to work on the five-year plan and establish a united vision to reduce the burden on the country’s operational budget."
The President of the BoI, Dr. Mohammed Shukrey, stated, "Our Climate Investment Plan in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, launched in collaboration with the Environmental Protection and Improvement Board, the Ministry of Planning, and UNDP extends to the year 2030. This initiative aims to encourage climate investment in the region. We have formed a technical team from all sectoral bodies, and from the Prime Minister Council to develop a comprehensive and realistic strategy that integrates climate considerations into our investment plans,”USAID Iraq’s Mission Director, Ms. Elise Jensen, stated, “We are dedicated to helping Iraq move its economy forward and reduce the impacts of climate change. The Climate Investment Plan is a significant step towards the country’s financial independence, and USAID is eager to support Iraq in creating the right environment where investors can see the true potential and opportunities this country’s private sector offers.”
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative, Auke Lootsma, added, "We believe in Iraq's vision and are ready to support all efforts facilitating climate investment and Climate Action in the country. This plan signifies a strong commitment to sustainable development and to secure a better future for Iraq."
The CIP identifies priority areas such as agriculture, water security, ecosystems, low-emission transport, energy, and circular urban economy. By addressing these key sectors, Iraq aims to enhance resilience, reduce emissions, and foster a safe environment for investment.
About USAID
The United States Government, through USAID, is a steadfast partner of Iraq, helping enhance social and economic stability for all citizens. USAID is working with the Iraqi Government, international institutions, and local partners to accelerate economic growth and empower women, youth, and religious and ethnic minorities.
About UNDP
UNDP aims to contribute to Iraq’s environmental rehabilitation and development efforts by addressing the root causes, risks and mitigation measures associated with environmental degradation, climate change, and disasters shocks through capacity building and technical assistance. Support for relevant ministries and departments of the national and local government, as well as the regional authorities, is designed to enable them to fulfill their legal obligations and policy and regulatory commitments to promote environmental sustainability and climate resilience in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/269790-iraq-announces-inception-five-year-climate-investment-plan-cip




Date: 23 May 2024
Title: FAO Iraq and MoA Co-Host Workshop for Graduate Agricultural Engineers
Content: 23 May 2024
Baghdad- 21 May 2024 - The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) Iraq, in partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), and the Agricultural Engineers Association, is proud to announce a significant stride forward in enabling access to employment and loan opportunities for graduate agricultural engineers. This initiative is part of FAO's ongoing project to enhance business development skills for agricultural graduates.
Under the esteemed patronage of H.E. Minister of Agriculture Dr. Abbas Jabr Al Maliki and following the training specialized courses aimed at enhancing agricultural engineers' capacities, a joint workshop was convened, aimed at identifying opportunities for   agriculture engineers to access loans and grants, enabling them to initiate their own projects.
The workshop was attended by the Technical Deputy, Dr. Mithaq Al Khafaji, FAO Iraq representative Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan, Member of Prime Minister’s Advisory Council (PMAC) Dr. Ibraheem Satar, Head of the Agricultural Engineers Association, Eng. Sadiq Jaafar, officials from MoA and over 60 agricultural engineers   who had already received specialized training in the agricultural sector and business development.
This workshop focused on empowering participating agricultural engineers with the necessary information regarding available opportunities and the procedures for accessing loans and grants. Moreover, it facilitated collecting feedback on additional support needed for further follow-up and assistance.
Discussions centered on the potential for trained agricultural engineers to make substantial contributions to the growth of the agricultural sector and the indispensable role of MoA in facilitating their seamless integration into the workforce. Attendees delved into the intricacies of loan mechanisms and eligibility criteria, with the aim of equipping them with the necessary tools to initiate agricultural ventures confidently.
H.E. Minister of Agriculture reminded the ministries’ commitment to support and following up with agricultural engineers, recognizing their important role in advancing agricultural capacities.  He also emphasized FAO's crucial role in enhancing the capabilities of agriculture graduates, particularly within the private sector facilitating employment opportunities, and fostering their contributions to agricultural development.
He added: " Through coordinated efforts and training programs, we aim to harness their expertise to elevate our agricultural sector. This initiative aligns with the ministry’s vision to strengthen the national economy and achieve self-sufficiency."
"We are steadfast in our commitment to fostering an environment conducive to the flourishing of agricultural engineers within the agricultural sector through our collaborative efforts with MoA and Agricultural Engineers Association,” remarked Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Iraq Representative. FAO, along with its partners, continues to support agricultural engineers to enable them to gain a better understanding of investment opportunities and overcome difficulties and challenges. The workshop emphasized the vital role played by the organization in this regard.  We also urge stakeholders and partners to join these efforts to further empower agricultural engineers and advance the agricultural sector.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/269427-fao-iraq-and-moa-co-host-workshop-graduate-agricultural-engineers




Date: 23 May 2024
Title: Prosecutor General of Kurdistan Region of Iraq Visits UNDP Financial Investigation Workshop
Content: 23 May 2024
22nd of May 2024, Baghdad, Iraq — The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq welcomed the Public Prosecutor General of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI), Judge Kawa Fathi Masoum, to one of its ongoing Financial Investigation workshops in Baghdad at the Judicial Development Institute, earlier this week.
During his visit, the Public Prosecutor General praised the longstanding partnership between UNDP and the national justice system, highlighting the importance of these collective efforts to combat financial crime and corruption across Iraq. He awarded UNDP’s training team including Dr Mohammed Almosly, James May and Jafar Nema for their dedication, excellence and promoting interactive training approach.
Judge Masoum’s visit provided an opportunity to recognize the achievements of UNDP Iraq’s ongoing efforts in strengthening the capacity of judicial and law enforcement officials across Iraq. Since 2021, UNDP Iraq, with the support of the U.S. Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement, has trained over 2,000 officials, including more than 700 judges, in investigating, prosecuting, and adjudicating complex and organized crimes including corruption, illicit enrichment and money laundering cases.
Judge Kawa Fathi Masoum, said that “during our attendance at the Judicial Workshop on 17-18 May 2024, we awarded the Public Prosecution Shield to the members of the UNDP team of the Financial Investigation Project in recognition of their exceptional efforts in training our judges on financial investigation techniques. This training will enhance the capabilities of public prosecutors in monitoring and protecting public funds, uncovering crimes of corruption and money laundering, and holding perpetrators accountable. The dedication and expertise of the UNDP team also led to the drafting and launching of a Financial Investigation Handbook, which has been adopted by our Iraqi institutions to unify our procedures and efforts in this field. The UNDP experts played a significant role in the success of the program.”
UNDP Resident Representative in Iraq, Auke Lootsma, added, "We are honored to have had the Prosecutor General of KRI with us. His presence reinforces the important role of partnerships in achieving our shared goal of reducing corruption and enhancing justice in Iraq."
Dr. Mohamed Almosly, a national and international trainer and UNDP Expert on Financial Investigations, emphasized the significance of the workshops. "Our training sessions are designed to be highly interactive and tailored to the participants' needs. They promote collaborative approaches and equip officials with the necessary tools to conduct thorough financial investigations. The success of these workshops is reflected in the strong network and shared knowledge among the judiciary and other agencies."
A notable achievement of this project is the launch of the Handbook for Enhancing Financial Investigations and Upholding the Rule of Law in November 2023. This comprehensive guide was co-created by 12 institutions, providing a valuable resource for practitioners involved in financial investigations.
About UNDP Iraq
UNDP in Iraq supports the Government of Iraq's efforts towards reconciliation, reform, and stability. Its support towards the development of Iraq’s Financial Investigations handbook is part of its work under the Security Sector Reform and Rule of Law Programme. The programme’s goal is to support the Government’s efforts toward long-term peace and stability through an improved security and justice sector. Its work on financial investigations and anti-money laundering is made possible with the generous contributions of the United States Government.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/269425-prosecutor-general-kurdistan-region-iraq-visits-undp-financial-investigation-workshop




Date: 22 May 2024
Title: The Ministry of Education, the European Union, UNESCO, and UNICEF launch ITALEEM - equitable quality education in Iraq
Content: 22 May 2024
Baghdad, Iraq, 22 May 2024
The Ministry of Education, the European Union (EU), UNESCO and UNICEF launched the ITALEEM equitable quality education programme today.  This programme will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Education, reaching over 100,000 teachers and 30,000 schools.
We appreciate the efforts of our partners the EU, UNESCO and UNICEF in ensuring that all learners in Iraq have access to quality equitable education,” said Mr. Ibrahim Al Juboori, Minister of Education.  “This education programme will support the ministry to advance the quality of education reaching more than 10 million students.”
“I-TALEEM is more than just an education programme; it's an investment in the future of Iraq. By harnessing data, empowering communities, and supporting educators, we're building a foundation for a more equitable and impactful learning experience for all Iraqi students.” Said Mr. Thomas Seiler, the European Union Ambassador to the Republic of Iraq.
Also, H.E the European Union Ambassador said "We are thrilled to announce the launch of I-TALEEM, a groundbreaking education programme designed to empower learners and educators in Iraq. This programme rests on four key pillars: leveraging technology for data-driven decision-making, fostering school-community partnerships, equipping teachers for success, and strengthening civil society engagement. Through I-TALEEM, we aim to unlock the full potential of Iraq's education system and empower future generations to thrive". Said Mr. Thomas Seiler, the European Union Ambassador to the Republic of Iraq.
This joint EU, UNESCO and UNICEF education programme will strengthen the ministry’s governance by enhancing policies, planning and management; will improve school capacity to provide quality inclusive education; will build the capacity of teachers for quality teaching and learning; and enable civil society organizations’ engagement in the education system.
"As educational access improves, Iraq needs to invest in improving the quality of teaching and learning guided by evidence based educational planning, continuous professional development and support for teachers and integration of educational technologies,” said Paolo Fontani, UNESCO Representative in Iraq.  “UNESCO is dedicated to supporting the nationwide implementation of the education management information system, executing the ministry’s Capacity Development Plan and in-service training for teachers in partnership with the Government, development partners and civil society organizations to realize the objectives outlined in Iraq National Education Strategy 2022-2031."
The concerted efforts underscore a commitment to ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education for all students, especially the most vulnerable across Iraq. At the heart of this initiative lies the implementation of the innovative programme, Equitable Quality Education in Iraq: Improved Teaching and Learning and Enhanced Educational Management (ITALEEM).
“As Iraq is transitioning from humanitarian to long-term development, strengthening the education system has never been more important,” said Sandra Lattouf, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. “Investing in quality inclusive education will accelerate progress towards Sustainable Development Goal 4 and will ensure a brighter future for every child in Iraq.”

###
END
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/269298-ministry-education-european-union-unesco-and-unicef-launch-italeem-equitable-quality




Date: 22 May 2024
Title: ITC and KESK join efforts to promote climate smart solutions and innovative construction technology in Iraq
Content: 22 May 2024
Erbil, 21.05.2024
International Trade Centre (ITC), joint agency of UN and World Trade Organization fully dedicated to supporting small businesses of developing countries to trade, and KESK, Iraq’s pioneering green tech company announced their partnership for making smart green solutions trustable, accessible, and affordable.
This partnership is part of ITC’s recently launched European Union (EU) funded Building Equitable and Inclusive Transformation (BEIT) project, jointly implemented with the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) and the International Labour Organization (ILO).
BEIT aims to generate quality jobs through the development of affordable and sustainable housing in Iraq. Specifically, ITC will bolster the capabilities of local businesses, particularly micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) in the sector, with a focus on young entrepreneurs, enabling them to integrate green and innovative practices into their operations, as established in the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Eric Buchot, Representative, Head of ITC Country Programme in Iraq, and Basima Abdulrahman, Founder and CEO KESK signed the letter of intent.
Emphasizing the strategic importance of the collaboration, Eric Buchot said, " Working together with KESK, we aim to promote climate-smart solutions and housing retrofits for middle income households in Iraq, reinforcing the capabilities of local businesses, especially young entrepreneurs.”
"We are thrilled to partner with the International Trade Centre, a collaboration that will empower Iraqi businesses, especially our youth and small enterprises, to embrace sustainable and innovative construction technologies. This partnership aligns perfectly with our mission at KESK to build a greener future for Iraq. Together, we are setting a foundation for resilience and prosperity through environmentally conscious solutions that are critical for our country's development," said Basima Abdulrahman, Founder and CEO of KESK.
This collaboration marks a significant step towards supporting Iraqi youth through training, mentorship and resources in the housing and construction sector.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/269332-itc-and-kesk-join-efforts-promote-climate-smart-solutions-and-innovative-construction




Date: 22 May 2024
Title: DSRSG/RC/HC Ghulam Isaczai Meets with Returnees in Salah al-Din
Content: 22 May 2024
Salah al-Din, Iraq – May 22, 2024
The UN Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident Coordinator, and Humanitarian Coordinator (DSRSG/RC/HC) for Iraq, Ghulam M. Isaczai, visited today Yathrib District in southern Salah al-Din Governorate and met with a group of the 35 internally displaced families who had recently returned from Ashti camp in Sulaymaniyah.
The families appreciated the cash assistance and other material support received from the Ministry of Migration and Displacement and local government. However, many of the returnees’ families indicated that they would require more support to restart their normal lives after return. Some of them are still unable to return to their places of origin due to damaged houses and tribal issues and continue to live in tents after their return.
Mr. Isaczai acknowledged the efforts of the Government and the significant progress made in ensuring the safe and dignified return of displaced persons and emphasized the need for more substantial support to find durable solution for the IDPs.
Mr. Isaczai also recognized the ongoing challenges that returnees face, including the need for shelters, sustainable livelihoods, and access to essential services. The UN remains committed to supporting Iraq’s efforts in overcoming these challenges and ensuring durable solutions for all IDPs through the development of a comprehensive roadmap.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/269313-dsrsgrchc-ghulam-isaczai-meets-returnees-salah-al-din




Date: 20 May 2024
Title: More to be done to advance women’s empowerment, says SRSG Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert
Content: 20 May 2024
19 May 2024, Baghdad
Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General (SRSG) and Head of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert met with civil society representatives and Women Advisory Groups (WAG) members from Iraq, including the Kurdistan Region, along with Ajay Madiwale, UN Women Country Representative. The meeting was an opportunity to exchange views on ongoing efforts towards, as well as residual challenges to, the advancement of women’s rights in Iraq.
The participants highlighted the critical role civil society plays in promoting women’s empowerment, the need for progress on key legislation to protect women’s rights in Iraq, such as the Anti-Domestic Violence Law, and the value of women’s full participation in decision-making processes. They emphasized the distinct challenges facing specific categories of women, including women and girls with disabilities and women from minority groups.
During the meeting, SRSG Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert stressed that any pending legislation should have the protection of women and girls as a core objective. “There are genuine concerns, not just from women, but from all those in favour of promoting a safe and just society. As I leave Iraq, I laud the efforts of Iraqi women and men in advocating for legislation that supports the empowerment of women and girls. What’s more, any legislation related to children should be guided only by the best interests of the child.”
“As I have said before, too many women have been blocked from taking a seat at the table. And some of those who have gained a seat find themselves, still, excluded from decision-making processes. Women’s empowerment must go beyond symbolism.”
“And yes, the need for an active, empowered and protected civil society is as pressing as ever”, the SRSG concluded.
At the end of the meeting, SRSG Hennis-Plasschaert noted that UN Iraq would continue to support the Government of Iraq and civil society in ensuring progress towards the full realization of Iraq’s commitments to the protection and empowerment of women and girls across the country, in line with the Sustainable Development Goals.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/269180-more-be-done-advance-women%E2%80%99s-empowerment-says-srsg-jeanine-hennis-plasschaert




Date: 20 May 2024
Title: Secretary-General appoints Ms. Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert of the Netherlands  as Special Coordinator for Lebanon
Content: 20 May 2024
New York, 20 May 2024
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres announced today the appointment of Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert of the Netherlands as his new Special Coordinator for Lebanon, Office of the United Nations Special Coordinator for Lebanon (UNSCOL).
Ms. Hennis-Plasschaert succeeds Joanna Wronecka of Poland, to whom the Secretary-General is grateful for her commitment and leadership of UNSCOL.
Currently serving as the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq and Head of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (since 2018), Ms. Hennis-Plasschaert brings to this position over 25 years of experience in diplomacy, international security and Middle East affairs.  Prior to that, she was Minister of Defence of the Netherlands (2012-2017) – the first woman to hold this position.  She previously served as a member of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands (2010-2012) and as a member of the European Parliament (2004-2010).  Ms. Hennis-Plasschaert has also worked for the European Commission in Belgium and Latvia, as well as for the City of Amsterdam and in the private sector.
Ms. Hennis-Plasschaert is proficient in English, French and German and is a native Dutch speaker.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/269183-secretary-general-appoints-ms-jeanine-hennis-plasschaert-netherlands-special-coordinator




Date: 19 May 2024
Title: Empowering Southern Iraqi Dairy Producers: FAO-EU Initiative Delivers Vital Equipment in Southern Iraq
Content: 19 May 2024
Basra, Iraq, May 19, 2024
Implemented by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in close collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), the "Restoration and Strengthening the Resilience of Agri-Food Systems in Southern Iraq" project enters a new phase with the launch of the first batch of dairy equipment distribution in Basra, Thi Qar, and Missan, targeting 5000 beneficiaries (50 % of whom are women). This transformative initiative aims to uplift dairy production standards and improve the livelihoods of rural communities in Southern Iraq. By developing the milk production chain, the initiative empowers rural women's groups in the marshes to improve their livelihoods through increased productivity and marketing potential of local dairy products. Additionally, modern machinery is introduced to further strengthen the resilience of these communities.
Led by FAO representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, and the technical Deputy of MoA, Dr. Mithaq El Khafaji, these two distribution ceremonies held respectively  at the agricultural training and extension centers in Basra and Thi Qar saw the presence of key dignitaries including representatives from the ministries of Agriculture, Planning, Environment and Water Resources, the National Department for Iraqi Women as well as representatives  of  local government, farmers’ association and beneficiaries .Officials attending the ceremonies expressed gratitude for FAO's efforts amidst challenging conditions, highlighting the transformative impact of modern equipment in fostering resilience and sustainable agriculture in Southern Iraq. They reaffirmed their commitment to supporting ongoing initiatives, recognizing the importance of sustained collaboration in advancing agricultural resilience in the region.
The distributed equipment included essential dairy tools to enhance milk hygiene standards and production efficiency.
This initiative signifies a substantial step forward in promoting sustainable agriculture, empowering local communities, and enhancing livelihoods, and those two ceremonies represent the kick-off of a wider equipment distribution campaign that will cover the three southern governorates during the upcoming month.
Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan expressed his enthusiasm, stating, "Today marks a crucial moment in our efforts to empower rural communities and promote sustainable agriculture in Southern Iraq. The distribution of dairy equipment underscores our commitment to improving milk hygiene standards and enhancing the livelihoods of dairy producers, particularly women.  We also extend our thanks to partners at the European Unions as well as national and local partners who contributed to the success of this initiative, recognizing the collaborative efforts that have made this endeavor possible."
Dr. Mithaq Al Khafaji, emphasized the project's significance, saying, "This initiative aligns with our vision to strengthen the resilience of rural communities and promote sustainable agriculture. By providing essential dairy equipment, we aim to improve the quality of milk production and contribute to the economic empowerment of rural households. The government is committed to providing further support to buffalo producers and farmers in the South, underscoring our dedication to fostering agricultural development and prosperity in the region."
Alongside with the distribution ceremony, officials took part in a field visit to marshlands to follow up on the situation of buffalo producers and witness positive developments thanks to the sustainable interventions and support provided by FAO Iraq and the EU.Additionally, the FAO team organized a workshop for Date Palm and Tomato Farmers Field School (FFS) facilitators from southern Iraq. This workshop ensured the development of date palm and tomato value chains. Ongoing activities were tracked, and plans were made for the upcoming crop season, focusing on production, processing, and marketing.
Under the broader umbrella of the EU Agri-Food Business Development Programme, the project, aims to improve governance and job creation along several agri-food value chains in Iraq. This initiative represents a major stride in fostering sustainable agriculture, empowering women, and strengthening agri-food systems in Southern Iraq. Furthermore, this initiative aligns with several Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including SDG 1 (No Poverty), SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), and SDG 5 (Gender Equality). By promoting economic empowerment, food security, and gender inclusivity within rural communities, it not only addresses immediate challenges but also contributes to the overall sustainable development agenda. This holistic approach underscores the continuous commitment of FAO and its partners in supporting and sustaining the Southern rural communities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/269104-empowering-southern-iraqi-dairy-producers-fao-eu-initiative-delivers-vital-equipment




Date: 19 May 2024
Title: FAO Iraq Takes Strides Towards Preserving Agricultural Biodiversity and Conservation of Plant Genetic Material in Iraq
Content: 19 May 2024
Baghdad, Iraq - May 19, 2024
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq, in collaboration with the International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), is making strides towards preserving agricultural biodiversity and conservation of plant genetic material in Iraq through the Gene Bank (Seed Bank) component. This initiative is a component of the FAO- European Union (EU) funded project titled "Restoration and Strengthening the Resilience of Agri-Food Systems."
The Seed Bank component of this project holds paramount importance as it addresses the challenges faced by Iraq's agricultural sector due to the of challenges that the country has experienced. The main objectives are the rehabilitation of the Abu Gharib seed bank in Baghdad, which has been operational since 1977 but has suffered from infrastructural damage. Additionally, the project aims to establish a new seed bank in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq in Sulaymaniyah Governorate.
This week, a team of experts from FAO and ICARDA conducted field visits and held meetings with Iraqi officials to advance these efforts.
In Baghdad, the experts team inspected the gene bank infrastructure and research station, emphasizing the meticulous assessment of equipment and staff capacity. Subsequently, fruitful meetings were held with senior officials at the Ministry of Agriculture, focusing on the current status, challenges, opportunities and the importance of the gene bank rehabilitation.
FAO Iraq Representative, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan affirmed: "The restoration and establishment of gene banks are crucial steps towards safeguarding Iraq's agricultural biodiversity and ensuring food security for future generations. FAO remains committed to working closely with Iraqi authorities and partners to achieve these objectives.” He also acknowledged the cooperation with the Iraqi government and the EU, underscoring the importance of collaborative efforts in advancing agricultural sustainability and resilience.
In Erbil, FAO Iraq and ICARDA teams met with Her Excellency the Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI), Ms. Begard Talabni, and her team to discuss the construction of the first gene bank in the Kurdistan Region. This meeting marks the beginning of a joint effort to conserve crop plant genetic resources in Iraq.
In this regard, HE the Minister stated: "Our collaboration with FAO signifies a significant milestone in our efforts to strengthen agricultural resilience in Iraq. Establishing seed or gene banks will play a pivotal role in preserving our agricultural heritage and adapting to future challenges."
Continuing their efforts in Sulaymaniyah, FAO Iraq and ICARDA teams engaged with key counterparts to discuss infrastructure, procurements, and site assessments for the gene bank. A site visit at Hawari-Shar Park was conducted to evaluate facilities for smooth implementation.Two respective working groups have been established to coordinate efforts between local stakeholders and to facilitate a speedy implementation of the project component.
This initiative aligns with several Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly Goal 2: Zero Hunger and Goal 15: Life on Land, by ensuring the conservation of genetic resources essential for food security and sustainable agriculture.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/269099-fao-iraq-takes-strides-towards-preserving-agricultural-biodiversity-and-conservation-plant




Date: 04 May 2024
Title: Financial literacy for a Sustainable Future in Iraq
Content: 04 May 2024
The ILO and the Central Bank of Iraq Launch the Financial Inclusion Week in Southern Iraq under the heading: “Towards Encouraging Savings to Enhance Financial Inclusion," with funding from the Government of Italy.
Al-Muthanna, Iraq – May 2, 2024 – The International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Central Bank of Iraq (CBI), with the support of the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS), are partnering to empower individuals and businesses in southern Iraq with financial literacy skills. A week-long initiative kicked off in Al-Muthanna governorate this week aligns with the CBI's broader Financial Inclusion Week activities for 2024, themed “Towards Encouraging Savings to Enhance Financial Inclusion."
The initiative builds upon the ongoing collaboration between the ILO, AICS and the government of Iraq to promote decent work, green jobs and a sustainable future in the south, under the ILO project “Towards More and Better Employment through Enhanced Support to Private Sectors in Southern Iraq – with a Focus on Green Business.”
“Financial inclusion is essential for building a more sustainable and inclusive future for all,” said Maha Kattaa ILO country coordinator in Iraq. “Through this collaboration with AICS and the CBI, we are empowering people in southern Iraq, particularly youth and women, with the financial literacy skills they need to save, invest, and grow green businesses, which contributes to enhancing economic development and creating decent job opportunities for all,” Kattaa added.
AICS, Italy's development cooperation agency, attaches great importance to financial inclusion for building a sustainable and inclusive future. Its support allows the programme to equip individuals and businesses with the knowledge and tools needed to fully participate in the financial system. This financial literacy empowers them to save, invest, and foster innovation, particularly for green businesses critical for a sustainable future in southern Iraq.
The Central Bank of Iraq works to empower individuals and businesses to access banking services through a variety of channels, including digital applications and online services, to facilitate daily financial transactions smoothly and efficiently. The bank also encourages the use of electronic payment tools, such as bank cards and electronic wallets, to achieve rapid and effective financial integration.
Hussein Abdul Amir Jabbar, Director of the Financial Inclusion Department at the Central Bank of Iraq, said: "The bank is committed to expanding financial inclusion across Iraq, aiming to reach different segments of society. He emphasized that the Central Bank of Iraq focuses during the Arab Financial Inclusion Week activities on raising awareness about financial banking services and educating individuals on how to manage their money effectively, including access to banking services and how to use them."
He added: "This awareness of the optimal use of banking services contributes to achieving individual financial empowerment and enhancing economic growth at the level of the Iraqi economy as a whole. The ILO initiative in the southern provinces aligns with the Central Bank of Iraq's goals of strengthening financial culture and empowering individuals and businesses to manage their financial affairs efficiently and effectively. This year's slogan reaffirms the bank's commitment to building a sustainable and strong financial system in Iraq, enabling everyone to participate in economic activity and benefit from it."
The Financial Inclusion Week in the south of Iraq featured a variety of activities, including:
More than 500 young men and women took part in the events of Financial Inclusion Week in southern Iraq. The activities spanned eight sessions across the Basra and Muthanna governorates in collaboration with the University of Basra, the University of Muthanna, the Southern Technical University, the Chambers of Industry in Basra and Muthanna, the Directorate of Youth and Sports in Basra and Muthanna, the Vocational Training Center in Basra, and Siraj Al-Maarifa Company., where these activities contributed to:

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/267768-financial-literacy-sustainable-future-iraq




Date: 01 May 2024
Title: Explosive ordnance incident at Tal Kaif near Mosul kills one
Content: 01 May 2024
Mosul, 30 April 2024 – One Iraqi member of a team working for a United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) implementing partner was killed in an incident at an explosive ordnance clearance site in Batnaia, Tal Kaif area, near Mosul.
The incident occurred in the early morning at the site managed by Health and Social Care Organization in Iraq (IHSCO), which is one of UNMAS Iraq’s implementing partners.
UNMAS Iraq and the entire UN family in Iraq convey their deepest condolences to the families of the deceased.
UNMAS is working closely with the Iraqi Directorate for Mine Action to investigate and review the incident to understand if any conditions can be addressed and precautions implemented to reduce the risk of such incidents in the future.
IHSCO has been a partner of UNMAS for the last four years and cleared hundreds of items of explosive ordnance in the liberated areas from ISIL. The clearance operations are essential for the safety of impacted communities and safe access to land for agricultural activities and development.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/267582-explosive-ordnance-incident-tal-kaif-near-mosul-kills-one




Date: 30 April 2024
Title: UNHCR and ITC join efforts to support the economic empowerment of refugees and host communities in Iraq
Content: 30 April 2024
Erbil, Iraq, 30 April 2024 - UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, and the International Trade Centre (ITC), joint agency of UN and World Trade Organization fully dedicated to supporting small businesses in developing countries to trade, enter into a groundbreaking partnership to facilitate the socio-economic integration of refugee and local community members in Iraq.
This partnership establishes a comprehensive framework under which ITC and UNHCR will collaborate to promote inclusive economic growth and self-reliance among refugees and local communities. The joint efforts are aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF), the Iraq Government Vision 2030 and National Development Plans that all seek to expand income opportunities leaving no one behind and thus fight against poverty.
ITC and UNHCR will strengthen and expand their ongoing joint work, placing a special focus on interventions that aim to advance inclusive and profitable economic opportunities in the agricultural sector and other promising sectors for Micro Small Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), considering the specific needs of refugees and asylum seekers, their legal status and protection needs.
The two entities will also work together to strengthen agribusiness competitiveness in refugee hosting areas; and in forging and implementing strategies to champion and augment inclusive economic empowerment of youth and women in Iraq.
Eric Buchot, Representative, Head of ITC Country Programme in Iraq, and Jean-Nicolas Beuze, UNHCR Representative to Iraq signed the letter of intent.
Emphasizing the strategic importance of the collaboration, Eric Buchot said, “ITC and UNHCR partnership showcases the importance of inclusive economic opportunities for refugees' self-reliance, integration, social stability, and long-term solutions to displacement. Supporting refugees' economic inclusion is not only a matter of humanitarian assistance but also a strategic investment in sustainable development and peacebuilding.”
“Our collaboration with the ITC will enhance socio-economic integration for refugees and Iraqis. Together, our goal is to create better job opportunities, particularly in agriculture, and prioritize trainings to give more chances to refugees and Iraqis to access these jobs. Refugees want to become economically self-reliant and they want to contribute to the local economy so as not to be a burden on anyone. For UNHCR, it is equally important that Iraqis, particularly Kurdish, be equally supported so that everyone benefits from these initiatives. ITC brings its expertise in job creation and we bring our knowledge on how to involve communities, especially those displaced. Together we can win the challenge of developing local economies to the benefit of all,” said Jean-Nicolas Beuze, UNHCR Representative to Iraq.
This collaboration marks a significant step towards fostering economic self-reliance among refugees in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/267415-unhcr-and-itc-join-efforts-support-economic-empowerment-refugees-and-host-communities-iraq




Date: 29 April 2024
Title: UN Human Rights media statement on Iraq
Content: 29 April 2024
Geneva, 29 April 2024
Comment by UN Human Rights Office spokesperson Ravina Shamdasani on Iraq
Statement Link
The United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI):
Legislative work is the prerogative of Iraq’s parliament, but it should be compatible with Iraq’s international obligations and commitments.
Safeguarding the fundamental freedoms of all does not mean promoting any specific private behaviour or disrespecting any culture or religion. It is rather the hallmark of any society based on tolerance and respect for human rights.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/267359-un-human-rights-media-statement-iraq




Date: 29 April 2024
Title: Innovative Solutions by FAO and Partners for more resilient communities in Southern Iraq
Content: 29 April 2024
Thi Qar- Al-Chibayish , Iraq - April 29, 2024 - In a collaborative effort, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), alongside its esteemed partners, is spearheading a transformative initiative aimed at bolstering resilience and sustainability within communities and safeguarding the environment in southern Iraq.
Initiated with financial support from the European Union through the ‘ Restoration and Strengthening the Resilience of Agri-Food Systems in Southern Iraq `project  and now complemented  by several  other projects funded by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA), Global Affairs Canada (GAC), the Norwegian government, and in collaboration with Iraqi Ministries of Agriculture, Water Resources, Environment and local authorities, FAO's interventions have played a crucial role in delivering vital  assistance to rural communities and buffalo breeders.
The tangible impact of the efforts made has been remarkable, emphasizing the importance of resilience and sustainability in community development. Such successes serve as a testament to the power of collaborative action and underscore the need for continued support to strengthen these vital lifelines.
Moving forward, FAO is doubling down on its commitment to innovation and sustainability, with a strategic focus on water and energy uses. Through synergistic partnerships with governmental entities such as the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Water Resources, the Ministry of Environment, local authorities and donors, FAO is poised to introduce much-needed modern climate resilient practices to sustain the region's landscape and soils.At the heart of this initiative is the introduction of a home solar water desalination unit. This unit has been meticulously designed and assembled by the organisation's team of experts. Solar panels provide electricity for the Home Water Desalination Unit, generating clean energy. In addition, they provide television and satellite systems for viewing satellite channels, while also serving as a reliable source of energy for multiple household uses.
The impact of this endeavor goes beyond simply providing more luxury. By reducing the financial burdens associated with purchasing potable water and fuel to operate traditional electric power generators that pollute the environment, the cost of living for homeowners will be reduced by approximately $300 per month, which represents the expenses of purchasing fuel and clean water.
The impact of this endeavor goes far beyond mere convenience. By alleviating the financial burdens associated with purchasing potable water and fuel to run traditional polluting electricity generators. The cost of living for homeowners will be reduced by approximately $300 per month, which represents the expenses of purchasing fuel and clean water, particularly in the central marshlands within Al-Ahwar. FAO's solar-powered solutions will enable and empower families to thrive in place, rather than succumb to the pressures of harsh environmental conditions. Furthermore, this innovation will leave women within the household with less house-work burden, as well as improved hygiene.
"Building community resilience requires concerted efforts and unwavering commitment from all stakeholders," said Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq. "We are extremely grateful for the spirit of cooperation shown by our esteemed partners. Together, we are not only providing immediate relief, but also laying the foundation for long-term sustainability. As we face today's challenges, FAO remains steadfast in our mission to provide innovative and sustainable solutions that not only strengthen livelihoods, but also preserve the environment for generations to come."
This initiative represents a collaborative effort involving governmental entities, local authorities, and valued donors including the European Union, Canada, Sweden and Norway.
FAO and its partners are steadfast in their commitment to scale-up government-led efforts and foster resilient communities and perfectly aligned with several Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), notably SDG 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation) and SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), among others. With steadfast dedication and an innovative ethos, FAO stands ready to pave the way for a brighter, more sustainable future, ensuring that no one is left behind.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/267347-innovative-solutions-fao-and-partners-more-resilient-communities-southern-iraq




Date: 29 April 2024
Title: ILO Director-General calls for national momentum to achieve social justice in Iraq
Content: 29 April 2024
During a two-day visit, ILO Director-General Gilbert F. Houngbo held talks with Iraq’s President, Prime Minister, senior Iraqi officials, social partners and youth representatives on advancing social justice and ensuring decent work in Iraq.
BAGHDAD (ILO News) – ILO Director-General, Gilbert F. Houngbo, has concluded his first official visit to Iraq, during which he praised the country for transitioning from a focus on emergency relief response to stabilization and development, while calling for continued advancement towards greater social justice, growth of decent jobs and protection of workers in the country.
During his visit, on 27-28 April, during which he was accompanied by the ILO Regional Director for Arab States, Ruba Jaradat, and other senior ILO officials, the Director-General discussed progress made through the ILO’s work in the country with Iraqi President Abdul Latif Rashid, Prime Minister Mohammed Shia' Al Sudani, and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Ahmed Jassem Saber Al-Asadi. The meetings also explored possibilities for further cooperation to accelerate decent work and economic growth in the country.
Houngbo also met the ILO’s social partners in Iraq, including representatives from the General Federation of Iraqi Workers (GFIW), the Conference of Iraqi Federations and Workers Unions (CIFWU) and the Iraqi Council Union (ICU), as well as employers’ representatives from the Iraqi Federation of Industries (IFI). The discussions focused on strengthening freedom of association and fostering tripartite social dialogue for better protection of workers’ rights in Iraq.
The Director-General held further talks with UN Resident Coordinator, Ghulam Mohammad Isaczai, and members of the UN Iraq country team, on forming close partnerships between the ILO and UN agencies on the ground, as part of the UN’s wider goal of 'delivering as one' in Iraq.
“I commend Iraq for the progress made in the past years, which has paved the way for a sustained transition to stabilization and development, decent work and more constructive relations between workers, employers and the state, based on social justice for all in the country,” Director-General Houngbo said during his visit.
The ILO and the Government of Iraq launched the country’s first four-year Decent Work Country Programme in 2019. They have also worked together to support private sector development and job creation, strengthen social protection, address child labour, and enhance labour governance and social dialogue.“The ILO is committed to continuing our technical support to Iraq, and to working together in close partnership, towards the promotion of inclusive economic growth, full and productive employment and social protection for all,” ILO Regional Director for the Arab States, Ruba Jaradat, explained.
The ILO Director-General also met Iraqi youth representatives to hear their views on how their country can create more and better jobs. “Addressing challenges that young people face in the world of work is one of the ILO's priorities,” Houngbo said. “This is especially crucial in a country like Iraq where more than a third of the youth are unemployed. Young people need to be engaged as agents of change, and we must do all that we can to include them in spaces where critical decisions on the future of work are being made”.
Houngbo also praised Iraq for being the first country in the Arab States region to join the Global Coalition for Social Justice, highlighting the country’s focus on the social dimensions of sustainable development and economic growth. He also expressed his appreciation for the country’s commitment to ratification and implementation of ILO’s International Labour Standards.The ILO Director-General also attended the 50th Session of the Arab Labour Conference, held in Baghdad, where he delivered a keynote address and met Arab Labour Organization Director-General, Fayez Al Mutairi, and worker, employer, and government representatives from across the Arab States region. Iraq’s implementation of it’s Decent Work Country Programme has led to an extensive range of world of work-related developments. These include the Ratifications of the ILO Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952 (No. 102) and the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006 (MLC, 2006), thus aligning the related national standards with international labour standards. Other reforms include the adoption of a new national Social Security and Pension Law (No 18 of 2023) that expanded social security coverage to all private sector workers, including in the informal economy, and the endorsement of the Iraq National Strategy to Prevent and Reduce Inequalities in the World of Work for the Years 2024-2028.The ILO and its tripartite constituents are currently engaged in developing the second Decent Work Country Programme for 2025-2029, to support Iraq’s continuing progress towards achieving Sustainable Development Goal 8, on Decent Work and Economic Growth.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/267345-ilo-director-general-calls-national-momentum-achieve-social-justice-iraq




Date: 28 April 2024
Title: ILO Director-General Houngbo calls for collective action in the Arab states to address growing challenges in the world of work
Content: 28 April 2024
Gilbert F. Houngbo made his statement at this year’s Arab Labour Conference in Baghdad, where he invited stakeholders in the region to join the Global Coalition for Social Justice.
BAGHDAD (ILO News) – The mounting challenges facing the world of work in the Arab region can only be addressed through concerted joint efforts and multilateral partnerships, including the Global Coalition for Social Justice, ILO Director-General Gilbert F. Houngbo told attendees at this year’s Arab Labour Conference (ALC) in Baghdad.
“It is only by working towards a common vision that can we rise to the challenges facing the world of work today, seize opportunities, and advance towards a future with social justice for all,” Houngbo told delegates during the ALC opening session.
The Global Coalition is an ILO-led initiative to foster multilateral cooperation, strengthen social justice globally and accelerate progress toward the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It has brought together more than 200 partners so far, including governments, worker and employer organizations and civil society, including numerous partners from the Arab region.
Extending the invitation to other Arab stakeholders to join the Coalition, Houngbo announced: “This month, the League of Arab States decided to join the Coalition, an addition I am proud of and deem to be a historic feat for the ILO, the Arab world and social justice worldwide.”
Houngbo participated in the opening session of the ALC, convened by the Arab Labour Organization (ALO) under the auspices of Iraqi Prime Minister Mohammad Shaya’a Al Sudani, along with a delegation of senior ILO officials including Regional Director for Arab States Ruba Jaradat.
During his address at the opening session, the Director-General expressed his profound concern at the renewed conflict in Occupied Palestinian Territory and the impact it is having on Palestinian workers and employers, as well as potential spill-over effects on the economies of neighbouring countries.
“In the last six months, tens of thousands in Gaza have lost their lives or been injured, hundreds of thousands have been displaced, and millions now face hunger, poverty, and disease,” Houngbo said. “The conflict has also led to the loss of livelihoods and jobs in Gaza and the West Bank, and risks destabilizing many economies in the region.”
To help address the labour market impact of the war, the ILO has embarked on an Emergency Response Programme for which it as launched a USD20 million appeal. Houngbo noted to delegates that the ILO response has so far benefitted over 9,000 Gazan workers stranded in the West Bank, and it has allowed the ILO to collect data on the war’s impact on the Palestinian labour market to further help inform the agency’s response. The ILO has also partnered with the United Nations Development Programme to launch an Emergency Employment Scheme in Gaza to deliver jobs and critical health and municipal services.
In his address to the conference, the Director-General also stressed the critical role of the Arab region in the global transition towards a low-carbon economy and the potential that it holds for the region.
“By investing in renewable energy and energy efficiency, we can pave the way for a more inclusive, resilient, and prosperous future for the Arab world,” he said, noting that the Arab region could create ten million new jobs by 2050 through decarbonization and green industrial growth.
This year’s ALC included Arab Labour Organization Director-General Fayez Al Mutairi’s report to the conference on the impact of the technological revolution on human resources. Houngbo said the conference was a valuable opportunity to both tackle the complex issues facing the region, including the impact of AI and technology on the world of work, and celebrate key achievements in the Arab world and.
On the sidelines of the conference, Houngbo met with League of Arab States Secretary-General Ahmed Aboul-Gheit, ALO Director-General Al Mutairi, and Arab government, worker and employer representatives to discuss decent work challenges and opportunities across the region.
Houngbo attended the ALC, held in Baghdad from 27 April to 4 May, as part of his first official visit to Iraq, where he is scheduled to meet Iraqi President Abdul Latif Rashid, and national employer and worker representatives.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/267275-ilo-director-general-houngbo-calls-collective-action-arab-states-address-growing-challenges




Date: 14 April 2024
Title: Up to 7.5 million children to receive life-saving measles vaccination, a government-led initiative supported by UNICEF and WHO
Content: 14 April 2024
A measles, mumps and rubella national campaign where more than 30,000 health workers will be mobilized to end disease transmission and save lives.
Baghdad, 14 April 2024 – Today, the Ministry of Health in collaboration with UNICEF and WHO kicks off a massive nationwide vaccination campaign to protect children from contagious measles, mumps, and rubella diseases. Over 7.5 million children aged 6 - 12 years in primary schools in addition to kindergartens are expected to be reached during this campaign that ends on 25 April 2024.
“This campaign comes at a critical time to end the transmission of measles, one of the most contagious diseases,” said Dr. Saleh Al-Hasnawi, Minister of Health.  “Through our collaborative efforts with UNICEF and WHO, the Ministry of Health can safely and effectively stop the circulation of the measles virus and save the lives of children from this deadly disease by vaccinating children everywhere.”
The Minister of Health for the Kurdistan Region Government, Dr. Saman Barzangy, added: “Measles is a communicable viral disease that the Regional Government is committed to prevent and protect the health of its citizens and future generations by adopting a region-wide mass measles vaccination drive for children in schools and kindergartens.”
This massive campaign is fully resourced by the Government with technical support from UNICEF and WHO.  More than 30,000 frontline workers will deliver the vaccines, conduct community awareness, and monitor the campaign.
“This nationwide immunization campaign reflects the strong commitment of the Ministry of Health to saving children’s lives,” said Ms. Sandra Lattouf, UNICEF Representative in Iraq.  “It will strengthen the health system to provide essential health services to every child in Iraq and will accelerate progress towards attaining the Sustainable Development Goal 3.2.”
“WHO remains committed to collaborating with the Ministry of Health, UNICEF and all partners to further advance the national immunization programme towards universal health coverage,” said Dr. George Alfred Ki-Zerbo, WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq.  “Together, we are steadfast in our commitment to halting the disease transmission, saving lives and securing a healthier and safer future for all.”
Ten days ahead of the World Immunization Week, marking 50 years of the essential programme on immunization, this campaign underscores the power of vaccines in saving children’s lives.
Over the past five decades, vaccines have saved up to 3 million lives every year, adding to a total of more than 130 million people.  Vaccines alone have increased infant survival by 30 per cent.  As one of the cheapest and most effective public health interventions, it is critical to continue to prioritize vaccines to reach every child.
For more information please contact:The National Expanded Programme on Immunization, Ministry of Health
Dr. Saif Al Badr, Email: dr.saif.moh.iraq@gmail.com
Dr Firas Jabbar, Email: firas_tuqa@uahoo.com
UNICEF in IraqMonica Awad, Communication Specialist, Email: mawad@unicef.orgZaid Fahmi, Communication Officer, Email: Zfahmi@unicef.orgWHO in IraqAjyal Sultany, Communication Officer , Email: sultanya@who.int
ABOUT UNICEFUNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit www.unicef.orgFollow UNICEF Iraq on our website,  Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.ABOUT WHOWHO leads global efforts to expand universal health coverage. We direct and coordinate the world’s response to health emergencies. And we promote healthier lives – from pregnancy care through old age. Our Triple Billion targets outline an ambitious plan for the world to achieve good health for all using science-based policies and programmes.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/265907-75-million-children-receive-life-saving-measles-vaccination-government-led-initiative




Date: 07 April 2024
Title: UN Agencies Launch Joint Programme to Support Iraq, Jordan, and Lebanon in Climate Change Response
Content: 07 April 2024
4 April 2024, Cairo, Egypt – The International Organization for Migration (IOM), the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) today launched a joint programme to support the health system responses of the governments of Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon to climate change adaptation and risk reduction over the coming two years.
The programme, operating under the Migration Multi-Partner Trust Fund, aims to strengthen the resilience of health systems and migrant populations to climate change and disaster risks by incorporating an inclusive human mobility lens into national public health adaptation and risk reduction strategies of the target countries.
“Natural hazards that displace people, claim lives, damage property and impact health are strongly linked to climate change,” said Mr Othman Belbeisi, IOM Regional Director for the Middle East and North Africa.  “Thus, there is a strong need for a comprehensive approach that recognizes the linkages between climate change adaptation and risk reduction efforts in a manner that is inclusive of all impacted communities including migrants.”
“The escalating impacts of climate change globally and particularly in our region are leading to drastic health risks, especially among migrants who face difficulties in accessing adequate health services. This programme aims to create a coherent, multistakeholder approach to enhance resilience and preparedness within health systems, with a focus on the needs of migrants, who are often affected by climate change and its related risks,” said Dr Hanan Balkhy, WHO Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean.
“The UNDRR Regional Office for Arab States is committed to supporting local authorities in Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon in disaster risk management and resilience-building efforts by developing local resilience action plans, which ensure that local authorities and communities are better equipped to handle disasters and emergencies and can respond effectively and efficiently,” said Mr Fadi Jannan, Deputy Chief of UNDRR Regional Office for Arab States.
The Middle East and North Africa region is among the world’s most vulnerable regions to climate change due to its mostly arid climate, coupled with serious water scarcity, continued population growth and urbanization.
Health impacts commonly identified in the region include cardiovascular and respiratory diseases caused by rising temperatures; resurgence and proliferation of vector-borne diseases; air pollution; and foodborne and waterborne diseases caused by degraded quality of water resources.
The programme thus seeks to integrate climate change adaptation and risk reduction strategies, with a specific focus on addressing the unique challenges faced by migrant populations in Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon.
Migrants often face challenges in accessing adequate health services due to factors such as their location, their legal status in transit and destination countries, the affordability of health services, and negative perceptions towards migrants in some host communities.
This integration is also crucial given the projected increase in climate-induced displacement and the associated health risks, particularly in regions with high exposure and low adaptive capacity, such as the Middle East and North Africa region.
The programme will address the information gap on the intersections between climate change, risk reduction, health and human mobility by producing and sharing relevant data. It will also hold capacity-building activities for government officials to improve the integration of an inclusive human mobility lens into local public health adaptation and resilience action plans.
A series of trainings will be organized to enable health professionals in the target countries to obtain the knowledge and skills to respond in an inclusive manner to health threats exacerbated by climate change and in disaster situations. Further, awareness-raising activities will target migrant communities in the involved countries.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/265407-un-agencies-launch-joint-programme-support-iraq-jordan-and-lebanon-climate-change-response




Date: 07 April 2024
Title: HeRAMS transforms health care management in Iraq
Content: 07 April 2024
7 April 2024, Baghdad, Iraq – The Health Resources and Services Availability Monitoring System (HeRAMS) initiative has digitized health care management in Iraq and made vital information accessible for planning and decision-making purposes.
The project was launched in January 2022 to ensure availability of information about essential health resources and services for decision-makers at all levels. Completion of -building and data collection by mid-June 2024 will provide a comprehensive dataset on essential health resources and services provision. This can facilitate evidence-based decision-making to achieve health equity and ensure equal access to essential health services for all in Iraq.
“This success is a reflection of the power of collaboration and innovation in health care management,” said Dr Georges Ki-Zerbo, WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq. “By working together with the national health authorities, we have been able to create a platform that not only responds to emergencies but also strengthens the overall health system, ensuring better access to health care for all.”
The initiative has standardized the collection, analysis and dissemination of information related to essential health services across Iraq. Compiling, maintaining, regularly updating and continuously sharing a master list of health facilities, resources and services has boosted the country’s health information systems.
Experts from WHO headquarters and the WHO Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean took part in a mission to Iraq and the Kurdistan region of Iraq in January 2022. Following this, the federal and Kurdistan region ministries of health sought support for a nationwide implementation of HeRAMS. A joint effort by the WHO Country Office in Iraq and both ministry of health teams then laid the foundations for this implementation.
“Initially, it was believed that HeRAMS would solely aid in emergency response. However, we have demonstrated its capability to also support developmental efforts effectively,” stated Dr Ali Kareem Al Mayahi, Deputy Director-General for Technical Affairs in the Planning Directorate of the Federal Ministry of Health.
The project implementation strategy was guided by WHO’s “Digital implementation investment guide”. This helped assist the Iraqi ministries of health and technical partners to plan the HeRAMS implementation, and at the same time, align this effort with Iraq’s national health system goals. Active participation from both ministries was key to ensure ownership and sustainability of the project.
The first round of HeRAMS implementation took place in 2022 and 2023. This initial phase resulted in an online dynamic dashboard and over 500 pages of descriptive analysis, including an advanced model for accessing health services.
This success paved the way for the second round of implementation, starting in early 2024. This latest round involves capacity-building workshops and revisions to the data collection process. It has also seen a roadmap put in place for the long-term sustainability of HeRAMS. This roadmap has gathered the highest political commitment from both health ministers.
WHO would like to express its gratitude to the federal and Kurdistan region ministries of health and the United States Agency for International Development for their support in advancing this transformative project.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/265408-herams-transforms-health-care-management-iraq




Date: 14 March 2024
Title: Sinjar Welcomes Back 80 Displaced Families with IOM Support
Content: 14 March 2024
IRAQ, March 13 – After nearly ten years of displacement, 80 families returned to their hometown in Sinjar, Ninewa, through IOM’s Facilitated Voluntary Movement (FVM) programme, in close collaboration with Government of Iraq’s Ministry of Migration and Displaced, and Kurdistan Regional Government’s Joint Crisis Coordination Center, on March 12, 2024.

"Returning to my own home is better than staying in a camp," said Sham, an elderly woman from Skiniya village, who lost her daughter and son during the invasion of Daesh and has decided to return to her village with her daughter-in-law.
The latest departures are part of IOM's ongoing support to assisting displaced families across Iraq in returning to their homes or relocating to a new location, in dignity. Since 2023, IOM has assisted more than 450 families to leave displacement settings and return to Sinjar.
"These families have endured immense hardship, and their return to Sinjar represents a significant step towards healing wounds and rebuilding their communities,” says Giorgi Gigauri, IOM Iraq’s Chief of Mission. “Since 2019, IOM has supported nearly 4,000 families end their displacement and return home – and we will continue to stand with returnees every step of the way”.
IOM has supported internally displaced populations in finding durable solutions through informed and voluntary returns to areas origin and relocation under FVM since 2019. Participation in FVM is voluntary, and IOM provides a comprehensive support package to assist families in making informed decisions. This includes “go-and-see" visits, where families visit their areas of origin to assess if conditions are conducive to their return, as well as transportation assistance, counseling and support services, housing support, and livelihood assistance.
In addition to facilitating movements, IOM works with partners to support holistic recovery and stabilization of communities. This includes support for infrastructure, such as schools and healthcare facilities; facilitating access to basic services; economic recovery and livelihoods support; restarting small businesses; finding employment; and empowering communities to build a brighter future.
IOM Iraq’s efforts to promote voluntary, safe, dignified, and informed solutions to displacement are supported by several international partners, most notably the United States Department of State’s Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration (PRM).

NOTE TO EDITORS
About IOM Iraq: With staff and major offices in Baghdad, Erbil, Basra and Mosul, IOM Iraq works in cooperation with the Government of Iraq, the Kurdistan Regional Government, civil society organizations and international partners to provide support across the country’s 18 governorates, operating a multi-sectoral response covering camp management and camp coordination, shelter and infrastructure rehabilitation, health care, mental health and psychosocial support services, livelihood assistance, protection, support for national migration policy development and more.
Video: Watch this video to learn more about the steps interested families go through in IOM's FVM programme
Report: Read more about IOM's Durable Solutions programme and efforts to facilitate safe and voluntary returns

For more info, please visit our website: www.iraq.iom.int
For media inquiries, please contact Deepika Nath, dnath@iom.int
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/263392-sinjar-welcomes-back-80-displaced-families-iom-support




Date: 11 March 2024
Title: Launch of the Iraq Environment and Climate Change Policy Advisory Group: a Vital Initiative to Foster a United Front for Effective Implementation of Climate Policies
Content: 11 March 2024
11 March 2024, Baghdad, Iraq
Today, H.E. Mr. Nizar Amidi, Minister of Environment, and Mr. Ghulam Mohammad Isaczai, the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nation, Resident Coordinator, and Humanitarian Coordinator in Iraq (DSRSG/RC/HC), launched the Iraq Environment and Climate Change Policy Advisory Group in Baghdad.
The Group will serve as an informal platform to foster policy dialogue, collaboration, coordination advocacy, and the exchange of information between and among the Government of Iraq, Development Partners, civil society organizations, academia and private sector on all aspects related to climate change and environment. The objective of the Advisory Group is to support Iraq's efforts to achieve its climate and environmental objectives.
“Coordination is essential to climate issues for maximizing effectiveness, leveraging resources, and addressing the interconnected nature of climate challenges at local, national, and global levels”, highlighted DSRS/RC/HC.
H.E. Minister Nizar Amidi emphasized that “the creation of the advisory group, in support of joint climate action, is considered an important development in strengthening the partnership between the Government of Iraq and United Nations agencies”.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/263020-launch-iraq-environment-and-climate-change-policy-advisory-group-vital-initiative-foster




Date: 08 March 2024
Title: Groundbreaking Iraqi national strategy set to reduce inequalities in the world of work
Content: 08 March 2024
Launch of the Iraq National Strategy to Prevent and Reduce Inequalities in the World of Work marks a significant milestone in the country's journey towards a more inclusive and equitable labour market.
March 7, 2024 BAGHDAD (ILO News) - Iraq’s Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs (MOLSA) and the International Labour Organization (ILO) have unveiled a new landmark national strategy that lays the groundwork for building a more prosperous and equitable future for all in Iraq through inclusivity, equal opportunity, and social protection.
The "Iraq National Strategy to Prevent and Reduce Inequalities in the World of Work for the Years 2024-2028" was launched at an event in Baghdad attended by representatives from government agencies, social partners, civil society organizations, and the private sector. Participants discussed the implementation framework and ways to garner support for the strategy's objectives.
Enhancing equality and non-discrimination is among the fundamental principles and pillars endorsed internationally and regionally, as well as being a fundamental right to achieve justice and encourage economic prosperity. Minister of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Al-Asadi, pointed out that Iraq provides the appropriate legislative protection to ensure rights and protection for all Iraqis.
ILO Deputy Regional Director for Arab States Peter Rademaker said the strategy marks a significant step towards fostering a more inclusive and equitable labour market in the country, "Across the globe, growing inequalities – inequalities in access to decent work, in earnings and benefits for workers and their families, and among and between countries and populations - are hindering efforts to create inclusive, sustainable, and resilient labour markets," Rademaker said at the launch event. "In response to this challenging global situation, Iraq’s new national strategy marks an important step towards creating a work environment in the country where every individual, regardless of background or circumstance, has equal access to opportunities and fair treatment,” he added.
With about a quarter of Iraqis living in poverty, the country suffers from stark inequalities which stretch beyond poor wealth distribution into unequal access to employment, social protection, public services and other resources.
Inequality between women and men in Iraq remains particularly pronounced. In 2021, female labour force participation in Iraq was among the lowest in the world, standing at 10.6 per cent. Young people, persons with disabilities, refugees and internally displaced persons are also among those left behind.
Participants in the launch event stressed that the new strategy is therefore a timely initiative to accelerate progress in closing the inequality gap. The initiative is the result of extensive research and a participatory approach involving stakeholders across Iraq.
The strategy was developed through a rigorous process of extensive research and national consultation and collaboration, with the support of the ILO. It outlines five key pillars to address various challenges and promote inclusive economic growth through fostering a more inclusive and equitable labor market in Iraq.
Firstly, it focuses on creating employment opportunities by directing resources towards public works programs, transitioning to a green economy, expanding small and medium-sized projects, adopting poverty-alleviating measures, and supporting policy-making processes.
Secondly, it aims to promote equal access to quality education and lifelong learning by enhancing inclusivity in the education system, improving skills development opportunities, and aligning education with labor market needs.
Thirdly, the strategy emphasizes ensuring adequate protection for all workers through strengthening legal coverage, ensuring compliance with labor laws, and enhancing social dialogue.
Furthermore, it seeks to accelerate the transition to the formal economy by supporting workers in the informal sector, facilitating the transition to formal employment, and implementing supportive regulations.
Lastly, the strategy prioritizes achieving comprehensive social protection by expanding social protection coverage and ensuring access to social protection floors. Through these concerted efforts, the strategy endeavors to address inequalities and promote sustainable economic growth in Iraq.
The strategy also places a strong emphasis on achieving equality of women and men in the workplace, with initiatives aimed at promoting women's participation and protection.
For more information, please visit: https://www.ilo.org/beirut/media-centre/news/WCMS_916527/lang--en/index.htm

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/262789-groundbreaking-iraqi-national-strategy-set-reduce-inequalities-world-work




Date: 08 March 2024
Title: International Women’s Day  Invest in Women: Accelerate Progress
Content: 08 March 2024
Baghdad – Iraq, March 8, 2024, On International Women's Day, we unite to reaffirm our commitment to advancing the rights and empowerment of women and girls worldwide. Under the theme of "Invest in Women: Accelerate Progress”, we recognize the urgency to address the persistent challenges hindering equality between men and women.
The economic empowerment of women remains a paramount objective in our pursuit of equality. Secure incomes, access to decent work, and meaningful participation in decision-making processes are essential for creating a prosperous and just society. Yet, globally, investment in women falls short, with $360 billion deficit in funding needed to address the specific needs of women and girls.
Investing in women is not only a moral imperative but also a strategic necessity for inclusive economic growth, food security and income opportunities, leading to better outcomes at the individual, familial, and community levels, ultimately contributing to long-term sustainable development and social stability, particularly amongst the most vulnerable communities.
To commemorate International Women’s Day in Iraq, National Directorate of Iraqi Women / General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, in collaboration with UN agencies, brought together high-level stakeholders from the Government of Iraq, public and private sectors, civil society organizations, and international partners to amplify our collective commitment to investing in women. The celebration showcased achievements in women's economic empowerment, identifying key gaps, and charted a way forward towards the achievement of equality between men and women in all spheres of life.
Iraqi women have shown resilience and determination in their pursuit of economic empowerment, with initiatives aimed at increasing their representation in decision-making roles. Women encounter additional obstacles, including unequal access to food and resources, wage gap, high levels of informal employment, limited access to entrepreneurship opportunities and financial services, and burdensome care responsibilities. Moreover, women face high risk of violence and discrimination due to social and cultural norms.
Iraq has made strides in advancing women's rights, including through legislative measures to ensure women's representation in parliament and political spheres. Recent parliamentary elections saw a significant increase in women parliamentarians, surpassing the constitutionally mandated quota. This progress is a testament to the potential for change and underscores the importance of continued investment in women's empowerment.
UN Iraq stands ready to work with the Government of Iraq, public and private sectors, and civil society organizations to accelerate progress towards a future where every woman and girl can realize her full potential.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/262786-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-invest-women-accelerate-progress




Date: 07 March 2024
Title: WHO and Ministry of Health digitize information vital for a healthier Iraq
Content: 07 March 2024
7 March 2024, Baghdad, Iraq – WHO, in partnership with Iraq’s federal and Kurdistan regional health ministries, today concluded the launch of Phase II of the Health Resources and Services Availability Monitoring System (HeRAMS) project revision workshops.
This launch, devised as a series of 3 workshops spanning a couple of days each, engaged over 150 data collectors from across nearly all of Iraq’s directorates of health. The main aim was to provide them with a chance to review and update the HeRAMS paper and electronic formats, address Phase I issues, and rectify gaps in data collection and processing.
“WHO is pleased to coordinate the launch of this key project with the national health authorities. It has been encouraging to see the dedication of over 150 national personnel from the north, centre and south of the country as they regrouped to review the obstacles and challenges faced during the Phase I implementation and move forward to address them collectively,” said Dr Georges Ki-Zerbo, WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq.
“These efforts will help maintain the applicability of this kind of survey and strengthen a digitized health system in Iraq. Congratulations to the Ministry of Health, WHO and all partners who contributed to this significant milestone,” he added.
The HeRAMS project was initiated in 2022 and finalized in 2023, bringing digitization to Iraq’s health system. HeRAMS will facilitate the digitization of the health system by providing a backup list of the country’s public health facilities in their entirety and identifying gaps in the health services delivered. A schedule of annual reviews was launched to monitor the implementation process and address any vagueness, gaps, and changes needed to update the project surveys and data processing.
Since the Phase I launch in 2022, Ministry of Health staff have visited 5205 health facilities to conduct the HeRAMS survey, and 13 reports have been generated. The project has also enhanced national data collection and management capacity through 6 training workshops, benefiting about 300 health staff and data collectors dedicated to working on HeRAMS.
Substantial progress has been made towards enhancing Iraq’s health system by digitizing health information, both about health infrastructure and human resources. In turn, the HeRAMS project is improving equitable access to quality health services for all in Iraq.
WHO would like to extend its gratitude to the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for its invaluable support in implementing this vital project.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/262790-who-and-ministry-health-digitize-information-vital-healthier-iraq




Date: 07 March 2024
Title: UNAMI/OHCHR Report Calls for Further Measures to Address Domestic Violence in Iraq
Content: 07 March 2024
Baghdad, 07 March 2024 – Ahead of the International Women’s Day, the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) have jointly released a comprehensive report entitled “Accountability for Domestic violence in Iraq: Promoting justice and non-discrimination.”  EN/AR

The findings of the report are derived from a comprehensive analysis of data, including a review of 100 domestic violence court cases in Baghdad, Kirkuk, and Mosul, trial hearing observations, examination of court judgments and meetings with judges, lawyers, prosecutors, government officials, survivors and their families, as well as civil society. A draft of the report was shared with relevant government ministries through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and their comments have been taken into account in the final version.
UNAMI/OHCHR recognize that Iraq has implemented several positive measures to address domestic violence, such as the adoption of two national strategies and the establishment of the Directorate of Family and Child Protection against Domestic Violence, as well as the assignment of specifically nominated judges in misdemeanor courts for domestic violence cases.
However, the report underscores how domestic violence remains a form of discrimination that significantly hinders women's enjoyment of their rights and freedoms, and emphasizes the impact of social stigma and other barriers preventing survivors from reporting incidents. The report further highlights the limited scope and effectiveness of investigations, which often result in a lack of justice, remedy, or protection for survivors. The absence of a legal protection framework, particularly a law on domestic violence in conformity with international standards, exacerbates the lack of awareness among the public and law enforcement agencies and poses substantial challenges in addressing criminal violence within homes.
In light of these challenges, the report recommends further urgent measures within the judicial processes to enhance the reporting of domestic violence cases, ensure protection for survivors and hold perpetrators accountable in line with international human rights standards. It urges the Iraqi government to adopt a comprehensive, survivor-centered approach encompassing legislative action, training for law enforcement and judicial personnel, enhanced survivor support services, and increased public awareness campaigns.
UNAMI/OHCHR remain ready to further work with the Iraqi Government in the implementation of these measures, so as to strengthen protections against domestic violence and further contribute to promoting human rights for all.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/262587-unamiohchr-report-calls-further-measures-address-domestic-violence-iraq




Date: 07 March 2024
Title: Rubble to Roads: IOM and UNEP support Kirkuk’s Road to Recovery in Iraq
Content: 07 March 2024
Kirkuk, IRAQ, March 7 – Building on the shared vision for a durable solutions model village, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in Iraq today handed over a mobile debris recycling system and equipment to Kirkuk Governorate today in Al Mansuriya village, Multaqa district.

As part of the debris management efforts, nearly 60,000 tonnes of debris were recovered and removed from Al Mansuriya village – one of the 135 villages in the region that witnessed catastrophic destruction of private homes and public infrastructure in 2016. Leveraging the support and commitment of the host community, nearly 400 residents were employed in the debris removal and recycling process under Employment for Public Works (EPW) schemes, sorting, crushing, recycling, and rebuilding the village that used to house over 500 families.
“Enough with destruction,” exclaims Mohammed Emad Awad, a maintenance worker and EPW participant of the project. “Let us move towards reconstruction and rebuilding the country”.
Echoing the sentiments of Awad, two more families have returned to the village, after a decade of displacement. “If we just clean up the rubble, people will return,” asserts Saab Al-Shimari, one of the recent returnees to the area. “The main obstacle to returns is the debris”.
Supported by the Government of Japan, the handover of the Kirkuk debris recycling system marks a significant step in ongoing efforts to assist national authorities in sustainably managing the estimated 55 million tonnes of debris created by the conflict with Daesh.
UNEP West Asia Regional Director, Sami Dimassi, emphasized that “retaining materials in the economy instead of discarding them is key to unlocking opportunities, whereby we maximize the use of our resources, foster the concept of circularity to generate employment and safeguard social, economic and environmental benefits.”
“The successful completion of this project is a double win,” shares IOM Iraq Chief of Mission, Giorgi Gigauri. “We are able to support the recovery and reconstruction of the communities, and at the same time empower local authorities to continue the work in a sustainable manner, drawing on principles of a circular economy.”
Another milestone of the project is the building of the first asphalted road using recycled materials in accordance with national road construction standards. Material testing of the recycled aggregate by Kirkuk Municipal laboratories confirms its compliance with the Iraqi State Commission for Roads and Bridges design standards for road foundational layers. The 600m x 8m road is one of the village’s five main residential strips, and the remaining 13,650 tonnes stockpile of recycled aggregate material produced under the project will be sufficient to rebuild around 80 percent of the roads of the village destroyed by the conflict.
Previously, in July 2022, IOM and UNEP handed over the first debris recycling centre to Mosul Municipality.  This debris initiative in conflict-affected areas also opens the way for the recycling of routine construction and demolition waste, contributing to building back better and embedding circularity in Iraq’s development.

NOTE TO EDITORS
About the United Nations Environment Programme
UNEP is the leading global voice on the environment. It provides leadership and encourages partnership in caring for the environment by inspiring, informing and enabling nations and peoples to improve their quality of life without compromising that of future generations.
About the International Organization for Migration
IOM is the leading intergovernmental organization in the field of migration and works closely with governmental, intergovernmental, and non-governmental partners to support orderly and humane migration management, promote international cooperation on migration issues and respond to the humanitarian and development needs of mobile populations, including refugees and internally displaced persons.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/262628-rubble-roads-iom-and-unep-support-kirkuk%E2%80%99s-road-recovery-iraq%C2%A0




Date: 03 March 2024
Title: A Triumph for Accountability Efforts: How Iraq and UNITAD supported Portugal’s First Conviction for International Crimes
Content: 03 March 2024
February 03, 2024: In a significant stride towards justice, the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da'esh/ISIL (UNITAD) welcomed Portugal's recent landmark conviction of an ISIL member, after being charged for international crimes committed in Iraq.
The ISIL perpetrator, A.A., an Iraqi national who fled to Europe, was charged of committing war crimes, in Mosul, Iraq, for the kidnapping and whipping of an Iraqi citizen. The perpetrator was additionally convicted, along with his brother Y.A. of membership in a terrorist organization (ISIL). "This ruling is Portugal’s first conviction of a perpetrator on charges of war crimes. It marks a milestone along the path made possible thanks to the unique partnership between UNITAD and Iraq. The Iraqi Judiciary and the Team have been extending crucial support to accountability processes in third states with competent jurisdictions to prosecute international crimes committed by ISIL in Iraq," said Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD, Christian Ritscher.
In 2020, UNITAD received the request for assistance from the General Public Prosecutor’s Office in Portugal and, in response, led an investigation in close cooperation with Judge Raed al-Mosleh, now President of the Nineveh Federal Appeals Court. This resulted in identifying 13 victims and witnesses whom the Team interviewed as prosecution witnesses. UNITAD facilitated for the witnesses to testify -while in Duhok- through video conferencing during the pretrial before the Portuguese judge, prosecutor, and defense lawyer. Afterwards, Judge Raed Al-Mosleh also facilitated for the defense witnesses to testify remotely, during the proceedings, from his courthouse in Mosul, which was the first time for the Iraqi judiciary to arrange remote witness testimonies using video conferencing. In addition, UNITAD's lead investigator gave a key expert testimony during the trial before the Portuguese court.
"We are extremely proud of our joint pursuit on this case with Honorable Judge Raed Al Mosleh, which led to this landmark conviction. It exemplifies the meaningful work of UNITAD together with the Iraqi judiciary as a partner that supports evidence-based justice processes in Iraq and throughout the world," stressed Special Adviser Ritscher.
This work has been possible thanks to the solid support and continued cooperation between UNITAD and the Iraqi Supreme Judicial Council, headed by Chief Justice Dr. Faiq Zaidan, President of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Team has been working together with competent Iraqi judges to ensure the proper preservation of evidence for ISIL crimes in accordance with the highest international standards. Moreover, the continued work with the Iraqi judiciary to build joint case files against ISIL perpetrators has been an important step forward on the path of accountability and meaningful justice, supporting prosecutions throughout the world.
In his recent briefing to the United Nations Security Council in December of 2023, Special Adviser Ritscher highlighted UNITAD's instrumental role in supporting third state investigations and prosecutions as "this ensures that the gap in global accountability does not expand." To date, the Team has supported requests for assistance from 20 third states with competent jurisdictions to prosecute ISIL international crimes in Iraq. This demand for third states support has grown exponentially over the past years.
This conviction in Portugal is the latest in a growing list of convictions in third states resulting from UNITAD’s support to prosecutions, in cooperation with the Iraqi judiciary. So far, the Team has supported 17 cases in third state jurisdictions that were under investigation and led to indictments. 15 of these cases ended up in convictions of ISIL members or affiliates.
In 2021, the first conviction of ISIL member for committing genocide against the Yazidis was issued by the Higher Regional Court in Frankfurt, Germany. ISIL member, Taha Al-J was found guilty of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide following a 19-months trial. Other significant convictions, which UNITAD’s support contributed to, include, a conviction by the Swedish district court in 2022 of an ISIL female member for her failure to protect her 12 years old son, from being recruited and used as child soldier by ISIL. Also, in June 2023, the German Higher Regional Court of Koblenz convicted an ISIL female member, Nadine K., a German national who was found guilty of aiding and abetting genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes for the enslavement and abuse of a young Yazidi woman in Iraq. The Yazidi victim, who was enslaved by the ISIL couple for 3 years, participated in the case as a co-plaintiff, and thus, witnessed her day in court.
It is important to note that prosecutions for international crimes allow for the meaningful participation of victims in criminal proceedings. This focuses on the centrality of victims and survivors. Such prosecutions recognize the suffering of the victims and allow for their voices to be heard, through evidence-based trials that establish the truth of ISIL’s heinous crimes.
“This remains a core objective of UNITAD’s work,” said Special Adviser Ritscher adding that “the Team will exert every possible effort to ensure that the fruitful partnership with the Iraqi judiciary yields its desired results in successful prosecutions that lead to convictions on charges of international crimes. This is a common goal for the UN, for Iraq, for third states as well as for the thousands of Iraqi victims and survivors.”

See more in the video here

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/262188-triumph-accountability-efforts-how-iraq-and-unitad-supported-portugal%E2%80%99s-first-conviction




Date: 29 February 2024
Title: Launch of the Joint Coordination Forum (JCF) in Basra: A Collaborative Milestone for Sustainable Development and Climate Resilience in Iraq
Content: 29 February 2024
29 February 2024, Basra, Iraq – Today, H.E. Mr. Asaad Al-Aidani, Governor of Basra and Mr. Ghulam Mohammad Isaczai, the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident Coordinator, and Humanitarian Coordinator (DSRSG/RC/HC) launched the Joint Coordination Forum (JCF) in Basra.
The JCF, established following consultations with the Government of Iraq, and particularly the General Secretariat for the Council of Ministers (COMSEC), aims to streamline governorate-level coordination by bringing together diverse development actors to avoid duplication, share information, and align activities with local priorities to enhance partnership and collaboration. This innovative mechanism spans the conflict-affected governorates of Ninewa, Kirkuk, Salah al-din, Diyala, Anbar, in addition to Kurdistan Region, and Basra.
"Bringing together humanitarian and development actors with government authorities to address the multifaceted challenges, especially those related to climate change, the JCF is a cornerstone in our collaborative efforts," stated Mr. Ghulam Mohammad Isaczai. "Together, we are committed to fostering a sustainable and brighter future for Iraq and its people."
His Excellency Mr. Asaad Al-Aidani highlighted the critical role of United Nations organizations and the JCF, stating: "The importance of UN organizations and their effective role in various fields cannot be overstated. The JCF is crucial at this stage for creating opportunities for cooperation and collaboration between the UN and the local government."
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/262018-launch-joint-coordination-forum-jcf-basra-collaborative-milestone-sustainable-development




Date: 28 February 2024
Title: First Women's Protection Centre in Mosul offers enhanced safety and living conditions for girls and women survivors of violence
Content: 28 February 2024
Ninewa, 27 February 2024 – Today, UNFPA, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and Ninewa Governorate, proudly announces the inauguration of the Women Protection Centre in Mosul, located in the Al-Akhaa area. The opening of the Centre, constructed with support from UN-Habitat and funding from the French Government, signifies a crucial step in addressing the urgent need to enhance access to protective services for girls and women survivors of violence.
UNFPA ensures that all women and girls served in the centres will receive comprehensive support, including medical, psychosocial, and legal aid, employment opportunities, and assistance in reintegrating into society.  After completion, the facility was handed over to the local authorities, who are now responsible for its operation and for meeting the community's needs. From the project's inception, collaboration with the Ninewa Governorate Office, the Women’s Empowerment Department in the governorate, the Municipality of Mosul, and the Electricity and Water Directorates has been crucial to the successful completion of the construction.
The Centre, covering 520 square meters across two floors, includes vital facilities such as a lobby, security room, clinic, restrooms, kitchen, dining room, management room, workstations, and accommodation rooms. Led by UN-Habitat, the construction phase generated 1,994 daily job opportunities for around 84 skilled and unskilled local workers from Mosul, highlighting the project's substantial economic impact on the community since its inception.
Attending the ceremony, Mr Patrick Durel, France’s Ambassador to Iraq, stated that: “France commends the establishment of a protection centre to host women survivors of violence. As the Ambassador of France in Iraq, I am very proud to take part to its inauguration. France is honoured to have funded this project, which also includes the establishment or renovation of facilities in Baghdad, Ramadi and Diwaniyah.”  “I praise UNFPA's efforts to make this centre possible in cooperation with Un-Habitat. I also commend the commitment of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to set women's protection as a priority. We must all provide girls and women with protection, in France or in Iraq, now or tomorrow. Iraq can rely on the French government to carry on with its cooperation in this regard,” he added.
Speaking at the ceremony, Mrs Rafi’a Mohammed Saeed, the Director of the Department of Women, Family and Children in Ninewa Governorate, said that "the Women's Protection Centre holds great significance within Ninewa Governorate, as it addresses the crucial need for a safe haven for women facing violence. Prior to its establishment, our community lacked essential support systems for these vulnerable individuals. With the centre now open, women in need can access protection, psychological support, and additional essential services. We express our gratitude to UNFPA, the French government, and UN Habitat for their invaluable contributions in making this vital achievement a reality."
"The Women Protection Center in Ninawa is a crucial initiative providing a safe and supportive haven for survivors of violence, offering critical services and care essential for their healing journey," stated Mr. Nestor Owomuhangi, UNFPA’s Representative to Iraq. He emphasised that UNFPA's dedication goes beyond inaugurating the centre, aiming for lasting and impactful change. "In addition to establishing survivor services, UNFPA is actively collaborating with the government to enhance policy frameworks preventing all forms of violence against women and girls. The centre stands as a beacon of hope and resilience, symbolising our commitment to comprehensive support and enduring positive transformation in the lives of those we serve."
“UN-Habitat is honoured with the completion and handover of the first Women Protection Centre in Mosul. Every aspect of the facility, from the accommodation rooms to the access points, has been meticulously designed to enhance the protection and living conditions of women and girls who are survivors of violence. Our commitment to fostering a better urban future includes making cities safer for all individuals, ensuring that no one and no place is left behind” said Mr. Muslim Qazimi, Head of UN-Habitat's Country Programme in Iraq.
The building of the Women Protection Centre in Mosul was part of a comprehensive project, “Restoring Women, Youth, and Health Services in Iraq,” that includes the establishment of new facilities in Diwaniyah and Anbar, as well as the improvement of conditions in the operating Centre in Baghdad, renovated in 2023. This encompasses not only the physical infrastructure but also the provision of necessary equipment and supplies. The Women Protection Center in Baghdad, already renovated and operational, exemplifies the project's commitment to creating secure spaces for survivors of violence.
As we inaugurate the Women Protection Center in Ninewa, Mosul, we look towards a future where survivors of violence find solace, support, and a path to rebuilding their lives. This initiative underscores the importance of creating safe spaces that not only protect but empower.
*******For more information, please contact:Ms Sana Jalal, Communications and Partnerships Officer – UNFPA @ karwan@unfpa.orgMr Maan Sami, Programme Officer – UN-Habitat @ maan.sami@un.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/261811-first-womens-protection-centre-mosul-offers-enhanced-safety-and-living-conditions-girls-and




Date: 25 February 2024
Title: Germany/KfW and UNOPS sign a new agreement in support of local communities in Anbar and Sinjar Governorates in Iraq
Content: 25 February 2024
Baghdad – 25 February 2024 - The KfW Development Bank and UNOPS signed a new agreement to support the conflict-affected communities and to enhance their access to basic public services in Anbar and Sinjar, Iraq.
With the support from the Federal Republic of Germany, through KfW Development Bank, UNOPS will rehabilitate war-damaged shelters and basic community infrastructure such as water and sanitation stations and networks, roads and solar street lighting as well as provide capacity building training to relevant stakeholders.
His Excellency Christiane Hohmann, German Ambassador to Iraq, stressed: “Through the rehabilitation of housing and basic local infrastructure, we support IDPs in Iraq together with KfW and UNOPS. I am pleased to announce that we will expand our engagement beyond Anbar with an additional focus on the Sinjar region. This will support the Ezidi community to return home”.
“The new financial agreement is a testament to the Federal Republic of Germany’s commitment to supporting Iraq. The new funding complements and builds on the success of the project’s previous two phases. Together with KfW and local authorities we strive to support the country’s efforts to improve living conditions for people as they continue to return to their homes.”, said Mr. Muhammad Usman Akram, UNOPS Director of Amman Multi-Country Office.
The new agreement marks the third phase of the Local Infrastructure in Rural Anbar project with KfW in Anbar governorate. The agreement for the first phase was signed in December 2020 for the rehabilitation of 1,000 war-damaged shelters.
“We very much look forward to continuing supporting this project with a third phase. In close cooperation with relevant Iraqi authorities, we will rehabilitate war-damaged shelters and improve basic living conditions for returnees in rural Anbar and in Sinjar”, said Dr. Anna-Christine Janke, Director of KfW Office in Iraq. With the additional funding of EUR 15 million or more then USD 16 million for the implementation of the third phase of the project, the total project budget will increase to EUR 50 million (USD 54 million). The additional funding will help to continue improving basic living conditions for returnees in rural areas of Anbar Governorate as well as expand operations into Sinjar district in the Ninewa Governorate, enabling UNOPS to assist more than 466,000 women, men, boys and girls who have returned to the affected areas.

About KfW:
KfW Development Bank has been helping the German Federal Government to achieve its goals in development policy and international development cooperation for more than 50 years.  KfW is an experienced bank and a development institution with financing expertise, an expert knowledge of development policy and many years of national and international experience.
On behalf of the German Federal Government, and primarily the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), KfW finances and supports programmes and projects that mainly involve public sector players in developing countries and emerging economies – from their conception and execution to monitoring their success. KfW's goal is to help partner countries fight poverty, maintain peace, protect both the environment and the climate and shape globalisation in an appropriate way.

About UNOPS:
UNOPS helps the UN and its partners provide peace and security, humanitarian and development solutions. The organization’s mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. UNOPS services cover infrastructure, project management, procurement, financial management and human resources. Partners call on UNOPS to supplement their own capacities, improve speed, reduce risks, boost cost-effectiveness and increase quality.
UNOPS Multi-country Office in Amman covers projects in Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, and Yemen and implements work in partnership with bilateral donors, national governments and other UN agencies.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/261500-germanykfw-and-unops-sign-new-agreement-support-local-communities-anbar-and-sinjar




Date: 22 February 2024
Title: Joint Programme Launched to Stimulate Decent Work and Affordable Housing in Iraq
Content: 22 February 2024
Baghdad, 21 February 2024: A multi-partner programme to foster decent work opportunities for Iraqi youth and addressing the need for affordable housing, especially among lower-income and vulnerable populations was launched in Baghdad today.
The European Union has provided 20 million Euros to the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), International Labour Organization (ILO), and the International Trade Centre (ITC) to support the four-year programme, titled “Building Equitable and Inclusive Transformation (BEIT): Towards Decent Work and Affordable Housing in Iraq”.
Aligned with the key national priorities of the Government of Iraq and the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) to promote decent work and provide affordable housing, the innovative project is the result of collaboration between the project partners and Iraq’s Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Ministry of Construction, Housing, Municipalities and Public Works, and Ministry of Trade.
Covering the 2023-2027 period, the BEIT programme will focus on building the capacities of government actors, micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), and civil society organisations (CSOs) to facilitate job creation and bolster affordable and green housing sector productivity.
It will also enhance the understanding and application of national regulatory frameworks for green and affordable housing, fostering public-private partnerships for sustainable construction, and strengthening the capacity of local businesses in adopting green and innovative practices.
The programme also aims to empower ministerial staff and actors in the selected governorates to design effective Public Works Programmes, implement Employment Intensive Investment Programmes, and formulate policies to combat child labour while safeguarding labour rights and ensuring safe working environments for all, including women, young people, and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs).
Dr. Maher Johan, Eng. Sadiq Mohammed Hassan, and Mr. Adnan Kareem Salman, representatives of the concerned Ministries, expressed gratitude for the support from the EU, UN-Habitat, ILO, and ITC. They underscored the importance of this collaboration in promoting economic growth, private sector development, employment, and green economy initiatives in Iraq.
“We believe and we think that BEIT project is important for the Government of Iraq because it is in alignment with the Government priorities in terms of covering the existing huge gaps in housing and creating decent job opportunities for young Iraqis,” said Dr. Maher Johan, Deputy Minister of Planning, Republic of Iraq.
In his speech, Engineer Sadiq Mohammed Hassan, Director General of the Ministry of Construction, Housing, Municipalities and Public Works, Republic of Iraq said, “we believe that this project will contribute to alleviate housing challenges faced by Iraqis which will enable them to afford a suitable housing with affordable price, reduce the unemployment rate, support to implement different housing policies and strategies that have been drafted and adopted in the past”. He further emphasized that his ministry will further reinforce the longstanding partnership with UN agencies and European Union to implement the project with collaborative and cooperative efforts that goes in line with the vision and effort of the Government to have a green housing for civilians in away with affordable price and decent job opportunities for those who are unemployed.
Mr. Adnan Kareem Salman, Advisor of the Minister, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Republic of Iraq also reiterated that the project is one of the vital projects in Iraq to create decent job opportunities for young men and women while addressing housing challenges by availing adequate housing units.  For us, this project is a solution to the problem of housing and could contribute to an improved work environment for all workers in the construction and housing sector.
“We have found out that this partnership to implement this project is integrated in a way that it has right components, and the results are realistic and implementable. So, for four years to come, I believe that the ministries would seek a strategy to implement this ground-breaking project within the help of implementing UN agencies and stakeholders in alignment with the Government approaches and programmes that are under implementation by all ministries within the direct supervision of his excellency Prime Minister,” added Mr. Adnan.
Ms. Barbara Egger, EU Head of Cooperation said, “with BEIT we are joining forces for creating more and better jobs for Iraq’s youth, we are joining forces for promoting the Iraqi private sector and with that we are joining forces for creating more affordable housing for all Iraqi citizens”. She further said that “the EU firmly believes that we can jointly mobilize the investment that is needed for affordable housing in Iraq. And by doing so, we can unlock the potential of the construction sector of Iraq construction sector for contributing to better and more jobs.”
Mr. Ghulam Mohammad Isaczai, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator (DSRSG/RC/HC) stated that "The BEIT programme represents a significant step forward in our collective efforts to address critical challenges in Iraq. By focusing on decent work opportunities and affordable housing, we are not only aiming to enhance the quality of life for vulnerable populations but also to lay the groundwork for a more equitable, sustainable, and prosperous society. This initiative underscores our commitment to leave no one behind, by building technical capacities, developing evidence-based policies, and fostering collaboration across sectors. Together, with the support of the EU and UN-Habitat, ILO, and ITC, we are working towards creating lasting impacts that will benefit generations to come."
The joint programme will build the technical capacity of government employees, developing evidence-based policies, and fostering collaboration between stakeholders, including small businesses, in the housing sector. The BEIT programme strives ‘to leave no one behind’ by promoting equity, improving living standards, and supporting economic stability, creating a more prosperous and inclusive society.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/261295-joint-programme-launched-stimulate-decent-work-and-affordable-housing-iraq




Date: 19 February 2024
Title: Iraqi small businesses to secure deals at Second Iraq National Trade Forum
Content: 19 February 2024
19 February 2024 (Baghdad): The second edition of the Iraq National Trade Forum(INTF) was inaugurated in Baghdad today.
With support from the government of Iraq, the International Trade Centre, a joint agency of the United Nations and the World Trade Organization, organized the two-day trade forum to help Iraqi businesses to identify and develop trade opportunities. The Forum is funded by the European Union.
More than 450 participants from the agriculture and agrifood sectors, business support organizations, international and regional suppliers, and investors, including over 200 Iraqi and international companies, donors and development partners attended the first day.
The second INTF comes after the successful first edition held in 2022 that helped secure participating companies’ potential deals worth $2.5 million through more than 170 business-to-business (B2B) sessions, bridging over 70 Iraqi companies with global suppliers and investors. 30% of participant companies that had participated in 2022, returned for the second year.
The B2B event remained an integral part of the INTF to better connect Iraqi micro, small and medium-sized enterprises involved in farming, food processing, packaging and logistics with international and regional suppliers and investors.
These interactions are key for expanding business networks, facilitating business deals, fostering sustainable investments and promoting innovation while sharing best practices from leading Iraqi agribusinesses.
In addition to plenary sessions, high-level panels with practical workshops and B2B meetings, the 2024 edition of the Forum featured a trade exhibition called ‘Iraqi Bazaar’ that showcased hundreds of locally produced items in a pop-up store.
The label ‘By Iraqi Hands’ to stimulate the food industry and encourage people to buy more local products and support sustainable development was launched at the INTF. Iraq’s Potato Sector Development Strategy was also officially launched on the occasion.
The ITC flagship report, SME Competitiveness Outlook 2023, was also launched globally on 19 February at the INTF. The report focuses on the impact of fragility on the competitiveness and growth of small businesses.
The European Union Ambassador to Iraq, Thomas Seiler said: ‘International trade presents a very good opportunity for Iraq to revitalize its agricultural sector, diversify its economy, and achieve sustainable economic growth. By fostering international partnerships and leveraging its agricultural potential, Iraq can become a player in the global market and an even more important economic actor in the region. The European Union will continue to remain a close partner of Iraq and promote its integration in the global and regional markets.’
ITC Executive Director Pamela Coke Hamilton said: ‘With over one million MSMEs in operation, smaller businesses account for two-thirds of Iraq’s private sector jobs. And they provide much more than that: they deliver crucial goods and services for the functioning of the local economy and for the wellbeing of its communities. As hundreds of Iraqi companies connect with buyers and investors at the Forum, they contribute to sustainable, trade-led development in the country and beyond.’
ITC Head of Country Programme in Iraq, Eric Buchot said: ‘Small businesses forming two-thirds of Iraq’s private employment, are key to its economy. The involvement of 300 businesses at INTF 2024 could be game-changing with a fundamental mindset shift. For real impact, fostering competitiveness and a market focused approach is essential.’
Deputy Special Representative, Resident Coordinator for Iraq Ghulam Mohammad Isaczai said: ‘The success of the Second Iraq National Trade Forum underscores the vital role of Iraqi SMEs in driving economic growth and sustainable development. Through fostering partnerships and promoting innovation, we are paving the way for a more prosperous future for Iraq. The UN is committed to supporting Iraq's journey towards economic diversification and resilience, highlighting the importance of collaboration at all levels. Together, we are building a stronger, more inclusive economy that benefits all Iraqis.’
The INTF has become a platform for enhancing awareness of pivotal domestic reforms, aimed at fostering robust private sector development.
About the International Trade Centre
The International Trade Centre (ITC, www.intracen.org) is the joint agency of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the United Nations (UN), fully dedicated to supporting the development and internationalization of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). ITC's mission is to foster inclusive and sustainable growth and development through trade and international business development. ITC is a UN Resident Agency in Iraq with headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland.
Follow ITC on X | Facebook | LinkedIn | Instagram | Flickr
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/261061-iraqi-small-businesses-secure-deals-second-iraq-national-trade-forum




Date: 14 February 2024
Title: Statement from UNAMI on Misinformation Regarding the Departure of SRSG Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert
Content: 14 February 2024
Baghdad, 14 February: UNAMI would like to set the record straight regarding the recent circulation of misleading reports in various Iraqi traditional and social media outlets concerning the departure of Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General (SRSG) and Head of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI), in May.
UNAMI emphasizes that the SRSG's departure in May aligns with usual practices within the United Nations, including the standard rotation of senior UN officials.
With regard to The Guardian’s report about allegations of corruption, UNDP has issued a statement on 23 January 2024 (link to the statement). Furthermore, we would like to underscore that UNAMI and UNDP have different governance and financial structures.
We urge media outlets to prioritize accuracy and refrain from disseminating misleading information. More broadly, the impact of mis- and disinformation cannot be overstated.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/260600-statement-unami-misinformation-regarding-departure-srsg-jeanine-hennis-plasschaert




Date: 14 February 2024
Title: ILO and KfW join forces to empower Iraqi small and medium enterprises and foster inclusive growth
Content: 14 February 2024
A new joint program will work to unlock access to sustainable finance, especially for young and women entrepreneurs.
Baghdad, Iraq – February 13, 2024 – The ILO and the German Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development through the German Development Bank (KfW) have launched a transformative partnership aimed at empowering small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Iraq.
The new "Promotion of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs) in Iraq program " is a collaborative endeavor that strives to unlock access to sustainable finance, placing a special emphasis on supporting youth and women entrepreneurs. The initiative contributes to fostering decent work opportunities and nurturing a prosperous future for the Iraqi economy.
Despite Iraq's abundant oil resources, the predominant role of the public sector, which contributes only about 30 per cent to national GDP, presents challenges to economic diversification. The nation grapples with high unemployment rates and a complex business environment. According to the World Bank's Doing Business 2020 report, Iraq ranked 172nd out of 190 countries for ease of doing business, with major challenges such as contract negotiation, cross-border trade, and particularly accessing credit (where Iraq ranks 186th out of 190 countries).
A significant impediment lies in the limited access of many Iraqis to finance, with less than 7 per cent of GDP allocated to private sector credit. The Iraqi Company for Banking Guarantees (ICBG) plays a pivotal role in mitigating credit risks but faces obstacles in expanding access to finance for smaller businesses.
The new five-year initiative, spanning from January 2024 to December 2028, secures USD 21,5 million in funding from the German Government through KfW to markedly enhance access to finance for Iraqi SMEs, which comes in line with the priorities of the government program to support the private sector in order to create decent job opportunities, especially for youth and women. It will also work to build the capabilities of the partners in this program, including the Iraqi Company for Bank Guarantees and partner banks, as well as small and medium-sized companies that will benefit from this program.
This program signifies a crucial step towards building a more inclusive and sustainable Iraqi economy. By amplifying the voices and capabilities of SMEs, we not only create jobs but also drive innovation and propel economic growth. Partnering with KfW on this initiative will help ILO to further support private sector to take its role for creating decent and sustainable job opportunities for youth and women.  is a privilege for the ILO", said Maha Katta, ILO country coordinator in Iraq.
“Small and medium enterprises are at the core of a country’s successful economic development- not only in Iraq but also in Germany. They create employment opportunities, foster growth, and contribute to economic perspectives. Together with ILO and the Iraqi Company for Credit Guarantees we address one of the biggest obstacles for SMEs in Iraq: access to adequate financial services,” said Maximilian Rasch, Chargé d'Affaires at the German Embassy in Baghdad.
“Private sector development and particularly small and medium enterprises (SMEs) play a key role in economic growth. Yet, the limited availability of finance to SMEs in Iraq has been identified as one of the most severe obstacles for SMEs’ business to thrive. We are therefore extremely pleased to cooperate with ILO and the Iraqi Company for Credit Guarantees in providing credit guarantees to Iraqi banks so that they can expand their SME business with a special focus on supporting women and start-ups, said Anna-Christine Janke, the Director of the KfW Office in Iraq.
From his side, Mr. Adel Akab, the President of the Iraqi Industries Union, stated, "This program is ambitious for the union, especially since it comes from the International Labour Organization and an industrial state like Germany. With the concerted efforts of all, it will play a significant role in developing these small and medium projects in Iraq."
“The Iraqi Company for Banking Guarantees is the sole assurance institution in Iraq. However, the shortfall in financing remains a challenge for most small and medium-sized projects, leaving ample room for credit guarantee facilities in Iraq to play a significant role in addressing this challenge. We are pleased with this partnership, which will enable the company to fulfill its true role in developing small and medium projects," said Mr. Hussein Thamer, the Acting Director of the Iraqi Company for Banking Guarantees.
“This new joint program aims not only at enhancing access to finance for SMEs, in particular those involving youth and women entrepreneurs, but also serves as a testament to the role of collaboration across various stakeholders, including the UN, the government, local communities and international partners, in Iraq. It further underscores our commitment to creating inclusive opportunities and building a resilient, diversified, and sustainable economy that benefits every Iraqi”, said Ghulam Isaczai, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Iraq.
Representatives from the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Trade, Iraqi Private Banks League, and various representatives from different partnering entities concerned with the development of the private sector attended the launch ceremony.
The "Promotion of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs) in Iraq" program envisions transforming the Iraqi SME credit system to foster decent work opportunities and sustainable economic development. With a target audience of 1,500 existing SMEs, and startups, the program aims to benefit 1,000 SMEs through credit guarantees. Key program activities include establishing dedicated SME windows within select private financial institutions, implementing an effective credit guarantee scheme through ICBG, providing tailored technical assistance to financial institutions, ICBG, and SMEs, and delivering targeted business management and financial literacy training programs.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/260553-ilo-and-kfw-join-forces-empower-iraqi-small-and-medium-enterprises-and-foster-inclusive




Date: 13 February 2024
Title: FAO and the Ministry of Environment: Starting the implementation of a Comprehensive Training Program on Sustainable Land Management Policy formulation with Support from the Global Environment Facility
Content: 13 February 2024
Basra, Iraq - February 13, 2024 - The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations in Iraq, in collaboration with the Iraqi ministries of Environment, Agriculture, and Water Resources, has launched the inaugural workshop on formulating Sustainable Land Management (SLM) Policies.  Supported by the Global Environment Facility (GEF), this innovative initiative aims to equip national decision-makers with the requisite skills and knowledge to advocate for and implement SLM policies effectively. This comprehensive effort underscores a joint commitment to combatting land degradation and promoting environmental sustainability in Muthanna and Thi-Qar governorates, aligning with Iraq's sustainable development objectives.
Through the project "Sustainable Land Management (SLM) for Improved Livelihoods in Degraded Areas of Iraq," FAO and its partners are working to address issues related to land degradation and environmental sustainability by supporting national policy frameworks to promote SLM practices tailored to the unique challenges faced in Southern Iraq. By fostering strategic capacity-building and collaboration between governmental and local stakeholders, this initiative also aims to pave the way for sustainable land and water resource management, thus ensuring a resilient ecosystem and improving livelihoods for communities in the region.
The inaugural workshop, which will be held from February 13 to 15, 2024 in Basra , brings together 40 participants representing various governmental agencies and farmer associations. Over the next weeks, two additional cohorts will convene in Basra and Baghdad to ensure the comprehensive training of all 120 participants enrolled in the program.
In his opening speech, HE the Deputy Technical Minister of Environment, Dr Jasim Abdulazeez Alfalahi, emphasized the significance of the collaboration with FAO and other partners, stating, "The Sustainable Land Management project is a crucial step towards addressing environmental challenges in Iraq. The collaboration with FAO and other ministries highlights our commitment to implementing sustainable practices and safeguarding our natural resources for future generations."
For his part, FAO Iraq Representative Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan stressed that this initiative part of FAO's commitment, in collaboration with its partners, to support Iraq in achieving sustainable development goals. By empowering decision-makers with the necessary tools and knowledge, we aim to foster resilient agricultural systems that achieve environmental sustainability, and social well-being."
Under the expert guidance of FAO project team , participants will delve into a diverse range of topics essential for effective SLM policy formulation and implementation during the three-days of the training workshop. This includes policy integration, government efficiency, and sustainable agriculture practices.

Post-training, participants will be able to anticipate significant improvements in planning, governance, and policy frameworks within ministries, facilitating the implementation of agricultural systems that not only produce but also preserve, contributing to global environmental benefits and enhancing climate resilience.
This initiative contributes to several Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including SDG 2: Zero Hunger, SDG 13: Climate Action, and SDG 15: Life on Land.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/260512-fao-and-ministry-environment-starting-implementation-comprehensive-training-program




Date: 13 February 2024
Title: Iraq’s Ministry of Interior upgrades its Criminal Investigation Capacity through UNDP and the Government of Germany’s support
Content: 13 February 2024
Baghdad, 11 February 2024 – The generous contribution of the Federal Government of Germany has resulted in a state-of-the-art interview training room providing Iraqi police officers with a modern space where they can learn and practice proper interviewing techniques.
The interview room was inaugurated today by key actors from the Ministry of Interior (MoI), the German Government, and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
“This interview room is an indispensable tool for police officer training, allowing them a venue to practice their investigation skills, build their capacities, and ensure human rights standards and norms are upheld in conducting effective interviews in a simulated environment”, said Auke Lootsma, UNDP Resident Representative in Iraq.
Boosting crime response through better interviewing techniques
The interview training support, including the training room, is a product of almost 2 years of work to support human rights compliance in policing work in Iraq, through improving the officers’ investigative skills.
“All our German engagement in Iraq is geared towards helping to make this country more stable and prosperous. In order for Iraq to advance even further towards this end, it will – amongst many other things – be important to enable the Iraqi police to apply modern interviewing techniques in line with international human rights standards. We are proud to partner with the Ministry of Interior and UNDP in this.” said Dr. Maximilian Rasch, the Chargé d’Affaires at the German Embassy in Baghdad.
Almost 150 police officers have benefitted from this type of targeted capacity building. More importantly, these officers, including female police officers, underwent specialized interview training, where they learned critical techniques for collecting evidence as they investigated complex and sensitive cases, such as domestic violence and homicide. To ensure sustainability, a number of the trained officers have been selected to train their colleagues going forward.
Iraq’s commitment to international standards of policing
The initiative not only enhances the quality of investigations, it also improves Iraqi law enforcement’s compliance to international standards and norms, moving from confession-based investigations to comprehensive evidence gathering. Having this training tool facilitates simulation and feedback to trainees, enriching those undergoing criminal investigation programs.
Located at the MOI's Criminal Investigation Training Centre, this state-of-the-art facility supports the MOI in implementing people-centered policing, complementing UNDP’s ongoing work in establishing model police stations in the most crucial areas across the country. UNDP’s transformative work in security sector reform and rule of law has supported Iraq’s government institutions in cultivating an atmosphere that encourages stability and security – both of which are precursors to transformative development, actively contributing to SDG 16 – peace, justice and strong institutions.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/260475-iraq%E2%80%99s-ministry-interior-upgrades-its-criminal-investigation-capacity-through-undp-and




Date: 13 February 2024
Title: UNITAD hands over a landmark case assessment report to the Iraqi Judiciary:  Unveiling the structure of ISIL's Bayt Al Mal
Content: 13 February 2024
Baghdad 12 February 2024: Special Adviser and Head of the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD), Mr. Christian Ritscher handed over, today to the Iraqi judiciary, a new case assessment report on the “Structure of Diwan Bayt al-Mal (2014-2017)”.
Additionally, Special Adviser Ritscher handed over the package of underlying evidence referenced in the report. The case assessment report alongside the evidence were handed over to H.E. Chief Justice Faiq Zaidan, President of the Supreme Judicial Council at the Council in Baghdad.
“This report encompasses UNITAD’s findings, thus far, on ISIL’s treasury, which is one of the most important lines of inquiry for the Team’s investigations, as it delves into the financial infrastructure ISIL put in place to sustain the organization’s military operations,” said Special Adviser Ritscher, adding that "the findings of this case assessment report demonstrate ISIL’s management of Bayt al-Mal and how the power to make financial decisions and adopt financial policies rested with the highest authorities, namely the Delegated Committee, the Shura Council and the Caliph. Understanding the connection between ISIL's financial management, organizational structure, and hierarchy is crucial for pinpointing those most responsible for the international crimes perpetrated by ISIL in Iraq. It is an important piece of the puzzle which is vital for drawing the full the picture of the range of heinous crimes committed by ISIL.”
This case assessment report is the outcome of years of robust investigations into ISIL financial and economic crimes, which were conducted by one of the Team’s dedicated thematic units focused on this line of investigations.
“We are extremely proud of our partnership with the Iraqi judiciary in conducting this work. The judiciary is UNITAD’s natural partner, and we commend the leading role of Iraq’s competent investigative judges who have been supporting our work towards accountability for ISIL international crimes. I would like to thank, in particular, Judge Ali Jaffat, First Judge of Al Kharkh Investigation Court for his support to this line of investigations into ISIL financial structures, including this case assessment report.”
Over the coming months, UNITAD will hand over to the Iraqi judiciary a series of case assessment reports that encompass legal findings pertaining to specific international crimes committed by ISIL, in addition to the provision of evidence, in line with its mandate and relevant Security Council resolutions, and in accordance with the Secretary-General’s report on the implementation of resolution 2697 (2023).
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/260477-unitad-hands-over-landmark-case-assessment-report-iraqi-judiciary-unveiling-structure-isils




Date: 13 February 2024
Title: The Contribution from the Republic of Korea Enables UNMAS Iraq to Continue Supporting the Government and the National Mine Action Operators
Content: 13 February 2024
Baghdad, 13 February 2024 – The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) in Iraq welcomes the contribution of $ 100,000 from the Government of the Republic of Korea, which will contribute to supporting the Government of Iraq to reduce the risks of explosive ordnance contamination and protect the lives of vulnerable communities in Iraq.
Explosive ordnance contamination across Iraq, including improvised explosive devices in the areas liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, continues to threaten the lives of civilians in many governorates of Iraq. As of November 2023, there are approximately over 2,800 square kilometers of recorded contaminated areas across Iraq (federal Iraq and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq). Explosive ordnance threatens public safety, hinders the safe return of displaced communities, and prevents access to infrastructure and livelihood activities.
The financial contribution from the Government of the Republic of Korea will assist UNMAS Iraq in continuing to support national mine action operators. After the three-year implementation of the ‘partnership model,’ UNMAS Iraq will proceed to the next step of localization of mine action responses - introducing the ‘direct grant model’ in 2024, which will further strengthen national mine action capacity and ownership. Through this model, National Non-Governmental Organisations will become fully autonomous and with the knowledge and best practices gained through the partnership model, implement survey and clearance operations, as well as explosive ordnance risk education activities in the most devastated and vulnerable locations in Iraq.
Remarking on the contribution, Mr. Choi Sung-soo, Ambassador of the Republic of Korea, stated “I am pleased to announce Korea’s contribution which will enhance and promote UNMAS activities in Iraq. We hope that this financial assistance will bring a safer and more stable future to the affected communities in Iraq. And I look forward to further strengthening trilateral cooperation in Iraq.”
Mr. Pehr Lodhammar, UNMAS Iraq Chief Mine Action Programme, added: “UNMAS Iraq is grateful to the government of the Republic of Korea for its generous contribution. This financial assistance will boost national ownership of the mine action programme in Iraq and protect civilians from the legacy of explosive ordnance.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/260496-contribution-republic-korea-enables-unmas-iraq-continue-supporting-government-and-national




Date: 13 February 2024
Title: Transformative potential of public works programme in Iraq’s Ninewa Governorate
Content: 13 February 2024
With the support of the EU, the ILO and Iraq’s Ministry of Planning held a tripartite discussion to establish the foundations for developing a strategic public works programme in the Ninewa Governorate.
12 February 2024
NINEWA, IRAQ (ILO News) – The International Labour Organization (ILO) in cooperation with the Ministry of Planning (MoP) and with the support of the European Union (EU) held a roundtable in the North Technical University in Mosul to discuss the potential of public works in generating decent jobs, extending social security coverage and contributing to reconstruction and sustainable local development.
The discussion brought together representatives from the government institutions, Iraqi Federation of Industries (IFI), trade unions and academia, fostering a dynamic exchange of ideas, knowledge and experiences on establishing a transformative National Public Works Programme in Iraq.
Dr Aliya Abbas Attar, the President of the Northern Technical University, opened the discussion by noting that public work programmes could provide an opportunity to better match education with the requirements of the labour markets. “Public works can provide on-the-job training for young people, improving their skills and making it easier for them to be employed and integrated into the labour market,” Dr Abbas Attar said.
ILO Country Coordinator for Iraq Maha Katta broadened the discussion by emphasizing that “a well-designed public works programme can establish the foundations for a stronger, more resilient and integrated social and economic system that is capable of providing sustainable decent employment opportunities to inhabitants, covering them with comprehensive social protection and fostering the preconditions for lasting peace and prosperity.”
The versatility of public works programmes in addressing multiple objectives, particularly relevant to the context of Iraq, was demonstrated through interventions by ILO experts. They pointed to key factors to consider in the design and implementation of public works programs, including their relationship with existing social protection and employment programs; the importance of incorporating decent work principles and skills training to support participants' transition into decent work; and considerations for identifying specific projects to be implemented within the programme. Moreover, the presentations referenced international best practices from various countries, including India, Greece, Jordan, South Africa, and the Philippines.
The technical session was followed by an engaging discussion on the steps to be taken by the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, workers' and employers' organizations, the private sector, civil society, and community-based organizations, as well as development partners, including the ILO, in Iraq to accelerate the development of a public works programme.
The proposals included conducting assessments and analyses to guide the design and implementation of the programme in the Ninewa Governorate; identifying sustainable financing sources for the initiative; adopting relevant policies and standard operating procedures; and enhancing capacities at both the governorate and local levels for the effective implementation of the programme.
Reflecting on the roundtable discussions, Ms. Alyaa Al Hammadi, Head of the Employment Policies Department in the Ministry of Planning, reiterated that the success of the public works programme in the Ninewa Governorate and in Iraq at large required genuine efforts from all relevant stakeholders. "It will also require overcoming all the obstacles that stand in our way together and allowing sufficient time for the programme to succeed. I believe that everyone is enthusiastic about public works that would benefit both the community and the country," she said.
Wrapping up the workshop, Ms. Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation for Iraq at the European Commission, emphasized that Iraq is at a stage where all components of the larger puzzle are coming together — the need for construction and reconstruction for the future, a qualified youthful workforce, social security for private sector workers, and available financial resources — which could be invested in the collective effort on public works. "The Ninewa Governorate has the opportunity to move forward and create more and better jobs that also contribute to the public good," she concluded.
The event was conducted as part of the EU-funded Social Protection Programme for Iraq: “Leveraging Effective Response and Accelerating Reform”, which is being jointly implemented by the Government of Iraq, ILO, UNICEF and WFP.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/260497-transformative-potential-public-works-programme-iraq%E2%80%99s-ninewa-governorate




Date: 12 February 2024
Title: UNITAD and al-Alamain Institute for Graduate Studies launch a lecture series on legal issues of international criminal investigations
Content: 12 February 2024
Baghdad, 11 February 2024 – Special Adviser and Head of the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD), Christian Ritscher, inaugurated a lecture series for post graduate students, as a part of an ongoing Program of Cooperation with al-Alamain Institute for Graduate Studies.
The first lecture of the series discussed “genocide and genocidal intent in the context of international criminal investigations”, providing a legal overview and analysis on the genocide convention, elements of genocide, and means of proof of special intent among other relevant themes.
“Today’s lecture marks a very important stride in our shared commitment to fostering accountability and advancing legal scholarship on issues relevant to the heinous crimes committed by ISIL in Iraq,” said Special Adviser Ritscher, adding: “it is one step forward in our dedicated journey to support Iraq in its pursuit of justice. Through the Program of Cooperation with al-Alamain Institute, we have cultivated a robust exchange of expertise between UNITAD and the academic community in Iraq, empowering postgraduate students with the tools necessary to confront the complex challenges posed by international crimes and the legacy of transnational terrorism.”
The participants included UNITAD senior experts alongside Iraqi legal scholars as well as Master’s and Doctoral students from the Institute.
This lecture series is planned for the upcoming weeks and months and is hosted at al-Alamain Institute, to present and discuss various subjects of high importance to national legal experts, especially those pursuing research and studies in the field of international criminal justice and ISIL’s international crimes. This joint endeavour is a part of an ongoing partnership with the Institute, aiming to provide postgraduate students with various opportunities to engage with UNITAD’s experts, and enabling UNITAD to benefit from the profound national legal expertise of the Institute.
Learn more about the Program here.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/260357-unitad-and-al-alamain-institute-graduate-studies-launch-lecture-series-legal-issues




Date: 08 February 2024
Title: WFP Iraq and local partners lead transformative agricultural project in Ninawa
Content: 08 February 2024
Baghdad, - The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), in collaboration with the Directorate of Agriculture in Ninawa Governorate and the University of Mosul, is implementing a multi-year initiative to transform farming practices in Ninawa governorate to boost food security and sustainability among small-holder farmers.
The WFP-led programme trains over 500 farmers in conservation agriculture, water management, and modern irrigation techniques to overcome the worst effects of the climate crisis that threaten agricultural production and livelihoods.
The initiative aims to integrate ‘conservation agriculture’ methods with modern irrigation to enhance natural resources; promoting no-till techniques, the initiative aims to achieve labour and cost savings for farmers as well as address the critical issue of water scarcity in arid lands. Ninawa, historically known as the “breadbasket” of Iraq, has seen several years of drought, water shortages, poor soil conditions, and limited access to resources, exacerbated by conflict.
The project also helps enhance biodiversity and ensure long-term resilience in the face of climate variability by equipping farmers with both the knowledge and tools to embrace soil conservation, use native seeds, and introduce drought-resistant species. Participants are also receiving agricultural inputs and assets WFP donated to the University of Mosul and the Directorate of Agriculture, such as no-till seeders, tractors, and storage facilities.
WFP is working closely with the Government of Iraq and its partners to address the root causes of climate change and adaptation and national policy to support the most vulnerable families. Generously funded by the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), this project aims to pave the way for sustainable agricultural development in Iraq.
“This initiative is an important step in improving food security and food systems in Iraq” said WFP Country Director and Representative in Iraq Ally-Raza Qureshi. “By providing the farmers with the right tools and know-how for smarter farming practices means helping them cultivate sustainably, using fewer resources."

The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/260030-wfp-iraq-and-local-partners-lead-transformative-agricultural-project-ninawa




Date: 01 February 2024
Title: UN-Habitat and the Government of Japan are collaborating to develop the residential area designated for returnees under Mosul's Master Plan
Content: 01 February 2024
The joint effort will support the construction of social housing with basic public infrastructure, the promotion of vocational training and a climate change adaptation outreach campaign.
The United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) welcomes renewed collaboration with the Government of Japan to develop peacebuilding activities and durable solutions in Northern Iraq, with a focus on assisting returnees from Mosul, one of the most conflict-affected areas.
The new project is planned for development in Mosul, specifically within the residential zone designated for returnees as outlined in the city's Master Plan. Among the anticipated outcomes, there will be an emphasis on the construction of social housing units, incorporating basic public infrastructure. Additionally, to enhance socio-economic stabilisation, vocational training and a public outreach campaign on climate change adaptation will be extended to beneficiaries, especially those made most vulnerable in the aftermath of the conflict, such as women and children.
All activities are scheduled for completion by January 2025 and will be coordinated with the authorities of Mosul and Ninewa Governorate.
The upcoming endeavour will be based on the lessons learnt from the Bab Sinjar Housing Complex in Mosul, inaugurated in February 2023. It benefited 2,300 returnees, offering nine buildings with 324 units, all constructed by UN-Habitat and funded by the Government of Japan. The housing complex has been regarded as one of the best practices of durable solutions for returnees by the Government of Iraq and other humanitarian actors.
“This new project exemplifies the Government of Japan's longstanding commitment to durable solutions, facilitating returnees in rebuilding and smoothly reintegrating into their communities,” His Excellency Mr. Futoshi Matsumoto, the Ambassador of Japan to Iraq, emphasized.
With recurring contributions since the Japanese Fiscal Year of 2004, the Government of Japan has been a vital partner to UN-Habitat’s Iraq Programme.

For more information please contact:
Ryosuke Teraoka, Project Manager: ryosuke.teraoka@un.org
Ana Paes, Communication Officer, UN-Habitat Iraq: ana.paes@un.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/259401-un-habitat-and-government-japan-are-collaborating-develop-residential-area-designated




Date: 28 January 2024
Title: FAO’s Efforts with Partners to Address the Challenges of Climate Change through the Implementation of the Farmer Field Schools Approach and Women's Empowerment Initiatives in Central and Southern
Content: 28 January 2024
Najaf, January 28, 2024 – The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in collaboration, with the Ministries of Agriculture, Environment, Water Resources, and other governmental partners, is leading transformative projects in Southern Iraq. These projects ", funded by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA), and by the Canadian government, aim to improve agricultural practices and empower farmers and women to drive positive change.
A key component of these projects is the implementation of Farmer Field Schools, and the Climate Wise Women approaches. To this end, FAO in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture, conducted a five-day Training of Facilitators (ToF) workshop in Najaf. brought together 24 participants from the governorates of Najaf, Babel, Wasit, and Diwaniyah.
This initiative aims to encourage farmers to adopt Good Agricultural and Irrigation practices, including Sustainable Land Management and Conservation Agriculture, through the implementation of Farmer Field Schools by trained facilitators on the targeted crops in the governorates.
During the training workshop, specific sessions were dedicated to discussing the importance of women's involvement and its crucial role in achieving goals. Special recognition was given to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) for its efforts in promoting women's engagement through initiatives related to food security, nutrition, and rural livelihoods.
The workshop included a field training day in Al-Abasiyah district, with primary focus on demonstrating sustainable agricultural practices, improved irrigation methods, and crop management strategies. The facilitators conducted assessments encompassing crop conditions, irrigation efficiency, pest management, and fertilizer application through the Agro-Ecosystems Analysis tool.
The training workshop was concluded with a closing ceremony attended by, Dr. Mithaq Al-Khafaji, the Technical Deputy of the Ministry of Agriculture, representing HE Dr. Abbas Jabr Al-Mliki, the Minister of Agriculture; FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan; Mr. Munim Shahid Hussein, Director of Najaf Agriculture; Dr. Hadi Hashim Al-Yasiri, Director-General of the Horticulture Department; Mr. Munir Ali Karidi, Director-General of the Agricultural Extension Department; Dr. Ayad Al-Bolani, Director- General of the Agricultural Investment Department; and other high-ranking officials from the Ministry of Agriculture.
In his closing remarks Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan expressed that these initiatives go along with agricultural development plans and priorities, promoting sustainable food systems and building resilient communities with an emphasis on empowering women and implementing climate resilience practices.
Dr. Mithaq Al-Khafaji, expressed gratitude to FAO for the valuable training that enhanced facilitators' capabilities in promoting sustainable agricultural and irrigation practices through the Farmer Field School approach, while also empowering rural women communities, representing significant milestones toward achieving our objectives in environmental sustainability.
This initiative aligns with various Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), SDG 5 (Gender Equality), SDG 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation), SDG13 (Climate Action), and SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals).

For more information, please contact:
Reem Al-Sadoon, Communications Assistant: reem.alsadoon@fao.org
Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq : salah.elhajjhassan@fao.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/259043-fao%E2%80%99s-efforts-partners-address-challenges-climate-change-through-implementation-farmer-field




Date: 28 January 2024
Title: Iraq takes major step forward towards ratifying ILO Convention 190
Content: 28 January 2024
Erbil, Iraq - The International Labour Organization (ILO) with the support of the European Union successfully concluded a transformative workshop in Erbil, Iraq on the ratification of ILO Convention 190 on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Work.
The workshop was organized after the Iraq Council of Ministers recently made a historic decision to ratify Convention 190, positioning Iraq as the first country in the Arab States region to embrace this significant commitment.
The two-day workshop brought together key national stakeholders, experts, and representatives from various sectors to engage in discussions about the implications, challenges, and opportunities associated with the ratification and implementation processes relating to the Convention.
Participants in the workshop, held for two days, engaged in insightful discussions, sharing perspectives from their respective fields and collaboratively setting a comprehensive roadmap for implementation of the Convention.
Deputy minister Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs (MOLSA) Alaa al Sukini said the event marked a significant milestone for Iraq, with promising outcomes and a shared commitment to fostering a safer and more respectful workplace for all Iraqi workers.
"The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs supports Iraq's commitment to ratify Convention 190,” Mr al Sukini said. “This decision aligns with our ongoing efforts to strengthen labour rights, promote social justice, and create a workplace culture that upholds the principles of dignity and equality for all workers.
Participating in this workshop highlights the importance of this convention. We are focused on developing comprehensive legal frameworks and institutional adjustments that will contribute to a workplace environment characterized by respect, fairness, and the eradication of violence and harassment. We are looking forward to implement the convention after the full ratification from the parliament.”
ILO Country Coordinator for Iraq Maha Kattaa said “the workshop has been a resounding success in opening national dialogue on Convention 190, fostering a collaborative spirit among stakeholders dedicated to the successful implementation of Convention 190 in Iraq. The diverse expertise and insights shared have provided a solid foundation for addressing the critical issue of violence and harassment in the workplace.”
Kattaa emphasized that the workshop's success lies in the collective commitment of participants to fostering a safer and more respectful workplace. “The identified strategies and roadmap for implementation will serve as a foundation for real and lasting change. We are committed to working together to create a safe and respectful workplace for all workers,” she said.
Commenting on the results of the workshop, Zainab Al-Jayashi, a member of the Labour and Civil Society Organizations Committee in the Iraqi Parliament, stated, “The Iraqi laws were developed to address all cases of violence and harassment in the workplace. Through the discussions during the workshop, we were able to diagnose the weaknesses in enforcement mechanisms and recognize the necessity of working together to strength these mechanisms.”
Worker Unions Representative Aliaa Hussein said: "Worker unions in Iraq stand together in welcoming the ratification of Convention 190. This decision reflects our joint efforts to secure the rights and dignity of every worker through collaboration and active participation.”
Workshop activities aimed to deepen participants' understanding of Convention 190, elucidating its provisions, principles, and objectives. Attendees actively engaged in discussions on the Convention’s pivotal role in creating workplaces free from violence and harassment. The workshop also identified critical legal and institutional adjustments essential for aligning Iraq's national laws and practices with Convention 190, thereby laying the groundwork for its effective implementation. Notably, participants collaboratively formulated a comprehensive roadmap for implementation, delineating key steps, timelines, and shared responsibilities among stakeholders involved in the process.
Convention 190, is the first international treaty to recognize the right of everyone to a world of work free from violence and harassment, including gender-based violence and harassment.
The Convention was adopted in June 2019, by the ILO’s International Labour Conference, and came into force on 25 June 2021.
Governments that ratify C190 will be required to put in place the necessary laws and policy measures to prevent and address violence and harassment in the world of work. The Convention represents an historic opportunity to shape a future of work based on dignity and respect for all.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/259014-iraq-takes-major-step-forward-towards-ratifying-ilo-convention-190




Date: 25 January 2024
Title: Families Bid Solemn Farewell to Identified Yazidi Victims of ISIL Genocide in Sinjar
Content: 25 January 2024
Sinjar, Iraq – 24 January 2024: In a momentous ceremony held in Sinjar today, the Iraqi authorities organized the return of remains of 41 identified Yazidi victims, recovered from mass grave sites in Sinjar.
The First Lady of Iraq Shanaz Ibrahim Ahmed took part in the ceremony, alongside dignitaries from the Iraqi Federal Government, the Kurdistan Regional Government, Yazidi community representatives, local authorities, and Special Adviser Christian Ritscher, the Head of the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by ISIL (UNITAD).
The remains of the Yazidi victims of ISIL were returned to their next of kin in Sinjar in a religious and official ceremony. This will allow families to bury their loved ones in accordance with their traditions. The victims were mourned by the Yazidi community, and a number of family members who journeyed from abroad, to participate in this solemn ceremony.
In his remarks, Special Adviser Ritscher extended heartfelt condolences to Yazidi survivors and families of the victims, commending the resilience of the Yazidi community, especially the courageous women, who have been adamant in their calls for justice, and have been brave in coming forward with their witness accounts of ISIL horrors.
Special Adviser Ritscher also commended the collaborative efforts of competent national authorities and the joint work that has been done with UNITAD’s support to identify those victims, and ensure the return of their remains for dignified burial. He highlighted the Team’s partnership with Iraqi authorities including in the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG), as well as the leadership of competent Iraqi counterparts, mainly the Mass Graves Directorate (MGD) and Medico-Legal Directorate (MLD).
The return of remains ceremony in Sinjar was preceded by an official ceremony in Baghdad on 22 January. Leading up to the return, the remains were meticulously examined and identified by MLD through advanced methods and supported by state-of-the-art equipment and technology. UNITAD has continuously supported the efforts of MGD and MLD in this regard, providing equipment and technical expertise where essentially needed.
“Supporting excavation of mass graves is a crucial pursuit for UNITAD’s work, and our joint quest for accountability and justice. These operations provide the opportunity to determine the fate of thousands of victims, but as importantly, they supplement the holdings of forensic evidence on ISIL’s crimes.” stressed Special Adviser Ritscher.
To address the anticipated emotional and psychological toll on families and survivors, psychosocial support was provided on-site by numerous competent national and international organizations including UNITAD’s leading psychologists that operate under the Team’s rigorous trauma-informed and victim-centered approaches.
While these ceremonies offer a glimpse of solace to the families, they also provide a reminder of the important task that lays ahead on the path of accountability. Towards this end, Special Adviser Ritscher underlined: “Today we stand in testing times, when the whole world must join in ensuring safe havens are closed off to all perpetrators of ISIL heinous crimes, and ensuring justice and accountability are realized as such to make it clear that impunity has no place in our world. It is our chance to show the world how Iraq can be the cradle of healing from divides and extremism through accountability processes and victim participation in proceedings that conform with international standards.”
For Special Adviser Christian Ritscher's full remarks click here.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/258701-families-bid-solemn-farewell-identified-yazidi-victims-isil-genocide-sinjar




Date: 23 January 2024
Title: IOM Iraq and Germany recommit to economic recovery; creating 1,100+ new jobs
Content: 23 January 2024
Baghdad, 23 January 2024  — Committed to boosting economic recovery and sustainable job creation, IOM and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, through the KfW Development Bank, launched the sixth phase of their ongoing partnership, aiming to create 1,100 new jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Iraq, via its Enterprise Development Fund (EDF) component.
An innovative program that supports livelihoods and job creation in SMEs through private sector revitalization and economic development in Iraq, the Fund provides financial capital to SMEs in primary, secondary, and tertiary economic sectors with a high demand for labor, with special focus on fostering innovation, supporting women, and promoting green industries. A long-standing partner to and advocate of the Fund, KfW has worked hand in hand with IOM Iraq since 2018 and has supported the creation of over 6,045 jobs in Iraq, funding nearly 1,220 independentbusinesses.
“A driving force behind Germany’s commitment in Iraq is to foster economic growth, create employment and contribute to social peace and stability,” shares Christiane Hohmann, German Ambassador in Iraq. “Germany supports the Fund to enable Iraqi businesses to build a brighter and sustainable future, while strengthening the resilience of internally displaced persons and empowering women and minorities to become part of the work force”.
Since 2018, the Fund has witnessed a steady upward trajectory in overall growth in the number of businesses funded, new jobs created, and existing jobs improved. Investment in SMEs has seen a trickledown effect, with businesses generating new jobs and livelihoods for other members of their community, hosting knowledge exchange and transfer and providing mentorship and guidance to new businesses. The sixth phase of the project will focus on supporting vulnerable populations such as internally displaced persons, returnees, members of host communities, and other conflict-affected populations.
“IOM’s continued partnership with KfW and the German government is a testament to our shared vision of a prosperous Iraq with a flourishing economy,” says Giorgi Gigauri, IOM Iraq Chief of Mission. “IOM is grateful for the generous contribution that will support ongoing efforts to revitalize the economy, address various socioeconomic challenges and advance national development objectives.”
In the coming months, IOM will continue to promote women’s economic empowerment, support internally displaced persons, returnees, and host communities, while improving employability through provision of business support packages and vocational training.
“In close cooperation with relevant Iraqi authorities, we will continue our support to SMEs, with a special focus on women entrepreneurs, creating new job opportunities, assisting individuals in securing their livelihoods and providing employment opportunities for public works,” adds Dr. Anna-Christine Janke, Director of KfW Iraq.
Nine governorates across Iraq will benefit from project activities: Anbar, Baghdad, Diyala, Dohuk, Erbil, Kirkuk, Ninewa, Salah Al Din, and Sulaymaniyah. Additionally, the funding will allow for continued rapid cash injections directly into communities in need, via short-term employment for public works programs, which also support reconstruction efforts in affected communities. Finally, IOM will rehabilitate key community economic infrastructure to enhance business consolidation and growth.

Note to the editor:
This contribution was made available by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) with financing provided through KfW. Since 2018, BMZ through KfW has committed its support to IOM Iraq’s activities to contribute to economic recovery by supporting job creation and the rehabilitation of key community infrastructure such as markets and industrial areas.
About IOM Iraq: With staff and major offices in Baghdad, Erbil, Basra and Mosul, IOM Iraq works in cooperation with the Government of Iraq, the Kurdistan Regional Government, civil society organizations and international partners to provide support across the country’s 18 governorates, operating a multi-sectoral response covering camp management and camp coordination, shelter and infrastructure rehabilitation, health care, mental health and psychosocial support services, livelihood assistance, protection, support for national migration policy development and more.
For more information, please visit our website, or contact Deepika Nath, +964 751 809 9279, dnath@iom.int
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/258625-iom-iraq-and-germany-recommit-economic-recovery-creating-1100-new-jobs




Date: 23 January 2024
Title: Statement on Iraq - JANUARY 23: Attributable to ‘a UNDP Spokesperson’
Content: 23 January 2024
In response to a recent Guardian UK article regarding the UNDP Iraq Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS), the UN Development Programme (UNDP) would like to state the following:
We take any allegations very seriously and are urgently looking into them. We will take appropriate and firm action should any of these allegations be substantiated.
UNDP has zero tolerance for fraud and corruption, and this applies to all UNDP staff members, non-staff personnel, vendors, implementing partners and responsible parties.
But zero tolerance does not mean zero risk. UNDP has been transparent with our donors, partners and the public about the operational risks and challenges following years of conflict in Iraq.
Any allegation of bribery, corruption, or fraud is thoroughly assessed and, where appropriate, investigated by UNDP’s independent Office of Audit and Investigation (OAI).
In cases where an OAI investigation substantiates evidence supporting allegations of misconduct, UNDP has a rigorous disciplinary process that enables it to take appropriate actions against perpetrators of fraud and corruption.
In the case of FFS, given the complexity and scale of the programme, and in line with best practices, UNDP implemented a series of additional monitoring measures beyond the standard protocols which include among others:
All OAI’s audits are publicly available on their website.
We are determined to take action on cases of wrongdoing. Over the last 8 years, OAI has processed more than 130 cases related to the FFS, brought to the attention of OAI by our own staff members and third parties, with prompt action taken by UNDP management in response.
UNDP welcomes scrutiny of our projects and programmes – as a public institution we are and should be held to account by our partners, by the public, and by the media.
In our work in Iraq and with the FFS, we have in place a rigorous set of measures to manage the risks inherent in working in such a challenging environment. We continue to strengthen these measures in close collaboration with our Independent Evaluation and Audit Offices.
We stand by our strong commitment to support the lives of millions of people in Iraq whilst maintaining the trust of everyone with whom we work.

What the FFS has achieved:
In 2015, at the request of the Government of Iraq and with the support of the international donor community, UNDP Iraq established the FFS to carry out a fast-tracked and accelerated program of reconstruction activities that have benefitted millions of Iraqi citizens to date.
The programme has enabled the return of almost five million out of six million Internally Displaced Persons, who might otherwise have remained stranded in IDP camps for years. Through the completion of more than 3,600 projects, Iraqi communities that host around 8.3 million people, now have access to restored basic services including schools, hospitals, water and electricity networks, housing and roads.

More information on reporting wrongdoing can be found at: https://www.undp.org/accountability/audit-and-investigations
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/258623-statement-iraq-january-23-attributable-%E2%80%98-undp-spokesperson%E2%80%99




Date: 22 January 2024
Title: Emergency health care boosted across Iraq in 2023
Content: 22 January 2024
22 January 2024, Baghdad, Iraq – WHO Iraq ended 2023 having boosted the crucial life-saving skills of medical and health staff in emergency units through the rollout of the Basic Emergency Care (BEC) course. This year-long initiative has strengthened the provision of emergency health care across Iraq.
In January 2023, WHO Iraq, working with the Ministry of Health – at the central and Kurdistan regional levels – organized a series of 17 BEC training workshops. These strategically planned trainings were held across Iraq throughout 2023, reaching 277 front-line medical and health workers from various health facilities. Of this total, 42 individuals completed 3 training of trainers workshops and are now registered master trainers.
All workshops drew on an in-depth BEC package jointly developed by WHO and the International Committee of the Red Cross in 2018.
Dr Georges Ki-Zerbo, WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq, expressed his enthusiasm for the initiative’s impact: “The BEC course reflects WHO’s dedication to support the national health authorities to enhance emergency health care capabilities in Iraq. It provides a practical and systematic approach that is crucial for emergency practitioners to effectively manage life-threatening interventions.”
Dr Sally Majeed, a dedicated participant of one of the BEC training workshops, shared the impact of the course: “The BEC course was truly a game-changer for us, the doctors working in the emergency wards. The teaching modules provided a universal approach that we can apply to any emergency situation we encounter in our daily routines. Moreover, the participant workbook has become our go-to reference, offering essential content and key assessment points that greatly assist us in carrying out our life-saving duties at the hospital.”
The BEC package, which includes a participant workbook, acts as a comprehensive guide that covers essential skills, a glossary of terms, review questions, case scenarios and a simulation. It also includes quick reference cards that offer ongoing support to participants in clinical settings beyond the workshop. The package is also designed to assist various stakeholders, such as governments, educational institutions and professional societies, in training emergency care providers within their designated scope of work.
The 4-day programme for the BEC training workshop covered a diverse range of acute and potentially life-threatening issues such as trauma, breathing difficulties, shock, altered mental status, chest discomfort, poisoning and severe pain.
“The success of this comprehensive training initiative highlights WHO Iraq’s commitment to contribute to advance emergency health care and create a lasting impact on the country’s health care landscape,” said Dr Ki-Zerbo, emphasizing the importance of the course for Iraq’s emergency professionals.
This impactful initiative would not have been possible without the support of the WHO Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean and key partners and donors such as the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/258438-emergency-health-care-boosted-across-iraq-2023




Date: 22 January 2024
Title: UNDP continues to support the Government of Iraq in ending corruption and boosting foreign investment
Content: 22 January 2024
Baghdad, 21.01.2024 - UNDP's Anti-Corruption and Arbitration initiatives (ACAI) is achieving significant milestones midway through its five-year implementation. Funded by the European Union, the project recently conducted its second steering committee on Sunday, January 21, at the State Council, with the participation of representatives from the Government of Iraq, the Kurdistan Regional Government of Iraq, and the European Union.
Directly aligning with the agenda of the H.E. Prime Minister and his government to combat corruption, diversify the economy, advance e-governance, and attract foreign investment, ACAI has been acting as a catalyst for improved capacity, legislation, and a strategic framework for anti-corruption and commercial dispute resolution.
In 2023, over 1,300 participants, including public officials, judges, prosecutors, students, media, and civil society, joined workshops supporting the mainstreaming of anti-corruption efforts at policy, legislative, and advocacy levels.
ACAI has been instrumental in supporting the Government of Iraq in creating a legislative framework that fosters anti-corruption. Three legislations have been reviewed, and a draft Access to Information law is referred to the Council of Representatives. When enacted, this law will promote transparent governance and empower citizens with information about public spending.
Through close cooperation with the Supreme Judicial Council, UNDP has monitored trials and  investigative hearings related to over 300 major corruption cases. This has enabled the development of training programs tailored based on court practices and judicial proceedings related to corruption.
UNDP continues to support the Government in making Iraq an investment-friendly market by strengthening commercial dispute resolution legislation and practices. The ratification of the New York Convention in 2021 was a significant step, and in 2023, a new Arbitration law has been drafted with UNDP's technical support.
As part of the initiative's holistic approach, UNDP has empowered media and civil society with workshops on investigative journalism and reporting. In addition, the project has galvanized action among public through the #PasstheBaton Campaign against corruption. The campaign, reaching 50 million views, received strong support from public institutions, influencers, journalists, youth, and women's organizations.
UNDP Iraq's Representative Auke Lootsma, speaking at the meeting, emphasized the importance of ending corruption for a prosperous Iraq. “We remain committed to providing essential support to the Government of Iraq in anti-corruption and commercial dispute resolution, striving to establish a secure environment conducive to development, poverty reduction, good governance, and a thriving business environment. Our commitment extends to sustaining progress in legislative and strategic reform, e-governance, judicial integrity, commercial justice, as well as building capacity for investigation and public outreach. We are thankful for the continuous and strong collaboration with the Government and the European Union, which opened doors for the success of this project.”

For more information:
Tayfun Yilmaz, Tayfun.yilmaz@undp.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/258393-undp-continues-support-government-iraq-ending-corruption-and-boosting-foreign-investment




Date: 20 January 2024
Title: Statement by the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq
Content: 20 January 2024
Baghdad, 20 January 2024
The Middle East is at a critical juncture, with the conflict raging in Gaza and armed action elsewhere threatening a major conflagration.
Iraq is at risk of being drawn even further into this conflict. Despite the Government’s efforts to prevent the escalation of tensions, continued attacks - originating from within and outside of Iraq’s borders - stand to undo the hard-won stability of the country and the achievements it has made in recent years.
All United Nations efforts are focused on seeking an end to the Gaza conflict and avoiding a regional spillover. The Secretary-General has repeatedly called for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza, the delivery of sustained relief, and the full respect for international humanitarian law, including the protection of civilians and the unconditional release of all hostages.
Iraq’s stability and security are front and center in all our engagements. We reiterate our appeal to all sides to exercise maximum restraint.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/258318-statement-special-representative-united-nations-secretary-general-iraq




Date: 18 January 2024
Title: Basrah Gas Company and WFP Iraq launch a climate adaptation project to support smallholder farmers in Basrah
Content: 18 January 2024
Baghdad, 15 January 2024 - Basrah Gas Company (BGC) and the United Nations World Food Program (WFP) have signed an agreement aiming to support local farmers in the Al Zubair district in Basrah through a climate change adaptation initiative which sets out to increase their incomes and boost agricultural production. The project will introduce tested solutions to combat desertification and support water conservation in the farming sector. BGC and the WFP will collaborate closely with the Directorate of Agriculture, the Farmers’ Association, and local farmers in the implementation phase.
The initiative will train farmers on applying smart agriculture techniques, modern farming methods (soilless farming), and water-saving irrigation systems. In addition, the project will also focus on empowering female farmers by building capacity and self-employment in cooperation with the designated local authorities in Basrah’s Al-Zubair district.
“I am very pleased we have signed this long-awaited agreement with WFP. This agreement fits perfectly with BGC’s sustainable social investment strategy. We are jointly paving the way for more than 90 farmers from Al-Zubair district to guide and support them in unlocking the full potential of their livelihoods,” said BGC Managing Director Andrew Wiper.” This initiative is the beginning of an enduring partnership and a pivotal component of our sustainable social investment and social performance strategy that aims to enhance the well-being of local communities in proximity to our operations.”
This collaboration—which has come about during the UN Climate Change Conference (COP28)—comes at a critical moment for global transformative climate action. The partnership between WFP and the BGC reaffirms the collective resolve to combat climate change in Iraq.
“Our strategic approach in Al-Zubair aligns with the urgent need to combat the effects of climate change in Southern Iraq. Al-Zubair district is one of the regions in Basrah most affected by climate change. There are frequent sandstorms, heatwaves, water scarcity, pollution, and salinity,” said WFP Country Director and Representative for Iraq Ally-Raza Qureshi. “This project underscores our joint commitment to promoting sustainable livelihoods, community cohesion, and effective adaptation strategies for the evolving agricultural landscape in Basrah."

For more information please contact (email address: firstname.lastname@wfp.org):
Ruben Rodriguez, WFP/ Iraq,
ruben.rodriguez@wfp.org 
Mob. +964 7809299918
Bashar Kassab Hassan, BGC Corporate Affairs Manager
email: bashar.kassabhasan@basrahgas.com
Tel. +964 7809259933
About BGC
Basrah Gas Company is an Iraqi joint venture established in 2013 between the Government of Iraq, represented by South Gas Company, holding 51%, Shell with 44%, and Mitsubishi with 5%. BGC was established to fulfil Iraq's energy strategy by investing in associated gas and reducing flaring from licensing round 1 oilfields (Rumaila, Zubair, and West Qurna 1).
About WFP
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/258098-basrah-gas-company-and-wfp-iraq-launch-climate-adaptation-project-support-smallholder




Date: 14 January 2024
Title: UN Special Representative of Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict Concludes Official Visit to Iraq
Content: 14 January 2024
The UN Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict (SRSG CAAC), Ms. Virginia Gamba, conducted her first visit to Iraq from 7 to 11 January 2024 to commend the progress made by the Iraqi Government on the protection of conflict-affected children and to engage with the Government on areas in which the United Nations may offer further support.
SRSG Gamba welcomed the signing of the action plan by the Government in March 2023 to prevent the recruitment and use of children by the Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF) and significant progress achieved in its implementation. She commended the steps taken to prevent the recruitment and use of children by the PMF, including awareness-raising campaigns, measures to strengthen age assessment, and to promptly investigate any allegations of recruitment and use of children. She also welcomed the absence of verified cases of recruitment and use of children by PMF since 2021.
“The adoption and implementation of the action plan are strong expressions of the Iraqi Government’s commitment to enhance the protection of children,” she said.
During her visit, SRSG Gamba met with the President, H.E. Mr. Abdul Latif Rashid, the Minister of Justice, H.E. Khaled Salam Saeed Shwani, the Minister of Interior, H.E. Abdul Amir Al-Shammari, the Minister of Labor and Social Affairs, H.E. Mr. Ahmad Al-Asadi, the Secretary-General of the PMF, Lt General Tahseen Abd Muttar, the interministerial National Committee for the Monitoring and Reporting Mechanism and other relevant Government representatives. She encouraged the Government to build on the significant progress made to further institutionalize child protection by developing preventative frameworks, including by adopting of the draft child law, prioritizing demining and explosive risk education, ensuring legal documentation for all children in Iraq, including foreign children, strengthening long-term, community-based reintegration, and addressing the challenges faced by children detained for their or their families’ actual or alleged association with armed groups.
In her meeting with the Prime Minister of the Kurdistan Regional Government, H.E. Masrour Barzani, in Erbil SRSG Gamba emphasized the importance of raising awareness on child protection issues and engaged with the Prime Minister on the implementation of measures to better protect children in the region in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
SRSG Gamba also held meetings with United Nations entities, the international community, and non-governmental organizations and welcomed their efforts to strengthen the protection of children in Iraq. Further, the SRSG’s delegation visited a detention center near Baghdad and a reintegration center for conflict-affected children near Mosul.
“I welcome the positive and constructive engagement with the Government of Iraq and its clear willingness to continue strengthening the prevention of grave violations against children. The children of Iraq have suffered enough from the consequences of armed conflict and deserve a future free from fear and violence.” said SRSG Gamba.

For media inquiries, please contact:
Ariane Lignier, Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, New York.  ariane.lignier@un.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/257803-un-special-representative-secretary-general-children-and-armed-conflict-concludes-official




Date: 10 January 2024
Title: The Netherlands allocates €48 million to support forcibly displaced people and host communities in Iraq through the PROSPECTS Partnership
Content: 10 January 2024
The Partnership aims to enhance durable solutions in Iraq by bringing together UNHCR, UNICEF, ILO, IFC and the World Bank
Baghdad, 9 January 2024 – The Ambassador of the Netherlands in Iraq, Hans Sandee, and the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General and UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, Ghulam Isaczai, launched today the new phase of the Netherlands-funded PROSPECTS programme in Iraq, accompanied by the country leads of the organizations involved in the partnerships. The programme focuses on services for refugees, internally displaced persons (IDPs), returnees and their host-communities in Iraq and builds on experience since 2019, in coordination with local and national authorities.
PROSPECTS is a flagship programme and example of the Netherlands’ significant support to operationalize the humanitarian-development nexus in eight different countries in the Middle East and North Africa region, and the East and Horn of Africa and Great Lakes region. PROSPECTS brings together five organizations working to enhance durable solutions in Iraq: UNHCR, UNICEF, ILO, IFC and the World Bank. A budget of EUR 48 million has been made available for programming in education and skills training, employment, protection, and critical infrastructure for refugees, IDPs due to conflict and host communities in Central and North Iraq over the next four years.
Among other targets, over 155,000 people displaced by conflict and members of host communities will complete their primary or secondary education (formal and non-formal) thanks to the Partnership, and over 250,000 will be retained in primary and secondary education programmes, including acceleration education programmes and early childhood education. Furthermore, the partnership will enhance access to market relevant skills training for around 5,000 young people to support smooth transition to employment. In terms of economic inclusion, over €5.2 million will be invested in target areas to promote private sector development, creating economic opportunities, enhancing access to finance to entrepreneurs and cooperatives, and promising sectors. Furthermore, using labour intensive approaches, the partnership will support the creation of over 12,000 workdays for people displaced by conflict and host communities with a focus on the green economy.
In order to enhance their protection, 40,000 refugees and asylum seekers will benefit from national civil status, identity or legal status documentation, and 50,000 will benefit from national specialized protective services, case management services and mental health and psychosocial support. Finally, in terms of infrastructure, 80,000 people displaced by conflict and host communities will be able to access basic water services that are safe and available when needed.
“Over the next five years, the Netherlands will continue to support refugees and IDPs in Iraq to deal with the many challenges they face in their lives. We will support them in accessing jobs, education, training, and support in assuring civil documentation. Furthermore, we will extend the PROSPECTS programme by including activities on water infrastructure and housing. By combining the delivery of services to support policy reforms, we aim for displaced and host communities to lead more prosperous lives”, said Hans Sandee, Ambassador of the Netherlands in Iraq.
Representing the United Nations family in Iraq, Mr Isaczai stated, "the continued support of the Netherlands for Iraq is highly appreciated, and its integrated approach enhances the provision for durable solutions for the internally displaced people and their host communities. The second phase of the PROSPECTS programme will enhance our collective efforts to find Durable Solutions for the conflict-affected IDPs in Iraq, in line with the Secretary-General’s global call to end internal displacement globally.
Thanks to the PROSPECTS programme, in its first four years, nearly 4,000 children from forcibly displaced communities have been enrolled in secondary education, more than 130 refugee entrepreneurs have accessed micro-finance loans for the first time in Iraq, and over 45,000 IDPs have obtained their civil documents.
International programmes and support to improve socio-economic conditions for the 1.1 million IDPs, 300.000 refugees and 8.000 stateless persons in Iraq remains important and a priority for the Dutch government and the United Nations.
#####
For further information, please contact:
United Nations:
Zainab Salih, UN RCO Communications Officer, zainab.salih@un.org

Netherlands Embassy in Iraq:
Lars Faber, First Secretary Stabilization, BAG-STAB@minbuza.nl
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/257501-netherlands-allocates-%E2%82%AC48-million-support-forcibly-displaced-people-and-host-communities




Date: 04 January 2024
Title: FAO Facilitates Cutting-Edge Training Program to Enhance Animal Feeding Practices in Southern Governorates of Iraq
Content: 04 January 2024
Basra: Following the decision made by His Excellency the Iraqi Prime Minister Mohammed Shia' Al-Sudani, to allocate 5 billion dinars to support buffalo breeders in the marshes, a major initiative has been launched, coupled with the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) strategic decision to expand and scale up the successful European Union (EU)-FAO project activities from Nineveh to other affected governorates. This initiative will ensure the support of 15,000 buffalo breeders and their 263,000 buffalos in the southern governorates of Basra, Muthana, Thi-Qar and Missan.
To ensure the successful implementation of the support activities, FAO in partnership with MoA concluded a series of "Training of Trainers" (ToT) programs. The first in this series of peer-to-peer training programs took place from 26 to 29th of December 2023 in the above-mentioned governorates. In this unique ToT initiative, 100 MoA extension officers were trained by their peers who had previously been trained by FAO experts and were actively involved in implementing successful FAO-EU Funded project activities in Nineveh and in Southern regions.
MoA Technical Deputy, Dr. Mithaq Al Khafaji, praised the effective cooperation with FAO, expressing gratitude for their support. He highlighted the timeliness of this program provided by the Iraqi government to address severe climate change effects in the southern marshes. Dr. Al Khafaji emphasized the initiative's alignment with local needs, supporting 15,000 breeders across four governorates. Trained MoA officers, equipped with advanced knowledge, will play a key role along with the provided resources, including 3,130 tons of molasses, 200 plastic tanks, and 9,388 tons of wheat bean, reinforce sustainable agricultural practices in the region."

Equipped with knowledge gained from FAO's expertise, these extension officers played a crucial role in disseminating best practices during the training sessions. The comprehensive program focused on providing extension officers with advanced knowledge and expertise on sustainable animal feeding practices, with a focus on climate-smart agriculture methods, molasses uses to optimize buffalo feeding, and efficient livestock management and nutrition.  The programme further supports extension officers and farmers with 45,000 copies of comprehensive extension manuals on best practices in: buffalo feeding; promoting the cultivation and use of fodder crops using climate-smart irrigation techniques; and valorizing sugar molasses as a strategic feed supplement.
Explaining the significance of the training programmes, FAO Iraq Representative, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, underscored the importance of learning and collaboration, stating, "FAO is dedicated to empower agricultural practices which reflects our commitment to empowering local communities. By fostering knowledge sharing, we aim to strengthen the capacity of extension officers to drive positive change in Iraq's agricultural landscape.  We value our crucial partnership with the MoA and acknowledge the importance of EU support."
FAO Livestock Expert, Dr. Chedly Kayouli, added, "Innovative techniques, featuring resistant fodder crops and sugar molasses, have revolutionized animal feeding, ensuring livestock resilience and optimizing nutritional value. Introduced by FAO for the first-time at large scale in Iraq, these forages and sugar molasses not only enhance the quality and quantity of milk but also provide substantial benefits to livestock health.
The initiative aligns with FAO's overarching goal of promoting sustainable agriculture, resilient food systems, and ensuring food security for all. Through collaborative efforts and knowledge exchange, FAO continues to play a crucial role in the development of Iraq's agricultural sector, contributing significantly to the achievement of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production), and SDG 13 (Climate Action).
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/257149-fao-facilitates-cutting-edge-training-program-enhance-animal-feeding-practices-southern




Date: 29 December 2023
Title: The Government of Denmark Provides Additional Contribution to UNMAS in Support of the Mine Action Sector in Iraq
Content: 29 December 2023
Baghdad, 28 December 2023 – The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) in Iraq welcomes an additional contribution of DKK 22,000,000 (approximately USD 3,168,659) from the Government of Denmark, which will contribute to support the Government of Iraq (GoI) to protect civilians from the threat of explosive ordnance (EO) and will enable humanitarian, socio-economic, and reconstruction efforts. Since 2015, the Government of Denmark has contributed over USD 35,000,000 to the UNMAS Iraq programme.
Iraq is one of the most EO-contaminated countries in the world. The national mine action authorities estimate that there are more than 2,800 square kilometers of  EO contamination, including conventional landmines and victim-operated improvised explosive devices, cluster munitions, and other types of explosive remnants of war in Iraq. EO threatens public safety, hinders the safe return of displaced communities, and prevents access to infrastructure and livelihood activities.
The generous contribution from the Government of Denmark will assist UNMAS Iraq in continuing to support national mine action operators. After the three-year implementation of the ‘partnership model,’ UNMAS Iraq will proceed to the next step of localization of mine action responses - introducing the ‘direct grant model’ in 2024, which will further strenghthen national  mine action capacity and ownership. Through this model National Non-Governmental Organisations will become fully autonomous and with the knowledge and best practices gained through the partnership model, implement  survey and clearance operations, as well as explosive ordnance risk education activities in the most devastated and vulnerable locations in Iraq.
Furthermore, through this contribution, UNMAS Iraq will continue to support GoI national authorities in strengthening the federal response to EO contamination. UNMAS Iraq will deliver technical and advisory support for several government entities, which will include training, workshops as well as gender mainstreaming initiatives aiming to increase the Iraqi national clearance capacity in line with national and international mine action standards.
On the occasion of Denmark’s contribution, Mr. Christian Thorning, the Danish Ambassador to Iraq, explained:
“I am very pleased that Denmark once again has contributed to the important work of UNMAS. In Iraq, UNMAS plays a critical role to protect civilians from the threat of explosive ordnance and to ensure the safe return of displaced communities. I am happy to see that the Danish contribution will allow for new initiatives in 2024 strengthening national mine action capacity and ownership. For Denmark, contributing to peace and stability in Iraq remains a high priority.”
“UNMAS Iraq greatly appreciate the additional generous contribution from the Government of Denmark. This new contribution will allow us to continue to support the Iraqi Government and national operators to prevent indiscriminate casualties and reduce the profound impact from explosive ordnance amongst the most vulnerable populations. In furtherance, it will allow UNMAS to facilitate a safe environment for Iraqis to live their lives dignified, unimpeded, and without fear of explosive hazards,” said Pehr Lodhammar, UNMAS Chief Mine Action Programme.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/256949-government-denmark-provides-additional-contribution-unmas-support-mine-action-sector-iraq




Date: 27 December 2023
Title: FAO Iraq announces the launch of Phase II for Animal Health Advancements in Iraq
Content: 27 December 2023
Baghdad, 27 December 2023
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq is proud to announce the launch of Phase II of the project titled "Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq” with funding from the United States Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA).  This transformative initiative, which will be implemented by FAO with the support of the Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), will build on the successes and best practices from the Phase I of the project from 2019 to 2023.
During the initial phase, the project achieved significant outcomes that laid the foundation for enhanced animal health services and disease surveillance in Iraq. A comprehensive review of the legal framework governing veterinary services identified the need for streamlined regulations to avoid fragmentation and potential gaps. The collaborative efforts of FAO, DTRA, and MoA resulted in the successful training of 1,595 individuals of national executives, including 499 women (31.2%) and 1,096 men, through workshops between 2021 and 2023.
The impact of the project extended across diverse groups of farmers, animal owners, traders, association members, laboratory staff, field veterinarians, and professionals from related departments. Workshops facilitated public awareness, empowering participants to identify and respond to priority animal diseases promptly. Veterinarians gained new skills, leading to improved service delivery and were supplied with globally dependable lab equipment to enhance diagnostic capabilities.
Additionally, the introduction of electronic reporting technology in six targeted governorates advanced early warning responses, aiding timely decision-making. The success of Phase I sets the stage for the continuation and expansion of these crucial efforts in Phase II.
Building upon the achievements and lessons learned from Phase I, a two-year agreement is signed, allocating US$ 3.9 million to further enhance disease recognition, diagnostics, epidemiology, data analysis, reporting, and early warning systems.
The phase II of the project, named "Strengthening Iraq Veterinary Legislation and Expanding Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance," will strategically train veterinary staff in Sulaimanya, Dayala, Maysan, and Najaf governorates. Leveraging the expertise of Phase I-trained technical staff, this initiative marks a significant leap towards a sustainable and resilient animal health sector.
FAO Iraq Representative, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan underscores FAO's unwavering commitment to establishing solid veterinary services aimed at mitigating the risk of high-threat animal diseases spreading throughout Iraq and neighboring regions. He affirms, " Improving animal health is crucial for reinforcing the overall well-being and livelihoods of our region." FAO takes pride in its collaborative efforts with DTRA and the Ministry of Agriculture, contributing actively to the reduction of threats and fostering a resilient and secure environment."
MoA Technical Deputy, Dr Mithaq Al Khafaji, underscores the ministry’s commitment to the collaborative effort, stating, "Through this partnership with FAO and DTRA, we reaffirm our dedication to building a resilient veterinary sector. This joint initiative is a testament to our shared commitment to the well-being of our communities, ensuring the health and prosperity of both our livestock and our people."

FAO Assistant Director General for the Near East and North Africa (NENA) region, Dr Abdulhakim EL Waer praised these collaborative efforts and stressed: "Launching Phase II of this project is a crucial stride in reinforcing veterinary services.”  This initiative not only enhances Iraq's capacity but also contributes to regional resilience against high-impact animal diseases. This initiative reflects FAO's commitment to sustainable development in the NENA region, ensuring the health and prosperity of communities."
Activities under Phase II will result in an enhanced early warning system supporting early detection, diagnosis, and control of outbreaks. The joint project will also focus on developing strategies and policies to sustain veterinary services within the targeted governorates through a train-the-trainer model.
This initiative aligns with several United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, including Goal 2: Zero Hunger, Goal 3: Good Health and Well-being, Goal 5: Gender Equality, and Goal 13: Climate Action, showcasing the commitment to a comprehensive and integrated approach towards sustainable development.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/256822-fao-iraq-announces-launch-phase-ii-animal-health-advancements-iraq




Date: 23 December 2023
Title: Year-end message from the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq
Content: 23 December 2023
23 December 2023
Looking back to last year, I stated that, with political stability and bright opportunities on the horizon, Iraq stood an excellent chance of rapidly advancing its sustainable development. One year later, important steps and promising initiatives have indeed emerged.
But while the country is well positioned to seize the many opportunities in front of it, doing so will not be an easy feat. Hence, I can only reiterate the words of Secretary-General António Guterres during his visit earlier this year: “The United Nations is committed to supporting Iraq in the consolidation of its democratic institutions and the advancement of peace, sustainable development and human rights for all Iraqis.”
On behalf of the United Nations family in Iraq, I wish you all a happy, peaceful and healthy New Year.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/256689-year-end-message-special-representative-united-nations-secretary-general-iraq




Date: 21 December 2023
Title: Medical oxygen scale-up boosts Iraq’s health care capacities
Content: 21 December 2023
21 December 2023, Erbil, Iraq – “Oxygen is a life-saving essential medicine with no substitute,” said Dr Wael Hatahit, Acting WHO Representative in Iraq, explaining the drive behind a recent 3-day workshop on medical oxygen scale-up.
“This profound view stems from the recognition that securing affordable and sustainable access to oxygen is paramount for health facilities, particularly in light of the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic,” he added, underlining the event’s significance to Iraq’s health system.
WHO arranged the workshop in collaboration with the federal Ministry of Health and Ministry of Industry and Minerals (Baghdad) and the Ministry of Health in the Kurdistan region of Iraq (Erbil). The event was facilitated by experts from the WHO Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean and WHO headquarters. Key ministry officials involved in medical oxygen gave presentations and shared valuable insights.
The main aim of the workshop was to deepen the collective understanding of the national oxygen ecosystem and promote the effective use of the Live Oxygen Platform in Iraq. The digital platform will serve as an online dashboard, capturing estimated oxygen needs and up-to-date information, and function as a networking tool for experts and partners.
Other workshop aims were to build national capacity for oxygen scale-up and strengthen the capacities of professionals engaged in oxygen management, rational use and logistics, and biomedical engineering support.
The workshop brought together 34 participants, including hospital managers, technicians and biomedical engineers from across Iraq, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Minerals and local medical oxygen-producing companies.
Ministry representatives expressed their appreciation to WHO and recognized the commitment and collaboration of all participants and partners in this important area. Progress achieved during the 3 days provides a solid foundation for ongoing efforts to save lives through better oxygen management in Iraq.
“I commend the efforts of the federal and regional ministries of health in Iraq and all workshop participants for the crucial role they play in advancing medical oxygen scale-up efforts, given their ownership of data and resources on the Live Oxygen Platform,” said Dr Hatahit.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/256477-medical-oxygen-scale-boosts-iraq%E2%80%99s-health-care-capacities




Date: 19 December 2023
Title: UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum convenes its Sixth Biannual Plenary Roundtable: Discusses UNITAD’s 11th report to the Security Council and implementation of Resolution 2697
Content: 19 December 2023
Baghdad, 18 December 2023 – The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) its sixth Biannual Plenary Roundtable meeting of the UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum.
The biannual roundtable brought together representatives of Iraqi civil society and international NGOs with UNITAD’s leadership and experts, to discuss the Team’s work over the past 6 months, and its 11th report to the Security Council. Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher also updated participating NGOs on the ongoing developments with regard to the implementation of resolution 2697.
Participants relayed their concern for the future of investigations and accountability process, in Iraq and in third states with competent jurisdictions, for ISIL’s international crimes, shall UNITAD’s mandate comes to an end. On his part Special Adviser Ritscher explained, in his opening remarks, that “there is no way forward for the Team to operate without the consent of the Government of Iraq.” At the same time, he stressed that the issue of witness consent and witness protection remains central to UNITAD’s work in line with the Team’s Terms of Reference and applicable rules and regulations of the United Nations.
Further, Special Adviser Ritscher updated on the developments in investigations as detailed in the Team’s 11th report and his briefing to the UNSC.  He explained the ongoing close cooperation with counterparts in the Government of Iraq which has continued to support and facilitate the Team’s work, highlighting the constructive consultations with Iraqi counterparts, especially with the National Coordinating Committee, on the way forward to ensure that the work of the Team over the past years is not lost. He reiterated that UNITAD will continue its consultations with the Government of Iraq on a Road Map for the completion of the Team’s mandate, per SC resolution 2697. Further, he noted the importance of ensuring that Iraq can maximize the utilization of UNITAD’s work towards holding ISIL perpetrators accountable for international crimes before competent courts in Iraq.
During the plenary discussions, several participants commended UNITAD’s work in Iraq through its investigations covering ISIL crimes against all affected community, and also its work to support national capacity building efforts with various counterparts from government institutions as well as Iraqi civil society organizations. Representatives of organizations expressed the importance of witness protection. They also discussed the importance of prioritizing certain lines of investigation in the coming months and requested that all stakeholders maintain focus on the common goal of accountability for ISIL’s international crimes in Iraq. They advised on continued involvement of the impacted communities in tri-partite meetings and discussions that involve the Iraqi government, NGOs and UNITAD. One participant stressed the importance of the recent handing over of a comprehensive report on ISIL’s Chemical Weapons crimes to the Supreme Judicial Council, mentioning it was positively perceived within the Shia Turkmen community, who were subject to a chemical weapon attack in Taza Khurmatu in 2014.
Moreover, participants discussed important aspects of UNITAD’s work, including mass grave excavations and the identification of victims’ remains which are carried out in partnership with the Mass Graves Directorate and Medico-Legal Directorate.
The UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum was launched in December 2020, with the aim of serving as a platform that brings together all relevant international and Iraqi NGOs for regular collaboration, exchange of ideas and best practices, as well as exploring areas for enhancing cooperation. It convenes two types of events; the first is a series of thematic roundtable discussions in a panel-format, addressing specific thematic areas relating to UNITAD’s investigative activities. The events bring together international and local experts with UNITAD team member for an in-depth discussion on one theme for each roundtable. The second type of events is the biannual plenary roundtable which has served as an open platform for suggestions on how to better engage with NGOs. The plenary biannual meeting also introduces a space where survivors and community leaders can have their voices heard by both UNITAD and the NGO community.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/256171-unitad-ngo-dialogue-forum-convenes-its-sixth-biannual-plenary-roundtable-discusses-unitad%E2%80%99s




Date: 19 December 2023
Title: Over 11K new jobs created in Iraq with IOM support
Content: 19 December 2023
Baghdad – The International Organization for Migration (IOM) has provided financing to 2,424 small and medium enterprises (SMEs) across Iraq through its Enterprise Development Fund (EDF) since its initial launch in 2018, helping to create 11,217 new jobs and improve 12,980 already existing jobs for host, returnee and internally displaced communities alike.
EDF is an innovative programme designed to support livelihoods and rapid job creation by revitalizing the private sector and contributing to economic development, aligned with key priorities of the Government of Iraq. Iraqi SMEs recovering from the aftershocks of war, conflict, economic crises and the COVID-19 pandemic face a variety of challenges, most saliently access to finance due to limited capacity of financial institutions, high interest rates, and collateral requirements, as well as perception of high risk from financial institutions for IDPs, returnees and vulnerable populations.
“I don’t only want the benefit for myself,” Ahmed, one of the beneficiaries said of his business’s growth after he received a grant from IOM. “I want to see all my employees and their families grow and prosper.” Ahmed received a $27,500 grant through IOM’s EDF that allowed him to further expand his bakery and add a new line of cakes. The 17 workers he had before the grant grew by another seven.
“EDF is a key pillar in IOM’s comprehensive approach to achieve durable solutions for the Iraqi people in and areas of return and integration” said IOM Chief of Mission in Iraq, Mr. Giorgi Gigauri. “We believe that empowering businesses is critical for Iraq’s recovery and development, and we remain committed to working towards this goal together with affected communities and migrants, the Government of Iraq and international partners.”
The EDF programme also includes adaptations tailored to specific sectors and groups of individuals, such as women, youth and farmers – allowing it to remain flexible, scalable and inclusive. For example, EDF-Women funds women-owned and women-staffed businesses to increase women’s participation in the private sector and labor market at large; while EDF-Tameer focuses on displacement-affected persons who want to restore or restart their businesses in their areas of return.
EDF-Agriculture works to improve access and linkages to existing value chains for SMEs in all stages of agri-business, and EDF-Innovation provides funding to talented entrepreneurs to expand their early-stage start-ups. The newly launched EDF-Green targets innovators in sustainable development and those contributing to climate adaptation and resilience in Iraq.  targets innovators in sustainable development and those contributing to climate adaptation and resilience in Iraq.
“A driving force behind Germany’s commitment in Iraq is to foster economic growth, create employment and – with this – contribute to social peace and stability. As part of our engagement, we support IOM and the EDF to enable Iraqi businesses, contribute to strengthen the resilience of IDPs and empower women to become part of the work force”, said Dr. Maximilian Rasch, Chargé d´Affaires a.i. of the German Embassy.
The EDF programme has been supported by the Government of Germany, the European Union, the Korea International Cooperation Agency, the Government of Finland, the Government of the United States, and the Government of Japan.
To learn more about EDF, visit our website here.
For more information, please contact: iraqpublicinfo@iom.int
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/256188-over-11k-new-jobs-created-iraq-iom-support




Date: 19 December 2023
Title: WHO tackles low immunization challenges in Iraq
Content: 19 December 2023
19 December 2023, Erbil, Iraq – Iraq has seen routine immunization coverage fluctuate in 2023, and there has also been a very low uptake of COVID-19 vaccination. To assess the immunization landscape in Iraq, the WHO Country Office in Iraq ran a 4-day Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI) bottleneck analysis workshop.
The workshop sought to explore how well immunization targets had been achieved at various administrative levels, from service points to central level. The event was organized in partnership with the federal Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health in the Kurdistan region of Iraq and in collaboration with EPI partners.
Some of Iraq’s provinces and districts have reached – and even exceeded – the EPI targets. Indeed, Iraq was among the first 9 countries globally to successfully attain one of the targets of the Immunization Agenda 2030. But other areas have shown suboptimal coverage, falling below the threshold needed to protect children from vaccine-preventable diseases. This leaves a large number of children at risk of potentially fatal diseases.
It is worth noting, however, that current efforts must go beyond the usual routine immunization for children to also encompass COVID-19 vaccination for all ages.
The main aim of the workshop was to chart a road map to identify such disparities across the country and put forward solutions, including the resources required and responsible parties. It is crucial to both understand how to achieve the best vaccination coverage at the level of the lowest administrative unit and also take swift and effective action. When it comes to addressing the threat of vaccine-preventable diseases, no child should be left behind.
WHO spearheads this initiative and is committed to using every available resource to overcome challenges and seize opportunities in this area. Using the workshop’s analysis of the current immunization landscape, the goal is to now implement concrete strategies to boost vaccination coverage and disease prevention across Iraq.
“We acknowledge the challenges inherent in the EPI area, but we are optimistic about the opportunities that lie ahead,” said Dr Wael Hatahit, Acting WHO Representative in Iraq. “It is vital to harness the potential of existing resources, including skills and tools, to efficiently address these challenges and prevent morbidity and mortality from vaccine-preventable diseases among children in Iraq.”
Dr Firas Al Khafaji, WHO EPI-Polio Officer, added: “The workshop’s intentional inclusion of the term ‘EPI bottleneck’ emphasizes that it goes beyond routine vaccinations for children. It covers a broader perspective, including the critical aspect of COVID-19 vaccination. This holistic approach aims to tackle all aspects of immunization to create a robust and resilient health system that safeguards the health of Iraq’s children.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/256245-who-tackles-low-immunization-challenges-iraq




Date: 15 December 2023
Title: FAO-EU partnership Highlights Climate-Smart Agriculture Initiatives During EU Ambassador's Visit
Content: 15 December 2023
Basra, 15 December 2023 - The FAO-EU funded project "Restoration and Strengthening the Resilience of Agri-Food Systems in Southern Iraq” stands as a beacon of hope in the face of climate challenges. His Excellency Thomas Seiler, the EU Ambassador in Iraq, toured on Wednesday project sites in Hasja and Alsubagih Villages (Al-Chibayish District, Thi Qar Province), witnessing impactful strides.
The project, implemented in collaboration with the Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture and local partners focuses on empowering tomato and date farmers as well as buffalo breeders, securing rural livelihoods in a water scarce environment.
The field visit included two sites in the Mesopotamian Marshes that showed the introduction of nutritious animal fodder crops, able to cope with saline soils and water and dairy processing and marketing by women groups.
With EU support and MoA collaboration, FAO enhances farmers' capacity, fostering climate resilience. Encouraging crop diversification for improved soil management and increased productivity, which contribute increasing income through value chain development and market linkages.
EU Ambassador H.E Thomas Seiler commented: "The visit has underlined the critical importance of initiatives to help farmers adapt to a changing, deteriorating natural environment. The European Union values its partnership with FAO, and together we are actively addressing climate change challenges. Our joint efforts aim to create climate resilient solutions for communities in southern Iraq."

FAO Iraq Representative, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, underscored FAO’s commitment to a holistic approach in developing major value chains: “By integrating smart agricultural practices, we aim to ensure better production, better nutrition, a better environment, and ultimately, a better life for communities. FAO takes pride in working hand in hand with the European Union, leaving no one behind, as we jointly strive to create enduring positive change in southern Iraq."  "Our holistic approach in developing the dairy and plant value chains, coupled with the introduction of smart agricultural practices, is our commitment to building lasting resilience and sustainability. FAO is proud to be working with the European Union to create lasting positive change in southern Iraq."
Rene Verduijn, FAO Senior Resilience Specialist, added:  "Our support stems from a holistic value chains approach where we deal with the gaps and challenges identified in selected commodities ¨from farm to fork.¨ FAO works together with other UN agencies, the Government, private sector and civil society to improve these value chains and see real impact under the banner of an EU-funded ¨Agri-Food Business Development Programme.¨
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the European Union remain steadfast in their joint commitment to combat the profound effects of climate change in Southern Iraq. Through the implementation of sustainable agricultural practices and the continuous support of local communities, FAO and the EU are dedicated to building resilience to overcome challenges and ensure a sustainable and prosperous future for the region.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/256077-fao-eu-partnership-highlights-climate-smart-agriculture-initiatives-during-eu-ambassadors




Date: 13 December 2023
Title: UNFPA and Rudaw Media Network Launch Pioneering Progamme to Empower Women in Media
Content: 13 December 2023
Erbil, Iraq - 12 December 2023 – UNFPA and Rudaw Media Network have officially partnered to initiate a 12-month training programme to enrich women's experience in media and journalism across Iraq.
Garik Hayrapetyan, Deputy Representative of UNFPA and Ako Mohammed, CEO of Rudaw Media Network, signed the agreement in Erbil, marking a significant collaboration between a media organisation and a UN agency in Iraq.
The “Basics of Journalism” project seeks to empower and educate women interested in journalism, addressing a fundamental challenge in contemporary journalism—the ability to investigate, gather, and disseminate accurate and reliable information, particularly on women-related subjects. Focusing on nurturing journalism skills, fostering ethical reporting, and embracing the digital age, the project bridges the knowledge gap, equipping participants with the tools they need to become professional journalists.
In addition to professional skills training, the project is more than a training program—it is a call to action. Participants will be exposed to the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) mandate, the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) agenda, and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), with a particular focus on climate change. Armed with this knowledge, the graduates will emerge as advocates for the SDGs, ICPD agenda champions, and women's rights defenders.
Moreover, this groundbreaking partnership marks a pivotal collaboration, bringing together the United Nations, the private sector, and CSO in a unified effort. The collective goal is to amplify women's voices and actively address crucial issues pertaining to women in the media. This alliance stands as a testament to the power of diverse sectors working in harmony for positive social change.
Notably, the Iraqi Private Banks League will provide financial support for the program's first phase, emphasising a collective commitment to increasing women's representation in journalism in the Kurdistan Region and Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/255769-unfpa-and-rudaw-media-network-launch-pioneering-progamme-empower-women-media




Date: 12 December 2023
Title: UN Special Representative for Iraq attends Election Day simulation
Content: 12 December 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 12 December 2023
The Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI), Ms. Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, attended today a simulation of Election Day processes that was held by Iraq’s Independent High Electoral Commission (IHEC).
The simulation included a comprehensive demonstration of all electronic devices to be used on Election Day, such as voter verification devices, polling station count optical scanners, results transmission devices, and cameras. This simulation was conducted successfully, showcasing the technical readiness of IHEC for the Governorate Council elections, scheduled for 18 December 2023.
In accordance with its 2023 mandate, UNAMI advises and assists the work of IHEC. UNAMI will not observe or monitor the 18 December elections, and is therefore not in a position to undertake an assessment of the manner in which the elections are conducted.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/255613-un-special-representative-iraq-attends-election-day-simulation




Date: 09 December 2023
Title: 3.5 million people benefit from wastewater treatment plants
Content: 09 December 2023
The Government of Iraq, UNICEF and Germany inaugurate wastewater treatment plants at the largest medical complex in Iraq
Baghdad, Iraq – 9 December 2023 – Today, the Government of Iraq, UNICEF and the German delegation inaugurated eight wastewater treatment plants at the Medical City in Baghdad. The eight plants of the largest medical complex in Iraq will benefit more than 3.5 million people in Baghdad.
Dr. Maximilian Rasch, Chargé d’Affaires of the German Embassy stressed in his opening remarks that “This climate-resilient project mitigates the impact of water scarcity, secures a greener environment, and raises awareness of the importance of wastewater treatment. It also directly benefits local communities in Baghdad. Germany is a prime partner of the Iraqi Government and will continue to support the country and its people.”
Before the installment and operationalization of these wastewater treatment plants, more than 2,300m3 of untreated water was discharged into the Tigris River daily.  The discharged untreated water degrades natural resources and puts the health of children and their families at risk.
“I am proud to witness the operationalization of these wastewater treatment plants,” said Dr. Anna- Christine Janke, Director of the Office of the German Development Bank KfW in Iraq. “It is a further example of our partnership with UNICEF in contributing to improved water sanitation,” she added.
“UNICEF is committed to supporting the Government of Iraq in upholding the rights of children to quality health care and safe environment as enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child,” said Sandra Lattouf, UNICEF in Iraq Representative.  “This project is part of our commitment to mitigate climate change and secure a better and greener environment towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.”
With funding from the German Government, through the German Development Bank, KfW, UNICEF supported Baghdad Medical City in installing and operationalizing eight wastewater treatment plants.  These plants will enable the Medical City to secure safely managed sanitation benefitting health care workers, patients receiving health care services, and the surrounding communities.
“I applaud UNICEF and Germany through the German Development Bank KfW for their valuable support,” said Dr. Hassan Al Tamimi, Director General of Baghdad Medical City.  “This project guarantees optimum use and conservation of water through recycling and ensures a greener and cleaner environment.”
The project was implemented in two phases, where eight wastewater treatment compact units were delivered, installed, and operated. To ensure the sustainability of the project, the technical staff at the Medical City were trained to oversee the management and operationalization of the project.
ABOUT UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit www.unicef.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/255332-35-million-people-benefit-wastewater-treatment-plants




Date: 07 December 2023
Title: A world with eight billion volunteers
Content: 07 December 2023
5 December 2023 - Baghdad, Iraq:
5 December is International Volunteer Day and this year's theme is “If everyone did…”
More than a billion volunteers around the world act for solidarity and humanity for people and planet. IVD is a day to pay tribute to volunteers worldwide and to recognize the value of volunteerism in peace and development.
The theme of IVD this year centers on the power of everyone – collective action – if everyone did. If everyone volunteered the world would be a better place. As Iraq marches on its way to development, it is volunteers’ time to shine. Volunteers bring hope. Volunteers dream not of lofty ambitions but of solutions to improve the lives of people around them.
In Iraq, IVD was commemorated through a series of activities under the theme "If everyone did." In Baghdad, a high-level event – bringing together government officials, civil society and the United Nations – addressed how volunteering can help address Iraq's development challenges.
In his opening remarks; HE Mr. Ahmed Al-Mubarqaa, Minister of Youth and Sports; emphasized “Volunteering is a rooted trait among Iraqis since ancient times, symbolizing the generosity that characterizes all Iraqis”. He added, “just last week, more than 60 permits for volunteering groups were issued by the Ministry of Youth and Sports." Dr. Al-Mubarqaa praised the role of the United Nations in transferring global experiences to Iraq for the benefit of the youth, especially in the last two decades.
Ghulam Isaczai, the UN Resident Coordinator for Iraq, stated that the United Nations is very proud to celebrate International Volunteer Day jointly with the Iraqi Government. He continued, “We underscore our commitment, to mainstreaming volunteerism and civic engagement, into national development plans and by extension, into the programs of the UN Country team.”
The event also showcased winning ideas from UNV Iraq’s first hackathon, organized jointly by UNV, UNDP and UNAMI Iraq. The hackathon had young people competing to develop best ideas about "digitalization for better delivery of social services." This highlighted a commitment to using technology for practical benefits. The winners were given the stage to present their ideas to the attending decision makers.
The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme was represented by Ms. Kyoko Yokosuka, the Deputy Executive Coordinator, who said “As peace gives impetus for Iraq to move from crisis context to development". Adding that ”UNV looks forward to work with the Government of Iraq and integrate volunteers into the country's sustainable development agenda.
A photo exhibition featuring UN Volunteers in action added a visual aspect to the event.
EDITOR’S NOTE:
The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme provides global citizens with an opportunity to volunteer across the three pillars of the United Nations system: development; peace and security; and human rights.
Administered by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), UNV advocates for the recognition of volunteers, works with partners to integrate volunteerism into development programming, and helps to mobilize volunteers throughout the world.
UNV is active in some 160 countries worldwide and represents over 170 nationalities.
International Volunteer Day (IVD), on 5 December, was designated by the UN in 1985 as an international observance to celebrate the power and potential of volunteerism.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/255135-world-eight-billion-volunteers




Date: 07 December 2023
Title: Iraq's #PasstheBaton Campaign: Uniting Against Corruption for a Brighter Future
Content: 07 December 2023
Baghdad, December 7, 2023 - Iraq, in commemoration of International Anti-Corruption Day, highlights its unwavering commitment to eradicating corruption through a nationwide campaign, with support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The #PasstheBaton Campaign aims to confront the pervasive challenges of corruption and spark transformative change.
Recognizing corruption as a fundamental cause of instability and conflict, Prime Minister Mohammed Shia Al Sudani and his government have prioritized the fight against corruption for sustainable development. Iraq's commitment, as ratified through the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) in 2008, underscores its dedication to transparent governance. Recent efforts to diversify the economy, reduce dependency on oil, boost youth employment, and attract foreign investment hinge on the elimination of corruption.
Standing alongside Iraq in its anti-corruption endeavors, UNDP, with financial support from the European Union, provides legislative, training, and digital assistance to reinforce collaborative efforts for meaningful progress in Iraq's Anti-Corruption portfolio.
Overview of the #PasstheBaton Campaign
Launching on December 8, the campaign calls upon citizens, public and private sectors, the international community, and UN Agencies to unite in the fight against corruption.
Participants will symbolically pass the baton through social media, signifying shared accountability and responsibility.
The campaign aims to raise public awareness and encourages institutions to recommit to anti-corruption efforts.
In collaboration with the Federal Commission of Integrity and the Commission of Integrity in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, the campaign specifically targets Iraq's youth, who make up nearly 60% of the population. Recognizing their potential, the government places youth at the forefront of interventions for sustainable development goals and societal transformation.
Join the #PasstheBaton Campaign
Everyone is invited to participate by recording themselves running with a rolled white paper on December 8. Participants will pass the baton to a friend, colleague, or stakeholder, using their voice to raise hopes, commitments, and demands for a corruption-free Iraq. The campaign aims to educate participants about corruption through quizzes and provides a downloadable guideline on recognizing, reporting, and combating corruption.
Impact on Vulnerable Populations
The campaign delves into the impact of corruption on vulnerable populations, emphasizing its disproportionate effects on women, children, persons with disabilities, and displaced populations. Corruption exacerbates inequalities faced by women, including economic burdens and limited access to essential services. It deepens food insecurity, reduces job opportunities for youth, and contributes to illegal migration. Addressing corruption through sustainable solutions requires global cooperation and a holistic, unified approach by all stakeholders.
On International Anti-Corruption Day, marking the twentieth anniversary of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, Iraq and UNDP aim to ignite a nationwide movement that transcends borders, empowering citizens to build a future free from corruption.
Spread the Word!
Help promote widespread participation by sharing the #PasstheBaton Campaign on social media. Let's unite against corruption and create a brighter, corruption-free future for Iraq.
Campaign video: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1yqPq7R40ZzdOFAn-hu7u0ZbvVTIV0NGn?usp=drive_link

For Media Inquiries:
[tayfun.yilmaz@undp.org]
#PasstheBaton #IraqAgainstCorruption #UNCAC20Years
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/255179-iraqs-passthebaton-campaign-uniting-against-corruption-brighter-future




Date: 05 December 2023
Title: Special Adviser Ritscher Briefs UN Security Council on 11th Report: UNITAD is at a critical juncture, sovereign decision rests with Iraq
Content: 05 December 2023
Baghdad, 04 December 2023 – Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher briefed the United Nations Security Council on the 11th report detailing the Team’s work over the past six months.
This report includes “significant milestones in the work of the Team and comes at a critical juncture for the Team itself and its future direction”, as he mentioned.  He reiterated UNITAD's unwavering commitment to deliver on its core mandate in line with resolution 2379 (2017) and the Team’s Terms of Reference. At the same time, the Team has taken steps to implement resolution 2697 (2023), which extended UNITAD's mandate until September 17, 2024, only, and requested it to fulfill additional tasks towards the implementation of both resolutions.
Special Adviser Ritscher explained that since September, the Team has shifted its investigative resources, to respond to the requirements of Security Council resolution 2697 (2023) and its timeline, in a way that expedites the less advanced investigations and their planned outputs. He noted, however, that some of the Team’s key and complex investigations most probably cannot be completed in one year, including “the question of ISIL’s genocidal intent against the Shia community and the Team’s work on Al Hol returnees, a file that is expected to need years of work in Iraq and elsewhere.”
He explained that over the past weeks, he has been working closely with counterparts in the Government of Iraq and commended their continued support of the Team’s work and the constructive consultations which started in follow-up of Resolution 2697.  He, further, noted that “our shared goal is to ensure that the work of the Team can be used to support accountability efforts in Iraq and throughout the world.”
One key achievement during the reporting period was formally sharing with the Iraqi judiciary a comprehensive case-assessment report on ISIL’s development and deployment of Chemical Weapons in Iraq: “This report is a milestone in UNITAD’s pioneering line of investigations that examines how ISIL developed and deployed Chemical Weapons in Iraq, including against the Shia Turkmen minority in the town Taza Khurmatu,” as Special Adviser Ritscher elaborated.
The Team has implemented a modality of cooperation with the Iraqi judiciary to develop joint case files of alleged ISIL perpetrators who fled Iraq. The first joint case file on international crimes allegedly committed by one ISIL perpetrator has been completed, provided to the concerned country, and helped lead to the arrest of this suspect. “this joint modality represents a framework through which the Team and Iraq can meaningfully and closely cooperate, share information, and put to use their respective evidence and knowledge to hold ISIL members accountable for their international crimes.”
He expressed his hope that such prosecutions for ISIL members on charges of international crimes can happen in Iraq, mentioning that the establishment of a domestic legal basis for international crimes: “would open new horizons for Iraq as it paves the way for trials against ISIL perpetrators on such charges, with the participation of Iraqi victims and witnesses. This is not only what UNITAD is meant to support, but also the main demand of victim and survivor communities in Iraq: to see their day in court.”
Special Adviser Ritscher underscored that the consent of the Host Government in any given context is key for a UN mission to conduct its work, stressing that it is even more crucial for an investigative team with a unique mandate, such as UNITAD. “We have conducted our work accordingly with full respect to the sovereignty of Iraq and will continue to do so. It remains up to Iraq to exercise its sovereign right to decide on the future of this mission,” he further explained.
He commended the commitment of Iraq to support the Team’s cooperation with third states. “With the approval of the Chief Justice, Foreign Minister and the Chair of the National Coordinating Committee, I am pleased to note that an agreed modality that better outlines the Team’s evidence sharing with third states has been concluded, per Resolution 2697.”
Special Adviser Ritscher warned that: “a premature and abrupt ending of UNITAD can only mean a loss for all those concerned. This is why I urge the Government of Iraq and the esteemed members of this Council to give due consideration to the end state of our mandate more than the end date.”
Concluding, Special Adviser Ritscher stressed the need to keep the plight of ISIL’s victims and survivors at the core of collective efforts towards justice and accountability. “They are the ones who see the work of UNITAD as a beacon of hope, and an opportunity to have their voices heard, their suffering acknowledged, and their stories told... We must ensure that those who had the courage to speak-up against ISIL crimes are not let down or left behind.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/254804-special-adviser-ritscher-briefs-un-security-council-11th-report-unitad-critical-juncture




Date: 04 December 2023
Title: Empowering Women: Norway and FAO Join Forces to support rural women affected by climatic changes in Iraq
Content: 04 December 2023
Baghdad, 4 December 2023 - The Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, represented by the Norwegian Embassy in Iraq, and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) are set to launch an innovative project entitled "Integration of Climate-Smart Practices for Improved Livestock-based Rural Livelihoods of Vulnerable Farmers in Iraq."
This ambitious three-year initiative, supported by generous funding of 15,000,000 NOK, aims to transform the livelihoods of vulnerable rural households in the governorates of Basrah, Thi-Qar, and Karbala.
This project will focus on the economic empowerment of rural communities, particularly women; the long-term objective is to enhance resilience and improve food security of vulnerable rural communities in target areas, which will be achieved by enhancing climate resilience and improved productivity through climate-smart agricultural practices.
FAO Iraq Representative, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, highlighted the value of cooperation with Norway and expressed gratitude for their generous funding. He stated, "This partnership is an example of the transformative potential of international collaboration. We are proud to work alongside Norway Government and local partners to empower vulnerable communities and enhance sustainable agriculture in Iraq."
Norwegian Ambassador to Jordan and Iraq, Mr Espen Lindbæck said: “We are incredibly proud to join forces with FAO in empowering vulnerable communities in Iraq through sustainable and climate-smart activities. Climate change in Iraq does not only affect the agricultural sector, but also creates barriers to development, threatens human rights and creates insecurity in plethora of sectors. I believe this project will give hope to the most vulnerable communities that often disproportionately suffer from the impact of climate change. Food security, gender equality and climate action are at the top of the Norwegian agenda, and I think this collaboration shows how countries can work together to make a positive impact for all.
"Dr Mithaq Al-Khafaji, Technical Assistant at the Ministry of Agriculture, expressed his appreciation: "This project is of the utmost importance in Iraq. It represents a vital collaboration with FAO and Norway, providing critical funding for a project that will have a profound impact on the agricultural sector. We are grateful for their support and look forward to making a significant difference in our communities.
The Director General of the Department for Iraqi Women’s Empowerment at the Council of Ministers, Ms. Yusra Karim Mohsen, stressed the importance of such projects in supporting and empowering rural women, thanking the organization and its partners for their commitment to advancing the situation of women in rural areas and ensuring that they enjoy equal opportunities, which strengthens their role in their communities.
The project is aligned with Iraq's national priorities and contributes to key sectors and Sustainable Development Goals, including zero hunger, gender equality, decent work, climate action and rural livelihoods. It also supports Norway's development cooperation themes and the UN framework for sustainable development cooperation, with a focus on climate change, food security and gender equality.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/254690-empowering-women-norway-and-fao-join-forces-support-rural-women-affected-climatic-changes




Date: 04 December 2023
Title: FAO-EU raises hope for Buffalo Producers in Southern Iraq with Promoting Sustainable Agriculture and Empowering Rural Women
Content: 04 December 2023
Basra, Iraq - December 3rd, 2023  - In a groundbreaking move towards sustainable agriculture and under the "Restoration and Strengthening the Resilience of Agri-Food Systems in Southern Iraq." project funded by the European Union and implemented in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) is taking transformative actions to uplift buffalo breeding sector in Southern Iraq.
This initiative, mainly focuses on supporting the role of rural women, livelihood enhancement, and introducing practical applications for sustainable agriculture.
In this context, a number of marketing points (Caravans) were directly delivered to beneficiary women’s groups in Qurna, Basra as part of a group of 19 caravans for women's groups in Basra, Dhi Qar and Maysan. This strategic move aims to empower women, enhance their pivotal role in the dairy value chain, and elevate the marketing potentials of dairy products.
A distribution ceremony was also held at  Al-Qurnah Extension Farm under the patronage of his excellency the Minister of Agriculture, represented by Dr Mithaq Al Khafaji, and in the presence of  Dr Ibrahim Al Saedi  from the Advisory Board in the Prime Minister's Office, the Assistant to Al Basra's  Governor  for Agriculture Department Affairs, the Director of Agriculture in Basra, the head of Basra framers’ association and a large  number of farmers, during which a first batch of  200 butter churns out of a total of 1,000  were distributed . These machines use cutting-edge technology and are designed to significantly reduce manual churning time from 2-3 hours to 20 minutes, with minimal effort enabling rural women to save time and efforts for other household and daily life priorities. 

This event signifies a substantial step forward in promoting sustainable agriculture, empowering local communities, enhancing livelihoods, and introducing cutting-edge suitable machinery and equipment.
Led by the FAO international expert Dr Chedly Kayouli , this component of the project program focuses on fortifying the rural dairy value chain in the marshes of South Iraq, including handling, storage, cooling, processing, and marketing.

In his opening speech, FAO representative, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, expressed his enthusiasm, stating "Today's events represent a major step towards empowering women and fostering sustainable agriculture in Southern Iraq. The collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and local authorities and the financial support and partnership with the European Union has been instrumental in achieving these milestones. We are actively working to build on the success of this project and keep pace with similar achievements. We hope that these initiatives will lay the groundwork for sustainable agriculture, improved livelihoods, and the integration of new technologies and practices in the region.”

The Technical Deputy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Mithaq Al Khafaji, also emphasized the project's significance, saying, "The collaboration between the Ministry of Agriculture and FAO is crucial for the development of the agri-food sector in Southern Iraq. This initiative aligns with our vision to strengthen the resilience of rural communities and promote sustainable agriculture."
Dr Ibrahim Al Saedi highlighted the extremely important progress made by this project to develop the dairy sector and support rural women, which can be considered as one of the most successful examples to be scaled up further.
The participating officials highlighted the ongoing significant impact of FAO-EU funded project activities in the region, expressed appreciation for the positive effects on local communities, and reiterated their full support and commitment to ensure the continued success of these transformative initiatives.
The mission extended to green fodder fields in the Nahr Al-Saba village/Al Mdayna district, where officials observed the ongoing success of the forage program, which introduced, for the first time in southern Iraq, soil and climate conditions resistant crops. Smart irrigation techniques continue to contribute to exceptionally high production rates, resulting in a significant increase in milk production and improvements in farmers' incomes.
The project, under the broader umbrella of the EU Agri-Food Business Development Programme, aims to improve governance and job creation along several agri-food value chains in Iraq. This initiative represents a major stride in fostering sustainable agriculture, empowering women, and strengthening agri-food systems in Southern Iraq. FAO remains committed to supporting initiatives aligned with United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including but not limited to Goal 1: No Poverty, Goal 2: Zero Hunger, Goal 5: Gender Equality, and Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/254691-fao-eu-raises-hope-buffalo-producers-southern-iraq-promoting-sustainable-agriculture-and




Date: 04 December 2023
Title: UNESCO launches a project to Enhance Employability for Youth in Nineveh.
Content: 04 December 2023
UNESCO launched the project 'Enhancing Employability for Youth in Nineveh,' funded by the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA). The project aims to enhance the employability of graduates in key economic sectors, aligning with the labor market needs in Nineveh Governorate, Iraq.
Implemented in partnership with the Ministry of Education (MoE), the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MoLSA), the Department of Education (DoE) and the Department of Labor and Social Affairs (DoLSA) of Nineveh, the project will support the Nineveh Agricultural Vocational School, Intissar Commercial School, and Vocational Training Center in Mosul to become Centres of Vocational Excellence (CoVE). The primary objectives include:
The Project Launch Event witnessed the participation of representatives from the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Nineveh Governorates, and KOICA.
In his opening remarks, Mr. Paolo Fontani, UNESCO Representative to Iraq, highlighted UNESCO's commitment to Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET), emphasizing the organization's support for an open, stable, and sustainable society. Mr. Fontani expressed confidence in UNESCO's ability to contribute significantly to enhancing TVET quality in Iraq, citing the organization's extensive experience.
During the congratulatory remarks, Mr. Majeed Kamel Abdullah, Head of the National Committee in the Ministry of Education, underscored the importance of collaboration between the Ministry of Education and UNESCO, thanking the organization for its support to TVET in Iraq. He emphasized the significance of provincial-level TVET support and expressed eagerness to expand cooperation and partnership in Iraq.
Ms. Meethaq Taleb, Head of the Directorate of Labour and Social Affairs, extended her appreciation for the strong cooperation between DOLSA and UNESCO. She acknowledged UNESCO's support for the ongoing vocational training programs in Nineveh.
Mr. Ko Hee-Seok, Representative of KOICA Erbil Office, expressed gratitude for the commitments and support from stakeholders. He affirmed KOICA's dedication to playing an active role in TVET alongside the Government of Iraq, UNESCO, and other TVET-related stakeholders to enhance job opportunities in Nineveh and Iraq.
Mr. Ali Omar, Deputy Governor of Nineveh Governorate, expressed gratitude while requesting continued support and cooperation for Nineveh Governorate.
This project aligns directly with Sustainable Development Goals 4 (Quality Education), 5 (Gender Equality), and 9 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), and contributes to the implementation of the TVET priorities identified by the Iraq National Education Strategy 2022 - 2031.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/254765-unesco-launches-project-enhance-employability-youth-nineveh




Date: 04 December 2023
Title: JICA renews commitment to boost infrastructure projects for transformative development in Iraq
Content: 04 December 2023
Baghdad, 4 December 2023 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) Iraq Office renewed its long-standing, partnership agreement related to the establishment of socio-economic infrastructure projects in Iraq, with the support of the Government of Iraq (GoI). This agreement is focused on ensuring accelerated implementation of these critical projects, that meet the needs of the people of Iraq for basic public services, all of which contribute to development and a robust national economy.
Led by the Government of Iraq in partnership with UNDP and Japan
Implemented by the GoI, with loan assistance from JICA, this partnership enters its second decade, aiming to improve economic recovery and living conditions of Iraqis nationwide thanks to the generous support provided by the Japan Official Development Assistance (ODA) loan program.
“JICA and UNDP will continue its support to the GoI, addressing these challenges through this partnership, with an objective to improve livelihoods, as well as enhancing Iraq’s socio-economic status for generations to come,” says JICA Iraq Chief Representative YONEDA Gen.
The GoI has underscored the need for increased investment in infrastructure ensuring its inclusion in the recently approved federal budget of 3 years. The prioritization of this within the national budget supports ongoing project implementation, laying the groundwork for new projects across the country, focused on public service sectors such electricity, health, irrigation and water and revenue-generating sectors, such as the excavation industry and seaport development.
“Through this Triangular Cooperation, UNDP will continue to support the Government of Japan as they continue this fruitful engagement with the Government of Iraq. Together, we are ensuing the forward movement of the country, towards a brighter future - full of advancement, development, but more importantly, hope,” says UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Auke Lootsma.
This signed agreement reaffirms the commitment between JICA and UNDP to improve the state of national infrastructure, for a robust economy, better public services in local communities and increased engagement of the private sector, encouraging economic diversification and job creation, all of which advance Iraq’s progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/254766-jica-renews-commitment-boost-infrastructure-projects-transformative-development-iraq




Date: 03 December 2023
Title: UNITAD publishes a milestone report on sexual violence against women and girls committed by ISIL in Iraq
Content: 03 December 2023
Baghdad, 3 December 2023: The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL published today its milestone report on the sexual violence committed by ISIL in Iraq against women and girls during the years 2014-2017. The report presents a comprehensive overview of the Team’s current findings on the nature of some of the gravest international crimes ISIL committed against all Iraqi communities.
The report provides legal analysis of these heinous crimes, which ISIL perpetrated against women, men, girls, and boys, within the framework of International Criminal Law and International Humanitarian Law.
“With this report, UNITAD reaffirms its steadfast commitment to pursuing justice for the heinous crimes committed by ISIL against various Iraqi constituencies. Our dedicated thematic unit investigating the sexual crimes against women, men, boys, and girls remains at the forefront, rigorously working with a trauma-informed approach to unveil the breadth of ISIL’s brutality in Iraq, while adhering to the highest international standards” indicated Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher. He, further, added that: “we are grateful for the support of the Iraqi authorities which have facilitated our investigations, and we remain indebted to the brave victims, especially women and girls, who came forward and spoke up, sharing their heart-wrenching accounts and witness testimonies to ensure that ISIL perpetrators are held accountable before competent courts, and that justice is served to all those victims and survivors.”
The report is released coinciding with the 16 Days of Activism campaign, which is taking place this year under the slogan “UNiTE! Invest to Prevent Violence Against Women and Girls”. This slogan resonates with UNITAD’s dedicated mandate to expose the magnitude of ISIL’s crimes and promote accountability for these heinous crimes as a critical step in preventing violence and crimes against women and girls from reoccurring. We echo the calls of victims for justice as a crucial step towards healing for all those impacted.
The report can be found in on UNITAD’s website here.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/254657-unitad-publishes-milestone-report-sexual-violence-against-women-and-girls-committed-isil




Date: 03 December 2023
Title: "Iraq Takes Center Stage and Makes its Mark at the UN Climate Change Conference"
Content: 03 December 2023
Dubai, UAE – Yesterday, the President of the Republic of Iraq, H.E. Abdul Latif Rashid, inaugurated Iraq’s first ever pavilion at this year’s global climate event, COP 28. The inauguration was attended by Dr. Abdallah Al Dardari, the United Nations Development Programme Regional Director for Arab States. This opening marks the start of a high-level discussion entitled “Climate Security for Sustainable Development in Iraq”. The discussion highlighted comprehensive strategies for addressing climate security in Iraq, emphasizing the integration of water, food and energy security. The pavilion is set to host over 30 sessions, organized by various Iraqi ministries and UN agencies.
Ghulam Isaczai, the United Nations Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator (DSRSG/RC/HC) in Iraq, will lead pivotal discussions at the summit, focusing on youth involvement in climate action and other vital environmental discussions. “Iraq stands at the forefront of global efforts to tackle climate change, which has severely impacted the Mesopotamia marshlands, threatening biodiversity and ecosystems," he emphasized.
Iraqi Negotiators, Trained and Ready for Action
A delegation of over 300 Iraqis, comprising civil society members, government officials, and youth are participating in the 28th United Nations Conference on Climate Change in Dubai, UAE. A significant number of the delegation are negotiators, underscoring Iraq's commitment to tackling issues such as gas flaring, and emissions reduction, and investing in infrastructure to utilize associated gas. The delegation will engage in negotiations and side events, with support from UN agencies.
During the inauguration, Dr. Abdallah Al Dardari highlighted, “By raising awareness, offering economic incentives, and collaborating with international partners, Iraq can create a culture of environmental responsibility and sustainability. We need to access funding, receive technical assistance, and learn from best practices."
Iraqi negotiators, trained and ready
Iraq’s willingness to take a leadership role in advocating for comprehensive solutions for the water-food-energy-security nexus is evidenced by their commitment to this year’s UN climate summit. A delegation of over 300 Iraqis comprised of civil society, government and youth are currently in Dubai at the 28th annual United Nations Conference on Climate Change, organized by the United Nations at Dubai’s Expo City in the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.).
A majority of those in the delegation are negotiators, as the country recognizes the importance of taking significant steps to address the pressing issue of gas flaring and reduce emissions, investing in the necessary infrastructure to capture and utilize associated gas and working with partners to make use of advanced technologies and expertise – all of which will be discussed during negotiations as well as the planned side events, supported by UN agencies in Iraq.
"By raising awareness, offering economic incentives, and collaborating with international partners, Iraq can create a culture of environmental responsibility and sustainability. We need to access funding, receive technical assistance, and learn from best practices," said Dr. Abdallah Dardari, Regional Director for Arab States of the UNDP, during the inauguration.
The U.N. continues to work in partnership with the Government of Iraq (GoI), ensuring that their climate commitment remains action-oriented, resulting in tangible solutions. UN agencies in Iraq are currently laser-focused on implementing environmentally friendly and sustainable programmes, that serve the most vulnerable communities, including women, persons with disabilities, children and young people.
UN agencies’ support to Iraq
UNICEF commended the GoI for signing the Declaration on Children, Youth and Climate Action on 19 November, ahead of COP28. The declaration demonstrates Iraq’s commitment to placing children at the heart of climate action, protecting them from the effects of climate change, reiterating the call to operationalize the declaration to ensure transformative efforts for children’s rights and progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals. This year, UNICEF with the GoI developed two sessions centered on Youth Inclusive Climate Activism and Climate Change Mainstreaming in the Education Sector.
UNDP together with the GoI collaborated in developing its first pavilion, and along with the Ministry of Environment (MoEN) trained Iraqi negotiators through a series of intensive workshops led by national and international experts, supporting the development of 3 major documents, NAMA, National Environmental Strategy (NES) and the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC).  UNDP and the GoI through a team of volunteers, also created the “Handbook for Iraq’s Delegation to COP”, a standing resource for delegates for this and future COPs.
The UN Environment Programme (UNEP) is assisting Iraq in developing and implementing the National Adaptation Plan (NAP) to address climate change challenges effectively. The planning process includes analyzing institutional capacities, consulting stakeholders, and identifying prioritized adaptation actions. It also focuses on enhancing national capacities at individual and institutional levels to meet reporting requirements of the UNFCCC and Paris Agreement in a sustainable and systematic manner. Iraq prioritizes climate change adaptation due to vulnerabilities in key sectors like water, agriculture, health, and natural resources. Adequate planning is crucial for achieving climate resilience.
The FAO is taking a central role in addressing climate change and environmental degradation in southern Iraq. Through initiatives like Climate-Wise-Women, FAO empowers women as agents of change in climate adaptation. FAO promotes climate resilience in vulnerable agricultural households through smart water management and good agricultural practices. They strengthen rural development by enhancing solar energy applications and introducing resilient fodder crops and smart irrigation. FAO also provides remote sensing data, addresses food loss and waste, and supports sustainable agricultural practices for responsible resource use in the face of climate challenges.
The WHO in Iraq supports resilient health systems with a climate change focus. They collaborate with the Ministry of Health to join the Alliance for Transformative Action on Climate Change and Health (ATACH). Adopting the One Health approach, WHO coordinates human, animal, and environmental health for improved preparedness and response. They also assist in establishing climate change units within health directorates to integrate resilience measures into policies and programs.
WFP collaborates with the Government of Iraq to combat climate change effects. Their projects enhance agro-met capacity, water irrigation systems, desertification countermeasures, and water regulator rehabilitation. They introduce nature-based solutions like wetlands, hydroponics, aquaponics, and beekeeping. WFP funds reforestation, mangrove planting, and marshland conservation for climate change mitigation and adaptation. These projects support smallholder farmers and empower vulnerable communities through sustainable agricultural practices.
As the global climate emergency intensifies and climate financing continues to fall short of protecting sexual and reproductive health and rights, UNFPA continues to bring to bear the rights of women and girls, and has advocated publicly that upcoming climate talks in Dubai prioritize the needs of women and girls, supporting this significant financing to strengthen health systems and ensure that the sexual and reproductive health and rights of women and girls are met during the global climate emergency.
To support climate change action in Iraq, IOM implements initiatives such as addressing climate-induced displacement and mobility, providing assistance to affected individuals, collaborating on resilience and adaptation strategies, promoting sustainability in vulnerable communities, and facilitating capacity-building on climate change and migration for local stakeholders.
Through these concerted efforts, the UN alongside the Government of Iraq at this year’s COP will underscore its commitment to the COP28 process, in collaboration with international partners, to craft practical solutions for a sustainable and resilient future for Iraq. The UN will support the implementation of Iraq's Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC), Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMA), National Adaptation Plan (NAP), Environmental Strategy, and Green Growth Strategy, all of which are guides that will steer Iraq towards robust adaptation, mitigation, and sustainable development.

For media inquiries:
Christine Cool, UNDP Communications Team Leader, christine.cool@undp.org
Zainab Salih, UN RCO Communications Officer, zainab.salih@un.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/254656-iraq-takes-center-stage-and-makes-its-mark-un-climate-change-conference




Date: 03 December 2023
Title: Statement of the United Nations Resident Coordinator on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities
Content: 03 December 2023
3 December 2023
As we mark the International Day of Persons with Disabilities (PWDs), the United Nations in Iraq emphasizes its unwavering commitment to supporting the government and Iraqi society address the needs, rights, and aspirations of persons with disabilities. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD), ratified by Iraq in 2013, shows Iraq’s own commitment to realizing the full rights of persons with disabilities.
It is estimated that approximately 12% of Iraq's population experience some form of disability. This figure rises to 18% among children. People with disabilities have been especially challenged by decades of armed conflicts, violence, and economic shocks. Disability exclusion is commonly overlooked problem in many societies, and achieving disability inclusion demands acknowledgment of the efforts of individuals with disabilities to actively participate in the economic and social facets of society.
The Government of Iraq, United Nations agencies, international non-governmental organizations, and civil society, are all working to address the barriers faced by people with disabilities. Our shared pledge is to ensure that no one is left behind. Guided by the principles entrenched in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we are steadfast in dismantling stereotypes, and championing accessibility by supporting quality education, promoting dignified employment opportunities, reducing inequalities, and nurturing sustainable communities.
Some simple steps that will lead to better access to job opportunities and social services for people with disabilities include:
Seven of the seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) refer to disability inclusion as part of the strategy to achieve a better world by 2030. As we celebrate the strength, diversity, and contributions of persons with disabilities, the United Nations will remain committed to supporting the government and civil society organizations in Iraq to promote disability inclusion across all domains.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/254662-statement-united-nations-resident-coordinator-international-day-persons-disabilities




Date: 30 November 2023
Title: Iraq: UNESCO and the European Union extend their partnership for training and job creation in the cultural heritage sector
Content: 30 November 2023
UNESCO, the European Union and the Iraqi Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Antiquities announce the launch of a new phase of the project “Reviving Mosul and Basra Old Cities”, for an amount of 9 million euros. It will result in socio-economic development actions through safeguarding and rehabilitation of cultural heritage from 2023 to 2027.
This new phase, funded by the European Union, will concentrate on supporting two key areas: youth employment and enhancing the capacity of institutions and stakeholders, both public and private, engaged in the rehabilitation and protection of cultural heritage assets.
Three hundred fifty Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TEVT) participants will receive training with a focus on construction trades. Additionally, technicians from government entities will undergo mentoring in architectural conservation and restoration disciplines, encompassing both project design and works supervision.
This intensive series of courses will involve hands-on experience in pilot projects within selected historic districts, under the supervision of UNESCO: the rehabilitation of a significant number of heritage houses in Mosul and Basra.
Strengthen the academic heritage sector
UNESCO will also intervene in the academic field, to support the training of new generations of heritage professionals. To this end, the organization will facilitate the establishment of a new program focused on conservation and preservation, through a collaborative effort between the Northern Technical University (NTU) in Mosul, the Southern Technical University (STU) in Basra, and an external international university specializing in heritage conservation.
Comprehensive training for local faculty and students will include workshops conducted by external university experts. These sessions will cover advanced techniques in heritage building reconstruction, spanning architectural design, structural analysis, material conservation, and the preservation of traditional craftsmanship. They will be directed towards the restoration and reconstruction of heritage buildings in Mosul and Basra.
Furthermore, the initiative will encompass, the implementation of 10 events focused on social cohesion, awareness raising, and culture, as well as the support of 8 cooperatives, businesses, startups, or social enterprises to support Iraqi culture and creative industries as part of the project's broader objectives.
Give Iraqi institutions and professionals the keys to lead future reconstructions
Through all these actions, UNESCO will transmit to Iraqi institutions and professionals the experience and good practices acquired from the numerous projects led by the organization in Mosul and Basra during the previous phases of their partnership.
Iraqi institutions and professionals will thus have all the keys in hand to directly plan and lead the next stages of urban reconstruction, as well as the long-term conservation, management, and restoration of heritage.

***
During an event held at the Iraqi National Museum on November 29, 2023, Dr. Laith Hussein, the Head of the State Board of Antiquities and Heritage in Iraq, conveyed his appreciation, remarking, "The bilateral collaboration with partners such as UNESCO, the European Union, and the Ministry of Culture has yielded tangible positive results. These results represent an opportunity for the revival of ancient cities through the reconstruction and rehabilitation of historic buildings, the revitalization of cultural life. This is seen as a genuine opportunity for youth employment and the capacity-building of institutions to preserve the cultural heritage in two historic cities like Mosul and Basra."
H.E. Thomas Seiler, the Ambassador of the European Union to Iraq, emphasized the significance of the "Reviving Mosul and Basra Old Cities project," stating, "This project holds great importance for the EU's support in Iraq. Its unique concept, blending infrastructure restructuring, job creation, and cultural preservation, sets it apart."
Mr. Paolo Fontani, the Representative and Director of UNESCO Iraq Office, expressed gratitude to the EU and the Ministry of Culture for their support. He underscored the successful achievements resulting from the collaborative efforts of all partners during the previous phases of the project.
"UNESCO takes great pride in this partnership and is fully committed to ensuring the successful implementation of Phase III over the coming years for the benefit of the people of Iraq," he affirmed.
UNESCO thanks all its local, national, and international partners, whose support was very useful in implementing these actions, mainly the Ministry of Culture, the State Borad of Antiquities and Heritage, the Governorates of Nineveh and Basra, city municipalities, Sunni and Chirstian Waqfs, and CSOs, as well as IOM, UN Habitat and ICCROM. UNESCO also thanks the many inhabitants of Mosul and Basra involved in these projects.
***
Achievement of the first two pashes of the project so far: 4,800 jobs created, 1,500 people graduated
During the Phase I and II of the project (2019-23) remarkable achievements were made by UNESCO and its partners in the Old City of Mosul, as the reconstruction and rehabilitation of 124 heritage houses, including 2 palatial houses, the reconstruction of the primary El Ekhlas School, and the infrastructure upgrading of streets and alleys (electrical, sewage, water networks and surfacing). In partnership with UN Habitat, a Recovery Plan for Mosul was also drafted and Technical Assistance on Housing, Land and Property issues to house owners of the Old City provided.
In the Old City of Basra, UNESCO rehabilitated 11 Shanasheel style heritage houses that are owned by the Governorate of Basra, three of them are large palatial houses used by official entities: the Culture Palace, the Writers’ Association, and the Association of Plastic Artists. In addition, the project included the reconstruction of a section of the Al Ashar Canal located in the Old City and the rehabilitation of 8 bridges.
These actions in Mosul and Basra have resulted in the creation of more than 4,900 jobs and 1568 person received diploma training ensuring them long-term professional opportunities.  In addition, 79 craftsmen in Mosul befitted from specialised training on traditional construction techniques with support from ICCROM, so that traditional Iraqi skills and knowledge continue to be transmitted to new generations.
Support also provided for the revival of cultural life
Thanks to the EU support during the Phase I and II of the project, UNESCO and its partners have also engaged in a comprehensive plan to revive cultural life and cultural institutions. To support the revival of traditional music in Mosul, UNESCO implemented tailored programmes: 24 musicians were trained, and 4 music ensembles were formed and received grant for touring in Iraq. A new milestone was marked in March 2022 through "Mosul Traditional Music Festival", the first event of its kind since the Liberation. Given its success a second edition of the festival was organized in September 2023 in partnership with Goethe Institute.
A Creative Space was created to provide space for exhibition, training, and cultural activities. A Film Lab was established at the Institute of Fine Arts of Mosul and 20 students were trained and got hands-on experience on the fundamental aspects of a cinema production and produced short movies that were shown to the public, including in national and international festivals. In addition, in partnership with IOM in phase II of the project 197 SME businesses in the field of culture and creative industries received grants through the EDF-Culture program in Mosul, Basra and Thi-Qar.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/254217-iraq-unesco-and-european-union-extend-their-partnership-training-and-job-creation-cultural




Date: 29 November 2023
Title: Green Future for Iraq - A Nationwide Tree Planting Campaign
Content: 29 November 2023
Baghdad, Iraq - 29 November 2023 – In alignment with Iraq’s Prime Minister's vision to foster environmental sustainability, a new nationwide tree-planting campaign is set to be launched by the United Nations agencies in Iraq in collaboration with the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Agriculture, the Mayoralty of Baghdad, the Department of Media and Information in Kurdistan Region of Iraq, and other partners. This ambitious endeavor aims to plant more than 500,000 trees across the country.
The campaign is a collaborative effort among UN agencies, young volunteers, and the private sector. It aims to tackle climate change challenges, enhance biodiversity, and improve community well-being throughout Iraq.
The tree planting campaign will be implemented in various regions of Iraq, emphasizing local community engagement, including schools and youth organizations. This multi-stakeholder approach highlights the importance of collective action in achieving the national target of planting five million trees set by Iraq’s Prime Minister, Mohammed Shia' Al Sudani.
The initiative aligns with the Sustainable Development Goals, particularly Goal 13: Climate Action and Goal 15: Life on Land, reflecting the UN's and its partners' commitment to these objectives.
Mr. Ghulam Isaczai, the Resident Coordinator of the United Nations in Iraq, emphasized the significance of this collaborative effort, stating: "This tree planting campaign exemplifies the unity and collective action in mitigating the impacts of climate change and tackling pressing environmental challenges. By bringing together UN agencies, government ministries, the private sector, and the vibrant energy of Iraqi youth, we move steadfastly towards a more sustainable and greener future for Iraq. The Prime Minister's vision catalyses positive change, and we are proud to be part of this transformative journey."
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/254168-green-future-iraq-nationwide-tree-planting-campaign




Date: 29 November 2023
Title: Iraq Unveils Groundbreaking Handbook for Enhancing Financial Investigations and Upholding the Rule of Law
Content: 29 November 2023
Tuesday, 27th November 2023, Baghdad Iraq - This week, Iraq took a significant stride toward combatting crimes, that generate illicit gain, by launching a Financial Investigations Handbook. The handbook aims to enhance the effectiveness of financial investigations throughout the country.
“This is a first of its kind, and I commend the efforts of those who took part in its development. Iraq's success in confiscating assets generated from money laundering crimes is evidence of its commitment to the international standards for combating money laundering and terrorism financing,” His Excellency Dr. Faeq Zaidan, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Judicial Council said while opening the launch ceremony.
The Handbook is poised to become a critical asset in the country's pursuit of accountability and the establishment of a robust financial system. It is a comprehensive guide, designed in simple and accessible language, with the goal of equipping Iraqi authorities with the necessary knowledge and techniques to effectively investigate financial irregularities and illicit activities. By providing clear instructions and practical insights, the handbook empowers law enforcement agencies, auditors, and legal professionals to uncover hidden financial trails, expose corrupt practices, and ensure justice is served.
"Our investigative judges and judicial investigators participated in a series of workshops on financial investigations organized by the UNDP, which had a big impact on the procedures applicable to investigate organized crimes including corruption, narcotics and money laundering crimes,” said HE Judge Abd Aljabar Azeez Hasan, Chief Justice of the Judicial Council of the Kurdistan Region.
Judge Kawa Fathi Maasom, the President of the Prosecution Agency of the KRI described the handbook as a practical guideline that unifies the Iraq financial investigation procedures, which are applied by the judiciary and law enforcement authorities.
These efforts were made possible with the support of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq with funding from the United States Government.
“We commend the courage and persistence of those working in our 11 partner institutions on countering corruption, financial crimes, and money laundering. We also thank them for their trust in engaging with UNDP throughout this collaborative process of devising the Handbook for Financial Investigations, which we are launching today,” Mr. Auke Lootsma, the UNDP Iraq Resident Representative said during the event.
The launch was attended by the Presidents of the Federal and KRI Commissions of Integrity; the Presidents of the Federal and the KRI Board of Supreme Audits; and high-ranking officials from the Federal and KRI Ministries of Interior, the KRI Assayish Agency and the Anti-Money Laundering and Countering Terrorism Financing Office of the Central Bank of Iraq.
By embracing this invaluable resource, Iraq sends a powerful message to its citizens and the international community that it is determined to root out corruption. The Financial Investigation Handbook serves as a beacon of hope, enabling Iraq to safeguard its financial integrity, attract foreign investment, and foster economic growth. With its release, Iraq takes a significant step forward in its fight against corruption, reinforcing its commitment to transparency, accountability, and the rule of law.
PRESS RELEASE ENDS.
About UNDP Iraq
UNDP in Iraq supports the Government of Iraq's efforts towards reconciliation, reform, and stability. Its support towards the development of Iraq’s Financial Investigations handbook is part of its work under the Security Sector Reform and Rule of Law Programme. The programme’s goal is to support the Government’s efforts toward long-term peace and stability through an improved security and justice sector. Its work on financial investigations and anti-money laundering is made possible with the generous contributions of the United States Government.
Editor’s note:
About the Financial Investigations Handbook
The handbook aptly called, the “Handbook of Financial Investigation Procedures” is a practical guide for conducting parallel, integrated financial investigations, for use by investigative judges and institutions who are responsible for conducting criminal investigations. In addition, it is intended to provide a consistent investigative procedure for obtaining, analyzing, summarizing, and presenting information and evidence obtained during a criminal investigation.  Its primary use will be at the investigative and investigative management levels and provides a one-stop reference guide that:
The handbook drafting process was a collaborative effort accomplished by a working group composed of representatives of eleven Iraqi institutions from the Federal and Kurdistan regions, including the Federal and the KRI judiciary, Federal Commission of Integrity, Commission of Integrity of the KRI, Ministries of Interior (Federal and KRI), Asayish of KRI, Federal Board of Supreme Audit, Board of Supreme Audit of the KRI, and AML - CFT Office (FIU).
For any country to achieve stability and economic progress, issues of corruption, money laundering, and other organized crime activities need to be addressed. This Financial Investigations Handbook is a tool that can assist Iraq in its efforts to address those types of criminal activities.
Success So Far
The establishment of the handbook working group represented a unique experience in Iraq – for the first time, a joint Federal–KRI resource group from the judiciary, prosecution and law enforcement investigators and auditors came together to prepare a Handbook – that is now the standard guide for financial investigation in Iraq.
The process of developing the handbook improved institutional ties and deepened collaboration between the 11 institutions that participated in its drafting. This collaboration has seen an increased application of joint investigative efforts, information exchange, investigative support, successful prosecution of crimes, and recovery of illicit financial gains. Yielding great results in recent cases; for example, the Iraq Commission of Integrity recovered 100 billion Iraqi dinars and a substantial number of properties and high-value vehicles.
The launch of the Financial Investigations Handbook aims to increase those efforts, leading to a deterrence of complex financial crimes – while encouraging the recovery of illicit gains to promote sustainable development in the country.
Way forward
The Handbook is a dynamic, working document that will be reviewed and amended on a regular basis. A review methodology to seek feedback from the handbook’s users was adopted and will be used to update it continuously during its practical use.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/254169-iraq-unveils-groundbreaking-handbook-enhancing-financial-investigations-and-upholding-rule




Date: 27 November 2023
Title: Environmental surveillance network training: WHO Iraq and federal ministries collaborate to ensure a polio-free Iraq
Content: 27 November 2023
27 November 2023, Baghdad, Iraq – WHO in Iraq, in close collaboration with Iraq’s Ministry of Health (MOH) and Ministry of Environment (MOE), has concluded a successful 4-day training programme on the environmental surveillance network for poliovirus monitoring and detection. This initiative plays a crucial role in the ongoing commitment to maintain a polio-free Iraq.
The training programme centred on environmental sampling, involving the monthly collection of wastewater samples from designated sites in high-risk areas. These samples will be routinely sent to the Central Public Health Laboratory (CPHL) to be tested for poliovirus, with the aim of complementing and enhancing the country’s acute flaccid paralysis surveillance system.
The training also emphasized the early detection of the poliovirus in Ninewa, in northwest Iraq, and Sulaymaniyah, in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. These high-risk areas were identified as priority governorates among other pre-established environmental surveillance locations in Baghdad, Basra, Erbil, Karbala and Najaf.
“In collaboration with our national counterparts in MOH and MOE, and guided by surveillance results, we identified 11 strategic sites across 8 governorates, with plans for a comprehensive expansion in the near future,” explained Dr Firas Al Khafaji, Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI)/Polio Officer, WHO Country Office in Iraq.
Comprehensive orientation sessions in Ninewa and Sulaymaniyah engaged national counterparts, partners, and stakeholders from the public health departments, environment department and municipal authority. These sessions were enriched by the remote participation of polio eradication experts from the WHO Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean and national counterparts from the National Polio Laboratory in CPHL and the Communicable Disease Control Center.
Continued orientation and on-site training are in progress for personnel responsible for proper sample collection, packaging and transportation at the designated sites. The Al-Yarmouk collection site in Mosul serves 50 000 people, while the Darwaza site in Sulaymaniya caters to over a quarter of the governorate’s population of 1 million. This ongoing training is a collaborative effort involving key stakeholders such as WHO’s EPI/Polio team, the National Polio Laboratory (in CPHL), the Communicable Disease Control Center and relevant MOE departments.
“Together, we stand at the forefront, safeguarding communities and advancing towards a future where the crippling disease of polio is but a distant memory,” said Dr Wael Hatahit, Acting WHO Representative in Iraq, emphasizing the collaborative commitment to achieving public health goals.
This initiative aligns with WHO’s “Global polio surveillance action plan 2022–2024”, a crucial component to monitor poliovirus transmission, and integrates with the “Polio eradication strategy 2022–2026” of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative. These combined efforts in Iraq signify remarkable progress in the journey toward a polio-free world.

About WHO Iraq:
The World Health Organization (WHO) is a specialized agency of the United Nations responsible for international public health. The WHO Iraq office works collaboratively with national partners to address public health challenges and improve the well-being of the Iraqi population.
About MOH:
The Iraqi Ministry of Health (MOH) plays a vital role in shaping and implementing health policies and programmes to enhance the health and well-being of the people of Iraq.
About MOE:
The Ministry of Environment (MOE) in Iraq is dedicated to preserving the country's environmental resources and promoting sustainable development.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/253967-environmental-surveillance-network-training-who-iraq-and-federal-ministries-collaborate




Date: 27 November 2023
Title: Belgium Contribution Enables UNMAS Iraq to Continue Supporting the Government and the National Mine Action Operators
Content: 27 November 2023
Baghdad, 27 November 2023 – The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) in Iraq welcomes a renewed contribution of EUR 750,000 (approximately USD 802,000) from the Government of Belgium, in support of life-saving mine action activities in Iraq. Activities will include delivering sustainable and efficient explosive hazard management, support as well as providing technical and advisory support for the national mine action authorities. This is the fifth consecutive annual contribution from Belgium with a total amount of EUR 6,250,000 million (approximately USD 6,000,000).
Explosive ordnance contamination across Iraq, including improvised explosive devices (IEDs) in the areas liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), continues to threaten the lives of civilians in many governorates of Iraq. As of July 2023, there are approximately 2.942 square kilometers of recorded contaminated areas across Iraq (federal Iraq and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq). Since 2014, millions of Iraqis have been displaced and nearly 1.1 million of them remain internally displaced.
The generous contribution from the Government of Belgium will support the clearance of explosive ordnance in the areas liberated from ISIL to enable the safe and dignified return of internally displaced people, and will also allow for reconstruction efforts to go forward. In furtherance, this contribution will support explosive ordnance risk education efforts to protect civilians, with messages and means tailored to reach women, girls, boys and men, and vulnerable communities.
Furthermore, the additional funding from the Government of Belgium will reinforce UNMAS advisory and technical support to the national mine action authorities. Through continued technical support, the ability of the national authorities to autonomously lead, manage, and implement the mine action response in Iraq will be strengthened. In addition, UNMAS will also be able to further extend its support towards national mine action Non-Governmental Organisations in order to enable them to independently lead and manage humanitarian mine action response.
Remarking on the contribution, Mr. Serge Dickschen, Ambassador of Belgium, stated “Belgium is pleased to continue its long-standing support to the crucial mine action of UNMAS in Iraq. Despite significant progress, contamination by explosive ordnance remains a significant obstacle to the safe and dignified return of Iraqis displaced by the successive conflicts, as well as a hindrance to socio-economic opportunities and sustainable development efforts undertaken by the Iraqi authorities with the support of the international community. Belgium particularly welcomes the increased emphasis placed by UNMAS on strengthening the national capacities, at the level of both the government and non-government organizations, as well as on enhancing the local coordination between the various stakeholders in mine action. Belgium values the encouraging progress made in gender-mainstreaming and women’s empowerment through mine action.”
Mr. Pehr Lodhammar, UNMAS Iraq Chief Mine Action Programme, added: “The generous contribution from the government of Belgium will enable UNMAS Iraq to continue the necessary support to the Government of Iraq and national operators. With continued assistance from Belgium, UNMAS will continue to facilitate a safe environment for Iraqis to live their lives dignified, unimpeded, and without fear of explosive hazards.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/253910-belgium-contribution-enables-unmas-iraq-continue-supporting-government-and-national-mine




Date: 26 November 2023
Title: From graduation to employment: celebrating the graduates of WFP's Jousour programme in Iraq
Content: 26 November 2023
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) congratulates 753 graduates of the WFP Jousour programme which aims to enhance the employability of internally displaced and vulnerable Iraqis as well as Syrian refugees by providing them with digital and English language skills.
The programme is a joint initiative between WFP and the University of Sulaymaniyah, the Erbil Polytechnic University, the Dohuk Polytechnic University, and Mercy Hands in Anbar. The trainees completed a comprehensive training that covered IT and English language skills, as well as life skills, entrepreneurship, and financial inclusion.
They also participated in job fairs where they interacted with local employers and non-profit organizations and explored career opportunities in various sectors.
The Jousour programme has already helped 20 graduates become freelancers and secured 135 job and internship opportunities for others through its partners. The programme also received official recognition from the Iraqi Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MoHESR) and was approved for national rollout through universities across Iraq.
"WFP is proud to support these talented young men and women who have demonstrated remarkable commitment and resilience throughout the programme,” said WFP Country Director and Representative in Iraq Ally-Raza Qureshi. “WFP believes that empowering youth is essential for building a brighter future for Iraq.”
The Jousour programme, formerly known as EMPACT, was launched in 2019 with generous support from the German Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ). Since then, it has trained over 9,700 people across Iraq.
#                                          #                                #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/253848-graduation-employment-celebrating-graduates-wfps-jousour-programme-iraq




Date: 21 November 2023
Title: The ILO, the Central Bank of Iraq and partners celebrate success of the financial Inclusion Initiative for MSMEs under the PROSPECTS Programme
Content: 21 November 2023
Hundreds of loans have been disbursed to aspiring entrepreneurs and existing MSMEs through the project, contributing to the creation and retention of more than 1,200 job opportunities for Iraqi host communities and forcibly displaced people.
Baghdad, Iraq – The International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Central Bank of Iraq (CBI) celebrated in Baghdad key milestones achieved through their joint project.
Around 200 loans have been disbursed to aspiring entrepreneurs through the initiative, playing a crucial role in creating and retaining over 1,200 job opportunities in the Dohuk and Ninewa governorates. Meanwhile, almost 3,000 young men and women, along with small and medium-sized project owners, underwent ILO-run business and financial training as part of the programme.
People targeted through the project include displaced persons, returnees, and host community members. The initiative has provided young women and men and small businesses with access to much-needed financial and training services to start and develop their own businesses, while addressing barriers to decent self-employment.
The event, which was organized under the patronage of the Governor of the CBI, saw the attendance of senior representatives from the Embassy of Netherlands, along with key players in the field of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) development and access to finance. These include representatives from employers' and workers’ organizations, key partner ministries, representatives of foreign embassies, active business development service providers, financial service providers, and other international organizations in the entrepreneurship eco-system.
“Small enterprises face two main problems: the first is accessing the official financial or banking sector; the second is related to guarantees,” said Ammar Hamad Khalaf, Deputy Governor with the Central Bank of Iraq. “Our joint initiative not only equips the youth with the necessary skills to comprehend the intricacies of starting new businesses, but also facilitates access to financing with ample guarantees. We aspire to extend our reach beyond Duhok and Ninewa, fostering further economic empowerment and growth.”
At the event, partners highlighted the tangible impact of the project, emphasizing the transformation in both young people’s perception of self-employment as a career option and the financial institutions’ understanding of the needs of business start-ups and MSMEs in terms of both financial and non-financial services. This intervention falls under the broader ILO’s efforts to support decent employment creation and private sector development. It is being implemented within the framework of the PROSPECTS partnership in Iraq, supported by the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
“Access to finance and training on business skills are important, as young entrepreneurs in Iraq struggle to access start-up capital and growing their businesses. For displaced persons, these challenges are even larger,” said Jacob Wiersema, Chargé d'affaires, Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Iraq. “For the Netherlands, private sector development and employment for forcibly displaced persons and host communities are key priorities. Through programmes such as ILO’s Start and Improve Your Business (SIYB) and Financial Education (FE) trainings, we hope to support entrepreneurs in their journeys towards accessing finance and trainings to improve and grow their start-ups.”
As a result of extensive consultations and design thinking that spanned over a year, the ILO and CBI launched this innovative financial inclusion model for MSMEs in April 2021. The partnership includes the Iraqi Company for Banking Guarantees (ICBG) and three commercial banks: Cihan Islamic Bank, Middle East Investment Bank, and National Iraqi Bank.
“We are extremely proud to witness these positive results today along with our partners,” said Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq. “Our approach encompasses skills training, financial inclusion, and entrepreneurship support to foster sustainable economic growth and address the challenge of unemployment, especially among the youth. This initiative has been and will continue to equip the latter with the resources to establish jobs for themselves and others, aligning with the ILO priorities of the Decent Work Country Programme.”
In 2021, Iraq's unemployment rate was 16.5 percent, with a higher rate observed among the female labor force at 28.2 percent compared to the male labor force at 14.7 percent. Notably, the youth unemployment rate exceeded three times the adult rate, standing at 35.8 percent.
At the event, partners also called on other international organizations to replicate and build on this model, advocating for sustainable development over the traditional grant-subsidy approach commonly adopted across interventions aimed at providing financial support to local communities.
PROSPECTS is a global partnership, which brings together the ILO, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the World Bank (WB).

For more information, contact:
Marwan Tawfeeq
International Labour Organization
tawfeeq@ilo.org

Wisam Al-Behadili
International Labour Organization
al-behadili@ilo.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/253305-ilo-central-bank-iraq-and-partners-celebrate-success-financial-inclusion-initiative-msmes




Date: 20 November 2023
Title: WHO Iraq’s Supply Chain team shines in warehouse management system implementation
Content: 20 November 2023
Baghdad, Iraq – WHO Iraq has achieved a remarkable feat by being the first WHO country office globally to go live with WHO’s new warehouse management system. This Supply Chain team success story serves as a model of excellence and a source of pride.
“This accomplishment highlights the exceptional supply chain infrastructure and the dedication of the qualified staff who made it possible,” said Dr Wael Hatahit, Acting WHO Representative in Iraq, hailing the team’s efforts and sharing their victory joy.
Dr Rick Brennan, Regional Emergency Director for the WHO Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean, joined in the team’s celebration. He expressed his sincere appreciation for the efforts and said that he looks forward to more WHO Supply Chain team successes in the future.
The launch of the warehouse management system marks an important milestone in enhancing WHO’s supply chain operations to meet international best practices. The system has revolutionized inventory management and has streamlined processes for large warehouses such as the one in Iraq, where every square metre is crucial.
“With this new system, transparency is enhanced and the risk of losses is reduced. It enables better planning and quicker responses to emergencies, making the delivery of essential supplies more efficient, especially during times of crisis,” said Mr Amgad G. Gaafar, Acting Operations Officer, WHO Iraq.
WHO will continue to roll out further supply chain solutions in the coming months as part of its commitment to promote health, ensure safety and serve the vulnerable.

“I congratulate my team and extend my gratitude to all our dedicated Supply Chain team members who made this achievement possible. We all look forward to more exciting developments in the coming years,” concluded Dr Hatahit.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/253233-who-iraq%E2%80%99s-supply-chain-team-shines-warehouse-management-system-implementation




Date: 20 November 2023
Title: UNICEF commends the Government of Iraq for signing the Declaration on Children, Youth and Climate Action
Content: 20 November 2023
On the eve of World Children’s Day, the Government of Iraq takes important strides to accelerate progress towards the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the country
Baghdad, 19 November 2023 – UNICEF commends the Government of Iraq for signing the Declaration on Children, Youth, and Climate Action.  It demonstrates the strong commitment of the Government to the Convention on the Rights of the Child as it comes on the eve of World Children’s Day and ahead of COP28.
The Declaration on Children, Youth and Climate Action was signed by the Minister of Environment, His Excellency Mr. Nizar Amidi, in the presence of line ministries, children and young people. It is a major step forward in Iraq’s efforts to respond to the impact of the global climate crisis., and in upholding priorities identified by children and youth across the world.
“UNICEF commends the Government of Iraq for taking meaningful measures to realize the rights of children and young people on the eve of World Children’s Day,” says Sandra Lattouf, UNICEF in Iraq Representative. “The climate crisis is a child rights crisis as rising temperatures, water scarcity, and extreme weather events hamper the realization of children’s basic rights.”
The Government of Iraq signed up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child in June 1994.  Since then, the Government has taken several steps to realize the rights of children in Iraq.  This includes the establishment of the Child Welfare Commission and the National Child Data Portal, as well as the reforms of child rights and child protection Laws to align with international standards.
“I call on all actors to scale up investment in child- and youth-responsive adaptation, disaster risk reduction and mitigation measures while focusing on the most marginalized,” adds Lattouf.  “On World Children’s Day and every day, UNICEF remains committed to supporting the Government of Iraq to realize the rights of children and young people and accelerate progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals.”
World Children’s Day (WCD) has been UNICEF’s global day of action for children, by children. 20 November marks the anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is a day that highlights critical issues affecting children’s lives and supports the engagement of children and young people as advocates for their own rights.
#####
About the Declaration on Children, Youth and Climate Action
The Declaration was launched in December 2019 during COP25, at a high-level event convened by the COP25 Presidency of the Government of Chile in Madrid, Spain.
UNICEF, in collaboration with YOUNGO and the Children’s Environmental Rights Initiative coalition (CERI), supported the Presidency, champion governments and young people from around the world to launch the Declaration in a bid to accelerate inclusive child- and youth-responsive climate policies and action at all levels. The Declaration is based on core priorities identified by YOUNGO members and children and youth globally.
The Declaration represents a first-of-its-kind set of commitments by States to consistently consider children’s specific needs, rights and perspectives in their climate policies and action at all levels. This comprehensive framework seeks to respond to the fact that the climate crisis is a child rights crisis, while also recognizing the enormous capacity of children and youth to be powerful agents of change. It also seeks to address the widespread omission of children from climate policies, strategies and plans.
It is imperative that we put children at the heart of climate action and invest in practical solutions that protect children from the effects of climate change. Operationalizing the Declaration would have a transformative effect for children’s rights and our ability to meet both the Paris Agreement and Sustainable Development Goals.
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit http://www.unicef.org/iraq.
Follow UNICEF in Iraq on our website,  Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. person and person shaking hands Description automatically generated image widget
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/253155-unicef-commends-government-iraq-signing-declaration-children-youth-and-climate-action




Date: 19 November 2023
Title: WHO and Ministry of Health join forces to combat neglected tropical diseases in Iraq
Content: 19 November 2023
Baghdad, Iraq – In the remote district of Qaem, in western Iraq near the Syrian border, a family faced the challenge of leprosy – a neglected tropical disease that often goes unnoticed.
Malik (aged 42 years), his wife Huda (aged 39 years) and their 12-year-old daughter Sana* began to experience flat, red skin sores on their arms and legs. Over the course of a few months, the sores made their skin stiff and dry, leading to loss of sensation in the affected areas, which put the family at risk of injury.
As their condition worsened, the family realized the urgent need to seek medical attention, and visited the primary health care centre in Qaem city. After examining the family, the facility doctor decided to refer them to a tertiary-level hospital for proper diagnosis and management. But the family’s ordeal was far from over: the hospital had no stock of leprosy treatment available. This reflects leprosy’s status as a neglected tropical disease that is often overlooked.
Knowing the importance of quickly obtaining effective treatment for the family, the hospital management contacted the higher health authorities to explore options to acquire the treatment drugs. Given WHO’s commitment to global health, the Ministry of Health requested the assistance of the WHO Country Office in Iraq to procure the required leprosy medications for the patients.
In line with the existing cooperation policy between WHO and the Ministry, and their impactful partnership in addressing public health challenges, WHO Iraq initiated a swift and well-coordinated response effort. The collaboration spanned all 3 levels of WHO: country, regional and global.
This 3-tiered approach succeeded in securing urgent medical intervention and the treatment was effectively procured. After being transported from WHO headquarters to the WHO Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean, the medications were ultimately delivered to Iraq to support the family’s recovery. Following the extensive treatment, which demanded patience and diligent care, Malik, Huda and their adolescent daughter have fully recovered.
“We faced leprosy together, and with hope and treatment, we fought it as one. Our heartfelt gratitude extends to the Ministry of Health, WHO and the compassionate doctors who guided us on our path to recovery,” said Malik.
Dr Wael Hatahit, Acting WHO Representative in Iraq, said: “This story highlights the compelling impact of collaborative efforts between WHO and the Ministry of Health in Iraq. It exemplifies the effectiveness of seamless cooperation and the robust connections established between WHO and the Ministry of Health.”
Stressing the profound impact of such success stories, Dr Hatahit added: “This achievement resonates in the corridors of WHO and the Ministry of Health, reminding us of the remarkable strength that emerges from working hand in hand. Together, we can overcome health challenges and pave the way for healthier futures for those in need.”

END

* Names changed to protect identity.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/253152-who-and-ministry-health-join-forces-combat-neglected-tropical-diseases-iraq




Date: 16 November 2023
Title: Human security and sustainable development in Iraq and the Arab World: Reality, Challenges, and Ways Forward
Content: 16 November 2023
A conference organised by the Baghdad-based Bait Al-Hikma think tank, in cooperation with the ILO and several academic entities, focused on issues related to achieving human security and sustainable development and some of the challenges and solutions in Iraq and the region.
Baghdad, Iraq (ILO News) An international conference was held in Baghdad on the 15th and 16th of November, bringing together academics, stakeholders, tripartite constituents and partners from across the spectrum, to discuss issues related to sustainable development and human security in Iraq and the Arab World.
The two-day event was held Under the Patronage of the Prime Minister of Iraq, H.E. Mohammed Shia'a Al-Sudani, and organised by the Baghdad-based Bait Al-Hikma think tank, in collaboration with the International Labour Organization, the Journalists Syndicate, the International Federation of Universities, the Areed platform, and several Iraqi and Arab universities, academies, and research centres.
Among other partners, the ILO provided technical and financial support for this conference as part of boarder efforts of a European Union funded programme to reform social protection in Iraq.
The conference shed light on the reality of sustainable development in Iraq and the Arab World through 160 research papers conducted by academics from across the region. Participants included those from Jordan, Lebanon, Egypt, Libya, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Tunis, Morocco, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Sudan, the United Arab Emirates, and the Occupied Palestinian Territory. Some of the studies will continue to be presented virtually next week.
The research and discussions aim to identifying some of the threats and challenges facing human security, while exploring the relationship between human rights and sustainable development goals in Iraq and the Arab World.
“This conference sheds light on the reality of sustainable development in Iraq and the Arab World through research and statistics, to identify the most significant threats to human security at the individual, family, and societal levels. We would like to thank everyone who contributed to the success of this conference,” said Adnan Ibrahim Mohammed, representative of the President of the Republic of Iraq, H.E. Abdullatif Jamal Rashid.
“This conference comes at an appropriate time, as Iraq continues to suffer as a result of climate change. This is where the role of scholars and researchers is important, in drawing up policies in this regard, and guiding the decision makers on the right paths to pursue,” said Aref Al-Saadi, cultural advisor in the Iraqi government on behalf of the Prime Minister.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which focus on the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainability. The conference delved into the issue of human security and the important role it plays in bringing about positive change and promoting a better future for all - hence contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals in Iraq and across the Arab World.
“The conference will formulate a set of proposals that will contribute to addressing these issues and finding solutions to these challenges,” said Adel Baghdadi, Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Bait al Hikma.
The conference was divided into four main themes. The Conceptual and General Framework of sustainable development, focused on the challenges and historical development of human security in the Arab World. The Social Field examined issues related to the role of human and social capital in sustainable development, including women empowerment, the role of civil society, demographic transitions and good governance. The Economic Field looked at the relationship between the quality of education, labour market demands and job opportunities and related issues and challenges, such as youth unemployment, food security and the role of the private sector in stimulating production and investment. The fourth and final theme focused on the Environmental Field, related to combatting pollution, climate change, and challenges related to water security, environmental degradation and depletion of natural resources.
ILO Country Coordinator for Iraq Maha Kattaa emphasised the importance of decent work to sustainable development and human security in Iraq. In her presentation, Kattaa highlighted some of the pressing challenges facing Iraq’s labour market, such as high unemployment among women and youth, high levels of informality, gaps in social protection coverage, and their impact on income, education and standards of living.
Kattaa also highlighted the importance of ILO Recommendation No. 205 on Employment and Decent Work for Peace and Resilience, which provides guidance on addressing world-of-work issues in response to crisis situations, including health pandemics, armed conflict, natural disaster, environmental degradation, and forced displacement.
ILO’s work in Iraq and across the region is grounded in Recommendation No. 205, where employment, decent working conditions and social dialogue help contribute to peace and resilience, within the framework of the Humanitarian-Development-Peace Nexus.
“Adopting an integrated approach that contributes to job creation, and that strengthens social protection, rights at work, and social dialogue will bring Iraq closer to achieving its Sustainable Development Goals, namely SDG 1, SDG 5 and SDG 8,” said Kattaa.
“The support of the International Labour Organization to the Government of Iraq and social partners, through the implementation of the Decent Work Country Programme, puts the people of Iraq at the heart of development efforts that promote the decent work agenda and social protection,” Kattaa added.
Under the European Union funded programme to reform social protection in Iraq, the ILO and Bait Al-Hikma have been collaborating through monthly roundtable discussions on key issues related to Iraq’s labour market and its social protection system. Similar to this conference, these sessions centre around evidence-based research developed by ILO and key scholars and academia. They seek to strengthen dialogue and propose systematic and context-specific solutions to ensure inclusive economic growth and social development in Iraq.

See also:
PROJECT PAGE: https://www.ilo.org/beirut/projects/WCMS_832046/lang--en/index.htm
BRIEF: https://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---arabstates/---ro-beirut/documents/publication/wcms_888181.pdf
VIDEO: https://www.ilo.org/global/topics/employment-promotion/recovery-and-reconstruction/WCMS_856467/lang--en/index.htm
INFOGRAPHIC: https://www.ilo.org/infostories/en-GB/Stories/The-ILO/peace-and-resilience - the-ilo-mandate
PORTAL: https://www.ilo.org/global/topics/employment-promotion/recovery-and-reconstruction/lang--en/index.htm

For more information, contact:
Marwan Tawfeeq
International Labour Organization
tawfeeq@ilo.org

Wisam Al-Behadili
International Labour Organization
al-behadili@ilo.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/252958-human-security-and-sustainable-development-iraq-and-arab-world-reality-challenges-and-ways




Date: 10 November 2023
Title: FAO improves Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq
Content: 10 November 2023
Training of Trainers workshop on regular maintenance for equipment operation and calibration
Baghdad, Iraq - 10 November 2023 - In a significant step towards improving animal health services and animal disease diagnosis in Iraq, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources-KRI (MoAWR-KRI), has launched the “Regular Maintenance for Equipment Operation and Calibration Workshop” in Iraq.  This is the final workshop in a comprehensive training programme consisting of seventeen workshops that took place between December 2021 and November 2023.
The project entitled “Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq “is funded by the United States Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA).
The workshop held at the Central Veterinary Laboratory/Veterinary Directorate in Baghdad, from 5th to 9th November 2023, convened twenty-four participants from the veterinary laboratories of Baghdad, Erbil, Duhok, Ninawa, Muthanna, Basra, Anbar, and Wassit.
The training aimed to assist participants in operating veterinary laboratory equipment smoothly and reliably. This will help to implement a quality control procedure, test accuracy and increase the shelf life of all equipment.
The workshop covered the composition, levels of maintenance (preventive and corrective maintenance) and calibration of various laboratory equipment. Theorical discussions were followed by practical sessions, where participants gained hands-on experience in level one and level two maintenance, equipment management, facility and tool requirements.
This training will equip participants with the knowledge, skills and procedures required   for safe and proper operation use, care and maintenance of equipment. This will prevent breakdowns or malfunctions and ensure accurate and reliable results.
The workshop also focused on the regular and routine action taken on equipment through systematic component testing, measurements, adjustments, calibrations, parts replacement, and cleaning.
During the opening session, FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, stressed that, “the accurate diagnosis of animal diseases can be ensured in well-equipped laboratories with a range of standardized fully functional diagnostic equipment operated by experienced staff. This can be achieved by improving the skills of laboratory staff for the proper, safe use, care and maintenance of equipment and facilities”.
This initiative embodies FAO's commitment to the One Health approach, linking human, animal, and environmental health. By improving animal health services and laboratory equipment, and fostering partnerships, it advances several SDGs, including SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-being) and SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure), supporting FAO's mission for a healthier, more sustainable Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/252511-fao-improves-animal-health-services-and-disease-surveillance-iraq




Date: 08 November 2023
Title: Iraqi Anti-Corruption Academy Launches Laserfiche: A Digital Transformation Milestone Against Corruption
Content: 08 November 2023
Baghdad, 7 November 2023 - E-governance represents a fundamental shift in the way governments around the world are embracing their mission. By harnessing the potential of technology, Governments are able to establish clear administrative objectives, enhance the quality of public services, make evidence-based decisions and policies, all of which increase transparency and secure public trust.
Technology-driven transparency: An effective management system
The Iraqi Anti-Corruption Academy (IACA) under the federal Commission of Integrity (CoI), in collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), launched the enterprise management system `Laserfiche` on November 7, 2023 --advancing digital transformation efforts and bolstering anti-corruption measures in Iraq. This marks a significant milestone in embracing digitalization. And this launched brought together representatives of the UNDP and the CoI.
"I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the Commission of Integrity for their commitment and continued collaboration with UNDP," stated Auke Lootsma, Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq. "This work marks the evolving first steps of Iraq’s digital transformation journey towards e-governance. Iraq is enhancing inclusive and transparent governance, while strengthening its international reputation and building trust with the global community.”
Discussions during the event explored how the Laserfiche system makes the workflow easier, more efficient, and more transparent. Participants also delved into the key benefits and challenges of implementing digital solutions like Laserfiche to address corruption in Iraq, sharing success stories and specific examples of how technology has already made a difference in anti-corruption initiatives. The event provided a platform for sharing recommendations to move forward and mainstream digitalization efforts.
What is Laserfiche?
Laserfiche is an enterprise management system designed to streamline workflows and bolster digitalization efforts within government agencies. It operates by digitizing content management, automating complex processes, and ensuring the accessibility and searchability of crucial information. Unlike traditional manual systems reliant on physical paper documentation, Laserfiche offers a future-forward solution that significantly enhances efficiency, transparency, and accountability. By automating cumbersome workflows, it expedites document approvals, eliminates the risk of document loss or damage, and minimizes personal interventions that may disrupt standard procedures. Laserfiche-like systems play a significant role in ending corruption, making it a game-changer for the Iraqi Anti-Corruption Academy and government agencies.
Iraq`s unified efforts to end corruption
Since the formation of the new Government in late 2022, Iraq has been taking bold steps against corruption towards building a diversified and sustainable economy. Led by H.E. the Prime Minister, the Government of Iraq prioritizes unified efforts to end corruption, diversify the economy and foster sustainable development for the good of the people of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/252179-iraqi-anti-corruption-academy-launches-laserfiche-digital-transformation-milestone-against




Date: 07 November 2023
Title: Visit to Iraq by the Independent Strategic Review Team mandated by Security Council resolution 2682 (2023)
Content: 07 November 2023
Mr. Volker Perthes, Head of the Independent Strategic Review Team of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI), arrived in Baghdad for an official visit to the Republic of Iraq from 6-27 November 2023. His visit is conducted within the framework of the Independent Strategic Review requested by the Government of Iraq and mandated by the Security Council.
In its resolution 2682 (2023), the Security Council requested “that the Secretary-General, in line with best practices, conduct and provide the Security Council, no later than 31 March 2024, with an independent strategic review of UNAMI, in consultation with the Government of Iraq, in addition to UN agencies, member States, regional organisations, independent experts and civil society, and the Government of Kuwait, consistent with paragraph 4 of resolution 2107 (2013), including: (a) assessing current threats to Iraq’s peace and security, assessing the continued relevance of UNAMI’s tasks and priorities, and providing recommendations to optimize UNAMI’s mandate, mission structure and staffing to support the Government of Iraq in addressing the challenges of peace and security; (b) further assessing the options to support the Government of Iraq in strengthening effective regional cooperation.”
In accordance with this mandate, Mr. Perthes will conduct consultations with government officials and other key stakeholders on the issues relevant to the mandate of the Independent Strategic Review.
Mr. Perthes is expected to report to the Secretary-General on his findings.
Baghdad, 7 November 2023

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/252012-visit-iraq-independent-strategic-review-team-mandated-security-council-resolution-2682-2023




Date: 07 November 2023
Title: Consistent funding from the European Union provides unwavering legal support to vulnerable Iraqis
Content: 07 November 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 07 November 2023 :UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is grateful for the continued support of the European Union through its Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations (ECHO) to assist Iraqis in getting their identity documents. For the third consecutive year, the European Union’s assistance has helped provide civil documentation to vulnerable Iraqis including ones forcibly displaced by Da’esh violence and those who may have never had such identity documents before. Civil documents such as birth and nationality certificates and identity cards are pivotal for Iraqis to access public services and participate in the public affairs of their country.
Many Iraqis have expired, lost or damaged civil documents due to fleeing violence, persecution and displacement. Others may have never had access to such documentation due to administrative and socio-economic barriers, making them at risk of being stateless if unable to prove their Iraqi nationality.
The importance of obtaining civil documentation cannot be understated. It is the first step for Iraqis to establish their legal identity and ensure they are recognised in their country. Without civil documents, Iraqis would not be able to enrol their children in school, receive medical care or apply
PLACE Baghdad, Iraq DATE 07 November 2023
for social security benefits. They will also be unable to participate in most aspects of civic and political life.
The European Union's steadfast partnership has enabled UNHCR and its partners, including two local organisations, to help Iraqis get access to civil documents through outreach and awareness sessions on topics related to the importance of civil documentation and how to obtain it; individual legal counselling for those who may have difficulties proving their Iraqi nationality, their marriage or the birth of their children; and the facilitation of mobile missions by the Iraqi Civil Affairs Department to deliver these documents to the most vulnerable across the country.
Over the past three years, almost 210,000 Iraqis have benefited from UNHCR and partners’ assistance thanks to the European Union funding. From January to June 2023, more than 13,000 civil documents were issued to Iraqis and over 26,000 are waiting to be issued. In addition, 37,000 individuals received legal counselling or legal representation and about 11,600 participated in legal awareness sessions. Furthermore, UNHCR and its partners supported 40 mobile civil documentation missions.
Immense achievements have been made possible thanks to the European Union’s generous funding; however, there are still needs. UNHCR estimates that over 430,000 individuals are still missing at least one core civil document. The main barriers for individuals to access civil documentation include the high cost of obtaining or renewing these documents and the difficult procedures that it could entail, especially for those being suspected of affiliations with extremist groups such as Da’esh or who are otherwise unable to legally prove their marriage, birth or lineage in court.
“The ongoing partnership with the European Union through its Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations has been instrumental in resolving some of the obstacles faced by Iraqis in accessing their identity documents. Supporting authorities to deliver civil documentation are interventions that are not really visible but that are truly indispensable so that Iraqis are not deprived of their fundamental rights such as enrolling their children in schools, accessing medical care or renting a home,” said Mr. Jean-Nicolas Beuze, UNHCR Representative to Iraq. “As Iraq is moving towards stabilisation and development, it is great to see ECHO’s support pave the way of this transition by ensuring that Iraqi previously displaced by Da’esh violence are fully integrated in public services and the Iraqi society thanks to having been given back their identify documents.”
“Our continued support has played a crucial role in helping vulnerable Iraqis obtain their identity documents, which are key to accessing essential public services,” said Mr. Pedro Luis Rojo Garcia, Head of EU Humanitarian Aid operations in Iraq. “Our partnership with UNHCR and local organizations has made a real difference in the lives of many Iraqis, supporting them to rebuild and reintegrate into society. We are committed to continuing our work in Iraq and address the remaining challenges to ensure that no one is left without these essential documents.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/251983-consistent-funding-european-union-provides-unwavering-legal-support-vulnerable-iraqis




Date: 31 October 2023
Title: UNITAD Hands over Landmark Investigative Report to the Iraqi Judiciary on ISIL’s Chemical Weapons Crimes in Iraq
Content: 31 October 2023
Baghdad 31 October 2023
Today, Special Adviser and Head of the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) in Iraq, Mr. Christian Ritscher handed over a comprehensive report encompassing its investigative findings into the development and use of chemical weapons by Da’esh/ISIL in Iraq to the Iraqi Judiciary. The report is the result of three years of the tireless work of UNITAD’s field investigative unit focusing on ISIL’s development and use of chemical weapons in Iraq and the attack on the town of Taza Khurmatu on 8 March 2016 yielded a comprehensive legal report that documents the Team’s findings and was handed over to the President of the Supreme Judicial Council Dr. Faiq Zaidan. “Today marks a pivotal milestone in UNITAD’s path towards promoting accountability for ISIL international crimes in Iraq as we handover the findings of our investigation into one of ISIL’s most heinous and vicious attacks on the Shia Turkmen in Taza Khurmatu to the Iraqi Judiciary,” said Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher in a ceremony held at the Iraqi Supreme Judiciary Council. “We are confident that the Iraqi judiciary, which is UNITAD’s natural partner, will make use of the fruits of our labor to ensure ISIL perpetrators face justice and victims see justice served.” This ongoing information-sharing between UNITAD and the Iraqi judiciary comes in the context of solid partnership in the joint pursuit of justice for ISIL crimes. This report furnishes the investigation into one of ISIL’s most horrid crimes that meant to inflict total destruction and annihilation on a minority group, the Shia Turkmen of Taza Khurmatu, using weapons of mass destruction. Special Adviser Ritscher reiterated during the meeting that: “UNITAD’s line of investigation into ISIL’s development and use of chemical weapons is ground-breaking and sets the sediments for unprecedented judicial avenues and the Team will spare no effort to support bringing those responsible for such heinous crimes to justice.” As part of its mandate, UNITAD conducts structural investigations into ISIL crimes against all affected Iraqi communities, including the Shia Turkmen. Earlier this year, Special Adviser Ritscher visited the town of Taza Khurmatu, and met competent investigative judges working on ISIL crimes in the town, as well as several officials, community leaders and survivors. He was briefed on the long-term repercussions of this atrocious crime on Iraqi civilians in the area, and the survivors’ quest for accountability and justice.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/251246-unitad-hands-over-landmark-investigative-report-iraqi-judiciary-isil%E2%80%99s-chemical-weapons




Date: 31 October 2023
Title: UNITAD Launches a Program of Cooperation with al-Alamain Institute for Graduate Studies
Content: 31 October 2023
Baghdad 30 October 2023: The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) launched a Program of Cooperation with al-Alamain Institute for Graduate Studies, which was signed during a visit by Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD, Christian Ritscher to the Institute at Najaf on 29 October 2023.
Upon an invitation from al-Alamain Institute, Special Adviser Ritscher delivered a lecture to postgraduate Master’s and Doctoral students at the center, who pursue their advanced studies in law, political sciences and communications. He provided an overview on the Investigative Team and its work in cooperation with Iraq. He was invited to briefly visit two ongoing classrooms and engaged in discussions with professors and students.
“This exemplary and practical work is a manifestation of our role as a Team of the United Nations designed to support national capacities, in line with its mandate to promote accountability for ISIL international crimes,” said Special Adviser Ritscher during his lecture. “I look forward to seeing this enhanced cooperation happen through the implementation of this Program over the coming months.”
The Program of cooperation, signed by Special Adviser Christian Ritscher and Professor Dr. Zayd Adnan Muhsin, Dean of the Institute will facilitate and enhance the sharing of expertise between UNITAD’s experts and the academic community at the postgraduate level in al-Alamain Center. This cooperation builds on UNITAD’s commitment to support Iraqi national capacities in areas related to the Team’s mandate, including by advancing the relevant academic and scholarly aspects for postgraduate students at the Institute.
“This visit happens following diligence efforts between al-Alamain Center for Graduate Studies and UNITAD over the past few months, and here we are picking the fruits of those efforts through the signing of this important cooperation program,” said Dr. Ibrahim Bahr al-Uloom, General Supervisor of al-Alamain Institute for Postgraduate Studies. “We hope that this program will be an actual roadmap for the exchange of expertise between both parties and in interjecting academic and field work.”
The cooperation program will provide postgraduate students with various opportunities to engage with UNITAD experts, including through joint workshops and conferences. It will also enable UNITAD to benefit from the profound national legal expertise of the Institute.
Special Adviser Ritscher reiterated UNITAD’s commitment to continue working closely with Iraqi authorities and supporting national capacities, in line with its mandate. He mentioned that “we will continue to engage with the Government of Iraq, and all concerned actors, to ensure that we fulfil the requirements of all relevant Security Council resolutions. Most importantly, we will continue to conduct our work, taking into account first and foremost the interests of Iraq, of Iraqi victims who want to see justice served, and also the need to ensure accountability against ISIL perpetrators globally.”
Read Special Adviser's Remarks here
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/251160-unitad-launches-program-cooperation-al-alamain-institute-graduate-studies




Date: 30 October 2023
Title: Ninewa police station back in action thanks to support from UNDP and Italy
Content: 30 October 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 25 October 2023 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Ministry of Interior of Iraq today reopened the Hatra police station, aiming to enhance law enforcement efforts and safety in communities located in eastern Ninewa.
The two-story 450 square meter Hatra police station was reduced to rubble during the ISIL conflict after being hit by an airstrike. Today, it is fully rehabilitated and furnished with new rooms and office equipment, made possible through UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS) with support from the Government of Italy.
“A functional police station is not just a building. It is a symbol of safety, security, and trust in the community, this is one of the critical pillars needed to ensure transformative development. There cannot be development without peace and vice versa. It will play an important role in improving security and restoring stability to the lives of the 20,000 people it serves. We are proud to have supported the rehabilitation of this facility,” says Auke Lootsma, UNDP Resident Representative in Iraq.
“This project aligns with our broader efforts to bolster the rule of law, enhance security, and support local governance structures, which are integral components of Iraq's transformation towards stability. As Iraq continues its path towards sustainable development, UNDP remains committed to providing support to help the people of Iraq rebuild better and look forward to a brighter future,” he adds.
Italy’s Ambassador to Iraq, His Excellency, Mr. Maurizio Greganti, says, “Police stations are the bedrock of security and safety in communities. By restoring the Hatra police station, we enable law enforcement officers to fulfill their critical duties effectively and bring back essential services to foster a peaceful environment in eastern Ninewa.”
The inauguration of the police station was attended by representatives of the Iraqi government, UNDP.
As of September 2023, UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization has rehabilitated 57 police stations across Iraq’s liberated governorates, serving 3.4 million people. More than 40 of these police stations are in Ninewa.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Italy, through the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS), has been supporting Iraq’s stabilization since 2015. Their generous contribution to FFS has funded 143 critical projects to restore Iraq’s education, health, water, and electrical sector.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/251084-ninewa-police-station-back-action-thanks-support-undp-and-italy




Date: 26 October 2023
Title: For the first time in Iraq:  Medico-Legal Directorate Forensic DNA Laboratory Works to Obtain ISO/IEC 17025 Accreditation
Content: 26 October 2023
Baghdad, 26 October 2023 – The Iraqi Medico-Legal Directorate (MLD) Forensic DNA Laboratory in Baghdad, with support from the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD), embarked on a two-year project "Pathway to ISO/IEC 17025 accreditation."
This project is expected to lead MLD’s forensic DNA lab to be Iraq’s first to obtain the ISO/IEC 17025 accreditation, furthering international recognition of MLD’s remarkable endeavors. This accreditation is key for compliance with this international quality standard and crucial for criminal justice processes, which use the results obtained by forensic testing laboratories.
The project was inaugurated in September with a comprehensive evaluation (Gap Analysis) of all the laboratory elements that contribute to producing accurate and reliable data, performed by BODE Technology, a prominent specialized forensic DNA laboratory. Chosen by MLD forensic DNA lab and UNITAD’s Forensic Science Unit, BODE provided analysis of MLD’s forensic DNA lab and evaluated its preparedness for international accreditation. It also identified quality management gaps and addressed training needs for forensic experts. The Gap Analysis results will guide the MLD project's upcoming phases, supported by UNITAD.
Marking the inauguration of this project, Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher indicated that: “This initiative serves as a testament to the unwavering partnership between UNITAD and MLD, as we collectively endeavor to strengthen national capacities and support justice processes for ISIL international crimes in Iraq." He added: “UNITAD’s forensic experts will continue to provide full support to this process which will showcase the MLD lab’s unparalleled competence, impartiality, and consistent operations that align with internationally recognized standards.”
On his part, Dr. Zaid Ali Abbas, Director General of the Medico-Legal Directorate stated: "With this project, we embark on an important journey to strengthen our work in the field of forensics and to give certainty to the people of Iraq in our commitment to scientific excellence and community service. We welcome our intensive partnership with UNITAD to achieve accountability for crimes committed by Daesh and strengthen the capacity of the Medico-Legal Directorate to identify victims of these crimes."
In addition, Mike Cariola, CEO of BODE Technology affirmed the importance of the project, stating “The MLD, with UNITAD support, is committed to quality and through this assessment, a roadmap now exists to lead the MLD towards international accreditation. We are proud to have participated and look forward to seeing them achieve their goals.”
The project to achieve ISO/IEC 17025 is funded by the U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs (NEA/AC). It will offer MLD Forensic DNA Laboratory a chance to enhance result reliability, facilitate traceability of measurements and calibrations to optimum standards, establish technical competency of national staff, maintain a record of test equipment, ensure the accuracy of test results, validate and correct test and calibration methods and reduce unnecessary costs. The completion of this project will foster efforts towards accountability for ISIL international crimes in Iraq through further analysis of forensic evidence and ensuring the admissibility of this evidence before competent courts. It will also accelerate accurate processes of identification of exhumed remains of victims of ISIL’s horrific crimes, offering some solace to their bereaved families.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/251045-first-time-iraq-medico-legal-directorate-forensic-dna-laboratory-works-obtain-isoiec-17025




Date: 19 October 2023
Title: FAO Iraq, CRC, and Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture Collaborate to Address Desert Locust Challenge
Content: 19 October 2023
Baghdad, Iraq – 18 October 2023 - The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, in partnership with the Commission for Controlling the Desert Locust in the Central Region (CRC) and the Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture, launched a desert locust management training programme to ensure a rapid and effective response to locust outbreaks. Desert locusts, known as one of the world’s most devastating agricultural pests, pose a serious threat to crops and pastures, driven by climate change, land degradation, and regional conflicts.
At the opening ceremony, FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan, said: "This training programme is a reflection of FAO's commitment to support member countries in addressing critical agriculture and food security issues. We are equipping Iraq with the necessary tools to effectively combat the growing threat of the desert locust".
From October 15th to 19th, 2023, FAO experts, including  the  Executive Secretary of the CRC, Mr. Mamoun Al Alawi,  will lead a comprehensive training course aimed at equipping the Ministry of Agriculture staff with the knowledge and skills needed to effectively manage desert locusts. The program covers key aspects, including biology and ecology, survey and monitoring methods, control methods including chemical, biological and environment health and safety standard, and outbreak preparedness and response.
The 22 participants include government officials responsible for desert locust management, plant protection officers, and other stakeholders committed to combating this challenge.
This hands-on training, designed in collaboration with the CRC, combines theory and practice, giving participants the opportunity to learn from field experts. Upon course completion, participants will be equipped to identify and monitor desert locust populations with precision, implement effective control measures tailored to Iraq's specific needs, and develop and implement outbreak preparedness and response plans to minimize damage. Assessment will involve written assignments, practical evaluations and field simulation, culminating in a certificate of completion for successful participants.
The training program fosters networking among stakeholders, promoting cooperation and coordination.
Mr. Al Alawi stated: "As the Executive Secretary of the CRC, I am proud to play a pivotal role in this collaboration. The CRC serves as a regional platform dedicated to coordinating efforts to combat desert locust infestations. By working hand-in-hand with FAO ‘s representation in Iraq and the Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture, we aim to bolster Iraq's capacity to protect its agricultural resources and food security, ensuring a more resilient and sustainable future."
This collaborative effort not only addresses the pressing issue of desert locust infestations but also aligns with several United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including Goal 2: Zero Hunger, Goal 3: Good Health and Well-being, and Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals. By equipping Iraq with the knowledge and tools to manage this agricultural challenge, we move one step closer to achieving these vital SDGs and securing a sustainable and food-secure future for the region.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/249924-fao-iraq-crc-and-iraqi-ministry-agriculture-collaborate-address-desert-locust-challenge




Date: 17 October 2023
Title: FAO and WFP joint call on World Food Day 2023 to Tackle Climate Change, Water Scarcity, and Food Insecurity in Iraq
Content: 17 October 2023
Baghdad, 16 October 2023
On World Food Day, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) stand together to face the urgent challenges caused by climate change, water scarcity, and food insecurity in Iraq. Ranked as the fifth most vulnerable country to climate change, Iraq faces growing environmental challenges, including heat waves, sandstorms, rising temperatures, water scarcity and droughts.
FAO’s theme for this year's World Food Day underlines the profound importance of water: "Water is life, water is food. Leave no one behind". FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan, emphasized the importance of water in the Iraqi context: "In Iraq, where agriculture is vital to the economy and the well-being of the population, water is essential for food production. Our challenge is clear: we must produce more food with less water, while ensuring fair distribution, preserving our vital ecosystems and leaving no one behind".
FAO Iraq actively promotes sustainable water management through innovative interventions such as climate smart agriculture practices, establishing and empowering water user associations, use of Remote Sensing and GIS tools for monitoring water use and management, rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure projects (canals, pumps etc. ), supporting farmers with modern irrigation systems, capacity development and Farmer Field Schools (FFS), introducing sustainable energy sources for irrigation and introducing  animal fodder crop varieties drought and salt tolerant in addition to participatory approach in the implementation and partnership with Iraqi ministries of agriculture, environment, water resources in addition to other international,  national and local partners to help Iraqi farmers build resilience to climate change and secure their livelihoods.
FAO is also working closely with the government to enhance sustainable resource management.
To help Iraqi farmers adapt to the climate crisis, WFP has implemented a series of projects, focusing on increasing the availability of water, improving irrigation systems, and strengthening the ability of local communities to adapt to the devastating effects of climate change. WFP’s work includes afforestation and agricultural conservation to combat desertification as well as the promotion of modern irrigation methods to increase crop yields and optimize water use. WFP supports the improvement of climate-information services through the rehabilitation of modern automatic weather stations and training of Agro-Met staff at the Ministry of Agriculture.
WFP continues supporting the government and smallholder farmers to promote sustainable agriculture techniques while improving food security in Iraq. Ally-Raza Qureshi, WFP’s Country Director and Representative in Iraq stressed: “We are pioneering innovative solutions to combat climate change in Iraq, safeguarding water resources and enhancing food security. Working alongside with FAO, we support the Government of Iraq putting in place projects to help Iraqi communities become more sustainable and resilient."
In the spirit of cooperation, WFP and FAO emphasize the importance of government-led, evidence-based policies that embrace data, innovation and cross-sectoral coordination. These policies should be complemented by increased investment, strengthened legislation, technology adoption and capacity-building.
We invite all stakeholders, including national authorities, civil society and the private sector, to unite in our common mission. Taking water for granted is no longer sustainable, and our consumption and production choices have a direct impact on water resources. We advocate choosing local, seasonal and fresh food, reducing food waste and exploring safe water reuse methods while preventing pollution as effective tools for positive change.
This joint initiative by FAO and WFP in Iraq demonstrates a commitment to several of the Sustainable Development Goals. In particular, Goal 2 (Zero Hunger), Goal 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation), Goal 13 (Climate Action) and Goal 17 (Partnerships for the Goals) will be advanced in the quest for a more sustainable, resilient and food secure Iraq. Ensuring that no one is left behind on the path to a more promising future is the overarching goal of this collective effort.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/249722-fao-and-wfp-joint-call-world-food-day-2023-tackle-climate-change-water-scarcity-and-food




Date: 17 October 2023
Title: ILO holds discussions with partners and youth in Iraq’s Al Muthana Governorate on ways to develop the private sector’s green economy, with the support of Italy
Content: 17 October 2023
Al Muthana, Iraq (ILO News) The Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS) is funding a project implemented by the ILO in Iraq's Governorate of Al Muthana to enhance support for private sector development and decent work creation, with a focus on supporting young people to pursue sustainable green businesses and start-ups in Southern Iraq. The ILO held meetings with partners in Al Muthana to discuss collaboration on this project.
ILO Country Coordinator for Iraq Maha Kattaa met with the Deputy Governor of Al Muthana, as well as representatives of the Labour Directorate, the Youth and Sports Directorate, University of Al Muthana, among others. A meeting was also held with the Presidents of Al Muthana Chamber of Industry and the Businessmen Union in Al Muthana, as well as the Directors of Al Muthana Chamber of Commerce and the Dhar Centre for Development.
Discussions focused on how to work together to support private sector development in the area, especially for young people who want to pursue green careers. This includes training young entrepreneurs on how to start, grow, and expand their businesses, and helping them get access to financial services.
“We welcome the ILO delegation to our governorate and express our full support of their projects in Al Muthana. We will work with them as one team to serve the people of the governorate and provide them with all assistance needed to achieve their objectives under these programmes in the area,” said Adel Al-Yasiri, Second Deputy Governor of Al Muthana.
“We discussed the project that the ILO will be implementing soon in the governorate which will involve training hundreds of young graduates who are entrepreneurs. It was a successful meeting, and we appreciate these steps which will serve the young women and men of Al Muthana in promoting entrepreneurship and improving the standard of living for people,” said Faleh Al-Hatimi, President of Al Muthana Chamber of Industry.
Under the Italian-funded project, the ILO will work with partners to train youth and small business owners looking to grow or develop their businesses on its flagship method “Start and Improve Your Business (SIYB)” and Financial Education programmes. SIYB is designed to respond to the progressive stages of business development, while the Financial Education programme equips small-scale entrepreneurs with financial knowledge and management skills.
The ILO will train and certify trainers on these knowledge and skills, including training on green businesses, so that the trainers can deliver the training to potential entrepreneurs. The ILO will also work with banks and microfinance institutions to design products and services that support the needs of their clients. This includes providing financial institutions with practical guidance on integrating "Just Transition"—a strategy to address pressing environmental challenges—into their strategies and operations.
ILO Country Coordinator Kattaa highlighted the importance of working with stakeholders in Al Muthanaa, to address challenges of unemployment, particularly among youth. “Our work seeks to empower young people so they can pursue the establishment of sustainable businesses which promote the green economy,” said Kattaa. “These efforts involve working closely with the Government of Iraq and the private sector at the national and local level and utilising ILO’s well-established tools which support entrepreneurship while ensuring that interventions are tailored to the needs of young people in the area."
In efforts to better understand the needs, challenges, and opportunities of entrepreneurship in the local labour market, a discussion was held with 35 young people, including entrepreneurs, those with start-up ideas and jobseekers at the Youth and Sports Directorate. The discussion also highlighted working within the green economy, opportunities available and ways to potentially pursue them.
Huda, one of the participants from Al Muthana, explained how she has previous training and experience in solar panels and is currently seeking ways to train and raise the awareness of youth in similar fields. She is also looking to obtain financial support that can allow her to set up her own small business.
Hussein shared his experience of setting up a small business in planting palm seedlings and the challenges faced because of water salinity in the area, which he says has recently increased due to worsening environmental conditions. He hopes that he and other young people like him will be supported to set up further projects.
As a first step, awareness-raising activities for youth will be developed, using ILO’s “How to Work in the Green Economy” approach, which covers a wide range of topics aimed at helping individuals contribute to a greener economy, including information on ways to build their professional goals plan or create their own job in a sustainable entrepreneurship approach. This corresponds to AICS priorities for development cooperation in Iraq in the framework of the Team Europe Initiative TAEUFIQ.
The project is part of broader efforts under the Iraq Decent Work Country Programme signed by the Government, employers’ and workers’ organizations and the ILO to promote employment opportunities and decent work. It is inline with the government's “Riyada” initiative for development and employment, which was launched by the PrimeMinister in March 2023.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/249779-ilo-holds-discussions-partners-and-youth-iraq%E2%80%99s-al-muthana-governorate-ways-develop-private




Date: 15 October 2023
Title: FAO Strengthens Commitment to Iraq in Addressing Environmental and Agricultural Challenges
Content: 15 October 2023
Baghdad, 13 October 2023 - Following up the meeting between the Director General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), Dr QU Dongyu, and His Excellency the President of the Republic of Iraq, Abdul Latif Rashid, during the UN 2023 Water Conference which underscored Iraq's commitment to finding sustainable solutions to the country’s multiple environmental and agricultural  challenges, a dedicated team from  the organization’s headquarters successfully concluded a mission to the Republic of Iraq from 10 to12 October.
Led by Mr LI Lifeng, Director of the Land and Water division (NSL), and accompanied by Ms Fidaa Haddad, Forestry Officer of Forestry division, Mr Jacopo Monzini, Senior Natural Resources Management Officer of Investment Centre and Mr Feras Ziadat, NSL officer, the working group closely assessed Iraq's diverse environmental and agricultural challenges and potential solutions, including water harvesting and storage, modern irrigation, combatting sand and dust storms , afforestation, wastewater treatment and re-use, drought tolerant crops.
Accompanied by FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, and his team, the mission participated in important meetings with key Iraqi high-level officials including a Grand Audience with the President of the Republic, productive discussions with the Prime Minister's Advisory Committee, collaborative dialogues with His Excellency the Minister of Water Resources, Mr. Awn Dhiab Abdullah, their Excellencies the Technical Deputy of the Ministry of Environment, Dr. Jasim Abdul Aziz Hamadi, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for Bilateral Relations, Ambassador Mohammed Bahar Al-Ulum, and the Technical Deputy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Mithaq Al-Khafaji.
In addition to these significant meetings, the delegation convened with members of the UN Country Team Priority Working Group promoting Natural Resource and Disaster Risk Management, and Climate Change Resilience (PWG4). This meeting, which was also attended by a representative of the office of the Deputy Special Representative of the United National Secretary-General for Iraq (DSRSG), provided a comprehensive overview of the climate-related challenges in Iraq and showcased the collaborative efforts of various United Nations agencies in addressing these challenges.
The team also had the opportunity to closely witness FAO Iraq programs and strong collaboration with key Iraqi ministries, underscoring FAO's commitment to supporting Iraq's sustainable development efforts and fostering impactful partnerships.
Iraqi officials expressed their deep appreciation for FAO's work and cooperation. They acknowledged FAO's critical role in addressing environmental and agricultural challenges, further strengthening the enduring partnership between Iraq and FAO.
Mr. Li emphasized the vital role of the Green Climate Fund (GCF) proposal, currently under review by the Fund, in addressing these climate-related challenges and advised to maximize the resources of GCF and Global Environmental Facility (GEF) to enhance its resilience against the impacts of climate change and land degradation. The mission's objectives align closely with leveraging the GCF to support Iraq's environmental and agricultural priorities, all of which are geared towards addressing climate impacts, environmental challenges, improving food security, and ensuring a sustainable future for Iraq.
Dr. El Hajj Hassan stated "Our role in Iraq is a testament to FAO's unwavering commitment to addressing the country's agricultural and climate challenges. We are committed to working hand in hand with the Government of Iraq to bring about transformative solutions. FAO will continue to provide support to strengthen Iraq’s resilience to the impacts of climate change.”
The FAO mission to Iraq represents an important step towards addressing Iraq's agricultural and climate challenges priorities.  The collaboration between FAO and Iraq's esteemed partners is expected to create transformative solutions that will help sustainable resources management, strengthen the bastions of food security and build the nation's resilience in the face of adversity.
For more information, please contact: 
Khawla Ben Aicha, International Communications Specialist: khawla.benaicha@fao.org
Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq : salah.elhajjhassan@fao.org
To know more about FAO and its various divisions, please visit the following websites:
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/249552-fao-strengthens-commitment-iraq-addressing-environmental-and-agricultural-challenges




Date: 14 October 2023
Title: Secretary-General appoints Mr. Volker Perthes of Germany as Head, Independent Strategic Review of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq Mandated by Security Council resolution 2682 (2023)
Content: 14 October 2023
New York, 13 October 2023
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres announced today the appointment of Volker Perthes of Germany as the Head of the Independent Strategic Review of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) mandated by Security Council resolution 2682 (2023).
Mr. Perthes brings to this position three decades of experience in academia, research, international relations and diplomacy, including with the United Nations.  From 2021 to 2023, he served as the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Sudan and Head of the United Nations Integrated Transition Assistance Mission in Sudan.  From 2015 to 2018, he served as Senior Adviser to the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Syria, including as Chairperson of the International Syria Support Group’s Ceasefire Taskforce for Syria on behalf of the United Nations.
Mr. Perthes has also served as Chief Executive Officer and Director of the German Institute for International and Security Affairs (SWP) from 2005 to 2020, and as Researcher and Head of Department at SWP from 1992 to 2005.  He began his academic career as Assistant Professor at the American University of Beirut from 1991 to 1993.
Mr. Perthes holds a Master’s degree and a Doctorate in Political Science earned at the University of Duisburg in Germany.  He is fluent in English, German and Arabic.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/249461-secretary-general-appoints-mr-volker-perthes-germany-head-independent-strategic-review




Date: 08 October 2023
Title: WHO and UNHCR train refugee volunteers to tackle infectious diseases in Iraq
Content: 08 October 2023
8 October 2023, Erbil, Iraq – In an effort to combat the spread of communicable diseases across Iraq, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) conducted a training session for 40 refugee volunteers who play a pivotal role in sharing critical information within communities of refugees and internally displaced people in Erbil.
The training, done in collaboration with the Kurdistan Regional Government and its Ministry of Health, equipped the refugees with in-depth knowledge about common infectious diseases such as cholera and haemorrhagic fever. The volunteers can now better inform and empower their communities on how to prevent, identify and control these diseases, ultimately contributing to public health and safety across Iraq.
Dr Wael Hatahit, Acting WHO Representative in Iraq, emphasized the importance of community involvement in this initiative. “The success of this training session demonstrates the commitment and dedication of our community volunteers,” he said. “By giving them the right information and resources, we not only protect individuals but also strengthen the collective resilience of these communities against communicable diseases.”
The training session is a timely response to the ongoing health challenges faced by displaced populations in Iraq and the Kurdistan region of Iraq, especially those living in camps with poor water and sanitation conditions and limited access to health care.
“Empowering refugees alongside local communities to be the first line of defence in keeping their respective communities safe from communicable diseases is paramount to keep everyone safe,” said Mr Jean-Nicolas Beuze, UNHCR Representative in Iraq.
The joint WHO–UNHCR training taught volunteers about disease identification and prevention strategies to recognize the signs and symptoms of common infectious diseases and offer information on hygiene practices, vaccination campaigns and health-promoting behaviours.
WHO and UNHCR believe that by acquiring these new resources, the community outreach volunteers are empowered to serve as a critical bridge between health care providers and their patients. This disease awareness and prevention approach is essential in ensuring the well-being of displaced and other vulnerable communities.
The joint training session is a testament to both agencies’ commitment to safeguarding the health and well-being of displaced populations in Iraq and the Kurdistan region, to ensure that no one is left behind.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/248704-who-and-unhcr-train-refugee-volunteers-tackle-infectious-diseases-iraq




Date: 04 October 2023
Title: Japan funding helps provide critical legal support and assistance to displaced Iraqis and refugees in Iraq
Content: 04 October 2023
Baghdad, Iraq: UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, welcomes the Government of Japan’s generous support, which helps provide civil documentation to Syrian refugees and Iraqis forcibly displaced by Da’esh violence in Iraq. Without such documentation, vulnerable individuals would be unable to access public services such as health and education, or livelihood opportunities to help them rebuild their lives.
Providing legal assistance to refugees who cannot secure their residency permits in Iraq and to Iraqis who cannot get their national IDs is crucial. Obtaining this documentation is the first step for them to be recognised in the country. It will help them move around safely – without fear of being arrested at security checkpoints – and allow them to receive medical care, register their children in school and apply for social security benefits.
The support of the Government of Japan allows UNHCR to provide thousands of refugees and internally displaced Iraqis with legal assistance. It also helps UNHCR and partners in delivering civil documents to the most vulnerable through mobile missions conducted across the country.
From January to June 2023, UNHCR provided legal assistance for about 6,000 refugees and secured over 13,000 civil documents for internally displaced Iraqis. Furthermore, UNHCR and partners supported 40 mobile civil documentation missions for internally displaced Iraqis who are unable to travel to their areas of origin to obtain civil documents.
However, there are still needs. UNHCR estimates that over 430,000 individuals are still missing at least one core civil document. The main barriers to accessing civil documentation include the high cost of obtaining or renewing these documents and the difficult procedures that it could entail, especially for those being suspected of affiliations with extremist groups such as Da’esh or who are otherwise unable to legally prove their marriage, birth, or lineage in court.
“The partnership with Japan is truly exemplary as it focuses on interventions that are not so visible or easy to explain. But without their identity documents, these Iraqis and Syrian refugees would be completely left out of society and would be deprived of their basic rights. They would not be able to rent a home, enrol their kids in schools or get medical care for their elderly parents. By providing these funds, Japan is making a difference in the daily lives of thousands of families and one that will last beyond the emergency,” said Mr. Jean-Nicolas Beuze, UNHCR Representative to Iraq.
“I commend UNHCR for its efforts on the field," said Mr. Kenichi Masamoto, Charge d' Affaires ad interim, the Embassy of Japan in Iraq. "We understand that refugees and IDPs are supported by the distinguished work of UNHCR to obtain their civil documents again. We strongly believe that UNHCR's work on legal assistance and civil documentation is indispensable for those who have the misfortune to become refugees and IDPs to rebuild their lives, even if it is not really visible intervention.”
Iraq has an internally displaced population of some 1.2 million, while five million have returned to their areas of origin. Iraq also hosts about 300,000 refugees – mostly Kurdish Syrians residing in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq – for whom return prospects remain limited due to the volatile and dire humanitarian and human rights situation in northeast Syria, where they come from.
For media inquiries, contact: irqpi@unhcr.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/248198-japan-funding-helps-provide-critical-legal-support-and-assistance-displaced-iraqis-and




Date: 04 October 2023
Title: A new era for Iraqi customs in trade facilitation, with UNCTAD technical support
Content: 04 October 2023
Baghdad, 04 October 2023 – The ASYCUDA: Automated System for Customs Data was formally launched this week in the Cargo Customs office at Baghdad International Airport under the auspices of the Government of Iraq and with technical support from the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), under the signed agreements entitled “Automation & Modernization of Customs” with the Ministry of Finance.
The Iraqi General Commission for Customs, under the Ministry of Finance, has announced in a statement that Customs Declaration No. 1 in air cargo was handled under the ASYCUDA automation system on 01 October, followed by 130 more.
Mr. Nizar Ammary, ASYCUDA-UNCTAD Representative in Iraq, thanked H.E. the Finance Minister, Ms. Taif Sami, and the Director-General, Mr. Hassan Al Ukaily, for their support, and commended the professionalism of staff at the Finance Ministry and the General Commission for Customs in making the launch of ASYCUDA e-government system a great success.
Mr. Ammary added: “These 100 percent paperless operations, together with full automation, simplify and digitalize procedures, allow electronic payment, and enable the Customs Commission through up-to-date international standards to support Iraq’s leap into the future of world trade.”
During the coming months, all efforts will be focused on deploying the system in all Iraqi customs offices and on installing new functionalities based on the latest technologies (Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain, etc.) to improve customs control and facilitate trade.
The pilot project #ASYCUDAWorld, UNCTAD’s largest Technical Assistance Programme in Trade Facilitation, was test launched in September.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/248174-new-era-iraqi-customs-trade-facilitation-unctad-technical-support




Date: 02 October 2023
Title: Addressing Food Loss and Waste for a Sustainable Iraq
Content: 02 October 2023
Baghdad – 29 September 2023,
On the International Day of Awareness of Food Loss and Waste (IDAFLW), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) come together with a renewed commitment to tackle a pressing global challenge: food loss and waste. In a world marked by climate change, conflicts, and economic uncertainties, this collective mission has never been more critical.
The 2023 report of the State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World has unveiled a stark reality: between 691 and 783 million people faced hunger in 2022, an increase of 122 million people since 2019, before the pandemic. WFP's hunger monitoring systems indicate that 33 million in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region do not have sufficient food consumption.
Globally, about 13% of all the food produced is lost in the supply chain, and another 17% is discarded by households, restaurants, and stores. These losses represent not only a missed opportunity to alleviate hunger but also a significant strain on our environment and resources.
Responsible for a third of total greenhouse gas emissions and contributing to biodiversity loss, global agri-food systems are under threat. As the world's population continues to grow, we face the daunting reality that by 2050 we will need nearly three Earth-sized planets to sustain current lifestyles. It is imperative that we transform our food systems to be more efficient, inclusive, sustainable, and resilient.
In our joint commitment to address food loss and waste for a sustainable Iraq, we support the efforts of the Government of Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government to develop and implement national targets and strategies aligned with SDG 12.3. This includes fostering supply chain collaboration to reduce food waste at every stage, from production to processing and storage.  Equally important is encouraging new habits and attitudes to change and decrease the amount of food people throw away.
We encourage the private sector to actively engage in supporting sustainable food supply chains and promoting responsible consumption. Businesses should invest in the modernization of food supply chains and the adoption of sustainable practices. Recognizing the vital role of mobile-based business-to-business supply platforms in enhancing efficiency, we emphasize their importance.
We highlight the benefits of reducing food waste and provide practical tips for consumers. We call on individuals to make conscious choices that reduce food waste within their homes. Additionally, we encourage consumers to actively participate in public-private partnerships aimed at reducing food loss and waste.
As we mark IDAFLW in 2023, FAO and WFP reaffirm our commitment to addressing food loss and waste in Iraq. Given the alarming statistics of undernourishment and environmental costs, urgent action is needed. Together, we envision a future where no one in Iraq goes to bed hungry, where food is valued and not wasted, and where our agrifood systems are efficient, sustainable, and resilient.
For additional information please contact:

Ruben Pulido Rodriguez
Communications Officer
UN World Food Programme (WFP)
ruben.rodriguez@wfp.org

Khawla Ben Aicha
International Communications Specialist
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
Khawla.benaicha@fao.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/248002-addressing-food-loss-and-waste-sustainable-iraq




Date: 02 October 2023
Title: The Government of Sweden extends its support to explosive hazards management activities in Iraq
Content: 02 October 2023
Baghdad, 2 October 2023: The Government of Sweden contributed an additional 10 million Swedish Krona (SEK) (USD 898,133.84) to the United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) in support of the humanitarian mine action sector endeavors to reduce the risks of explosive ordnance contamination and protect the lives of vulnerable communities in Iraq.
Since UNMAS programme inception in 2015, the Government of Sweden, through the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida), has contributed SEK 135 million (over USD 14 million) to address the needs of explosive ordnance affected populations and support humanitarian and stabilization efforts in Iraq.
Iraq is one of the most explosive ordnance contaminated countries in the world. The national mine action authorities estimate that there is more than 2.942 million square kilometers of explosive ordnance contamination including conventional landmines and victim operated improvised explosive devices, cluster munitions and other types of explosive remnants of war in Iraq. Explosive ordnance threatens public safety, hinders the safe return of displaced communities and prevents access to infrastructure and livelihood activities.
With this additional funding, UNMAS will survey and clear explosive hazards left from the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) war, which includes improvised explosive devices scattered on agricultural land and in residential communities and will deliver explosive ordnance risk education to communities in Ninewa governorate. Clearance of explosive contamination will enable the safe and dignified return of Internally Displaced Persons and enable reconstruction, and rehabilitation projects. UNMAS will also be able to continue to provide support for national mine action NGOs to enable them to autonomously lead and manage the humanitarian mine action response.
“UNMAS work in Iraq has been crucial for re-integration, social security and livelihood support and is an integrated part of sustainable development after years of contamination of explosives. The support is also aiming to strengthen the national capacity to enable the work in agriculture, water and safe returnes to high explosive risk areas.” says Swedish Ambassador to Iraq, Her Excellency Ms. Jessica Svärdström.
“UNMAS Iraq greatly appreciates the additional contribution from the Government of Sweden. This timely contribution will be used to continue implementing life- saving activities through the removal of explosive weapons and this will facilitate the safe use of the land and enable the safe and dignified return of displaced populations. The fact that we will be able to continue strengthening the national mine action capacity is also critical to ensure a sustained national and localised mine action response in Iraq,” stated Pehr Lodhammar, UNMAS Iraq Chief Mine Action Programme.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/248010-government-sweden-extends-its-support-explosive-hazards-management-activities-iraq




Date: 29 September 2023
Title: WHO medical supplies arrive at Mosul to aid national health response to Al-Hamdaniya tragedy
Content: 29 September 2023
28 September 2023, Baghdad, Iraq – WHO in Iraq expresses profound sorrow over the loss of numerous innocent lives in Al-Hamdaniya District, Nineveh Governorate, Iraq. The devastating incident unfolded on the evening of Tuesday 26 September 2023 at a local banquet hall, resulting in 93 deaths and more than 100 people injured.
In response to this tragic crisis, WHO has taken immediate action to support efforts by Iraq’s Ministry of Health to provide critical medical assistance to the injured. Urgent medical supplies, including comprehensive hospital supply kits, have been allocated to Al-Hamdaniya General Hospital, Al-Jamhoury Hospital and the Mosul Specialized Centre for Burns and Constructive Surgery to ensure that sufficient essential resources are available.
Furthermore, WHO has collaborated with national efforts to swiftly mobilize additional first-line response resources for the transportation and treatment of the injured in Mosul and Erbil hospitals. This collaborative effort aimed to assist local health authorities in delivering vital medical care with the utmost urgency.
Dr Wael Hatahit, Acting WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq, extended the Organization’s heartfelt condolences to the families and friends of all those affected by the tragic incident in Al-Hamdaniya. “WHO in Iraq commends the Ministry of Health’s tireless efforts and stands ready to provide the necessary assistance to save lives and alleviate the suffering of the injured,” he said.
WHO’s response to this tragic event has been marked by swift technical and logistical coordination with national health authorities to speed up the recovery of the affected community in Al-Hamdaniya during this difficult period.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/247782-who-medical-supplies-arrive-mosul-aid-national-health-response-al-hamdaniya-tragedy




Date: 26 September 2023
Title: UN-Habitat receives generous support from the Government of the Netherlands to Initiate Policy Dialogue on the Land Legal Framework Reform and Secure Tenure Rights for Internally Displaced Iraqis
Content: 26 September 2023
Baghdad, Iraq – 25 September 2023 - The United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) welcomes a contribution of USD 1.9 million from the Government of The Netherlands through the LAND-at-scale programme (http://rvo.nl/landatscale) to reform land legal framework, build local capacity on housing, land, and property (HLP) rights, and contribute to increasing the security of tenure for all Iraqis, including vulnerable internally displaced people (IDPs) and returnees in conflict-affected governorates.
On 25 September 2023, Mr. Ghulam Isaczai, the DSRSG/RC/HC and Ms. Rania Hedeya, the Regional Representative of UN-Habitat Regional Office for Arab States and Mr. Ahmed Jamal Mohammed, the Head of Foreign Relations Department, Ministry of Justice, visited the Embassy of the Netherland and signed a Contribution Agreement to initiate policy dialogue on the reform of the land legal framework to enhance land governance and resolve land claims for vulnerable IDPs and returnees in Iraq.
The project will directly support the Government of Iraq on the policy dialogue on land legal framework, benefit 1,600 IDP and returnee households by providing legal support and counselling services to restore or obtain HLP documentation, and file compensation claims for destroyed or damaged property.
Through this project, UN-Habitat will work in close collaboration with Iraqi government counterparts on the land legal framework. With the generous support of the Government of Netherlands, the project aims to bolster the Government of Iraq’s land management system.
HLP rights management is one of the key challenges for those rendered vulnerable through displacement in Iraq. The legal reform on land is set to address issues of inadequate land management and insecure tenure, which not only poses risks for IDPs and returnees, but also restricts the potential for overall economic and social development in Iraq.
Mr. Jacob Wiersma, Chargé d’Affaires of the Netherlands Embassy in Baghdad highlighted the importance of housing, land and property (HLP) rights for all Iraqi’s, including vulnerable people, as access to these rights contributes to peoples’ security, reintegration and wellbeing. With this new programme the Netherlands, in cooperation UN-Habitat, will be supporting the Government of Iraq in improving land governance and processing land claims by its citizens.
Mr. Ghulam Isaczai emphasised that the commitment of the Government of the Netherlands to support UN-Habitat in its efforts to ensure the land legal framework plays a significant role, contributing and improving land governance, while strengthening the security of tenure and protection of HLP rights for all Iraqis.
Mr. Mohammed emphasized that Ministry of Justice welcomes this initiative and happy to see that the project will contribute to improve the legal framework on land and also support IDPs and contribute to strengthen the security of tenure.
Ms. Rania Hedeya, Regional Representative of UN-Habitat Regional Office for Arab States, reiterated UN-Habitat’s commitment to continue supporting the Government of Iraq, IDPs and returnees, highlighting that the improvement of land governance will contribute and promote the safe and sustainable returns of IDPs to their area of origin.
In case of questions about the LAND-at-scale project in Iraq, please contact: Mr. Muslim Qazimi (muslim.qazimi@un.org) or Ms. Gemma Betsema (gemma.betsema@rvo.nl).
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/247290-un-habitat-receives-generous-support-government-netherlands-initiate-policy-dialogue-land




Date: 22 September 2023
Title: Readout of the Secretary-General’s meeting with H.E. Mr. Mohammed Shia Al-Sudani, Prime Minister of the Republic of Iraq
Content: 22 September 2023
The Secretary-General met with H.E. Mr. Mohammed Shia Al-Sudani, Prime Minister of the Republic of Iraq. The Secretary-General and the Prime Minister exchanged views on the political situation in Iraq and issues of interest and concern in the region.
They also discussed cooperation between the United Nations and the country.
The Secretary-General reaffirmed that the United Nations remains fully committed to supporting the Government and people of Iraq.
New York, 22 September 2023
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/247115-readout-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-meeting-he-mr-mohammed-shia-al-sudani-prime-minister-republic




Date: 21 September 2023
Title: UNDP Hosts Discussion on New York Arbitration Convention to Boost Foreign Investment in Iraq
Content: 21 September 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 20 September—The United Nations Development Programme recently hosted a high-level discussion on the New York Arbitration Convention. The event brought  together distinguished guests and honorable judges, to shed light on matters that directly impact Iraq's potential to attract foreign investment.
The Government of Iraq (GoI) has taken significant steps to promote the use of arbitration, demonstrating its commitment to facilitating a favorable climate, that is attractive to foreign investors.
“UNDP recognizes the crucial role that foreign investment plays in reducing Iraq's dependence on oil and diversifying its economy, which is why we emphasize the need for a robust environment that facilitates the flow of foreign capital,” said Auke Lootsma, UNDP Iraq’s Resident Representative.
Within the framework of the EU-funded Anti-Corruption and Arbitration (ACAI) Project, UNDP is actively supporting the Government of Iraq in drafting a modern Law on Arbitration. Additionally, UNDP is committed to providing the necessary support to enhance institutional and professional capacity among lawyers, arbitrators, and students in the field of arbitration.
The Importance of fostering Arbitration to Iraq’s Economic Development
A key aspect of such an environment is the presence of a trusted and efficient forum for resolving disputes that may arise between investors and local private or public entities. International arbitration and mediation offer precisely this, providing both parties with a neutral and efficient system for managing and resolving disputes. Consequently, the development of arbitration and mediation frameworks becomes a catalyst for increased investments.
Arbitration cannot function effectively without the support of courts. The support and limited intervention of courts play a pivotal role in safeguarding the integrity of the arbitration process.
Significance of the New York Arbitration Convention
The New York Convention on Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards of 1958 is the bakcbone of international arbitration system. It aims to ensure the enforceability of arbitration agreements and arbitration awards across the 172 states signatories to the Convention. The Convention entered into force for Iraq in February 2022 and it is now in the hands of Iraqi judges to interpret and apply it. UNDP emphasized the importance of collaboration with the Supreme Judicial Council, aiming to foster strong partnership, through hosting discussions, such as this, and with the Judicial Institute to develop specialized courses for prospective judges. Once the Law on Arbitration is adopted, UNDP will also develop a comprehensive guide on arbitration for the benefit of the wider legal community.
Having Iraq develop a robust, arbitration-friendly ecosystem is crucial for Iraq's economic growth as it helps attract foreign investment, fosters international cooperation and strengthens the rule of law. Together, this plays a vital role in supporting Iraq's current engagement with the global community, contributing to both its economical and political development.
About UNDP:
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) works in nearly 170 countries and territories, helping to eradicate poverty, reduce inequalities, and build resilience to promote sustainable development. With a focus on empowering people and ensuring inclusivity, UNDP collaborates with governments, civil society, and the private sector to drive positive change and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. For more information, visit www.undp.org.
###
For more information:
Link: https://shorturl.at/mBW56
Christine Cool, UNDP Iraq, Team Lead, Partnerships, Advocacy & Communications
christine.cool@undp.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/247123-undp-hosts-discussion-new-york-arbitration-convention-boost-foreign-investment-iraq




Date: 18 September 2023
Title: Scars of resilience: the fight against leishmaniasis in Iraq
Content: 18 September 2023
18 September 2023, Baghdad, Iraq – Cutaneous leishmaniasis, known locally as the “Baghdad boil”, has overwhelmed many parts of Iraq for decades, posing a persistent threat to its people. This disease, transmitted via sandfly bites, leaves those affected with lasting scars – a visible reminder of their suffering left on their bodies for life.
By 2022, an alarming 8000 individuals in Iraq, primarily from remote rural areas, had been affected by this disease. In 2023, in an unexpected turn of events, the first case emerged in the traditionally sandfly-free governorate of Duhok, in the northern Kurdistan region of Iraq. This surprising development may be linked to the effects of climate change and desertification and highlights the potential of the disease to spread.
Many factors, including inadequate access to medical treatment in remote and hard-to-reach areas, have worsened the prevalence of cutaneous leishmaniasis in Iraq. Collaborative efforts by the Iraqi Ministry of Health and WHO in Iraq have, however, been outstanding in limiting infection. Seasonal spraying campaigns have been organized in endemic areas and support given for the timely treatment of patients.
Abbas, aged 5 years, is a lively boy from the southern governorate of Diwaniya, located 130 km south of Baghdad. Abbas had a cutaneous leishmaniasis infection that has left a noticeable scar on his young face. His father, desperate to get treatment for his son, would drive more than 40 km to reach the nearest primary health care centre. But this journey was worth it to heal the wound on Abbas’s face, though the process took 4 long and painful months and the disease left a lasting mark.
Meanwhile, Avin, a 22-year-old college student from Sulaymaniyah governorate in the Kurdistan region, was shocked to find a tiny lesion measuring about 1.5 cm on her foot – a clear sign of the Baghdad boil. As she was pregnant at the time, she believed that she would be unable to take any medication. It wasn’t until a month after giving birth that Avin finally visited the city hospital to seek help. The prescribed treatments weren’t always available, however, and she sometimes had to rely on self-care for her lesion to heal.
“Leishmaniasis in Iraq demands considerable attention and close international collaboration is required to combat neglected tropical diseases and ensure access to quality medical services in endemic countries in the Eastern Mediterranean Region,” emphasized Dr Wael Hatahit, acting WHO Representative on in Iraq. “By joining forces, we can make a difference and ensure timely treatment and support for those in need.”
Abbas and Avin’s stories are just 2 of many accounts of the disease. They shed light on the urgent need to address this silent endemic and cater to the needs of all those coping with scars left by the Baghdad boil. Their stories are a call for care, cooperation and collective action to create a healthier future for Iraq and its people, as exemplified by the positive collaboration between Iraq’s Ministry of Health and WHO. Together, they work tirelessly to combat cutaneous leishmaniasis, providing hope and healing to those affected.
END

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/246298-scars-resilience-fight-against-leishmaniasis-iraq




Date: 15 September 2023
Title: FAO Continues Transforming Dairy Sector in Ninewa, Iraq with MoA and EU Support
Content: 15 September 2023
Ninewa, Iraq – 13 September 2023 - FAO Iraq, in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and with funding from the European Union (EU), continues to support and develop the dairy value chain, reaffirming its commitment to strengthening the livestock and dairy sectorin Iraq.
On the 10th of September, the FAO Iraq team, led by Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative, conducted a mission to Bashiqa, Ninewa Governorate. This visit is part of the efforts made by the organization and its partners within a comprehensive approach to support the development and strengthening of the livestock and dairy sectors in the region.  During this mission, three core activities were undertaken:

1. Distribution of High-Quality Equipment - Empowering Dairy Stakeholders
FAO hosted a distribution ceremony at the Bashiqa Agricultural Directorate to distribute a transformative set of high-quality stainless steel milk transport and processing equipment. This initiative represents a groundbreaking milestone, marking the first time that this state-of-the-art equipment has been widely introduced in Iraq.
In presence of the Director of Bashiqa District, M. Ghazouan Daoudi who praised FAO's work in the region and expressed the Directorate's unwavering support, the FAO Representative in Iraq, expressed his deep appreciation for the partnership between FAO and the MoA, recognizing the success of the model implemented in Ninewa, which has played a key role in the return of residents to their villages . He also highlighted FAO's comprehensive approach to supporting the entire dairy value chain, from feed production to milk processing and marketing and praised the hard work of farmers and dairy producers in restoring confidence in Iraqi products.

During the distribution event, 3,500 of the 7,000 stainless steel units were delivered. Approximately 5,000 milk producers, collectors and processors from different areas of the governorate will benefit from this initiative. These units will facilitate the collection and distribution of an astounding 250 tons of milk per day, ensuring impeccable hygiene standards, unrivalled quality and prevention of spoilage. This transformational leap is expected to improve the quality of dairy products, positioning them as premium competitors to imported alternatives.

Dr Chedly Kayouli, FAO International Livestock Specialist, highlighted the critical importance of stainless-steel equipment in maintaining milk hygiene and quality during transport. He also provided comprehensive guidance on how to use the equipment, encouraging beneficiaries to maximize its potential for business growth.
2. Peer-to-Peer Training – Building capacities and Knowledge Sharing in Action
Under FAO strategy to build capacities of national partners, FAO is progressing in the Peer to peer training initiative, a dedicated team of extension officers from southern governorates (Basra, Thi Qar and Missan) who embarked on a week-long immersive training with the MoA extension officers of Ninewa region. This peer-to-peer training initiative, part of FAO's collaboration with the MoA and the EU, serves as a platform for these extension officers to gain insights and best practices from their counterparts.
During their week-long stay, the extension officers will participate in extensive training sessions, farmer field schools and field visits. These experiences will immerse them in the implementation mechanisms developed by FAO in the Ninewa EU funded project - a project that has achieved unprecedented success in Iraq and has been recognized by senior Iraqi authorities . Skilled with this knowledge, these officers will be well equipped to replicate these practices in implementing the other projects in their respective governorates.
Dr Chedly Kayouli explained that the main objective of this training is to equip MOA extension staff from the southern governorates with the expertise gained through peer-to-peer training. At the end of this training, these extension staff will be duly recognized as  trainers of trainers of trainers (TOT) and facilitators of farmer field schools (FFS).

3. Dairy Marketing Centers - Strengthening
The mission concluded with a visit to one of the 11 new dairy marketing centers under rehabilitation by the project . These centers are pivotal in enabling regional dairy producers to store, market and sell their diverse products.
This comprehensive approach aligns with several United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), and SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production).
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/246063-fao-continues-transforming-dairy-sector-ninewa-iraq-moa-and-eu-support




Date: 14 September 2023
Title: A promising partnership: UNDP and AUIB join hands for Iraq’s future
Content: 14 September 2023
Baghdad, 13 September 2023 — The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the American University of Iraq-Baghdad (AUIB) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) today, solidifying their joint commitment to fight corruption, promote integrity, enhance knowledge on arbitration law, and crucially, to promote innovation and youth employment, boost the renewable energies sector, foster environmental sustainability, and mitigate climate change. Addressing these critical issues is important for Iraq’s future, creating a conducive business environment that wins investors’ trust and at the same time promotes sustainable and equitable economic development, and by extension, social stability. All these are essential to the country’s advancement.
“This partnership is a milestone, as we journey towards Iraq's economic diversification and social development. Together with AUIB, we aim to harness the collective power of academia and international organizations to address key issues that are impeding the country’s development. It is my hope that, together, we will be able to rebuild investor trust, contribute to economic diversification and move towards the brighter, sustainable future that awaits the people of Iraq,” said Auke Lootsma, UNDP Iraq’s Resident Representative.
Contributing to Iraq’s future development
This partnership contributes to SDG 8: promoting economic growth and sustainable development, as it seeks to empower women, promote e-governance, digital transformation, and environmental sustainability, including climate resilience, green growth, and sustainable energy transition—unlocking the full potential of Iraqi society as we hit the halfway point of fulfillment of SDG 2030.
“AUIB is pleased to be the other half of transformative partnership with UNDP, making the first stride towards a more hopeful future, where knowledge, integrity, and innovation illuminate the path to a sustainable Iraq for all. Through the combined efforts of universities, the UNDP, and all stakeholders involved, it sets the stage for a prosperous future for Iraq,” said Dr. Michael Mulnix, President of AUIB.
UNDP is committed to working with partners worldwide to advance sustainable development, eradicate poverty, and promote good governance. AUIB, a prestigious academic institution fostering intellectual growth, innovation, and critical thinking, is equally dedicated to preparing graduates to effectively confront Iraq's economic and social challenges.
Link: https://shorturl.at/bpIT9
For media inquiries and more information, please contact:
UNDP:
Christine Cool
Team Lead, UNDP Iraq Strategic Partnerships, Advocacy, and Communications
christine.cool@undp.org  |   +9647834899817
AUIB:
Mohammed Fawzi   | Media Advisor
+9647833246706
Mohammed.Fawzi@auib.edu.iq

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/245813-promising-partnership-undp-and-auib-join-hands-iraq%E2%80%99s-future




Date: 13 September 2023
Title: International Experts Discuss with Iraqi Parliamentarians and Legal Experts Interplay between International and Domestic Criminal Law
Content: 13 September 2023
Baghdad 12 September 2023: the United Nations Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) in cooperation with the Parliamentary Development Institute organized the first seminar of the Joint Working Group on pathways to accountability for ISIL’s international crimes, titled Sources and Principles of International Criminal Law: Interplay between International and Domestic Criminal Law.
The seminar, held under the auspices of H.E. Mr. Mohsen Al-Mandalawi, First Deputy Speaker of the Council of Representatives, brought together more than 40 members of parliamentary committees, Iraqi lawmakers, and experts. The seminar discussed core topics in the area of International Criminal Law (ICL) and its linkage to national legislation.
On behalf of Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher, Mr. Anees Ahmed, Chief of Office of Evidence Management, delivered opening remarks, thanking the esteemed First Deputy Speaker Mr. Al Madalawi, the Parliamentary Development Institute and participating members of parliament for hosting the seminar at the premises of the Iraqi Parliament. He highlighted that prosecuting ISIL criminals for their heinous international crimes committed in Iraq is of high importance to the victims of ISIL and their bereaved families seeking truth and accountability to the highest of standards. He also noted the efforts done by the Iraqi authorities, including the legislators, in advancing legal frameworks and accountability processes.
He also reassured that, in the spirit of mutual cooperation, UNITAD remains ready, willing and eager to provide any requested technical support as Iraq progresses towards enacting the proper legal framework on international crimes, paving the way for holding ISIL perpetrators accountable for their international crimes before Iraqi courts.
Mr. Rebwar Hadi AbdulRahman, Chairman of the Legal Committee at the Council of Representative said: “The Iraqi Council of Representatives, within its constitutional duties, works to legislate laws that are compatible with international agreements and treaties to ensure that [ISIL] perpetrators of crimes against humanity and genocide do not escape [justice].” He further indicated that: “The presence of the investigation team (UNITAD) will provide technical support, including capacity building, to the legislative authority through international experts in the field of international humanitarian law which leads to a legislation or amendment to the national legislation that preserves the rights of victims.” In addition, Mr. Saad Faiyadh Mozan, Head of the Parliamentary Development Institute, as well as other parliamentarians took part in the opening sessions.
UNITAD facilitated the participation of two international experts, who shared presentations and insights with all participants. On his part, Dr. Mohamed Ibrahim, Judicial Affairs Officer and Islamic Law Expert at the United Nations Department of Peace Operations, discussed sources of ICL, distinction between treaty law and customary international law, international treaties ratified by Iraq, domestication of ICL, distinction between ordinary crimes and international crimes, and why prosecution on charges of terrorism is not enough.
At his end, Professor Claus Kress, Professor of International Law and Criminal Law, Chair for German and international criminal law, and Director of the Institute of International Peace and Security Law at the University of Cologne, discussed general principles of ICL, principle of legality, retroactive application of ICL, examples of the application of ICL to past events, and the rule of law principle.
Furthermore, participating parliamentarians engaged in discussions on issues pertinent to ISIL international crimes committed in Iraq, stressing that victims are at the heart of any joint efforts towards justice. They also indicated the need for further support in this field.
This seminar comes as a part of UNITAD’s growing engagement with national institutions and support to the work of the Joint Working Group through capacity building, leveraging international expertise, and broadening knowledge within Iraq about the range of options available to advance accountability.
Launched in March of 2023, the Joint Working Group has supported drafting a legislation that incorporates international crimes’ charges for ISIL perpetrators in Iraq. It is comprised of representatives of the judiciary, alongside legal experts from the Prime Minister’s office and the National Permanent Committee for International Humanitarian Law, as well as the Iraqi State Council, hosted by the Supreme Judicial Council.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/245721-international-experts-discuss-iraqi-parliamentarians-and-legal-experts-interplay-between




Date: 12 September 2023
Title: Increasing the security of the trade supply chain at Baghdad International Airport
Content: 12 September 2023
On 10 September 2023, Iraq took a significant stride in bolstering trade supply chain security – concurrently targeting high-risk air cargo while facilitating the smooth flow of legitimate trade. In pursuit of this crucial objective, Iraqi authorities have joined forces with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) to implement the Passenger and Cargo Border Team (PCBT) Container Control Programme (CCP) in close cooperation with the World Customs Organizations (WCO).
This partnership resulted in the establishment of an Air Cargo Control Unit (ACCU) at Baghdad International Airport (BIA). Under the auspices of the Border Ports Commission, the official inauguration of ACCU occurred on 10 September 2023, within the cargo area of BIA.
In the Presence of Mr. Qasim Ala’raji, Iraq’s National Security Advisor, launched by the Chairman of the Border Ports Commission, Major General Dr. Omar Al Waeli, the ceremony was attended by H.E. Ms. Alina L. Romanowski, the United States Ambassador to Iraq, whose country is funding PCBT in Iraq. Longstanding supporters of the PCBT, such as Australia, represented by H.E. Ms. Paula Ganly, Ambassador of Australia to Iraq and senior representatives of Canada, Germany and the United Nations, were also in attendance. The Director General of Iraqi Customs, Mr. Hassan Hassani and senior representatives of the Civil Aviation Authority, the Ministry of Interior, the Iraqi National Intelligence Service, and Iraqi Airways, whose respective administrations are key partners to PCBT, attended the official inauguration of the ACCU and expressed unwavering support to the programme.
Through the establishment of the ACCU, the PCBT empowers Iraq in its fight against illicit trafficking at border crossings. The ACCU will be composed of officers from various agencies operating within the cargo area of BIA that have been trained by the PCBT on risk analysis, profiling, targeting, and inspecting suspicious cargo. These officers will continue to receive ongoing training and support. Moreover, in adherence to global best practices, liaison officers from all relevant law enforcement agencies involved in cargo control at the airport can be incorporated into the ACCU at a later stage.
UNODC’s Head of Iraq Office emphasized that “we stand shoulder to shoulder with Iraq to tackle the complex challenges of organized crime through an expanding program of support including on border control”. Mr. Wolfgang Aigner, UNODC PCBT Regional Coordinator for the MENA region, emphasized that while the project is technical in nature, the establishment of the ACCU and its efforts to institute transparent and secure customs and cargo control procedures sends a strong message of dedication and engagement to the international community.
UNODC extends its gratitude to Iraqi partners and the donor countries of the United States of America, Norway, Germany, and Australia, for their support in the region and congratulates all parties involved for their contribution to this vital step towards deterring organized crime within the global supply chain.

*****
For more information, please contact:
Joseph Khattar [joseph.khattar@un.org]
Programme Officer for Iraq
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/245491-increasing-security-trade-supply-chain-baghdad-international-airport




Date: 10 September 2023
Title: Enhancing Iraq's Emergency Care System through Basic Emergency Care Training
Content: 10 September 2023
Erbil, 10 September 2023: The World Health Organization (WHO), in collaboration with the Ministry of Health of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KR-I), today concluded the Basic Emergency Care training organized to equip frontline healthcare providers with the essential skills required to manage acute illnesses and injuries in resource-limited settings.
The training focused on improving the outcomes of emergency conditions by providing over 30 participants with the knowledge and skills needed to implement a systematic approach to initial assessments and managing time-sensitive conditions, ultimately saving lives.
“As WHO and national health authorities in Iraq continue collaborating in multiple health areas, we remain committed to strengthening emergency care systems and building capacity within the healthcare workforce,” said Dr. Wael Hatahit, Acting WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq. “Through initiatives like this training, we aim to improve the quality of emergency care, reduce mortality and morbidity, and ultimately contribute to the well-being of communities across Iraq,” he added.
The five-day training workshop comprised theoretical sessions, practical skill lab sessions, group discussions, and pre-post training tests involving 35 emergency healthcare providers from Erbil, Ninawa, Suleimaniya, and Duhok governorates. The outcome is 35 certified provisional and master trainers capable of cascading the Basic Emergency Care Courses for healthcare providers working in emergency care wards nationwide.
Emerging from its consideration of the role emergency capacity building plays in ensuring accessible life-saving services to all Iraqis and in implementing Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in Iraq, WHO, in collaboration with the International Commission of the Red Cross (ICRC), developed this course to be applicable to all local healthcare providers, including students, trainees, nurses, physicians, and pre-hospital or inpatient care providers.
The World Health Organization would like to thank the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM) for their invaluable support in making this training possible.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/245319-enhancing-iraqs-emergency-care-system-through-basic-emergency-care-training




Date: 05 September 2023
Title: Regional Cooperation for Better Air Quality in West Asia
Content: 05 September 2023
Beirut, 5 September 2023 – Countries in West Asia region recommended the establishment of a Regional Air Quality Network for West Asia and requested UNEP to assess the status of air quality management and identity work priorities for the network as the first phase. The Network will compliment other networks that have already been established across regions in Asia, Latin America, Africa and Europe.
Marking the international day for Clean Air and recognizing the need for a coordinated approach in the region, the UN Environment Programme (UNEP) Regional Office for West Asia (ROWA) in collaboration with the World Health Organisation (WHO) Eastern Mediterranean Regional Office (EMRO) organised the “Regional Cooperation for Better Air Quality in West Asia” consultation workshop in Jordan on 3 and 4 September and brought together representatives from ministries of environment and health from the region.
The UN Environment Programme Representative and Regional Director for West Asia Sami Dimassi stated that: “We all share the same need to breathe air of adequate quality. Informed decision-making and implementation of effective measures based on science-policy dialogues are key to improve air quality in the region. This network will be a platform for sharing information, knowledge and best practices across the region and fostering a coordinated approach for air quality management in West Asia.”
Air pollution is a transboundary issue and remains a threat to human health and the environment. In addition to human-caused emissions generated mainly from the energy, industry and transport sectors in most cities, the West Asia region is highly impacted by the natural emissions of the sand and dust storms.
West Asia countries have made progress in setting and implementing policies to improve air quality at the national level. However, facing the challenge of unhealthy air quality and its management requires a more consolidated regional and global coordination for durable solutions.
About UNEP:
The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) is the leading global environmental authority that sets the global environmental agenda, promotes the coherent implementation of the environmental dimension of sustainable development within the United Nations system, and serves as an authoritative advocate for the global environment. For more information, visit www.unep.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/244749-regional-cooperation-better-air-quality-west-asia




Date: 03 September 2023
Title: FAO improves Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq
Content: 03 September 2023
Training of Trainers workshop on Laboratory Techniques
September 3rd 2023, Baghdad, Iraq – In a significant step towards improving animal health services and animal disease diagnosis in Iraq, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources-KRI (MoAWR-KRI), has launched the “Laboratory techniques training workshop” in Iraq. This initiative marks a pivotal partnership that underscores the commitment of FAO and governmental bodies to addressing crucial challenges. The project entitled “Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq “is funded by the United States Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA).
Held at the Central Veterinary Laboratory/Veterinary Directorate in Baghdad from August 25 to September 1, 2023, the workshop gathered twenty-two participants from Baghdad, Erbil, Duhok, Ninawa, Muthanna, Basra, Anbar, and Wassit veterinary laboratories.
The training aimed to enhance participants' competencies and skills in laboratory techniques for the diagnosis of priority animal diseases, while deepening their understanding of various diagnostic methods.
The workshop delved into various diagnostic techniques for viral, bacterial, and parasitic animal diseases, the training encompassed sample collection, serological, and molecular methodologies. Short summaries for some priority animal diseases were presented and discussed and practical sessions demonstrated the application of these techniques in real-world scenarios.
During the closing session, FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, stressed that, “The rapid and accurate diagnosis of animal diseases can be ensured in fully equipped laboratories that have a range of standardized diagnostic reagents, experienced staff and a sufficient throughput of diagnostic specimens to maintain expertise. Building and maintaining the technical capacity of laboratory staff is a key element in this process.   Equipping veterinary laboratory personnel with the necessary skills and knowledge, will better prepare them to diagnose animal diseases diagnosis and protect the human and animal health” through the One Health approach.
By harnessing expertise from different regions, the workshop underscores the spirit of cooperation between FAO and Iraqi government agencies in strengthening animal health services and surveillance. The comprehensive approach of this project is in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, particularly SDG 3 (Good Health and Well-Being) and SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals).
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/244500-fao-improves-animal-health-services-and-disease-surveillance-iraq




Date: 01 September 2023
Title: In Pursuit of Justice: Investigating ISIL’s Crimes against Iraq’s Christians
Content: 01 September 2023
Erbil 01 September 2023: As a part of its continued cooperation and engagement with the impacted Iraqi communities, the United Nations Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) organized a conference in Erbil for Christian community leaders.
The conference gathered over 30 Christian community leaders with UNITAD’s dedicated units investigating ISIL crimes against the Christian community, including the destruction of Christian religious sites. Also joining were representatives of the international community, including the United States, France, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Hungary and the European Union.
Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD, Christian Ritscher commended the Christian community leaders, saying that: “ Your togetherness and your resilience are inspirational, not just to the Christian community in Iraq, but also to us at UNITAD.” He further added that: “ISIL's ideology thrived on violence, sparing neither the people of Iraq nor their diverse cultures and beliefs…As we work in pursuit of justice for all victims and survivors, those who suffered from ISIL's atrocities, we keep in heart and mind one of UNITAD’s core principles: there is no hierarchy in victims.”
Special Adviser Ritscher highlighted that the Team’s investigations have strengthened findings on crimes: “including the destruction of Christian cultural heritage in Mosul and the Ninawa plains, where ISIL perpetrators targeted churches, monasteries, cemeteries, manuscripts, Christian symbols and artwork in barbaric attacks, rooted in hate and inhumanity.” Special Adviser Ritscher also addressed progress that was made in the development of individual case files for ISIL members in relation to crimes committed in Hamdaniyah, including a high-level ISIL member associated with the Diwan of Spoils, mentioning that: “The identities of these ISIL members are corroborated by testimonial evidence, ISIL internal documents and case files provided by the Iraqi judiciary.”
He further reiterated his gratitude for the close partnership with the Team’s counterparts in the Government of Iraq and Kurdistan Regional Government, and extended his thanks to the US and France for the generous funding to UNITAD’s investigations into ISIL crimes against the Christian community and the destruction of cultural heritage.
H.E. Mr. Safeen Dizayee, Head of Department of Foreign Relations at KRI and H.E. Dr. Dindar Zebari, KRG Coordinator for International Advocacy took part in the opening segment, stressing the KRG’s and the collective dedication in seeking justice for the victims of ISIL crimes.
At their end, H.E. Mr. Mark Stroh, U.S. Consul General, and H.E. French Acting Consul General, Mr. Rodolphe Richard both reiterated their countries’ support to UNITAD’s investigations, including investigations of crimes against the Christian community and other minorities in Iraq, and ISIL’s destruction of religious and cultural heritage.
During the conference, UNITAD lead investigators offered a detailed update on the progress of the Team’s investigations into ISIL international crimes against the Christian community in Iraq, while experts presented on modern tools and methodologies used in investigating international crimes which are used to enhance UNITAD’s core investigations.
The participating Christian leaders shared their insights and recommendations for the Investigative Team on how best to further enhance cooperation, gathering of evidence, and soliciting witness accounts. They all stressed the importance of recognizing and documenting the international crimes committed by ISIL against the Christian community in Iraq, to enable holding ISIL perpetrators accountable in court of law.
Building on this conference, UNITAD’s investigators will be able to lead further engagements with the Christian community thanks to the openness and cooperation exhibited by the participating Christian leaders.
To read the full opening remarks of Special Adviser Christian Ritscher, please click here.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/244401-pursuit-justice-investigating-isil%E2%80%99s-crimes-against-iraq%E2%80%99s-christians




Date: 30 August 2023
Title: UN-Habitat Iraq Marks Successful Conclusion of EU-funded "Support for Urban Recovery and Peacebuilding in Western Ninewa" Programme
Content: 30 August 2023
Funded by the European Union through the EUTF Syria - the Madad Fund, UN-Habitat Iraq's Urban Recovery Initiative Delivers Significant Achievements in Western Ninewa.
Erbil, August 30th, 2023 – The UN-Habitat Iraq Programme "Support for Urban Recovery and Peacebuilding in Western Ninewa" proudly convened its final Steering Committee Meeting, held today in Erbil. This initiative, funded by the European Union through the EU Regional Trust Fund in Response to the Syrian Crisis, the Madad Fund, has achieved substantial accomplishments, significantly enhancing the lives of the people in Western Ninewa, Iraq.
Mr. Ali Omar Kheder, Assistant Governor for Organizations and Displaced Persons Affairs, and esteemed members of the Steering Committee including Mr. Wa’El Al-Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq; Mr. Naif Sedo Qasim, Mr. Ahmad Hammad, and Mr. Nashat Sadiq Mohammed, Qaem Maqams of Sinjar, Ba’aj, and Tel Afar respectively, convened to review the program's achievements. Mr. Gerhard Krause, acting as the EU Trust Fund Manager on behalf of the European Union, emphasized the EU's strong support to the initiative.
Commencing in 2020, with a commitment of €10 million, the UN-Habitat Iraq Programme focused its efforts on the districts of Sinjar, Ba’aj, and Tel Afar. This comprehensive undertaking approached three key areas: enhancing living and housing conditions for vulnerable returnees, revitalizing livelihoods, and safeguarding housing, land, and property rights for those returning. Through these endeavors, the program facilitated voluntary and sustainable returns, ultimately helping 235,000 individuals in Western Ninewa.
Over three years, the multifaceted urban recovery program achieved significant milestones:

Highlighting the European Union's long-lasting commitment to support all those impacted by the Syrian and Iraqi crises, Mr. Gerhard Krause remarked, "The European Union is pleased to have provided support for this crucial initiative, which has led to enduring returns, urban revitalization, and the advancement of peace in Western Ninewa. These accomplishments stand as a testament of the fruitful collaboration among the Iraqi government, the European Union and UN-Habitat."
Mr. Wa’El Al-Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq, reiterated the organization's mission to foster inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable communities. He welcomed the committee members support for this mission, reflecting on UN-Habitat's legacy of partnering for over 25 years to realize long-term solutions, transitioning from humanitarian assistance to development.
While internal displacement continues to challenge Iraq, the collaborative efforts of the EU, UN-Habitat, and the Steering Committee members have made remarkable strides toward sustainable returns, urban recovery, and peacebuilding in Western Ninewa. Mr. Ali Omar Kheder, Ninewa Deputy Governor, praised the holistic approach of the program and its positive impact on the region. He expressed hope for more projects and development by EU and UN-Habitat to support the government of Iraq's commitment to its people's well-being and developmental goals.
The conclusion of the "Support for Urban Recovery and Peacebuilding in Western Ninewa" Programme marks a significant milestone in the pursuit of improved urban environments for conflict-affected communities. Through unwavering cooperation, UN-Habitat Iraq and the European Union have brought Iraq closer to achieving Sustainable Development Goals with a focus on ensuring access to adequate, safe, and affordable housing and improving degraded areas.


Additional information and links:
Official website of the EU Regional Trust Fund in Response to the Syrian Crisis - EUTF Syria, the Madad Fund)
EUTF Syria’s response in Iraq: Country Overview

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/244003-un-habitat-iraq-marks-successful-conclusion-eu-funded-support-urban-recovery-and




Date: 29 August 2023
Title: DSRSG/RC/HC visits Jedda 1 Rehabilitation Center in Ninewa
Content: 29 August 2023
The Deputy Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator (DSRSG/RC/HC) for Iraq, Mr. Ghulam Isaczai, visited the Jedda 1 Rehabilitation Center in Ninewa on Tuesday, 29 August 2023.
The DSRSG/RC/HC engaged in focused group discussions with residents who have returned from the al-Hol camp in northeastern Syria, service providers and center management operating under the Ministry of Migration and the Displaced (MoMD).
The visit aimed to understand the challenges faced by the returnees and ascertain the effectiveness of the rehabilitation efforts conducted by UN entities and partners, including on issues relating to health, education, mental and psycho-social, and protection services, focusing on women.
Mr. Isaczai noted that the majority of the issues raised could be addressed through the "One Plan for a New Beginning," under the Global Framework recently agreed with the Supreme Committee for return of Iraqi nationals from al-Hol.
He stressed the need to enhance services and expedite reintegration, minimizing the duration of stay of the returnees in the center.
He further underscored Iraq's pivotal role in ensuring the safe and dignified repatriation of its citizens from al-Hol camp and facilitating their return to their places of origin. He emphasized the necessity of durable solutions to ensure the continuity of services.
The DSRSG/RC/HC expressed gratitude to the service providers and center management for their support. He commended their efforts and those of UN entities, the Government of Iraq, and international partners in addressing the issues.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/243803-dsrsgrchc-visits-jedda-1-rehabilitation-center-ninewa




Date: 24 August 2023
Title: Iraqi youth for a Sustainable Future: Collaborative Campaign Highlights Environmental Action
Content: 24 August 2023
Baghdad, 24 August 2023 – Committed to a cleaner environment, Iraqi youth have launched a climate action campaign, bringing together governments, UN entities, activists, and the private sector to address environmental challenges and to act now to protect our planet. This initiative, spurred by International Youth Day, observed annually on 12 August, highlights "Green Skills for Youth: Towards A Sustainable World",aiming to engage and empower Iraqi youth, harnessing their potential as drivers of change for a more resilient and eco-conscious society.
Youth Empowerment in Action
Kicking off the campaign on 12 of August, an online campaign, followed by a dynamic discussion among 50 students of medicine focused on youth empowerment, active participation, and green skills to address global challenges and come up with collective solutions.
Rallying for a Plastic-Free Future
In a determined effort to beat plastic pollution, more than 500 individuals answered a call advocating for zero-plastic, converging on the banks of the River Tigris in Baghdad on 18 August to collect plastic bottles, bags and litter.
Capturing Climate Realities
An inclusive photography competition in Mosul, Ninewa Governorate, spotlighted the reality of climate change, highlighted environmental shifts, and focused on the needs of people with disabilities. Through impactful images, the contest conveyed change, inclusivity, and awareness.
Rooted in Renewal: Nationwide Tree Planting Initiative
Guided by collaborative efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment, a back-to-school tree-planting campaign instills responsibility in the young students. Thousands of trees will be planted in various Iraqi governorates, a testament to the resolve to nurture and protect the environment. Simultaneously, the Department of Media and Information will extend the initiative to three governorates in the Kurdistan Region through a seed/tree planting drive.
Digital Waves of Change: Amplifying Environmental Awareness
Two online campaigns are forthcoming. "Less Plastic," a social media initiative, aspires to unite youth and influencers in curbing plastic waste. The campaign highlights the significance of the United Nations Conference of Parties (COP) and the roles played by governments and the UN, and fosters a united call for action.
Resident Coordinator Ghulam Isaczai said: “United by purpose, young Iraqis, influencers, and stakeholders have ignited a beacon of hope through these diverse initiatives in advocating for and acting to protect the environment. With trees taking root, plastic waste highlighted, and voices raised to protect the environment, these dynamic youth are taking the solid steps towards a greener, more resilient future.”
Editor’s note: These activities wouldn’t be possible without the dedication of IFMSA-Iraq, Green Space Organization, Clean Iraq, and the Fighter Life Leaders Team, and the private sector enablers: Careem Taxi, BeCorp Inc., and Hala green water bottles initiative.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/243396-iraqi-youth-sustainable-future-collaborative-campaign-highlights-environmental-action




Date: 21 August 2023
Title: Iraqi Government allocates Five billion Iraqi Dinars to support FAO and MoA initiative for Buffalo Producers in South Iraq
Content: 21 August 2023
“Iraqi Government and FAO Iraq join forces to safeguard Southern buffalo Producers' Livelihoods from climate change and water scarcity Crisis’’
20 August 2023, Baghdad- Iraqi Government and The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) joined forces to support buffalo breeders in the southern provinces of Iraq, and effectively address the critical challenges posed by climate change and water scarcity. This collaboration demonstrates a shared commitment to safeguarding Iraq's vital agricultural heritage and strengthening local communities.
In an exemplary partnership and swift action, the resounding successes of FAO’s interventions in Nineveh and the Southern Marshes have not gone unnoticed. Funded by The European Union and implemented hand in hand by FAO Iraq with the Ministry of Agriculture, these interventions have significantly improved dairy / livestock feeding practices and provided vital support to farmers. The development of innovative techniques introduced at large scale in Iraq by FAO led by international expert, Dr. Chedly Kayouli, including the innovative use of sugar molasses and fodder, has led to remarkable improvements in milk and meat productivity and quality while mitigating the impacts of drought, bringing commitment of the Iraqi Government for scaling up such successful experience to other Governorates, in particular the outstanding advocacy of the member of the Advisory Commission, Agriculture & Water Resources Office of the Presidency of the council of Ministers Dr Ibrahim Sattar Jasim Al – Saadi.
FAO's resounding call to action on July 2023, drew urgent attention to the imminent threat of climate change on livestock and the livelihoods of breeders. Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, highlighted the serious impact of water scarcity and climate change on ecosystems and the sustainable livelihoods of breeders and farmers. FAOR indicated that emergency workshop was immediately convened to chart a robust Emergency Plan tailored to provide vital support to buffalo producers facing an acute water scarcity crisis in the Southern Iraqi Marshes. This initiative underscores the unwavering commitment of the Iraqi Government and FAO to the community well-being and the preservation of this Iraqi World Natural Heritage site.
Acknowledging the urgency of the crisis, the Iraqi Minister of Agriculture spearheaded an urgent appeal to the Council of Ministers. Subsequently, during the 32nd session of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Mohammed Shia' Al-Sudani took groundbreaking measures. Firstly, a substantial allocation of 5 billion dinars allocated from the budget for feed support to purchase essential buffalo feed and vital supplies to be generously provided to buffalo breeders in southern Iraq. Secondly, a dedicated joint team from the Ministry of Agriculture's livestock and extension departments together with FAO Iraq experts, will oversee the initiative's implementation.
Dr. Abdulhakim El Wear, FAO Assistant Director-General and Regional Representative for the Near East and North Africa, expressed his deep gratitude to the esteemed Government of Iraq for its swift and cooperative commitment in supporting breeders to overcome the current water scarcity crisis. He noted that this gesture demonstrates unprecedented governmental trust and support for FAO initiatives, forging new dimensions in international cooperation. Dr. El Waer also added that FAO teams in Iraq, the regional office in Cairo, and headquarters in Rome are dedicated to supporting agriculture in Iraq.
FAO Iraq and the Iraqi Government demonstrate an unwavering commitment to preserving a heritage of immense value, building community resilience, and fostering a sustainable future. As Iraq addresses the convergence of environmental challenges and steadfast dedication, this joint effort represents a decisive step towards improving the livelihoods of buffalo breeders in the southern regions of the country.
This initiative supports FAO Iraq's efforts towards SDGs 2 (Zero Hunger) and 13 (Climate Action), contributing to hunger eradication and climate resilience while uplifting buffalo breeders in Iraq's southern regions.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/242901-iraqi-government-allocates-five-billion-iraqi-dinars-support-fao-and-moa-initiative-buffalo




Date: 17 August 2023
Title: Rehabilitated stormwater networks in Fallujah to improve sanitation for 200,000 people
Content: 17 August 2023
Baghdad, 17 August 2023 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and German Government’s KfW Development Bank officially handed over the rehabilitated Jubail stormwater lift station in Fallujah to the Anbar governorate.
The lift station is part of the six German-funded UNDP projects in Fallujah to improve sewage and rainwater management and sanitation in Al-Khadraa neighborhood which has over 200,000 residents. It also includes the rehabilitation of three drainage zones of the Jubail sewage networks, completed in April this year, as well as the rehabilitation of the 11-kilovolt underground feeder completed in June.

Restoring critical infrastructure
During the battle to recapture Fallujah from ISIL, critical infrastructure, such as  water and sewage treatment systems were severely damaged, increasing public health risks in already vulnerable communities. In Al-Khadraa, communities resorted to using individual septic tanks, resulting in untreated sewage often seeping onto streets and storm drains that discharged into the Euphrates River, posing an environmental risk, potentially affecting the health of thousands of people.
“The rehabilitation of the Jubail stormwater networks and lift station in Fallujah is an essential component of UNDP's comprehensive efforts to restore water and sewage infrastructure in the region to ensure water quality and health safety for the Iraqi people,” says UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Auke Lootsma.
As of July 2023, UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization has completed 297 water projects and 117 sewage systems, serving over 5 million Iraqis across the liberated governorates of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa, and Salah Al-Din.
“Through the generous support of our steadfast partners, the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) and KfW Development Bank, we are restoring Iraq's waterways, reducing water pollution, protecting people from flooding, and safeguarding vital water resources,” adds Mr. Lootsma.
"Water is life - and sound water infrastructure is essential for improving livelihoods and perspectives of Iraq's future generations. The successful implementation of this project echoes our shared commitment to support Iraq in the stabilization of areas affected by the conflict," says Dr. Maximilian Rasch, Chargé d'Affaires at the German Embassy in Baghdad.
"We are very pleased to see the positive impact this partnership brings to Fallujah and its communities - together we find solutions to complex environmental and climate issues, as well as decreasing threats to public health that can come from contaminated water sources” says Dr. Anna-Christine Janke, Country Director of the KfW Office Iraq.
“We thank UNDP and Germany for its continued support for the people of Iraq. The completion of the Jubail networks and lift station will help reduce health risks associated with waterborne diseases and water contamination, mitigate environmental concerns, and ensure a cleaner and healthier environment for the people in the area,” says Deputy Governor of Anbar, Jassim Muhammad Al-Assel.
“The Jubail plant, which specializes in rainwater drainage, serves the neighborhoods of the south of the city of Fallujah. Its design capacity is 25,000 cubic meters per hour and distributed over 12 large pumping crews. This capacity makes it the largest rainwater drainage station in Anbar,” says Fallujah Sewerage Manager, Ayoub Farhan.
A second phase of the rehabilitation of the Jubail stormwater lift station is being carried out by UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization and is expected to be completed in September. It is also funded by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) provided through the KfW Development Bank. Additionally, they have funded over 280 stabilization projects, which include housing, livelihoods, schools, health facilities, water and electrical networks, and municipal buildings, benefitting 2.5 million people.

Editor's note:
Link: Photos of rehabilitated Jubail stormwater networks and lift station
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/241729-rehabilitated-stormwater-networks-fallujah-improve-sanitation-200000-people




Date: 16 August 2023
Title: Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs trainers begin intensive training on ILO’s flagship business management programme- Start and Improve Your Business
Content: 16 August 2023
The Training of Trainers programme will equip twenty-two trainers on the implementation of the programme, supporting women and men who are looking to start or expand their own small and medium enterprises.
Baghdad, Iraq (ILO News) A ten-day Training of Trainers programme for trainers of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs began in Baghdad on Monday (August 14), focusing on ILO’s Start and Improve Your Business programme – designed for those who want to start or improve their small businesses.
A total of twenty-two trainers from across governorates will be supported to obtain their certification as trainers of the flagship business management training programme. They will initially train 400 women and men who are looking to start or expand their own small and medium enterprises - including entrepreneurs from Forcibly Displaced Populations.
Start and Improve Your Business programme is a system of inter-related training packages and supporting materials for small-scale entrepreneurs to start and grow their businesses, which reaches thousands of entrepreneurs across the world each year. It is structured into four separate training packages, which are designed to respond to the progressive stages of business development - Generate Your Business Idea, Start Your Business, Improve Your Business, and Expand Your Business.
The training programme falls within the priorities of the Decent Work Country Programme , implemented by the ILO, the Government of Iraq and social partners to support private sector development and entrepreneurship in Iraq. It is being implemented by the ILO under the PROSPECTS Partnership , which is funded by the Government of the Netherlands, as part of a financial inclusion initiative launched in 2021 to support entrepreneurial pathways for refugees, Internally Displaced Persons and host community members.
Addressing the trainees during the opening day of the training, ILO Country Coordinator for Iraq, Maha Kattaa highlighted the importance of entrepreneurship development, enabling owners of small and medium enterprises, especially youth, to acquire the skills and knowledge needed to develop, manage and grow their businesses.
“Training and certifying a cadre of trainers from the Ministry will help institutionalize the programme within the Ministry. We hope that the success of this initiative will be a stepping stone to expand the horizons of entrepreneurship in Iraq, leading to the wider use of this model to support the development of the private sector and create sustainable and decent job opportunities for young women and men,” Kattaa added.
The training is in line with the government Riyada' initiative for development and employment, launched by Prime Minister in March of this year, which focuses on providing training and financial support for young men and women to start and develop their businesses.
“We thank all our trainers from the governorates for participating in the Start and Improve Your Business Training of Trainers. These trainings and programmes are essential in developing the capacities of our cadres (of trainers),” said Abbas Fadel, Director General of the Department of Labour and Vocational Training at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
“Trainings are the essence of everything. In order to develop the labour market, we must continue to develop the skills of our trainers. Moving forward, you will be tasked with conducting these trainings, and the impact of this work will be felt in the labour market and among our youth,” Fadel continued.
Following the completion of the initial Training of Trainers (TOT) programme, trainers will begin delivering the training package to young entrepreneurs, under the supervision of ILO’s Master Trainer.
Under PROSPECTS’ financial inclusion initiative, the ILO has also been collaborating with the Ministry of Youth and Sports in Federal Iraq in advancing financial education among youth in Iraq. This is being done through the creation of a pool of trainers across Iraq in Financial Education who in return are training young women and men on financial literacy.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/241583-ministry-labour-and-social-affairs-trainers-begin-intensive-training-ilo%E2%80%99s-flagship-business




Date: 13 August 2023
Title: UNICEF in Iraq and Ministry of Youth and Sports Launch Platforms to Empower Youth to Combat Climate Change
Content: 13 August 2023
Innovative Initiatives Unveiled on International Youth Day to Equip Iraqi Youth with Green Skills and Knowledge
Baghdad, Iraq – 13 August 2023 – On International Youth Day, UNICEF and the Ministry of Youth and Sports launch a series of new innovative platforms designed to empower Iraqi youth and address the pressing challenges posed by climate change. These pioneering initiatives, including the National Youth Council and the Youth United for Climate Action coalition, mark a significant step towards equipping young people with the skills and knowledge to actively contribute to their communities and pave the way for a sustainable future.
Under the leadership of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and with UNICEF’s support, these multi-faceted platforms will play a pivotal role in nurturing an informed and empowered generation of youth. The initiatives align seamlessly with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, reflecting a shared commitment to fostering youth engagement, driving climate action, and advancing sustainable development in Iraq.
"This joint work with UNICEF represents a momentous leap forward in our efforts to empower Iraqi youth and confront the urgent challenge of climate change," says Mr. Ahmed Muhammed Al-Mubarqa’a, Minister of Youth and Sports. "Through these platforms, we are equipping our young citizens with essential tools and opportunities to emerge as leaders within their communities, champion positive change and contribute to a resilient and sustainable future."
"These transformative platforms, resulting from our strong collaboration with both the Government and committed young people, will enable Iraqi youth to take up leadership in sustainable development and climate action. Investing in youth skills, knowledge, and passion is key for these young agents of change to catalyze enduring, positive impact," says Sandra Lattouf, UNICEF Representative in Iraq.
The Youth United for Climate Action coalition, a new flagship initiative, represents an unprecedented union of Iraqi youth dedicated to addressing climate change head-on. Through evidence-based research, innovative solutions, and grassroots campaigns, the coalition will champion strategies for climate adaptation and mitigation. The National Youth Council provides an inclusive platform for young Iraqis to voice their concerns, ideas, and aspirations. The National Life Skills Programme, implemented earlier this year, continues to empower young individuals with crucial skills in employment, entrepreneurship, and environmental awareness.
These groundbreaking initiatives reflect UNICEF's unwavering commitment to championing the rights and well-being of every child and young person, ensuring they possess the tools and opportunities to shape a brighter future for themselves and their communities.
#####
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit http://www.unicef.org/iraq.
Follow UNICEF in Iraq on our website,  Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/241389-unicef-iraq-and-ministry-youth-and-sports-launch-platforms-empower-youth-combat-climate




Date: 10 August 2023
Title: Validation Training: FAO training workshop on Water Productivity in Iraq
Content: 10 August 2023
Baghdad, 30 July 2023 - The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has taken a giant leap towards sustainable water management and agricultural efficiency with its recent two-day training on WaPOR Data Validation. This event, held on the 26th and 27th of July 2023, marks a significant milestone in Iraq's journey towards optimizing water resources through the innovative use of remote sensing technology.
WaPOR, short for Water Productivity Open-access portal, has emerged as a beacon of hope for agricultural communities across Africa and the Near East, and now its transformative potential is taking root in Iraq. By harnessing the power of remote sensing technologies, WaPOR empowers nations to monitor and enhance their agricultural water productivity, ensuring a greener and more food-secure future.
The Netherlands funded project, "Monitoring Land and Water Productivity by Remote Sensing WaPOR Phase II in Iraq," is playing a pivotal role in fostering water management in Iraq. The recent training event, delivered by the esteemed partners from IHE Delft with support from the International Water Management Institute (IWMI), represents a remarkable convergence of expertise and innovation. Representatives from key ministries, including Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Environment, the KRG's Ministry of Agriculture &Water Resources, and other WaPOR stakeholders like the universities of Ministry of Higher Education & Scientific Research, actively participated in the training.

The training aimed to enhance the technical expertise of project stakeholders, validate WaPOR portal remote sensing data and compare it with local data through practical exercises, and establish a clear training plan for 2024 at the country level. Additionally, participants actively discussed the critical need for coordination among beneficiaries and stakeholders to ensure the seamless implementation of project activities. This valuable exercise allowed participants to gain a comprehensive understanding of the power and accuracy of WaPOR's remote sensing capabilities in conjunction with locally collected data.
Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, the FAO Representative in Iraq, inaugurated the training and emphasized the significance of the WaPOR project in the country. He stated, "water scarcity poses challenges in various areas in Iraq. The WaPOR project is a valuable tool that aids in addressing water use efficiency by monitoring irrigation systems' performance and groundwater abstractions. It assesses the functioning, adequacy, efficiency, and effectiveness of water resource allocation to agricultural lands, thereby supporting food security and nutrition in Iraq."
In recognition of their efforts and successful completion of the WaPOR data validation exercises, participants received certificates from the IHE Delft Institute.
FAO Iraq commends the commitment and active participation of all stakeholders and partners in Iraq in their pursuit of sustainable water resource management and food security. The organization remains dedicated to supporting Iraq in achieving its goals and enhancing agricultural productivity through innovative initiatives like the WaPOR project.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/241247-validation-training-fao-training-workshop-water-productivity-iraq




Date: 09 August 2023
Title: FAO Strengthens National Capacities in Data Management and Analysis for Animal Disease Surveillance and Reporting
Content: 09 August 2023
Baghdad, 9 August 2023. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (MoAWR-KRI) delivered a hands-on training on “Data Management and Analysis” in Baghdad. This five-day training commenced on 6 August 2023 under “Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq” project funded by the United States Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA).
The training, attended by the specialists from the veterinary services in Baghdad, Erbil, Duhok, Nineveh, Anbar, Wasit, Muthanna and Basra governorates, builds on the Event Mobile Application (EMA-i) workshop on “Disease notification and early warning reporting” and aims at developing skills in electronic data management, including verification and in-depth epidemiological analysis for a quality and rapid response to animal diseases outbreaks.
As surveillance data management and processing play an integral, increasing, and evolving role in supporting early warning of, and response to zoonotic disease events, it is important to improve data management and processing at the local level and integrate with the system at the national level. The training focused on enhancing veterinary services’ capacities in data collection, the application of different methods for data management and processing, techniques to troubleshoot (quality assurance / quality check) data coming in from the field, as well as processing, verification, exploration, and interpretation of data for decision-making.
The opening session was attended by the FAO Representative in Iraq and officials from relevant ministries. Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, underlined the importance of this joint collaboration with the MoA and MoAWR-KRI on data management and analysis for the early warning, which offers a better understanding and interpretation of animal health situation in the country for targeted disease control. He added: “This training aims at enhancing the skills of participants in data handling, verification, analysis, and interpretation and could contribute to reduce threats posed by emerging, transboundary and endemic pathogenic agents.”
The project “Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq” is a four-year initiative funded by DTRA that seeks to reduce the risk of international movement of animal diseases which introduction and spread could threaten livestock production, food security and nutrition,and the environment of Iraq. The above is expected to be achieved through strengthening the capacity of veterinary services to detect, diagnose and report highly pathogenic animal diseases and improve communication between central and local levels.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/241179-fao-strengthens-national-capacities-data-management-and-analysis-animal-disease-surveillance




Date: 09 August 2023
Title: UN Human Rights Chief ends visit to Iraq
Content: 09 August 2023
Baghdad, 9 August 2023
Masa Elkheir. Thank you all for coming. I have just concluded the first-ever visit by a UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to Iraq. I thank the Government of Iraq very much for its invitation, and for the extensive discussions we have had at the highest levels during my time here. I feel a deep personal connection with the people of this country, and I come here as a friend.
I spent the past four days in Baghdad, Erbil and Basra, meeting the Prime Minister of Iraq, the President and Prime Minister of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and other high-level officials, including the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Justice, as well as the Speaker of Parliament, the Chief Judge of the High Judicial Council, and the Chief Judge of the Appeals Court in Basra.
I also had several meetings with civil society, including women human rights defenders, environmental activists, journalists, lawyers, artists, members of the Marsh Arab (Ma’dan) community, as well as representatives from the diverse and rich cultural and religious fabric of Iraq.
And I experienced first-hand the reality of climate change in the Al-Salhiyah area of Basra’s Shatt Al-Arab district, in southern Iraq.
In 50-degree-Celsius heat, in the midst of drought-ridden and barren fields, local community leaders and representatives showed me pictures of the lush date palm trees that – just 30 years ago – lined parts of the now dried-up Shatt-al-Arab waterway.
Standing in searing heat in that scarred landscape, breathing air polluted by the many gas flares dotting the region, it was clear to me that the era of global boiling has indeed begun.
This is a climate emergency. And it is high time it is treated like one. Not just for Iraq but for the world. What is happening here is a window into a future that is now coming for other parts of the world – if we continue to fail in our responsibility to take preventive and mitigating action against climate change.
Iraq is among the most climate-vulnerable countries in the world. The serious environmental degradation here is the result of a toxic mix of violence, oil industry excesses, global warming, reduced rainfall, and lack of effective water management and regulation.
Just yesterday the Minister of Water Resources announced that water levels in Iraq are the lowest they have ever been. The water issue has wider regional implications, and all countries have to work to manage this precious resource as a public good. Water is a global public good.
Civil society actors spoke to me about the chronic pollution in Basra and the resulting health problems in the community, including high rates of cancer and other serious ailments. They also stressed the need for increased transparency. “People have the right to know what is going on, about the dangers to their health and environment, and to help with strategies to work together to mitigate and adapt to the impact of climate change,” as one rights defender said to me.
I welcome the Government’s public commitment to address, as a priority, the challenges of climate change and water scarcity. Much work lies ahead – in awareness raising, legislative and policy reform and capacity building of institutions. It is essential that this is done with the meaningful involvement of those most affected.
But I am concerned that a series of actions taken by people in positions of power – for example, bringing criminal defamation suits against journalists and civil society actors – have created a chilling effect on freedom of expression. There have also been reports of violence, intimidation and death threats against environmental activists, including by armed elements, stifling the open space for discussion that is so crucial to addressing these issues.
One activist pleaded for the protection of rights defenders, saying: “It should not be dangerous to share data and raise awareness of the problem. We need to work together to mitigate the impact – lives are at risk.”
This is an issue we have been working closely on, and we are planning a report on freedom of expression in Iraq.
Iraq has historically contributed so much – cultural, literary, intellectual, civilizational – to shaping our world today. It is a mesmerizing history, breathtaking in its beauty and diversity.
But as we know all too well, Iraq also has a more recent history of repression, injustice, conflict, trauma and some of the worst violations of human rights and dignity to which the world has borne witness. I can only but admire the incredible resilience of the people of Iraq who have lived such realities within their lifetimes.
Estimates suggest that up to a million people disappeared under the regime of Saddam Hussein and hundreds of thousands more since then, including between 2014 and 2017 when Da’esh took control of vast swathes of Iraqi territory, and in subsequent security operations. Such staggering figures are difficult to fathom. Behind each of these individuals is a family – a spouse, a child, a parent, loved ones who deserve recognition, and whose rights to truth, justice and accountability are violated.
I welcome the Government’s invitation to the UN Committee on Enforced Disappearances, which visited Iraq last year. I urge implementation of the Committee’s recommendations. I understand that a law on enforced disappearances is due to come before the Council of Representatives – a welcome step in the right direction. It is high time a law is passed, in line with international human rights standards. My Office will follow closely the consideration and passage of this law and is ready to advise and support, based on our experience in other countries grappling with this issue.
There is also a painful history of the use of torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment – under Saddam Hussein, during the US-led occupation of Iraq, during the conflict with Da’esh, and continuing into present-day Iraq. I’m encouraged by what I heard both from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice on tackling the issue of torture in the country, and to take preventive measures to ensure that torture has no place in the future of Iraq. I welcome their commitment to consider ratification of the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention Against Torture. The Optional Protocol mandates the creation of a national preventive mechanism, which conducts regular visits to places of detention and can play an important role in eradicating torture. I have offered our support in this regard.
Key to stopping such serious human rights violations is putting an end to the impunity that past perpetrators of human rights violations have enjoyed. This was a matter I discussed extensively with the Government and civil society, including in relation to the Tishreen protests of October 2019.
We have documented that at least 487 protesters were killed and 7,715 injured during demonstrations between 1 October 2019 and 30 April 2020, due to the use of force by Iraqi Security Forces and armed elements against protesters. The Government established a fact-finding committee and provided welcome support to victims through compensation programmes. Given the passage of time and lack of accountability, I have urged swift, transparent action to stem the impunity that has taken hold in relation to the Tishreen protests.
Equally important is the strengthening of judicial and national human rights institutions so that they can work independently and effectively – which I raised in my conversations with senior officials. I welcome all efforts of ongoing law reform in line with international human rights standards.
I have also called on the authorities to declare an official moratorium on the use of the death penalty in Iraq – where more than 11,000 people remain on death row.
Issues of concern that arose in almost every interaction I had were access to basic services, the need for good governance and transparency – and corruption. It is crucial that robust anti-corruption measures are taking hold, and that a culture of transparency, open to public scrutiny, is fostered. I also offered our Office’s expertise on human rights in national budgeting, to ensure that national budgets can deliver on basic services and are inclusive, building upon the Government’s important social safety net for the most vulnerable.
I am also in Iraq at a time when the terms “gender” and “women’s empowerment” are – astonishingly – under attack, distorted and confused. This makes no sense in the face of the massive challenges that the country has. The use of these terms is not in contradiction with any culture, religion or tradition.
All evidence tells us that we need more women in decision-making positions, and more protections in law, policy and society against violence against women. The 25 per cent quota for women in the Council of Representatives, Iraq’s legislature, is commendable – and needs to be increased. Attempts to ban the use of universally accepted terms that are crucial for achieving equality and non-discrimination are harmful, as are threats and intimidation against women working on these issues.
I urge leaders across society to cease the politics of distraction. Human rights must not be instrumentalized to divide us – human rights are what unites us, what brings us together as humanity, in dignity. Do not allow populist rhetoric to create more fractures in a society that has already experienced fragmentation. Disinformation campaigns, hate speech and incitement to violence must not be given free rein.
As we mark the 75th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights this year, its principles are powerfully relevant for a State as richly diverse as Iraq, particularly its guarantee of human rights without distinction of nationality, gender, national or ethnic origin, religion, language, sexual orientation or any other status.
Twenty years ago this month, 22 of my UN colleagues, including my predecessor Sergio Vieira de Mello, were killed in a suicide bombing at the Canal Hotel in Baghdad, and 150 others were injured. These were colleagues who were in Iraq with a sincere desire to support and assist the Iraqi people in their aspirations for a better, more just future. I witnessed how these aspirations live on today.
There is a yearning for a common vision for a future that is grounded in human rights to be able to deal with the many difficult, long-standing issues it faces, so that the wounds can heal, and the gains that have been so painstakingly achieved can be preserved.
I leave Iraq with a clear appreciation of the progress, efforts and achievements of the people of this beautiful, diverse country – but also with the concern that the gains remain fragile.
I call on all those in positions of authority and influence to be guided by the interests and the human rights of the Iraqi people above all else and to tackle the corruption, discrimination, impunity, climate change and the remaining obstacles to lasting stability and peace.
To be able to address the big challenges of our times, we need to draw on the creativity and innovation that thrives when people are able to discuss the issues and propose solutions together. This means enlarging these freedoms as much as possible.
Our UN human rights team in Iraq is ready, as always, to assist, advise and support the promotion and protection of human rights for all Iraqis.
Thank you, Shukran Jazeelan.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/241226-un-human-rights-chief-ends-visit-iraq




Date: 07 August 2023
Title: Stronger Together: Yezidi Survivors Groups Mark Genocide, 9 Years Later
Content: 07 August 2023
Sinjar, Iraq – On Thursday, 3 August 2023, nine years since the Yezidi genocide perpetrated by Daesh, survivor groups in Sinjar came together to mark the anniversary by holding their first ever public activities: a candle-lit vigil honouring the thousands who lost their lives, and a community afforestation campaign – a watershed moment towards the amplification of youth voices and leadership in Iraq.
Survivors' Voices Network – initially launched in 2021 for Yezidi survivors residing in Iraqi Kurdistan and now expanded to include all Iraqi survivors who were held captive by Daesh – held a silent vigil in Sinjar, where participants lit candles to pay tribute to those who perished in the aftermath of the attacks. This event served as a powerful reminder of the resilience and strength of the survivors.
“It is challenging for us to participate in these activities, but we must make the effort and try. All the pain and wounds converged upon us on this day,” said Delal*, a member of the Network. “We want justice, the prosecution of Daesh members, the reconstruction of our regions, the unveiling of mass graves and the relentless search for missing individuals.”
In parallel, Hope Givers – a group of young male Yezidi survivors once held captive by Daesh and who now work together to bring attention to the plight of boys and young men who survived Daesh indoctrination attempts and enslavement – carried out an afforestation campaign in a village in Sinjar district. The initiative aimed to transform the village's landscape by planting trees along public streets and homes, creating a greener environment and providing shade in the midst of a climate change-induced heat wave – thereby encouraging residents to be stewards of the environment and showing those still displaced that there is hope in return.
“Let this day serve as a reminder for people to plant hope and overcome the painful memories that the community endured. Let's transform it into a day of fields filled with hope for the future,” said Olan*, a member of the Hope Givers.
Both initiatives highlight the importance of survivors’ leadership in healing and rebuilding their communities.
"IOM is proud to support the Survivors' Voices Network and Hope Givers in their meaningful initiatives to honour and enshrine their community’s experiences in public memory, while also bringing people together to build a brighter future," said Mr. Giorgi Gigauri, Chief of Mission for IOM Iraq. "We will continue to support these communities through every point of access we can – from direct assistance to those displaced and returned alike, to capacity building and advocacy at the highest levels of Government."
Also on 3 August, the Office of the Prime Minister held a commemoration event in Baghdad attended by the highest levels of Government and UN representation. In Erbil, the Kurdistan Regional Government organized a commemoration together with the Yezidi civil society organization, Yazda.
Though the challenges, devastation and trauma are immense, through a survivor-led whole-of-society partnership and dedicated government action, our collective efforts can facilitate healing and create a future defined by dignity, security and peace for the Yezidi community.
*Names have been changed to protect privacy of individuals

For more information, please contact:
Deepika Nath, +964 751 809 9279, dnath@iom.int
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/240993-stronger-together-yezidi-survivors-groups-mark-genocide-9-years-later




Date: 06 August 2023
Title: UNICEF, funded by Daewoo E&C, to provide early childhood education support to 750 children from disadvantaged areas of Basra
Content: 06 August 2023
UNICEF receives close to USD500,000 from Daewoo E&C to increase access to early learning in Basra Governorate.
Baghdad, 06 August 2023 – UNICEF has signed a partnership with Daewoo E&C to provide 750 young children with access to early childhood education (ECE) services in disadvantaged areas in Basra Governorate.
Co-led by the Basra Directorate of Education, this partnership will ensure inclusive and equitable quality education for every child, enhancing school readiness and facilitating a steady and effective transition to primary education. ECE is central in enabling younger children to start primary education at the right age and with the necessary competencies to succeed.

With Daewoo E&C’s support, UNICEF will build five ECE centers in five schools (one classroom per school). Each ECE center will include a classroom, water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) facilities and a small safe play area, serving two shifts. In alignment with Iraq National Education Strategy, UNICEF is supporting the Government’s goal to provide access to ECE for at least 30 per cent of all children in Iraq by 2031.
“UNICEF will support the Ministry of Education (MoE) in providing vulnerable girls and boys with access to quality early childhood development, care and pre-primary education, which will accelerate progress towards Sustainable Development Goal 4.2,” said Sandra Lattouf, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. “With Daewoo E&C’s support, MoE and UNICEF will ensure that these children are able to fulfil their rights and reach their full potential.”
“Daewoo E&C is proud to have entered into a partnership with UNICEF to provide early childhood education (ECE) support to 750 children from disadvantaged areas in Basra Governorate,” said Baek Jung-wan, CEO of Daewoo E&C. "I hope our support for ECE will help create a stable and healthy future for children in Iraq and we plan to further contribute to the development of health and education of communities overseas.”
School-Based Management committees will be established in the five schools as part of strengthening ECE systems. Based on the Parents Teachers Association, the members of the committee will be trained and supported to elaborate a school improvement plan. This will ensure community ownership of the implementation of the ECE component.
To strengthen the capacity of teachers, 40 teachers will be trained on ECE, contributing to delivering quality education focusing on the holistic development of the child. As additional training, 40 teachers and caregivers will also strengthen their skills in young child protection.
The programme will also aim to reach children in the community through summer activities for 750 children immediately when the project starts to prepare the young children for the next school year as the construction will take months to be completed. 750 parents will also be reached to support their parenting skills and community mobilization will be implemented to raise awareness on ECE.
UNICEF will continue working with the Government of Iraq, UN agencies, civil society and community organizations to raise awareness on the importance of ECE in Basra and the rest of the country to ensure that children have the best start in life.
#####
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit http://www.unicef.org/iraq.
Follow UNICEF in Iraq on our website, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.

About Daewoo E&C
Daewoo E&C is a leading global construction company based in the Republic of Korea and has provided wide support to those in need worldwide through overseas branches and sites.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/240978-unicef-funded-daewoo-ec-provide-early-childhood-education-support-750-children-disadvantaged




Date: 03 August 2023
Title: Relentless Pursuit of Justice and Accountability Continues: 9 Years Since the Yazidi Genocide
Content: 03 August 2023
Baghdad, 03 August 2023 – On this fateful day, nine years ago, Iraq’s Yazidi community suffered one of the most horrid atrocities in modern history, in what UNITAD has found clear and convincing evidence to legally qualify it as a crime of genocide. Coming upon the 9th commemoration of the Yazidi genocide today, we reiterate our commitment to the pursuit of justice for victims and survivors, ensuring that perpetrators of such heinous crimes are held accountable, no matter where they go, or how long it takes.
“An important step in any accountability processes is the recognition of the crimes committed by ISIL for what they truly are, international crimes. What we want to see in Iraq, as well as throughout the world, is for justice systems to deal with ISIL crimes against the Yazidi community and hold the perpetrators of the genocide accountable before competent courts,” stressed Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher.
Along these lines, UNITAD welcomed the most recent conviction of an ISIL member for aiding and abetting genocide against Yazidis by a German Court. UNITAD has supported German prosecution authorities by identifying and interviewing the key witness, a Yazidi woman who was held as a slave for 3 years by the ISIL couple, Nadine K. and her husband.  Special Adviser Ritscher mentioned that: “this conviction and other similar ones constitute tangible progress towards justice and bringing some comfort to the families and victims. The pieces of the puzzle are coming together, as we continue to work tirelessly to support more prosecutions for ISIL perpetrators. This is the justice we all want to see, in Iraq and throughout the world.”
Special Adviser Ritscher commended Iraqi authorities which have shown high level of commitment in advancing the Iraq-led process to enact a national legislation that allows for the prosecution of ISIL members for their international crimes in Iraq. “UNITAD has provided technical expert support for this process through the joint working group that was launched in March 2023 with representatives of the judiciary, alongside legal experts from the Prime Minister’s office, the National Permanent Committee for International Humanitarian Law, as well as the Iraqi State Council, hosted by the Supreme Judicial Council, and will continue to do so in the coming weeks and months. This is the process that will pave the way to see trials for ISIL perpetrators of the Yazidi genocide here in Iraq” he indicated.
To support these accountability efforts inside and outside of Iraq, UNITAD’s investigations into ISIL crimes against the Yazidi community continue to be one of the Team’s top priorities. Further evidence and witness testimonies are being gathered to supplement case-building efforts. Additionally, to date, 37 mass graves of Yazidi ISIL victims have been excavated with UNITAD’s support and the Team has identified over 100 Yazidi heritage sites destroyed by ISIL.
These tireless efforts can only continue thanks to the bravery and resilience of the Yazidi community as a whole, and the survivors in particular. “In light of the remarkable determination of the Yazidi survivors and community, we find ourselves deeply humbled. UNITAD is fully committed to dedicating all of its resources and efforts towards the accomplishment of this paramount common goal of accountability for ISIL crimes in Iraq as well as around the world, in close cooperation with the Yazidi community itself and the Iraqi authorities”, said Special Adviser Ritscher.
The Team will continue to advocate for and support the continued Iraqi efforts towards a national legislation that would allow for the prosecution of ISIL international crimes, including the crime of genocide against the Yazidis, in Iraq; for victims to see their day in court in a way that ensures their meaningful participation in accountability processes.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/240751-relentless-pursuit-justice-and-accountability-continues-9-years-yazidi-genocide




Date: 31 July 2023
Title: Iraq eliminates trachoma as a public health problem
Content: 31 July 2023
The World Health Organization (WHO) congratulates Iraq for having eliminated trachoma as a public health problem, making it the fifth country in WHO’s Eastern Mediterranean Region to achieve this milestone.
“The success of Iraq’s national trachoma programme has shown what can be achieved with national leadership and collaboration”, said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General. “Freedom from trachoma will positively impact the lives of the most vulnerable populations now and in the future”.
Iraq established its national trachoma programme in 2012 to coordinate the final domestic push against the disease. A trachoma surveillance system was developed to detect and manage cases within secondary and tertiary eye care facilities, as well as through school pre-enrolment and school eye screening programmes conducted in collaboration with the Ministry of Education. Thousands of refractionists, optometrists, ophthalmologists, specialist eye surgeons and other trained healthcare staff contributed to these efforts.
Post-elimination, Iraq and WHO will continue to closely monitor previously endemic areas to detect and if necessary, combat any resurgence of disease.
“WHO has validated Iraq as having eliminated trachoma as a public health problem, making it the eighth country in the Eastern Mediterranean Region that has eliminated at least one neglected tropical disease” said Dr Ahmed Al-Mandhari, WHO Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean. “This is a remarkable achievement, and it illustrates that with dedication countries can achieve success in eliminating diseases, even under challenging circumstances. Iraq’s success in eliminating trachoma is also a true demonstration of our regional vision of Health for All by All.”
Trachoma, the leading infectious cause of blindness worldwide, is still known to be endemic in six countries of WHO’s Eastern Mediterranean Region, but there has been substantial progress in the number of people in the region requiring antibiotic treatment for trachoma elimination purposes, which has fallen from 39 million in 2013 to 6.9 million in April 2023.
Globally, Iraq joins 17 other countries that have been validated by WHO for having eliminated trachoma as a public health problem. These are Benin, Cambodia, China, Gambia, Ghana, Islamic Republic of Iran, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Malawi, Mali, Mexico, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Togo and Vanuatu.
Iraq is also the 50th country to be acknowledged by WHO for eliminating at least one neglected tropical disease (NTD), globally. This major milestone is the halfway mark to the 100-country target set for 2030 in the WHO road map for neglected tropical diseases. Since the beginning of 2023, 5 other countries have successfully completed the relevant validation processes for one NTD.
“The contribution that NTD programmes are making towards universal health coverage is impressive as by definition they extend outreach to pockets of underserved populations” said Dr Ibrahima Socé Fall, Director, Global NTD Programme, WHO.  “Thanks to Iraq’s dedication and commitment, the world is now closer to attaining the Sustainable Development Goals targets”.
Trachoma is a neglected tropical disease. It is caused by infection with the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis, which spreads from person to person through contaminated fingers, fomites and flies that have come into contact with discharge from the eyes or nose of an infected person.
Environmental risk factors for trachoma transmission include poor hygiene, overcrowded households, and inadequate access to water and sanitation.
To eliminate trachoma as a public health problem, WHO recommends the SAFE strategy1 a comprehensive approach to reduce transmission of the causative organism, clear existing infections and deal with their effects.
The 2021–2030 neglected tropical disease road map targets the prevention, control elimination and eradication of 20 diseases and disease groups by 2030. Progress against trachoma and other neglected tropical diseases alleviates the human and economic burden that they impose on the world’s most disadvantaged communities.
----------------------------------------------------
1The SAFE strategy consists of: Surgery to treat the blinding stage (trachomatous trichiasis); Antibiotics to clear the infection, particularly mass drug administration of the antibiotic azithromycin, which is donated by the manufacturer, Pfizer, to elimination programmes, through the International Trachoma Initiative; Facial cleanliness; and Environmental improvement, particularly improving access to water and sanitation.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/240542-iraq-eliminates-trachoma-public-health-problem




Date: 31 July 2023
Title: Poland reaffirms commitment to Iraq’s stabilization with additional US$270,000 contribution
Content: 31 July 2023
Baghdad, 31 July 2023 – Iraq’s post-ISIL stabilization efforts will continue to make a difference in the lives of the most vulnerable, as the Government of Poland reaffirmed its commitment with an additional inject of funding in the amount of 1.1 million Polish zloty (approximately US$ 270,000) towards UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS).
This is Poland’s second contribution to the Facility, bringing its total contribution to 2.1 million Polish zloty (over US$500,000). With this additional funding, UNDP will support the rehabilitation of critical infrastructure in communities affected by the conflict, further bolstering Iraq’s efforts towards long-term development.
“UNDP's work in Iraq is upheld by the principles of resilience, inclusivity, and sustainable development. We work alongside our partners, to ensure no one is left behind, as Iraq moves towards a brighter future. But our work is not yet over, the road to stabilization is only the beginning. This collective effort and investment must continue, as we rebuild communities, revive the local economy through livelihoods’ support and empower Iraqis, especially women and young people, to become catalysts of positive change,” says UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Auke Lootsma.
“To see lives transformed through this project has been extraordinary.  It is our hope that this contribution is seen as a reflection of our support and partnership in the rebuilding of Iraq’s future ,” says Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Poland to the Republic of Iraq, His Excellency, Mr. Marcin Kubiak.
“Together with UNDP and the Government of Iraq, we will continue to advocate and support this life-changing project for the benefit of the country and the people of Iraq,” Ambassador Kubiak added.
Poland and the international community’s support to Iraq’s stabilization
At the request of the Government of Iraq, UNDP, in partnership with the international community, established the Funding Facility for Stabilization in 2015 to facilitate the return of Iraqis displaced by the conflict. The project continues to lay the groundwork for rehabilitation, provide capacity support and ensures safeguards are in place to prevent the resurgence of violence and extremism.  Since its inception, the Facility has completed more than 3,600 projects across the five liberated governorates of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa, and Salah Al-Din.
The lives of over 8.3 million Iraqis were improved, and the return of 4.9 million people displaced by the ISIL conflict were facilitated, through the implementation of these essential projects, through the Facility, which includes the rehabilitation of schools, hospitals, water systems, electricity networks, roads, and homes, and the creation of short-term employment.
Poland’s contribution has funded 61 projects, the majority of which are in the health sector. These life-saving projects have served over 250,000 people in need of some form of humanitarian health support or assistance.
“Since 2015, we have witnessed the life-changing impact of our joint efforts, as we restored homes, schools, and delivered other essential services, creating opportunities to help vulnerable communities rebuild their lives. The generous contribution from the Government of Poland reinforces this joint commitment to support the people of Iraq, in their journey toward peace and stability,” says UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Auke Lootsma.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/240544-poland-reaffirms-commitment-iraq%E2%80%99s-stabilization-additional-us270000-contribution




Date: 31 July 2023
Title: Without Reforms, Iraq’s Oil Boom Could Turn to Bust
Content: 31 July 2023
Real GDP growth reached 7 percent in 2022 but oil related growth constraints have reemerged.
BAGHDAD, July 31, 2023 – Iraq's economy continued its oil-driven recovery after the sharp pandemic-induced recession in 2020, but non-oil sectors have stagnated, and growth constraints have reemerged. Despite a record oil windfall and a long-awaited new budget, Iraq nevertheless remains at risk of missing the opportunity to push ahead overdue reforms that are critical to boost private sector growth and create the millions of jobs needed in the next decade.
The Spring/Summer 2023 edition of the Iraq Economic Monitor, titled "Reemerging Pressures: Iraq’s Recovery at Risk ", finds that real gross domestic product (GDP) growth accelerated to 7.0 percent in 2022 driven by the oil sector, but fell to 2.6 percent year-on-year in the first quarter of 2023. Consumer price inflation, which had moderated in 2022, ticked up in early 2023, fueled by the depreciation of the Iraqi dinar in the parallel market. Favorable oil market dynamics in the first nine months of 2022 brought total reserves, excluding gold, up to a record US$89.0 billion, though the trend slowed in early 2023. More recently, Iraq’s newly approved 2023-2025 budget signals a significant expansionary fiscal stance that could lead to a rapid depletion of the oil windfall and renewed fiscal pressures. It also defers longstanding structural reforms needed to develop a vibrant and sustainable economy.
The Monitor concludes that without structural reforms Iraq's highly oil dependent development model is set to endure. Overall GDP is forecasted to contract by 1.1 percent in 2023, driven by a projected 4.4 percent contraction of oil GDP given the agreed OPEC+ production quotas for the year. A low appetite for reforms, even amid softening oil prices, would do little to reduce public sector dominance and increase non-oil growth potential and job creation, thereby constraining long-term economic growth prospects. Stronger risks lie ahead for Iraq’s economy, largely due to unaddressed deep structural challenges, that leave it highly vulnerable to oil shocks, inflationary pressures, heightened climate change impacts and further commodity price volatility, which would intensify existing poverty trends and raise food insecurity.
“Iraq is emerging strongly after years of turmoil, but it cannot continue to rely solely on oil windfalls for short-term relief. Short of a strong political commitment to adopt and implement necessary reforms it has itself advocated for a long time now, Iraq runs the risk of rapidly depleting its reserves and returning to square one in a very short time,” said Jean-Christophe Carret, World Bank Middle East Country Director. “Urgent action is needed to accelerate economic diversification, address pre-existing drivers of economic fragility and pressing climate related challenges, and secure the long-term welfare of the Iraqi people.”
The Special Focus of the Monitor, titled "Financial Intermediation in Iraq", examines Iraq's financial sector landscape, and finds that its dominant undercapitalized state-owned banks and weak private commercial banking sector remain major barriers to economic diversification. The report underscores the importance of banking reforms and promoting digital financial services to increase financial intermediation and promote financial inclusion. These recommendations aim to transform the financial sector into a catalyst for economic diversification.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/240549-without-reforms-iraq%E2%80%99s-oil-boom-could-turn-bust




Date: 31 July 2023
Title: UNDP Iraq and USAID Seek to Revitalize Tourism in the Kurdistan Region
Content: 31 July 2023

30 July, Erbil - In a milestone event aimed at reviving tourism in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) partnered with the Kurdistan Regional Government’s Ministry of Tourism to unveil the “Reform Roadmap”, a groundbreaking plan to revitalize tourism in the region.
“The path to economic resilience lies in diversification, and boosting tourism support to the most frequented region in Iraq is a great opportunity for the whole country to do just that.” Says Auke Lootsma, UNDP Iraq’s Resident Representative.
Economic resilience through diversification
KRI is the most popular travel destination within Iraq, as it is nestled in a part of the country that features lush greenery and picturesque mountains. In this area of the country, the tourism and hospitality sectors have emerged as one of the key drivers of economic growth and job creation in the region. 

“The Kurdistan region with its rich cultural heritage and stunning backdrops is the perfect place for diversification to unfold. UNDP, along with our partners, USAID and the KRI government, will continue to encourage and support this important initiative that will lead to sustainable tourism, economic growth and job creation,” said Auke Lootsma, UNDP Iraq Resident Representative.
The Reform Roadmap, developed with financial support from USAID, solidifies the two agencies’ unwavering commitment to improve tourism in the KRI, an area with immense untapped potential for tourism-led economic growth.
“Tourism has a special place in any society. It simultaneously helps communities preserve their cultural heritage and share this wealth and beauty with the outside world. The Iraqi Kurdistan Region receives millions of tourists every year. Through this USAID-funded roadmap, the U.S. government is supporting the Kurdistan Regional Government in its efforts to take a serious step toward developing this vital sector,” said Elise Jensen, USAID Mission Director in Iraq. “With the launch of this comprehensive roadmap for tourism sector development, the path laid that celebrates the region’s heritage and embraces sustainable practices. We are proud of our partnership with the UNDP and the Ministry of Tourism on this important initiative.”
A roadmap to success
The “Reform Roadmap” identifies areas that are most important for a sustainable and successful tourism development in KRI. It focuses on recommendations with the biggest impact on the tourism industry, including tourism legislation, laws, and regulations; marketing; and developing tourism sites and products.
The Roadmap provides guidance on how to stimulate private sector investment through different financing modalities such as public-private partnerships for the development of tourism sites and products. It underscores the necessity of tourism law, regulations, institutional structure and tourism business quality assessment criteria for the Kurdistan Region, taking into account the local legal context and authorities.
The Roadmap also includes a comparative study of the tourism sector legal framework to examine the institutional structure and quality assessment criteria from countries with well-established tourism industries, in this region and the European region, taking these best practices and applying it to this context.
“The Kurdistan Region enjoys a rich culture, heritage and beautiful nature, and has the potential to become a prime tourist destination in the Middle east. A vibrant tourism economy generates livelihood opportunities, particularly for the youth and women in the region. This Roadmap plays a vital role in that.” said Ms. Amal Jalal – Head of KRG Board of Tourism.
The launch of this pivotal roadmap marks a significant stride towards a more sustainable, professionalized, and profitable tourism industry in the Kurdistan Region and for the country as a whole.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/240551-undp-iraq-and-usaid-seek-revitalize-tourism-kurdistan-region




Date: 30 July 2023
Title: UNIDO and Government of Japan Collaborate on Sustainable Development of the Food Industry by Building Iraqi Government Staff Capacity
Content: 30 July 2023
Erbil, Iraq - The United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), in collaboration with the Ministry of Industry and Minerals, conducted the second training workshop on food safety and quality. This workshop was a significant component of the project "Emergency Livelihood Support to Mitigate the Food Insecurity Crisis among Vulnerable People in Iraq", funded by the Japanese government. Held from 15 to 20 July 2023 in Erbil, the workshop counted with participation from government representatives from the Ministries of Health, Ministry of Agriculture, and Ministry of Industry and Minerals in Iraq.
The active involvement of multiple ministries in this training workshop underscores the focus to promote and advance the SME sector and recognizes the importance of economic growth and development.
The training program's primary objective was to build capacity in government staff responsible for ensuring the quality and safety of locally produced food items. Participants were nominated from related departments from their ministries that play a pivotal role in ensuring the safety and compliance of medium and small enterprises, as well as producing families.
The workshop emphasis on compliance and empowerment through engagement with small and medium enterprises, aims to fortifying the sector by promoting compliance with quality and safety standards. By building the capacity of skilled trainers and fostering a culture of excellence, the workshop creates conditions for the growth and sustainability of local producers, making a significant contribution to the national economy.
Mrs. Ramina Athanael Youssef, representing the Ministry of Industry and Minerals / Department of Industrial Development and Organization / Department of Small Projects, highlighted the importance of this workshop and its contribution to the department's mission to enhance professional and administrative capacities through their own training programs. These programs aim to qualify employees across various categories while empowering and supporting working women. The transfer of experiences and skills also contributes to preserve the cultural heritage of traditional knowledge.
Mr. Raad Hadi Mahdi, the legal advisor in health control over food safety and security at the Ministry of Health, emphasized the ministry's proactive role in supporting small enterprise owners. Recognizing the importance of fostering a conducive environment for local businesses, the ministry actively looks into assisting entrepreneurs in navigating and streamlining approval procedures for marketing their products. This support assists SMEs to navigate regulatory processes, encouraging their growth and success.
Dr. Ziad Al-Lami, a specialist in food safety at the Ministry of Health, stressed the importance of regular courses for workers in these projects. These courses aim to develop and enhance the capabilities of the workers, particularly concerning health aspects and personal hygiene. Ensuring that the workers are aware of contamination sources that could jeopardize the product's quality.
Mr. Taif Ahmed Abdullah, representative from the Ministry of Agriculture, highlighted the profound commitment demonstrated by the participants. Having undergone the training, are not merely content with personal growth but are determined to promote it within their respective organizations and the broader SME sector.
The UNIDO project will also provide comprehensive technical support to SME producers. This support is designed to empower them to improve productivity, operational efficiency, and compliance with food safety and quality. By exposing them to new technologies, and expertise, the project aims to equip SMEs with the necessary resources to grow, ultimately contributing to the success of the entire SME sector.
UNIDO and the Government of Japan remains committed to empowering the food processing industry in Iraq through its partnership with the Ministry of Industry and Minerals, working together to drive positive change and economic prosperity.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/240449-unido-and-government-japan-collaborate-sustainable-development-food-industry-building-iraqi




Date: 25 July 2023
Title: FAO Iraq Develops Emergency Plan to Support Buffalo Producers Hit by the Current Severe Crisis of Water Scarcity in the Marshes-southern Iraq
Content: 25 July 2023
Following FAO Iraq's call to action published on July 10, 2023, the organization took swift action by mobilizing its dedicated Extension officers. An emergency workshop was conducted in Basra on the 19th and 20th of July 2023. The workshop aimed to address the impact of the environmental disaster that befell the marsh areas, to put an urgent action plan for strengthening buffalo producers' capacities and escape from the quagmire of death that threatens their buffaloes.
The workshop was attended by large number of MOA Extension Officers from all the districts of the governorates affected by water scarcity crisis in Marshes in Basra, Thi-Qar and Missan Governorates in addition to FAO team. The workshop is commissioned by FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah ElHajj Hassan following an emergency visit to these areas with the FAO team to assess the critical situation in light of the high temperatures and the scarcity of water in the marshes.
During this workshop, Dr. Chedly Kayouli, Senior Livestock Expert, FAO Iraq has highlighted the very critical situation and urged the field Network teams in the Southern Marshes, taking the initiatives and exert maximum efforts to contribute, even modestly, to saving the Southern marshes from the most serious crisis of its kind   in this century, which may destroy life in all its environmental aspects.
The workshop resulted in the concrete implementation of immediate and medium-term actions with rapid results, by pooling the commendable efforts of all the projects currently implemented by FAO in these areas.
The key outcomes are:
Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, also highlighted the urgent need for sustainable solutions to support marsh dwellers, particularly buffalo farmers. These include providing locally produced feed for improving the value chain for buffalo production. These efforts aim to alleviate suffering, improve incomes and build community resilience.
FAO Iraq’s emergency plan aligns with multiple SDGs, reflecting the organization’s commitment to addressing urgent environmental challenges, supporting vulnerable communities, and promoting sustainable development in the region.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/240194-fao-iraq-develops-emergency-plan-support-buffalo-producers-hit-current-severe-crisis-water




Date: 25 July 2023
Title: The EU and WFP provide cash assistance to internally displaced and crisis affected Iraqis missing civil documentation
Content: 25 July 2023
Baghdad, Iraq – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in Iraq welcomed a generous €5 million contribution from the European Union (EU) to provide cash assistance to internally displaced and crisis-affected Iraqis missing one or more essential civil documents until they are integrated within the national social safety net.
Thanks to the contribution from the EU, made through the EU’s Humanitarian Aid Operations department, WFP will be able to provide cash assistance for a total duration of 12 months to vulnerable families in Ninewa, Kirkuk, Anbar, Baghdad, Babylon, and Diyala Governorates.
Having valid civil documents is crucial for accessing national social safety nets and social protection mechanisms. These documents ensure that people in dire need receive the necessary assistance to address their immediate food requirements and livelihood challenges.
“Over the past 8 years the EU has supported conflict-affected and displaced Iraqis who are among the most vulnerable,” says Christophe Reltien, Head of Office for European Humanitarian Aid Operations in Iraq.“ The cash assistance will help beneficiaries to obtain documents facilitating their reintegration in the national social protection scheme.
This cash assistance aligns with the Iraq Cash Forum’s standards and approach as well as with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' distributions aiming to provide temporary support for households involved in programs assisting their access to civil documentation.
“We are grateful for the generous contribution from the EU,” said Ally-Raza Qureshi, WFP Representative and Country Director in Iraq. “Cash provides the power of choice and allows families exposed to vulnerabilities – including lack of key documents – to pick what they need most to get by.”
Additionally, WFP will advocate for the prioritization and inclusion of crisis-affected populations in national protection mechanisms and support the coordination of cash assistance within the humanitarian response to these targeted populations. This intervention is expected to promote social cohesion, reintegration, and address the livelihoods needs of vulnerable communities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/240199-eu-and-wfp-provide-cash-assistance-internally-displaced-and-crisis-affected-iraqis-missing




Date: 22 July 2023
Title: UNESCO celebrates liberation of Mosul by handing over 100th rehabilitated historic house
Content: 22 July 2023
Mosul, July 20, 2023 - Commemorating the 6th anniversary of Mosul's liberation from Daesh occupation, UNESCO has officially handed over Heritage House No. 100, marking a significant milestone in the achievement of its work to restore the historic part of the city.
As part of its flagship initiative "Revive the Spirit of Mosul", UNESCO launched in 2020 the rehabilitation of 124 historical houses within Mosul's Old City, which suffered severe damage during the recent conflict. This project was made possible through the generous financial support from the European Union and the fruitful collaboration with the Iraqi Ministry of Culture and local authorities.
Three years later, 80% of the rehabilitation works in this project are successfully completed, and the displaced families are back in their beloved homes. On this anniversary of the liberation of Mosul, the 100th restored house has officially been delivered to its owner, at a symbolic key handover ceremony.
The reconstruction of these houses was done according to the highest heritage standards: using traditional techniques, and traditional materials, so that this exceptional heritage of Mosul can once again be transmitted from generation to generation.
"Returning to live in this house is like a dream. Every corner of this house holds precious memories, and I deeply miss the wonderful connections with our neighbors," said the 82-year-old owner, Najat Abdel Aziz.  Najat lived in the house with her nine brothers and sisters her entire life before she had to leave because of the destruction it suffered. “The restoration of these houses serves as a catalyst to inspire people to return to the area and fosters a sense of hope among the residents,” she emphasized.
The devastation by Daesh in the area resulted in the displacement of hundreds of residents, who sought refuge in other locations. For a prolonged period, the historic heart of Mosul remained in a state of disrepair, despite having been at one point a cherished neighborhood for generations of Moslawis.
However, since 2020, through this initiative, UNESCO has been diligently rehabilitating historic houses along the path stretching from Al-Nouri Mosque to the Prophet Zarzis area, while also enhancing water and electricity infrastructure. As a result, over 650 residents have been able to reclaim their original homes, offering them a chance to rebuild their lives in a place steeped in history. The return of the inhabitants has also made possible the reopening of local shops. Life is finding its place again in the heart of Mosul.
Restoring these heritage houses also means creating jobs for 4710 workers and craftsmen. UNESCO provided training to local workers in various methods of rehabilitating heritage buildings. 1568 of local job seekers were involved in the rehabilitation process, in partnership with the Ministry of Labor.
The rehabilitation of the 24 remaining houses is on track: they will be delivered to their owners by the end of the summer, 2023. This successful project in Mosul has also been a source of inspiration: it has been extended to Basra (Southern Iraq) where UNESCO is currently restoring 11 historic houses, in coordination with the local authorities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/240074-unesco-celebrates-liberation-mosul-handing-over-100th-rehabilitated-historic-house




Date: 21 July 2023
Title: Press Statement Attributable to the Spokesperson of the High Representative for the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC) on the desecration of the Holy Qur’an in Sweden and the violence in Iraq
Content: 21 July 2023
New York, 20 July 2023
The High Representative for the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC), Mr. Miguel Moratinos recalls his statement on 15 July, 2023, in which he reiterated that the desecration of sacred religious books is not freedom of expression but rather an expression of contempt and religious hatred.
The High Representative condemns the recurrent desecration the holy Qur’an, including today’s incident in Stockholm, Sweden.
The High Representative also condemns the acts of violence and the storming of the Swedish Embassy in Baghdad today. He reiterates that the desecration of sacred religious books and religious sites is a disrespectful and provocative act. Such acts often lead to agitation and incitement to violence. At the same time, he stresses that violence is never an appropriate response to provocation, adding that the freedom of assembly is a fundamental human right.
In this context, the High Representative recalls the United Nations Plan of Action to Safeguard Religious Sites led by the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC) which advocates promoting religious pluralism, mutual respect and human dignity.

For any queries contact : Ms. Nihal Saad, The United Nations Alliance of Civilizations
saadn@un.org | www.unaoc.org | Twitter: @UNAOC
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/240004-press-statement-attributable-spokesperson-high-representative-united-nations-alliance




Date: 20 July 2023
Title: Press Statement Attributable to the Spokesperson of the High Representative for the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC) on the desecration of the Holy Qur’an in Sweden and the violence in Iraq
Content: 20 July 2023
New York, 20 July 2023
The High Representative for the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC), Mr. Miguel Moratinos recalls his statement on 15 July, 2023, in which he reiterated that the desecration of sacred religious books is not freedom of expression but rather an expression of contempt and religious hatred.
The High Representative condemns the recurrent desecration the holy Qur’an, including today’s incident in Stockholm, Sweden.
The High Representative also condemns the acts of violence and the storming of the Swedish Embassy in Baghdad today. He reiterates that the desecration of sacred religious books and religious sites is a disrespectful and provocative act. Such acts often lead to agitation and incitement to violence. At the same time, he stresses that violence is never an appropriate response to provocation, adding that the freedom of assembly is a fundamental human right.
In this context, the High Representative recalls the United Nations Plan of Action to Safeguard Religious Sites led by the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC) which advocates promoting religious pluralism, mutual respect and human dignity.

For any queries contact : Ms. Nihal Saad, The United Nations Alliance of Civilizations
saadn@un.org | www.unaoc.org | Twitter: @UNAOC
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/239989-press-statement-attributable-spokesperson-high-representative-united-nations-alliance




Date: 19 July 2023
Title: UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum’s Fifth Biannual Plenary Roundtable Discusses Victim Participation in Meaningful Justice Processes
Content: 19 July 2023
Baghdad, 18 July 2023 – The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) held on Monday its Fifth Biannual Plenary Roundtable meeting of the UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum.
In this biannual roundtable meeting, the Forum brings together representatives of Iraqi civil society and international NGOs with UNITAD’s leadership and experts, to engage in discussions about issues of common interest, including new opportunities for cooperation. For this roundtable, a spotlight speaker presented about victim participation in justice processes. Participants shared valuable insights, fostering a dynamic discussion on matters related to the work of UNITAD and its cooperation with the NGO community.
In his opening remarks, Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD welcomed the participating NGOs, including those traveling from other provinces to attend this meeting: “which is convening for the first time, post COVID-19, in person in Baghdad.”
“Needless to say, the Forum goes hand in hand with the great cooperation at the operational level that is happening daily between various units of UNITAD and many NGO partners,” said Special Adviser Ritscher. He also highlighted key elements of progress in UNITAD’s work over the past few months, which were presented in UNITAD’s tenth report to the UN Security Council in June.
Special Adviser Ritscher indicated that: “Meaningful justice rests on the centrality of victims and survivors. They get to feel seen, heard and recognized. They get to witness their day in court, and through evidence-based trials which establish the truth, and deal with the heinous crimes committed by ISIL perpetrators for what they truly were; crimes against humanity, war crimes and in some cases genocide.”
The guest speaker for this roundtable, Ms. Natia Navrouzov presented on participation of survivors in justice processes, before, during and after trials. She also emphasised the role of cooperation and partnerships between all stakeholders for the benefit of victims, survivors, and the community at large, providing examples on cases in which Yazidi survivors were able to participate in court proceedings against ISIL perpetrators in Third States with competent jurisdictions. One example was the most recent conviction in Germany of Nadine K., a German national who was found guilty of a range of crimes including aiding and abetting genocide against Yazidis in Iraq.
Many participants stressed the importance of enacting a national legislation in Iraq that allows for the prosecution of ISIL perpetrators for international crimes before competent courts in Iraq, in a way that ensures effective participation of survivor communities. At his end, Special Adviser Ritscher reiterated UNITAD’s commitment to support this Iraq-led process through the Joint Working Group with representatives of the judiciary, alongside legal experts from the Prime Minister’s office and the National Permanent Committee for International Humanitarian Law, as well as the Iraqi State Council, hosted by the Supreme Judicial Council.
Moreover, NGO representatives gave insights about their work with victims of ISIL, and the importance of the justice process to the Iraqi community. They also discussed the importance of combating challenges facing victim participation in the justice processes and ways forward in joint endeavours, offering suggestions and perceptions for UNITAD’s work and potential cooperation with the NGO community in this regard.
Participating NGOs also had the chance to discuss with UNITAD team leads and experts, ideas to develop additional links of cooperation especially in supporting documentation of survivor accounts and digitization.
The UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum has been convening two types of events; the first is a series of thematic roundtable discussions in a panel-format, addressing specific thematic areas relating to UNITAD’s investigative activities. The events bring together international and local experts with UNITAD team member for an in-depth discussion on one theme for each roundtable. The second type of events is the biannual plenary roundtable which aim to provide a broader update on the work of UNITAD, and to serve as an open platform for suggestions on how to better engage with NGOs. The plenary biannual meeting also introduces a space where survivors and community leaders can have their voices heard by both UNITAD and the NGO community.
This event is in line with Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) #16: Peace, justice and strong institutions: promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/239898-unitad-ngo-dialogue-forum%E2%80%99s-fifth-biannual-plenary-roundtable-discusses-victim-participation




Date: 17 July 2023
Title: Basra Conference Enhances Partnership and Dialogue between Private and Public Sectors to Face Corruption in Iraq
Content: 17 July 2023
16 July 2023 – Basra Governorate, Iraq
Through an unprecedent initiative, the Iraqi Federal Commission of Integrity in cooperation with United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) organised in the Governorate of Basra the “National Conference on Strengthening Partnership and Dialogue between the Public and Private Sectors - The Way to Combat Corruption.” The Conference brought together 150 representatives of the Federal Commission of Integrity, Basra Governorate, Private Sector companies, The Ministry of Industry, Iraqi Federation of Industries, Contractors Union, Banks Association and international organizations working in the field of combating corruption. The conference aimed at supporting partnerships and dialogue between the public and private sectors for the purposes of combating corruption, showcasing methods to enhance the effectiveness of prevention measures, integrity and legal frameworks concerned with the work of the private sector.
Noting the importance of the conference, Judge Haider Hanoun, Head of the Federal Commission of Integrity affirmed that “The Commission has thoroughly prepared for the battle against corruption, in which victory depends on such preparations that included strengthening partnership and dialogue between private/public sector and taking into account the preventive measures needed to stop corruption within the private sector. This is within the framework of the pillars and provisions of the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC), to which Iraq acceded a decade and a half ago.”
The Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, Mr. Ghulam Isaczai, emphasized the importance of this event and highlighted “corruption hampers economic, political, social development and the rights of everyone. It is our collective responsibility to uphold integrity and combat corruption. Now is the time to come together to take action against corruption for a safer, better and fairer future for all.”
Mr. Ali Elbereir, Head of UNODC Office in Iraq affirmed that “MENA region economies face significant corruption related challenges that affect trade and investment development, calling for the need to ensure fair competition by raising awareness and promoting the implementation of common anti-corruption provisions and the application of deterrent anti-bribery measures, noting that public-private cooperation is a critical factor in protecting integrity and preventing corruption.”
The Conference included vital sessions on relevant legal frameworks and codes of conduct, prevention of conflict of interest, determinants of failure and success in public/private partnership, methods of corruption prevention, and successful experiences to enhancing integrity.
By engaging with the private sector, Governments build strong governance systems and enhance business sector integrity, which are essential to ensure attractive and competitive environment to businesses and on the longer term affirm healthier markets and greater investors’ confidence. Governments can foster private sector innovation, efficiency, and value for money for the consumers by encouraging companies to adopt stronger anticorruption practices and robust corporate governance systems and to compete fairly.
The Conference is organized within the framework of the project “strengthening the capabilities of the private sector in the field of combating corruption and enhancing integrity in the Arab countries,” which is funded by the Siemens Integrity Initiative. The project aims at supporting six Arab countries, namely the Republic of Iraq, the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Republic of Sudan, the Kingdom of Morocco and the State Libya and the United Arab Emirates, in countering corruption and enhancing integrity in the private sector.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/239694-basra-conference-enhances-partnership-and-dialogue-between-private-and-public-sectors-face




Date: 17 July 2023
Title: New UNICEF Representative in Iraq, Sandra Lattouf, presents her credentials
Content: 17 July 2023
The new UNICEF Representative in Iraq, Sandra Lattouf, presented yesterday her credentials to Counsellor Mr. Ammar Mohammed Dawood, Head of the Protocol Department, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iraq.
BAGHDAD, 17 July 2023 - Sandra Lattouf presented her credentials yesterday as UNICEF’s new Representative in Iraq to Counsellor Mr. Ammar Mohammed Dawood, Head of the Protocol Department, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iraq.
“It is a great honour to join the team in Iraq to serve the most vulnerable children and lead the remarkable work for children as we transition from humanitarian into development work,’ said Ms. Lattouf. “I look forward to working closely with the Government of Iraq, partners, other UN agencies and civil society to uphold the rights of every child and young people and enable them to reach their full potential.”
From July 2020 to June 2023, Ms. Lattouf was the UNICEF Representative in Burkina Faso. Previously, she was the UNICEF Representative in Gambia (2017-2020) and the Deputy Representative in Sierra Leone (2015-2017). She also held numerous positions in UNICEF, including at headquarters in New York, as well as in country and field offices, notably in Haiti, Sudan, and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
Prior to joining UNICEF, Ms. Lattouf worked for the international NGO Solidarités (1999-2002) as a Nutrition Programme Coordinator and served in Bujumbura, Burundi; Goma, DRC; and Paris, France.
Ms. Lattouf is a national of Lebanon. She holds an advanced university degree in Nutrition and Food Security from the University of Montpellier in France; a Master’s Degree in Biochemistry and a License in Chemistry from the University of Sciences and Techniques in Tours in France.
The new Representative will play a critical role in steering the UNICEF Country Office in Iraq in supporting the Government of Iraq in fulfilling their commitments on the Convention on the Rights of the Child, in partnership with UN partners and other stakeholders, with a focus on most vulnerable children.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/239680-new-unicef-representative-iraq-sandra-lattouf-presents-her-credentials




Date: 10 July 2023
Title: FAO Renews its Call for Urgent Action to safeguard Iraq's Marshes and Buffalo Producers from Severe Climate Change and Water Scarcity
Content: 10 July 2023
FAO Iraq is deeply concerned about the grave consequences of climate change and water scarcity on the marshes (Al Ahwar) and buffalo producers in the Southern Iraq. Alarming field reports from the project team, which the organization is implementing in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and European Union (EU) funding, indicate that the marshes are experiencing the most severe heat wave in the last 40 years, accompanied with a sudden water shortage in the Euphrates River. The dire situation is having a devastating impact on the marshes system; buffalo producers, farmers, and fisheries forcing many of them leave their homes and migrate mainly to Salah Eddine, Najaf, Karbala and Babel in the central part of Iraq and other cities, searching for drinking  water, food, feed and employment.
In the aftermath of FAO's urgent call in 14 July 2022 to support buffalo producers and protect the valuable ecosystem of Al-Chibayish –AlAhwar, FAO with EU support and in coordination with the Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) mobilized emergency support for more than 5000 livestock farmers in different forms. Unfoutunaly, the current situation in July 2023 reflects a grim picture.
On the 7th of July 2023, FAO-MOA project team presented an alarming reports, Rissan Mohsen Zghir, member of the team, reported worrying information highlighting the dire situation in Al-Chibayish , the water level of the Euphrates is only 56 centimetres, and in the marshes from zero to 30 centimetres, with a staggering 90% dryness rate. High salinity levels exceeding 6000 ppm, have raised concerns among farmers, particularly buffalo breeders and fisheries. Additionally, and according to the Center for Restoration of the Iraqi Marshes and Wetlands at the Ministry of Water Resources (CRIMW), almost 70% of the marshes are devoid of water.
Water levels and total dissolved solids (TDS) in different locations in the marshes,
July 2021-2022 & 2023 (Source: CRIMW)
Diagram depicting the evolution  of  Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) (ppm) in the marshes water
July 2021-2022 & 2023 (Source: CRIMW)

“The marshes buffaloes are currently suffering from malnutrition, and some dying  from the salty water in the low-lying marshes, the urgency of the situation requires swift and decisive action “, said Dr Chedly kayouli - FAO Iraq Senior Livestock Expert.
According to FAO-EU-MOA field team information, and to address the water scarcity in the marshes and improve water access for buffalo, a government initiative has been proposed to deepen the canals and rivers that feed the marshes. However, due to the current water shortage, no water releases have been made to raise the Euphrates' water level. The available water supply is currently allocated solely for drinking purposes, exacerbating the challenges faced by buffalo breeders and the marshes ecosystem.
Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, confirmed: "The severe water shortage, heat waves and drought in the marshes have put buffalo producers and the entire ecosystem at a very high risk, calling for an urgent short, medium and long-term actions to prevent further destruction and ensure a sustainable future for this Iraqi World Heritage site.”
FAO Representative added, “FAO Iraq with national and international partners is making continuous efforts to address the negative impacts of climate change, water scarcity and the challenges facing the Marshlands.”
Dr Abdulhakim El Wear, FAO Assistant Director-General and Regional Representative for the Near East and North Africa stressed that: “We are following with great concern the negative impact of climate change and water scarcity in the region, especially in the marshes in southern Iraq. FAO, in collaboration with national and international partners will strengthen its existing projects in the southern regions to support buffalo breeders and mitigate the negative impacts of water scarcity, water pollution, and climate change that threaten their lives and livelihoods, protecting the livelihoods of the region's farmers, breeders and to preserve the ecosystem is a collective responsibility.”
FAO Iraq re-calls on all stakeholders to unite in a spirit of cooperation and determination. Together, let us work diligently to protect the marshes, combat climate change, and ensure the well-being of present and future generations who depend on these invaluable resources.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/239237-fao-renews-its-call-urgent-action-safeguard-iraqs-marshes-and-buffalo-producers-severe




Date: 06 July 2023
Title: UN-Habitat and Ministry of Migration and Displacement join forces to secure sustainable return of displaced people in Iraq
Content: 06 July 2023
Baghdad, 05 July 2023 - After 5 years of fruitful collaboration between UN-Habitat Iraq and the Ministry of Migration and Displacement (MOMD) of Iraq, a cooperation framework was signed under the patronage of HE Mrs. Evan Faeq Gabro.
The cooperation framework  aims to strengthen the cooperation between UN-Habitat and MOMD  through joint efforts to provide a framework for cooperation and facilitate partnership between UN-Habitat and MOMD to find and implement durable solutions to issues related to the return of displaced people, as well as to provide appropriate support and approaches for return and reintegration in Sinjar in line with the new vision and the working mechanism, as well as to provide technical advice on returns and adequate housing, through the rehabilitation and reconstruction of damaged houses, basic services and related infrastructure and upgrade of water, hygiene and sanitation facilities to ensure safe and dignified return.
Given the severe consequences of displacement and the subsequent occupation of a number of Iraqi cities by ISIS, many individuals lost their homes and assets. To ensure a secure and dignified return, the Ministry considers UN-Habitat as their primary external technical advisor in all matters related to the cooperation’s implementation.
HE Mrs. Evan Faeq Gabro, Minister of Migration and Displacement, emphasized the necessity of signing the cooperation framework to ensure the sustainable return of displaced people and achieve durable solutions in the current context.
“What we are signing today is a result of a great collaboration with the Ministry of Displacement and Migration which is one of our main counterparts to promote the dignified and sustainable return of IDPs in Iraq.  UN-Habitat will continue to support the MOMD in this matter to facilitate the sustainable return of IDPs”, emphasized Mr. Wael Al-Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq, during the signing ceremony.
The framework of cooperation encompasses key objectives, such as implementing the legal decree addressing ownership issues for Yazidi citizens in Sinjar's settlements area. Additionally, it provides an opportunity for the reconstruction and development of these areas, complementing the government's ongoing efforts. The focus remains on supporting safe and sustainable returns through adequate housing, through the rehabilitation, reconstruction of houses, and essential services, as well as upgrading water, hygiene, and sanitation facilities.
UN-Habitat and MOMD stand united in their determination to create lasting change, providing a solid foundation for the safe and dignified return of those affected by displacement.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/239076-un-habitat-and-ministry-migration-and-displacement-join-forces-secure-sustainable-return




Date: 02 July 2023
Title: UNESCO supports to the inventory of Yezidi community’s intangible and tangible cultural heritage in Iraq
Content: 02 July 2023
UNESCO Office in Iraq organized a training workshop on the inventory of tangible and intangible cultural heritage related to Yezidi Mazars with the community participation and in partnership with Nadia’s Initiative, and in close cooperation with both Nadia’s Initiative and Lalish Cultural Center.
The workshop was co-facilitated by two members of the International Facilitators Network of UNESCO 2003 Convention for Safeguarding Intangible Cultural Heritage (Dr Annie Tohme Tabet and Mr. Jean Hajjar). Thirty-three selected participants, all Yezidi community members from Sinjar, Duhok, Bahshiqa-Behazane and Cheikhan, were trained to conduct the inventorying works.
The ten days workshop included 5 theoretical days, 4 days of practical inventory exercises on the field and 1 day for the evaluation of the fieldwork exercise results and the closing ceremony.
Before delivering the graduation certificates to the participants, Mr. Junaid Sorosh-Wali, Head of Culture Programme at UNESCO Iraq office, explained that “the workshop is a part of a comprehensive project with the Yezidi Community to support them with the inventory of Yezidi intangible and tangible cultural heritage and hence its preservation and transmission for future generations. He also added that the choice of Yezidi Mazars and Intangible Cultural Heritage (ICH) elements attached to them makes it possible to have a coherent inventory documenting elements belonging to all ICH domains.
The trainees will carry out the inventory on the filed in the coming weeks. The result of the field work, in cooperation with Nadia’s Initiative and Lalish Cultural Centre and with UNESCO’s technical support, is expected to be completed by September 2023.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/238793-unesco-supports-inventory-yezidi-community%E2%80%99s-intangible-and-tangible-cultural-heritage-iraq




Date: 29 June 2023
Title: Attributable to the Spokesperson of the High Representative for the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC) On burning of the Quran in Stockholm, Sweden
Content: 29 June 2023
New York, 29 June 2023
The High-Representative for the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC), Mr. Miguel Moratinos expresses his unequivocal condemnation of the burning of pages of the holy Quran on Wednesday in front of a mosque in the center of Stockholm, Sweden.
He notes that such vile act is disrespectful to Muslims who are celebrating the holy occasion of Eid Al-Adha.
The High-Representative re-iterates the importance of upholding the freedom of expression as a fundamental human right. At the same time, he stresses that the desecration of sacred books and places of worship as well as religious symbols is unacceptable and can lead to incitement of violence.
The High Representative further re-iterates that mutual respect is essential for building and promoting just, inclusive and peaceful societies rooted in human rights and dignity for all.
In this context, the High-Representative recalls the United Nations Plan of Action to Safeguard Religious Sites led by the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations, which provides an overarching framework and a set of recommendations including strengthening religious pluralism and promoting mutual respect and human dignity.
For any queries contact : Ms. Nihal Saad, The United Nations Alliance of Civilizations saadn@un.org | www.unaoc.org | Twitter: @UNAOC
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/238640-attributable-spokesperson-high-representative-united-nations-alliance-civilizations-unaoc




Date: 26 June 2023
Title: UNITAD Welcomes German Court Conviction of ISIL Female Member for Aiding and Abetting Genocide Against Yazidis
Content: 26 June 2023
Baghdad, 26 June 2023– Special Adviser and Head of the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da'esh/ISIL (UNITAD) Mr. Christian Ritscher welcomed today the German Higher Regional Court of Koblenz conviction of ISIL female member Nadine K. for committing international crimes, particularly Genocide, Crimes Against Humanity and War Crimes against a young Yazidi woman in Iraq.
“This conviction is an example of what meaningful justice means to survivor communities of ISIL heinous international crimes. The key witness in this case, travelled from Iraq to Germany to confront her perpetrator in court. She participated as a co-plaintiff in the proceedings and testified before court over 6 days. This is the kind of justice victim communities are questing, and the kind of justice UNITAD is designed to seek, in Iraq as well as throughout the world.”
UNITAD provided support to German prosecution authorities by identifying and interviewing the key witness (N.) the Yazidi woman who was held as a slave for 3 years by the ISIL couple, Nadine K. and her husband.
Nadine K., a German national who joined ISIL with her husband in late 2014, was sentenced to nine years and three months in prison, for membership in a terrorist organization abroad, in one case, in addition to another case on international crimes. The court found her guilty of aiding and abetting genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes for the enslavement and abuse of a young Yazidi woman in support of ISIL’s brutal campaign to eradicate the Yazidi religious minority. In 2016, Nadine K.'s husband received the 21 years old Yazidi woman as a "gift". The woman was raped several times and was forced to do the housekeeping. The ISIL couple treated her as a private property.
“The pursuit of justice is a long, steadfast journey that is bound to yield fruit. This conviction brought solace and comfort to the victims and attests that ISIL perpetrators shall find no safe haven. I commend the courage and the resilience of the witness, and the valiant efforts of the German persecutors in this case,” said Special Advisor Ritscher. He added that “ISIL crimes in Iraq constitute some of the most gruesome acts we have seen in recent history. Individuals responsible for such acts must be identified and ultimately tried and convicted for their crimes. UNITAD will continue to exert every possible effort to support the prosecution of ISIL criminals and ensure that they are held accountable for their heinous international crimes.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/238157-unitad-welcomes-german-court-conviction-isil-female-member-aiding-and-abetting-genocide




Date: 23 June 2023
Title: UNDP Regional Director for Arab States concludes visit to Iraq with commitment to support a green economy
Content: 23 June 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 23 June 2023 – The United Nations (UN) Assistant Secretary-General and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Assistant Administrator and Regional Director for Arab States, Mr. Abdallah Al Dardari, has concluded a five-day mission to Iraq with a commitment to support new development priorities in the country. During meetings with a wide variety of stakeholders, Mr. Al Dardari prioritized UNDP’s support for Iraq’s transition to a green economy in Iraq, including water resource management, support to renewable energy, economic diversification, and enhanced public-private sector partnerships.
“Over the past week, I have witnessed the resilience and ambition of the Iraqi people. I want to reiterate UNDP’s readiness to support the country as it transitions to a new development phase. With a focus on mitigating climate change and diversifying the economy, we can boost private sector opportunities and youth employment to ensure long-term stability and stronger, more cohesive communities,” Mr. Al Dardari emphasized.
During his mission, Mr. Al Dardari met with the President of Iraq, the President and Prime Minister of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, the Chief Justice of Iraq, the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, the Governor of the Iraq Central Bank, the Minister of Environment, and the Minister of the Board of Investment for the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Discussions focused on support to a resource-efficient and socially robust green economy.
Visiting Karbala Governorate, Dr. Al Dardari toured the Al-Saqi renewable energy and agriculture project supported through the al-Abbas’s Holy Shrine in Karbala Governorate, experiencing how green jobs and community projects are being provided in the area through religious tourism.
Connecting with United Nations partners and international donors, Mr. Al Dardari expressed the need for stakeholders in Iraq to work together to set priorities and work toward the Sustainable Development Goals.
During multiple roundtables with a cross-section of youth, civil society, government officials, and investment specialists, Mr. Al Dardari heard opportunities and challenges and pledged UNDP’s support to institutional development towards a just and prosperous future for the Iraqi people.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/237806-undp-regional-director-arab-states-concludes-visit-iraq-commitment-support-green-economy




Date: 18 June 2023
Title: Emergency Response Mission for Foot and Mouth Disease in Iraq
Content: 18 June 2023
A joint meeting was held between the Ministry of Agriculture represented by the Technical Undersecretary of the Minister and the Veterinary Department, with the participation of FAO experts (Emergency Management Centre for Animal Health EMC) in collaboration with EuFMD, and the FAO / Iraq Office, was held on June 15, 2023, at the office of the Technical Undersecretary of the Ministry of Agriculture / Ministry of Agriculture. With the aim of discussing the results of the visit of FAO experts specialized in providing advisory support to confront FMD SAT2 and epidemics that may affect livestock for the period from 11 to 15 June 2023.
The team summarized field visits to various regions in Iraq, including the Kurdistan Region, and to the central diagnostic laboratories in Baghdad and Erbil. They also reviewed department's foot-and-mouth disease control Programmes and provided valuable observations and suggestions for an implementation plan for the FMD control system and animal diseases in general.
Dr. Mithaq Al-Khafaji, Technical Undersecretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, expressed his gratitude and appreciation for the rapid response of the FAO and the FAO team of experts, and confirmed the Ministry's commitment to implementing their valuable observations. He also explained the reasons that led to the outbreak of the disease in Iraq and the measures by the Ministry of Agriculture to control the disease and limit its spread, as well as to protect breeders and farmers by setting vaccination dates for animals and issuing veterinary certificates. In addition, a platform has been established that includes all hospitals and veterinary clinics to share and disseminate information and reports on the number of animals and their movements, and to identify foci of injury.
In turn, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, stressed the need to form a joint committee to be called Iraqi FMD Task Force that includes experts in animal disease control from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources in the Kurdistan Region.  The FMD task force would act as a technical advisory group to provide recommendations to decision-makers in Baghdad and Erbil. The FAO office in Iraq will develop the necessary recommendations to improve animal disease control programs and harmonies Global and local regulations for the protection of livestock in Iraq.
At the end of the meeting, several proposals and recommendations were concluded, most notably the joint cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture and the FAO Organization by intensifying the training of veterinary staff in a qualitative and targeted manner through training programs to increase competencies and technical expertise, while building a system for monitoring and controlling livestock diseases, with the support of the proposal of the Representative of  FAO in Iraq to form a committee specialized in communicating and unifying information between the Center and the Kurdistan Region, with the participation of the FAO, so that accurate information and data on animal diseases can be sent.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/237049-emergency-response-mission-foot-and-mouth-disease-iraq




Date: 18 June 2023
Title: Launching of Al-Rafidain Application for Agricultural Extension  The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture: Joint efforts to modernize agricultural extension
Content: 18 June 2023
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture have announced the launch of the digital application "Al-Rafidain for Agricultural Extension" for the benefit of farmers throughout the Republic of Iraq.
The launching ceremony was held at the Ministry's headquarters in Baghdad under the patronage of His Excellency the Minister of Agriculture Engineer Abbas Jabr Al-Alawi, represented by the Technical Deputy Minister Dr. Mithaq Al-Khafaji, Director General of Agricultural Extension, Mr. Munir Kredi, Dr. Hadi Hashim, and Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq , as well as a large number of specialists, university experts, partners, and agricultural extension officers from all agricultural departments.
During the event, the digital application "Al-Rafidain Agricultural Extension", which serves both the crop and livestock sectors of agriculture was presented.  Participants urged agricultural extension officers to widely use the application and promote it among farmers.
Dr. Mithaq Al-Khafaji stressed the importance of supporting successful experiments and projects that contribute to the development of the agricultural process, improve the agricultural reality and generalize them in all regions of Iraq, while adopting scientific methods of modern agriculture to improve the agricultural sector.
Dr Hadi Hashim stressed the importance of working with this application for its role in providing agricultural information and advice and expressed his gratitude to FAO for supporting the agricultural sector in Iraq.
The Director General of the Agricultural Extension and Training Department stated that this project, the result of joint technical cooperation between the ministry and the FAO, will enable the adoption of a modern system for Iraqi agricultural extension through digital innovation and capacity development.
Dr. Salah El Haj Hassan, stated in his opening speech that supporting digital agriculture and agricultural extension services is one of the organization's key initiatives. The main objective is to support farmers and rural families in their agricultural and marketing endeavours and to ensure the provision of the latest technologies are available to extension officers and farmers. He also emphasized the importance of this application at the national level in strengthening the agricultural extension system through digital innovation and activating cooperation between all relevant entities.
During their interventions, the experts emphasised the importance of this application in supporting farmers and meeting their needs through a comprehensive platform. This platform allows them to report cases of animal diseases, to be informed about current market prices for fruit and vegetables, and to communicate with experts and other users of the application on various aspects related to crops, livestock resources and the agricultural sector as a whole.
This initiative reflects the Food and Agriculture Organization's commitment to promoting sustainable agriculture, while the Ministry of Agriculture demonstrates its eagerness to strengthen the sector. By harnessing the power of digital innovation, FAO and the Ministry are paving the way for a more flexible, inclusive and prosperous agricultural future in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/237050-launching-al-rafidain-application-agricultural-extension-food-and-agriculture-organization




Date: 13 June 2023
Title: UNODC “Victims’ Voices, Silencing Terrorism” Campaign Ceremony Marks Project’s Achievements
Content: 13 June 2023
Baghdad, Iraq - 13 June 2023 - Representatives from the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Iraqi Government, the international community, Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), and the media gathered today in Baghdad, Iraq to mark the achievements of the project “Supporting victims of terrorism within the criminal justice framework, including psychological support” in Iraq and its latest awareness raising campaign “Victims’ Voices, Silencing Terrorism.” The project is implemented by UNODC, in partnership with the Lebanese Association for Victims of Terrorism (AVT-L), and is generously funded by the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
The ceremony held was in the presence of Dr Essam Al-Saadi, Deputy National Security Adviser, Ms. Laetitia van Asch, Chargée d’Affaires, Embassy of Kingdom of the Netherlands, Mr. Ali Elbereir, Head of UNODC Office in Iraq, Ms. Fernanda Lombardi, UNODC Terrorism Prevention Branch (TPB) Section Chief for MENA and Gulf countries, Ms. Hagar Farag, Terrorism Prevention Programme Officer in MENA, Mr. Mostafa Eldoush, Terrorism Prevention Branch Programme Associate, and Ms. Roula Al-Helou, President of the Association of Victims of Terrorism in Lebanon.
“It is important to help the victims voice out what they have been through and facilitate their rehabilitation, especially women and children. We understand the trauma they were subjected to. Hence, we must restore their confidence, re-integrate them into society, and consider them owners of a cause,” Dr Essam Al-Saadi, Deputy National Security Adviser stated at the ceremony.
The project started in 2020 and achieved a notable impact by working to address the different challenges faced by victims of terrorism in the aftermath of terrorist attacks in Iraq. The achievements of the project include providing psychological and psychosocial support to victims; supporting the coordination of all law enforcement and criminal justice agencies involved at all stages of victims’ interaction with the criminal justice system; holding victim-sensitive approaches for dealing with victims; enhancing the effectiveness of the procedures regulating victims’ status, participation and protection in court proceedings as well as the timely and fair restitution, reparation and compensation of victims; and finally enhancing the role of the media in raising awareness on the resilience of the victims.
Ms. Laetitia van Asch, Chargée d’Affaires, Embassy of Kingdom of the Netherlands to Iraq noted that “The Netherlands pays its respect to all survivors of terrorism. Their experiences and stories have been touching, and their strength and resilience is admirable. We are happy to support the survivors in their journey towards a better future.”
The “Victims’ Voices, Silencing Terrorism” campaign was held on social media, with reach to thousands across Iraq and the region, and focused on providing an alternative narrative to that of terrorist groups by raising awareness of the resilience of victims of terrorism and the importance of having their voices heard. The messages and stories they tell have the power to silence the negative and harmful fear-oriented messages spread by terrorist groups. The campaign featured several victims of terrorism, who have been supported by the project, as they used their voices to tell their own stories of resilience and overcoming and spoke of how more victims should be encouraged to do the same. The campaign also focused on highlighting the importance of understanding who is a victim of terrorism, what are the victims’ needs, the role of the community, and the achievements of the project.
"The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) is aware of the important role that Iraq plays in providing the means and efforts to support victims of terrorism - by making their voices and testimonies heard - to achieve desired justice and combat terrorism for its crimes against the rights of all humanity.... We are hoping that this campaign succeeds in achieving its desired goals in conveying a message to the Iraqi community and the international community on the importance of strengthening solidarity with victims of terrorism and supporting their role - as our partners - in combating violent extremism that leads to terrorism at the national and international levels,” Mr. Ali Elbereir, Head of UNODC Office in Iraq, affirmed at the ceremony.
The project is considered a step in the path to effectively supporting victims of terrorism in Iraq and is a foundation for further collaboration and partnership between UNODC and the Government of Iraq on this subject.
For more information about the campaign:
UNODC ROMENA Facebook – YouTube – Twitter – LinkedIn
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/236083-unodc-%E2%80%9Cvictims%E2%80%99-voices-silencing-terrorism%E2%80%9D-campaign-ceremony-marks-project%E2%80%99s-achievements




Date: 13 June 2023
Title: End Child Labour in Iraq
Content: 13 June 2023
The United Nations in Iraq, including ILO and UNICEF call on all partners to ensure enhanced social justice and step up the fight against child labour
BAGHDAD, 12 June 2023 - This year’s World Day Against Child Labour links advancing social justice with tackling child labour, under the slogan ‘Social Justice for All. End Child Labour!’
Social Justice in the World of Work means promoting productive and freely chosen employment; enhancing measures of social protection; promoting social dialogue; and promoting fundamental principles and rights at work.  It also means that we need to protect the fundamental rights of every child against the worst forms of child labour.
In Iraq, as in many parts of the world, one of the root causes for child labour is poverty and economic deprivation, leaving families struggling to make ends meet. Years of conflict, displacement, and economic downturn has left many children in Iraq in or at risk of child labour. The UNICEF-supported 2018 Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS6) indicates that 5 per cent of children aged 5-14 years in Iraq are engaged in child labour, with higher rates among children living in low-income households and in rural areas.
“Children should learn and play not work. They deserve opportunities that allow them to thrive and build a promising future,” said Ghulam Isaczai, the United Nations Resident Coordinator for Iraq. “To eliminate child labour, we must continue to work with the government and all relevant stakeholders to enhance policies, build capacities and institutions, to address root causes that force many young children into work”, he added.
Iraq has ratified key fundamental conventions that protect children from all forms of child labour, namely ILO Convention No. 138 on Minimum Age, and ILO Convention No. 182 on Worst Forms of Child Labour that have been in force since 1985 and 2001. It is also a signatory of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.
In recent years, efforts by the Government of Iraq and social partners have been made to find practical solutions to directly address the needs of children. The institutionalisation of the ILO-supported Child Labour Monitoring System (CLMS) is one example. The system identifies vulnerable children from host, refugee and internally displaced communities at risk of or already in child labour and provides them with the needed protection and support. The ILO and UNICEF have built the capacities of government officials, civil society organisations, academic institution representatives and other stakeholders on ways to adopt and implement the CLMS across the country.
This, along with the nine child friendly learning spaces (CFLS) established or revived with ILO support, in close coordination with local authorities including the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has provided thousands of children in or at risk of child labour with non-formal education, recreational activities and Mental Health and Psychosocial Support – leading to many out of school children returning to school or those engaged in child labour to be pulled out of work.
Part of the response to address the root causes of child labour, is ensuring that families of working children have opportunities to build new skills and access decent employment, so their children no longer have to work.  Working closely with vocational centres in Dohuk and Ninewa, the ILO has provided hundreds of parents and caregivers of working children with vocational trainings covering different professions. Many caregivers have also been referred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs’ Employment Platform, so they can access employment support, including job placement.
Strengthening the social protection system in Iraq is pivotal in improving lives and ensuring that families are protected from childhood to old age.  The ILO, UNICEF and WFP continue to work with the government of Iraq in reforming the social protection system to ensure that the vulnerable and the poor, including children, youth, women, elderly, informal workers, persons with disabilities and Internally Displaced Persons benefit from equitable access to an integrated social protection system.
A key milestone in recent months has been the adoption of the new Retirement and Social Security Law for Private Sector Workers, which expands the legal coverage of the social security system, covering all workers including informal workers, the self-employed and contributing family workers. It also introduces entitlements that include maternity and unemployment benefits.
The new law brings the social security system for private sector workers in closer alignment with ILO Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952 (No. 102), which was officially ratified by the Government of Iraq in March 2023.
These efforts are steps in the right direction and will contribute to a long-lasting impact on families and their children. On this World Day Against Child Labour, we reinforce that social justice for children and their families remains a top priority and a responsibility of all partners to ensure that no one is left behind.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/236006-end-child-labour-iraq




Date: 13 June 2023
Title: UNITAD, Iraq, and India Co-Host Special Event at UNHQ: ISIL's Use of Chemical Weapons: Global Threat
Content: 13 June 2023
Baghdad, 13 June 2022 – The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD), jointly with The Permanent Mission of Iraq to the United Nations, and The Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations co-hosted a special event titled “ISIL's Use of Chemical Weapons: Global Threat.”
Held at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, the Special Event brought together participants from the diplomatic community, civil society and different UN offices.
“I want to stress that my Team has assembled sufficient relevant information to think that the threat of chemical weapons’ development and use, by non-state actors such as ISIL, continues.” Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher indicated in his opening remarks. He also said that UNITAD’s investigative work in this regard is: “ground-breaking and setting the sediments for unprecedented judicial avenues, for prosecuting crimes linked to chemical weapons developed by non-state actors.” Reassuring that: “UNITAD will spare no effort in working towards this goal, precisely when atrocity crimes such as the development and use of chemical weapons are at stake.”
In his remarks, Ambassador R. Ravindra, Deputy Permanent Representative of India to the United Nations said: “Holding ISIL accountable, particularly for crimes against minority communities, is crucial for fostering reconciliation and lasting peace in Iraq. India provided initial financial support to UNITAD’s key investigations, and has bolstered this objective.”
On his part, Mr. Sarhad Fatah, Charge d’Affaires of the Permanent Mission of Iraq to the United Nations indicated: One of the main and important milestones mentioned in the tenth UNITAD Team Report is the completion of the initial case assessment report on the development and use of chemical and biological weapons by the terrorist organization ISIS in Iraq, which is supposed to expand the issue and prosecute the elements of the organization who used these weapons and worked to develop their capabilities.”
Special Adviser Christian Ritscher renewed his gratitude to the Government of Iraq, especially the Iraqi judiciary, for their support and partnership that facilitates this line of investigation. He also stated that: “In 2021, UNITAD initiated a major investigation into this line of enquiry, thanks to the financial support of India and later on, the one from France.” Further, he thanked the Permanent Missions of India and Iraq for co-hosting this event.
H.E. Mr. Ali Noaman Jabbar, Judge of the Taza Investigation Court at Kirkuk governorate recounted, through a recorded video message, the chain of events that took place on 8 March 2016, when ISIL shelled Taza Khurmato with nearly 40 locally made rockets, loaded with chemicals at civilians affecting hundreds of people with mustard gas. He also described the aftermath of the attack, the investigations opened by the Iraqi judiciary, and his court’s close cooperation with UNITAD on this line of inquiry.
During the Special Event, presentations were provided by the lead of the investigative unit responsible for investigating ISIL development and use of chemical weapons, and technical experts, including Mr. Talgat Toleubayev, Regional Coordinator at CBRN Risk Mitigation and Security Governance Programme (UNICRI). Expert presentations who provided valuable insights about the investigation findings and the issues pertaining to non-state actors as ISIL’s deployment of chemical weapons.
Special Adviser Ritscher had indicated in his briefing to the United Nations Security Council a day earlier, that he prioritized this line of inquiry and that the Team has produced case-assessment report on ISIL’s use of chemical weapons, as the team continues to advance its investigations into this crucial line of inquiry.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/236028-unitad-iraq-and-india-co-host-special-event-unhq-isils-use-chemical-weapons-global-threat




Date: 12 June 2023
Title: UNDP and Government of the Netherlands open the Ninewa Criminal Investigation Court and support local peacebuilding through model police stations and peace agreements
Content: 12 June 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 11 June 2023 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), with the Ministry of the Interior, and support from the Government of the Netherlands, today opened the Ninewa Criminal Investigation Court.
Led by the esteemed High Judge of Ninewa, Judge Raed Hameed, and a panel of nine judges, the court will be pivotal in ensuring access to justice for the local population and securing the region's long-term stability by ensuring the safety of 500,000 area residents. Since Mosul was occupied by ISIL, the court operated from a municipal building in Tel Kaif district. The new courthouse will move court services related to criminal investigations permanently to West Mosul, enabling greater efficiency and accessibility for those seeking justice.
UNDP also operates two out of its six model police stations in Mosul. Model police stations tailor police services to the needs of communities and encourage public faith in policing. They are a pillar of UNDP’s citizen-centered security approach within overall security sector reform support. In addition to enhancing community security in Ninewa, UNDP and the Government of the Netherlands have supported the development of ten peace agreements across Ninewa and Kirkuk. The lead-up to these peace agreements has included dialogues with local authorities, religious leaders, community and tribal leaders, women, and youth, resulting in individually tailored recommendations.
“We are grateful to our long-standing partner the Government of the Netherlands for their support in all aspects of our peacebuilding work in Ninewa Governorate, as well as our strong partnership with the Government of Iraq. Through these projects, we are working together to re-establish trust of the local population in public service delivery, including the delivery of justice,” says Auke Lootsma, UNDP Iraq Resident Representative.
H.E. Hans Sandee, the Netherlands Ambassador to Iraq, states, “Today’s opening of the criminal investigation court is a landmark in the history of Mosul. It is an important step toward justice and a symbol of hope for the Maslawi and people of Ninewa.”
“The inauguration marks a major milestone for us.  After the city’s liberation from ISIL, courts, public institutions, and schools were destroyed. Then, we started to rehabilitate, with thanks to UNDP. This is an important part of our rehabilitation, to bring life back to Ninewa,” says Mr. Najim Al-Juburee, Governor of Ninewa.
Judge Dr. Faiq Zaidan, President of the Supreme Judicial Council, says, “I congratulate the people of Ninewa Governorate in general, and my fellow judges in particular, on the opening of the new building for the Ninewa Criminal Investigation Court, in cooperation with UNDP, which will support the application of the principle of the rule of law and the achievement of justice in Ninewa Governorate.”
The construction of the Ninewa Criminal Investigation Court was implemented by UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS) with support from the Government of the Netherlands. Since 2015, the Netherlands has contributed US$ 107.458 million to FFS and US$ 8.5 million to security sector reform, making it one of UNDP's largest contributors in Iraq. With support from the Government of the Netherlands, UNDP has rehabilitated 49 law enforcement facilities, including four courthouses, five national security buildings, 34 police stations, one police training center, and 10 police directorate offices.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/235912-undp-and-government-netherlands-open-ninewa-criminal-investigation-court-and-support-local




Date: 08 June 2023
Title: UNITAD: Unique partnership with Iraq and Continued Commitment to Justice for Victims of ISIL Crimes
Content: 08 June 2023
Baghdad, 07 June 2023 – Special Adviser and head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher briefed the United Nations Security Council on the 10th report that details the Team’s work over the past reporting period.
Special Adviser Ritscher explained that 5 years since its establishment at the request of Iraq, UNITAD continues to be an international team with a unique mandate, working in cooperation with national authorities, while promoting accountability for the international crimes committed by ISIL throughout the world.
In his briefing, Special Adviser Ritscher reiterated the Team’s commitment to the pursuit of justice for all Iraqi communities afflicted by ISIL atrocities. In this regard, the Special Adviser indicated that the Team engages with religious and tribal leaders, representatives of affected communities and survivors of ISIL crimes, saying: “I have been impressed by the support given to my Team by the affected communities, especially the ones I recently visited in Taza Khurmatu, in Hiit and in Ramadi,” highlighting that : “I was deeply touched by the wise words of His Eminence Grand Ayatollah Sayed Ali Al Sistani, who said that: all ISIL victims matter equally, with no hierarchy. This same principle is the foundation of UNITAD’s work.”
Presenting the progress in the Team’s investigations, Special Adviser Ritscher mentioned that the UNITAD has worked on several case-assessments, including on the development and use of chemical weapons by ISIL, on gender-based crimes and crimes against children, crimes committed against the Sunni community in Al-Anbar, and the attacks against the Christian communities in Ninewa. Additionally, regarding ISIL attacks against the Yazidi and the Shia communities, case-briefs have also been enhanced with additional evidence and analyses.
Special Adviser Ritscher stressed that cooperation with Iraqi authorities is key for success, and that success comes through seeking accountability for ISIL international crimes in evidence-based trials, before competent courts. He explained that what is required to achieve this success are three elements: “competent courts, admissible and reliable evidence, and an appropriate legal framework.”
Towards this end, he expressed that the Team is committed to support the: “Iraq-led process for the implementation of a legal framework that enables the prosecution of ISIL criminal acts as international crimes, before national courts”, prompting dealing with the brutal attacks of ISIL as international crimes and not just membership of a terrorist organization.
Cooperation with the Iraqi judiciary, as Special Adviser Ritscher indicated, encompasses also enhancing capacities of Iraqi judges, ongoing joint case-building, and the mega digitization project, which has led so far to the digitization of the impressive amount of 8 million pages of ISIL documents from the holdings of the Iraqi authorities, including Kurdish authorities. In Iraq, there is no shortage of evidence on ISIL crimes, and with these innovative initiatives, Iraqi judges informed they are able to significantly improve response times in relation to case files and requests for information, signaling lasting change as a result of these innovative efforts.
Speaking of the Team’s support to international accountability efforts, Special Adviser Ritscher stated that UNITAD has become: “an indispensable member of the international network created to fight impunity for ISIL crimes,” mentioning that the Team is currently supporting 17 Third-State jurisdictions.
Concluding his briefing, Special Adviser Ritscher reiterated that UNITAD: “continues to be impartial, independent, and credible in upholding the United Nations best practices, and relevant international law.” He also stressed the importance of having fair trials before competent courts in Iraq with the active participation of victims and survivors, “Without that, UNITAD’s mandate and purpose will not be fulfilled” as Special Adviser Ritscher said.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/235397-unitad-unique-partnership-iraq-and-continued-commitment-justice-victims-isil-crimes




Date: 08 June 2023
Title: Over 500,000 children reached with lifesaving vaccines by Ministry of Health, supported by UNICEF & WHO
Content: 08 June 2023
More than 3,800 health workers, community mobilizers and religious leaders were mobilized for this 2nd round of first-ever multiantigen campaign
Baghdad, 8 June 2023 – Over 500,000 most vulnerable children, including almost 50,000 children who are under-immunized or missed out completely on their vaccines, were vaccinated in the second round of Iraq’s first-ever multi-antigen campaign led by the Ministry of Health (MoH) with support from UNICEF, WHO and partners.
In the 10-day-long campaign, a total of 1,303,587 doses of vaccines were used to vaccinate 523,584 children, including 332,023 against measles, one of the most-contagious diseases, by 3,834 health workers. Additionally, more than a million caregivers, including fathers, were reached with messages to raise awareness about the importance of vaccines and to build their trust and demand for vaccine.  The campaign was in-part financially supported by the UNICEF partnership with Alwaleed Philanthropies as well as by the Centers for Disease Control.
“Vaccines are the world's safest and most effective strategy to protect children from life-threatening diseases,” said Sheema Sen Gupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. “UNICEF remains committed to supporting the MoH to ensure that every child in Iraq is reached with vaccines.”
As part of the campaign, WHO provided support for operational costs, enabling vaccinators to reach the targeted districts, including remote areas, and ensured efficient logistics for reaching the designated vaccination sites. The daily mobilization of thousands of vaccinators to these sites played a crucial role in the campaign's success.
"This campaign was a great success in ensuring that no child is left behind in Iraq,” said Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative in Iraq. “I reaffirm WHO's commitment to collaborate with the MoH, UNICEF and all partners to further strengthen the immunization programme and contribute to the advancement towards Universal Health Coverage."
Globally, a total of 67 million children missed out on vaccinations between 2019 and 2021, with vaccination coverage levels decreasing in 112 countries. Yet in Iraq and through its intensified integrated immunization outreach services have reached 90 per cent of children aged under 5 with the third dose of diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus (DTP) and the first dose of measles vaccines, the highest coverage in two decades. This multi-antigen campaign aimed at reaching those children who had still missed out on these and other vaccines, with the hope of minimizing the resurgence of vaccine-preventable diseases and advancing coverage to 95 per cent.
Immunization remains one of the most effective public health interventions, saving children from vaccine-preventable diseases, and enabling them to grow up healthy and reach their full potential. UNICEF and WHO are working tirelessly to make sure that every child, regardless of who they are and where they are, has access to the vaccines they need to not only survive but thrive.
ABOUT UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF Iraq on our website,  Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.
For more information please contact:
Miguel Mateos Muñoz, Chief of Communication and Advocacy, UNICEF in Iraq email: mmateosmunoz@unicef.org 
Monica Awad, Communication Specialist, UNICEF in Iraq, email: mawad@unicef.org
ABOUT WHO
WHO leads global efforts to expand universal health coverage. We direct and coordinate the world’s response to health emergencies. And we promote healthier lives – from pregnancy care through old age. Our Triple Billion targets outline an ambitious plan for the world to achieve good health for all using science-based policies and programmes.
For more information please contact:
Sadeq Al-Wesabi, Communication Officer, WHO Iraq, email: hasansa@who.int
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/235819-over-500000-children-reached-lifesaving-vaccines-ministry-health-supported-unicef-who




Date: 08 June 2023
Title: Canada contributes CAN$ 10M to enhance climate resilience of Southern Iraq's agriculture sector and empower women as change agents
Content: 08 June 2023
Baghdad, 8th of June 2023,The Government of Canada represented by the Embassy of Canada to Iraq and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq have signed a four-year CAN$ 10M * (US$ 7.3 million) agreement to implement a project aiming to strengthen the climate resilience of vulnerable agriculture households in the Southern Iraqi Governorates of Babil, Missan, Muthanna, Najaf, Al Diwaniyah, Thi-Qar and Wasit. The project will empower women as change agents for climate-smart agriculture and address the food-energy-water nexus.
Activities under the agreement include providing technical assistance, strengthening the leadership and active engagement of women farmers in the promotion and adoption of climate smart agriculture, improving agricultural value chain efficiency and rural electrification. Furthermore, the activities will also provide updated digital tools for a more sustainable natural resource management in agriculture.
The project implemented in cooperation and partnership with the Ministries of Agriculture, Environment, Water Resources as well as other governmental partners, local governments, agricultural federations and non-governmental organizations, will work on sustainability, awareness of climate change, and the adoption of climate-smart technologies and practices.The project launch ceremony was attended by His Excellency the Minister of Environment, Mr. Nizar Muhammad Saeed, the Assistant Director General and Regional Representative of the Office of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Dr. Abdul Hakim Al-Waer, the Technical Deputy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Mithaq Al-Khafaji, the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Water, Mr. Raed Al-Jashami, the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Environment, Prof. Dr. Jassim Al-Falahi and the Director General of the Iraqi Women Empowerment Department, Dr. Yousra Karim Mohsen, His Excellency the Canadian Ambassador to Iraq, Mr. Gregory Galligan, in addition to representatives of the Ministries of Planning and Health, the targeted governorates, non-governmental organizations, and the representative of the FAO in Iraq, Dr. Salah Al-Haj Hassan and his team.

FAO RNE ADG Dr Abdulhakim El Waer, opened the ceremony saying “The agriculture sector is still a major source of income for the poor and food insecure in this region and is furthermore the largest source of rural employment in Iraq. A strong and resilient agricultural development is critical to Iraq’s vision of a more diversified and private sector led economy with active engagement of women farmers as change agents for climate smart agriculture.” He also extended his thanks and appreciation to both the Government of the Republic of Iraq and the Canadian Government.
HE. Nizar Muhammad Saeed Minister  of Environment commented, “It is a great opportunity to implement this important project aimed at minimizing the impact of climate change and strengthening women’s strategic role as change agents for climate action. We expect that the technological innovations introduced by the project will contribute to improving the   efficiency of natural resource management.  Thank you, the Government of Canada and FAO, for supporting the people of Iraq”.
For his part, Dr. Mithaq Al-Khafaji, the Technical Deputy of the Ministry of Agriculture, expressed his appreciation, saying: “This is a very important project that addresses the Water-Energy-Food Nexus and introduces different innovative approaches and technologies to promote among others Climate Smart Agriculture it through Farmer Fields Schools, and Solar Energy as a tool for enhancing agricultural value chain efficiency and rural electrification. I would like to express sincere appreciation to the Government of Canada represented by H.E the Ambassador for this generous contribution and thank Global Affairs Canada and FAO for making this achievement”.
The Undersecretary of the Ministry of Water, Mr. Raed Al-Jashami, affirmed the ministry's readiness to support and assist in the implementation, and noted the importance of the timing of this project to face the challenges resulting from climate change.
The Ambassador of Canada to Iraq, H.E. Gregory Galligan stated “Canada is committed to helping Iraq adapt to the impacts of climate change and water scarcity by strengthening the climate resilience of its agriculture sector. Similarly, as a main source of employment for Iraqi women, it is necessary to enhance the role of women in promoting climate-smart agricultural practices. Through this project, Canada looks forward to working with FAO and the Government of Iraq to improve the climate resilience of vulnerable agriculture households in southern Iraq and supporting women as essential agents of change.
Both, The Undersecretary of the Ministry of Environment, Dr. Jassim Al-Falahi, and the Director General of the Iraqi Women Empowerment Department, Dr. Yusra Karim Mohsen, stressed the pioneering role of women and civil society in change to meet the challenges resulting from climate changes.
To conclude, The FAO Representative in Iraq Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan extended his thanks and gratitude to the participating governmental partners . He also highlighted the support and partnership with the Canadian government to help adapt to climate change and  highly valued the active participation of civil society organizations and non-governmental organizations.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/235813-canada-contributes-can-10m-enhance-climate-resilience-southern-iraqs-agriculture-sector-and




Date: 08 June 2023
Title: UNDP and Ministry of Migration and Displaced encourage community reintegration in six governorates
Content: 08 June 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 08 June 2023 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Ministry of Migration and Displaced have hosted a series of meetings this week for over 200 local authorities and community leaders from Anbar, Baghdad, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa, and Salah al-Din governorates to encourage the sustainable community reintegration of displaced families.
Supporting the Government of Iraq’s priority to facilitate the return of Iraqi families from Al-Hol camp in north-east Syria to Al-Jada’a One Rehabilitation Center in Ninewa Governorate and areas of return, UNDP is implementing related projects in governorates liberated from ISIL. Supporting community acceptance is a key part of UNDP’s comprehensive approach to reintegration, which includes housing and infrastructure rehabilitation, Mental Health and Psychosocial Support, and livelihoods training and opportunities.
During three separate meetings held from 5-7 June, local authorities and community leaders from the six governorates reviewed the situation of returning families to their areas, exchanged views to enhance the return process, and agreed on key approaches to support community acceptance. Discussion was encouraged by Ms. Evan Jabro Yacoub, Minister of Migration and Displaced and Mr. Zidan Khalaf Obaid, Advisor to the Prime Minister of Iraq on Human Rights, alongside governors and local government representatives.
“Ensuring the sustainable reintegration of displaced Iraqi families, including those being repatriated from Al Hol camp, who have been cleared through security procedures, is a priority for UNDP. Meetings such as these to foster community receptivity for reintegration ensure that the government, local community leaders, and the UN are working as one,” states UNDP Resident Representative, Auke Lootsma.
“These workshops promote peace and national reconciliation and encourage the interventions necessary from tribal leaders to rehabilitate affected areas in Iraq. The MOMD will work with UNDP with a unified approach to implement the ministry’s plan according to the Government of Iraq’s priorities,” says Ms. Evan Jabro Yacoub, Minister of Migration and Displaced.
UNDP Iraq’s five-year Social Cohesion Programme launched in January 2020 to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/235407-undp-and-ministry-migration-and-displaced-encourage-community-reintegration-six-governorates




Date: 07 June 2023
Title: More than 9,000 children have been killed or maimed in Iraq since 2008
Content: 07 June 2023
At least 120,000 children killed or maimed by wars around the world across continents since 2005, an average of almost 20 a day
BAGHDAD, 6 June 2023 – A staggering 315,000 grave violations against children in conflict were verified by the United Nations between 2005 and 2022 worldwide, a stark illustration of the devastating impact of war and conflict on children.
As states, donors and the humanitarian community meet in Norway for the Oslo Conference on Protecting Children in Armed Conflict*, UNICEF has reported that, since monitoring began in 2005 (since 2008 in the case of Iraq), the UN has verified 315,000 grave violations committed by parties to conflict in more than 30 conflict situations across Africa, Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America.
These include:
The UN has also verified globally more than 16,000 attacks on schools and hospitals, and more than 22,000 instances of denial of humanitarian access for children.
For Iraq, the numbers are staggering, with over 9,000 children killed or maimed (3,119 killed and 5,938 maimed) since 2008 to the end of 2022. Despite the considerable reduction on the number of reported cases in the last years, the overall number represents, on an average, more than 1 child killed every other day and one child maimed daily over the reported period.
As these are just the cases that have been verified, the true toll is likely to be far higher.
Additionally, many millions more children have been displaced globally from their homes and communities, lost friends or family, or separated from parents or caregivers.
“Any war is ultimately a war on children,” said UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell. “Exposure to conflict has catastrophic, life-changing effects for children. While we know what must be done to protect children from war, the world is not doing enough. Year after year, the UN documents the visceral, tragic and all too predictable ways that children’s lives are torn apart. It is incumbent on all of us to ensure that children do not pay the price for the wars of adults, and to take the bold, concrete action required to improve the protection of some of the world’s most vulnerable children.”
In this context, UNICEF has supported the care and protection of millions of affected children across conflict situations to enhance their well-being, including through the provision of mental health and psychosocial support, child protection case management, family tracing and reunification, and services for child survivors of gender-based violence. In 2022, UNICEF reached almost 12,500 children globally who exited armed forces or armed groups with reintegration or other protection support, and more than 9 million children with information that they can use to protect themselves from explosive remnants of war.
Sheema Sen Gupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq, also present in the Conference, spoke about the need of reintegration for children in Iraq following so many years of conflict, ”As a response to years of conflict, UNICEF, in collaboration with the Government of Iraq and partners, target four profiles of children in need of reintegration, including children returning from North-East Syria, children released from detention, children perceived to be affiliated with armed groups, and other vulnerable children. These UNICEF reintegration programmes target three levels: individual, community and institutional. However, successful long-term reintegration is contingent on on-going basic service provision to ensure that children can access their rights, as highlighted in the Paris Principles.“
Unfortunately, the scale of the child protection risks to children affected by conflict is not matched by the scale of funding available to address these issues. New analysis by Humanitarian Funding Forecasting, commissioned by UNICEF, Save the Children, the Alliance for Child Protection in Humanitarian Action and the Global Child Protection Area of Responsibility, reveals that by 2024, the child protection sector will require US$1.05 billion, increasing to US$1.37 billion by 2026, to address the protection needs of children in armed conflict. This includes critical services like family reunification, mental health support, and the prevention of recruitment into armed groups.
However, the study also indicates an impending funding shortfall. If the current pace of humanitarian funding continues, the projected shortfall would stand at US$835 million in 2024, growing to US$941 million by 2026. This gap could leave conflict-affected children exposed to the immediate and lasting impacts of war, child labor, trafficking, and violence.
As leaders convene in Oslo, UNICEF is calling for governments to make bold new commitments to:
UNICEF is also calling on humanitarian actors to invest in policies that place children and their protection at the centre of humanitarian action in situations of armed conflict.
“We must deliver a child protection response that is equal to the challenges we face,” said Russell. “We need to do everything we can to reach all children in need, particularly the most vulnerable. Protection services for children must build upon existing systems and community structures, and support children’s rights, participation, and their best interests.  Programmes and advocacy in these contexts must unfailingly put children and their protection at the centre of humanitarian action.”
###
Notes to editors:
*UNICEF is a co-organizer of the conference along with the Government of Norway, Save the Children and ICRC, and in partnership with OCHA, the African Union, the Office of the SRSG Children and Armed Conflict (O-SRSG CAAC), and the Alliance for Child Protection in Humanitarian Action.
UNICEF has made the following commitments to strengthen its commitment to protect children in conflict:
#####
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF in Iraq on our website, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/235063-more-9000-children-have-been-killed-or-maimed-iraq-2008




Date: 07 June 2023
Title: WHO and Ministry of Health launch Health Resources and Services Availability Monitoring System (HeRAMS) results in Iraq
Content: 07 June 2023
Baghdad, 7 June 2023— The World Health Organization (WHO) and the Ministry of Health in Iraq, launched today the results of the Health Resources and Services Availability Monitoring System (HeRAMS) in Iraq, marking a significant milestone in the health digitalization of the country's health system.
HeRAMS offers comprehensive data that will revolutionize the decision-making process, drive effective and sustainable actions to improve health outcomes and foster a data-driven culture that prioritizes the use of health metrics and indicators.
The results of the system revealed the WHO and the Ministry of Health teams managed to assess 5205 health facilities, leaving no village untouched. The tool provided comprehensive data and an accurate snapshot of the available resources within the health system.
“This system will enable us to identify weaknesses, determine areas for improvement and allocate resources more accurately, efficiently and effectively,” said Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative in Iraq. “Our journey does not end here. We already initiated work on the District Health Information System DHIS2, a tool that provides both aggregate and real-time data on disease surveillance and health programs and outcomes.”
The HeRAMS system provides an accurate picture of the availability of human resources, technical requirements, and various health services in all health centers and hospitals throughout Iraq, including the Kurdistan Region and all Iraqi governorates. It also provides an accurate database that allows the fair distribution of resources in line with the needs of the population.
The health sector in Iraq is one of the first sectors to enter the digital club in the country, in line with global advancements and in conformity with the goals set by the Iraqi government.
"Today, we embark on a significant journey towards improving healthcare in Iraq. Let us keep the momentum and continue to make progress towards building a strong health system that ensures universal health coverage and health for all in Iraq," added Dr Zouiten.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/235106-who-and-ministry-health-launch-health-resources-and-services-availability-monitoring-system




Date: 06 June 2023
Title: Ministry of Trade and WFP complete Public Distribution System digitalization in Najaf
Content: 06 June 2023
Al-Najaf, Iraq – The Government of Iraq’s Ministry of Trade (MoT), in partnership with the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), has successfully completed the digitalization process for the Public Distribution System (PDS) in Al-Najaf Governorate, supporting efficiency and improving services for citizens.
This innovative digital solution replaces the outdated paper system, bringing the power of digital technology to optimize the PDS and enhance user experience. This will allow citizens benefiting from the system to conveniently access and update their entitlements and family information using their personal smartphones.
During the inauguration of the digital process and systems at the PDS branch in Al-Najaf, H.E. Mr Atheer Dawood Al-Ghurairy, Iraq’s Minister of Trade, emphasized the significance of this digitalization initiative. He highlighted that the process ensures inclusivity, transparency, and accountability, and will be implemented nationwide, making it a comprehensive reform. Currently, registration for digital cards is underway in the governorates of Muthana, Kirkuk, Duhok, with Baghdad and Basra scheduled for the next phase.
“This strong collaboration between the Iraqi Ministry of Trade and WFP is a testament to our joint commitment to support the people of Iraq, particularly the most vulnerable and food insecure,” said WFP Iraq Representative and Country Director Ally-Raza Qureshi. “Through this partnership, we are paving the way for more efficient and meaningful changes in government processes, ultimately helping the people of Iraq.”
Reforming Iraq’s social protection system is a top priority at the national level, and WFP supports the government to facilitate the provision of PDS rations to eligible people. By harnessing the power of digitalization, WFP is supporting the necessary reforms to optimize the system.
WFP has actively provided technical support to enhance people’s access to social protection, which is a crucial component of WFP’s strategic assistance to the Government of Iraq, incorporating best practices for optimization. In addition to supplying IT equipment, WFP has prioritized strengthening the capacity of MoT staff through knowledge transfer training. This empowers them to take a leading role in the reform process, ensuring long-term sustainability and self-reliance.
WFP extends its gratitude to the generous support of its donors, including the European Union, the German Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), and USAID’s Bureau for Humanitarian Assistance (BHA). Their contributions have made it possible to carry out this reform process successfully.

For more information please contact: Edmond.Khoury@wfp.org
Edmond Khoury, WFP/Iraq, Mob. +96181313091
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/235007-ministry-trade-and-wfp-complete-public-distribution-system-digitalization-najaf




Date: 30 May 2023
Title: Water complex rehabilitated by UNDP and USAID provides safe drinking water for over 30,000 people in Basra
Content: 30 May 2023
Basra, Iraq, 28 May 2023 – Today, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), and the Government of Iraq inaugurated the Al-Hussein water complex, bringing clean, potable water to more than 30,000 people in Hay Al-Hussein subdistrict and helping to ease the water crisis in Basra Governorate.
Built in 1977, the Al-Hussein water complex provided untreated water from the R-Zero station to homes, nearby industries, and military bases for over 40 years. Despite increasing water demand, the Al-Hussein water complex stopped operating three years ago because of the facility’s outdated and damaged equipment. Its closure severely affected the water supply in the sub-district and surrounding areas, leading to health concerns for residents as well as negative impacts for local businesses and agricultural production.
Rehabilitated by UNDP’s Iraq Crisis Response and Resilience Programme (ICRRP) funded by USAID, the Al-Hussein water complex is now fully operational with upgraded water pumps and treatment equipment to ensure the water that goes to homes, schools, and other establishments is safe for human consumption. Moreover, at least 45 people have resumed work upon the water treatment plant’s reopening.
“Access to clean water is one of the most pressing challenges Iraq faces. The scarcity of water and outdated infrastructure affects the health and well-being of millions of Iraqis and hampers the country’s development. The reopening of the Al-Hussein water complex is a step forward to build capacity and promote the importance of safe water and sanitation for people’s health,” says UNDP Resident Representative in Iraq Auke Lootsma, speaking at the inauguration ceremony.
“UNDP remains committed to working with our steadfast partner, USAID, to support Iraq and help ensure that its people have access to critical services and opportunities that enable them to lead healthy, productive, and fulfilling lives,” he adds.
“Improving Iraq’s water infrastructure and management of this precious resource directly contributes to the country’s stability and prosperity,” United States Ambassador to Iraq, Her Excellency Alina L. Romanowski said. “The United States, through USAID, is proud to be working with UNDP to rehabilitate the Al-Hussein water complex, which is helping improve the lives of thousands of local residents.”
Since 2019, UNDP’s Iraq Crisis Response and Resilience Programme, with support from USAID, has been rehabilitating critical water treatment plants in Basra. So far, nine water treatment plants in Shatt al-Arab, Al-Qurna and Abi al-Khaseeb districts have been completed, serving 149,000 people.

For media inquiries:
Clara McLinden, Senior Development Outreach and Communications Specialist, USAID
iraq-doc@usaid.gov

Mohammed Al-Bahbahanee, Communications Specialist, UNDP Iraq
mohammed.al-bahbahanee@undp.org | +9647704399222
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/233877-water-complex-rehabilitated-undp-and-usaid-provides-safe-drinking-water-over-30000-people




Date: 29 May 2023
Title: Stakeholders from across the spectrum shed light on farmer organization models and cooperatives in Iraq and their role in supporting the development of the agricultural sector
Content: 29 May 2023
The event brought together partners implementing programmes under the European Union Agri-food Business Development Programme, and national stakeholders involved in the development of the agricultural sector.
Baghdad, Iraq – 29 May 2023  - An event was held by partners implementing the European Union Agri-food Business Development Programme (AfBDP) in Baghdad on Monday (May 29) to discuss the development of farmers’ organizations and cooperatives in Iraq and ways to strengthen their role so they can better respond to the needs of society, particularly the most vulnerable.
The event marks the first in a series of events under the AfBDP, to showcase and discuss relevant topics under the boarder Agri-food Business Development Programme, which seeks to strengthen governance and promote sustainable job creation in Iraq’s agri-foodsector through activities that address the entire food value chain.
Social and solidarity economy entities such as cooperatives and farmers' organizations can play a crucial role in supporting the development of these value chains by facilitating coordination among farmers, improving access to markets and finance, and advocating for more conducive policy and regulatory reforms.
“This event today is an opportunity, the first of its kind that brings together stakeholders from the various sectors of the government, the private sector and organizations, to come up with recommendations that will help regulate or organize cooperative work with a new concept…I invite all organizations to provide their support so that we can modernize the concept of cooperative work in Iraq,” said MithaqAbdul-Hussein, the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Agriculture.
The first event was attended by relevant entities, including representatives from the Council of Ministers, the Ministries of Labour and Social Affairs, Agriculture, Planning, Education and Higher Education, as well as workers’ and employers’ organizations, farmers’ associations, civil society organizations, parliament, representatives from banks in Iraq, universities and research institutes. It also included other stakeholders involved in the development of the agricultural sector.
It also brought together EU’s AfBDP members which include the International Labour Organization (ILO), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), the International Organization for Migration (IOM), the International Trade Centre (ITC), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), and COWATER.
Participants took stock of the current situation of agricultural cooperatives and farmers groups in Iraq, some of the challenges and opportunities with the different models for business clusters in agriculture and how they can be supported to grow into sustainable entities, including through the creation of a conducive policy environment for cooperative development and promotion of farmers groups in Iraq.
Partners under the AfBDP highlighted some of the work they are undertaking to support cooperatives and farmers’ organization models, in terms of implementing certain models of farmer organizations, supporting cooperatives to advance employment and decent work, financing climate adaptation, among others.
“The EU has been a long standing partner of Iraq in supporting the agricultural sector as a way to diversify the economy and promote jobs creation. Agricultural cooperatives can and should play an important role in supporting farmers and this model is successful working in many areas of the world both in the developed and developing world. Today’s discussion was important to understand the challenges faced by agricultural cooperatives in Iraq, and to discuss how to make them more effective in targeting the needs of the farmers,” said Ville Varjola, Ambassador of the European Union to Iraq.
“Cooperatives should be seen as important partners in socio-economic development. Their democratic nature, collective ownership and focus on self-help create a unique means of empowerment. At a time when the world of work is experiencing unprecedented changes, we look forward to continuing to grow our partnerships in this field, in order to support sustainable development and a more just, inclusive and safe future of work with decent work for all,” added Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq.
Since 2021 the European Union has funded several international partners in Iraq - ILO, FAO, IOM, UNESCO, ITC, GIZ and COWATER - to collaborate under a large Agri-food Business Development Programme that uses a programmatic approach by leveraging each agency’s strengths to address different weaknesses in the private sector and agri-food sector in a coordinated fashion. Central to many of the projects in the AfBDP is an agri-food value chain approach that supports stabilization and governance, and promotes sustainable job creation.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/233821-stakeholders-across-spectrum-shed-light-farmer-organization-models-and-cooperatives-iraq-and




Date: 28 May 2023
Title: Government of Iraq & UN in Iraq Convenes UNSDCF 2020-2024 first Joint Steering Committee Meeting
Content: 28 May 2023
28 May 2023 - The first Joint Steering Committee (JSC) meeting of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2020-2024 (UNSDCF) took place today at the Ministry of Planning. Chaired by the UN Resident Coordinator and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Planning, the meeting brought together more than 30 UN and senior government officials to discuss the progress of the UNSDCF and foster close collaboration for the remaining two years of UNSDCF, as well as for the development of the roadmap for the next programming cycle.
The UNSDCF aligns with Iraq's national priorities, and the establishment of the JSC as the overarching governing body dedicated to implementing the UNSDCF in Iraq was a significant outcome of the meeting. During the session, participants endorsed the 2022 Annual Results Report, outcome of the mid-term review of the Cooperation Framework and agreed on the appointment of government co-chairs to join the five Priority Working Groups. Meetings participants also noted the funding gap for implementing the remaining activities of the Cooperation Framework and agreed to collaborate to mobilize resources including from the government.
Highlighting the vital partnership between the Government and the UN System, the Minister of Planning acknowledged the significant contributions of the UN in terms of policy support, technical expertise, and resources to advance national development priorities. He stressed the importance of enhancing government ownership and designing a clear strategic cooperation framework that incorporates inputs from key stakeholders, ensuring alignment with national strategic priorities.
Echoing this sentiment, the UN Resident Coordinator emphasized that "The JSC serves as the high-level accountability forum between the UN and the Government of Iraq for the Cooperation Framework. It plays a pivotal role in providing strategic direction, oversight, and coordination for the UN's programmatic and operational interventions in Iraq's development sector." In his closing remarks, he underscored the Committee's commitment to monitoring the progress made in implementing the Cooperation Framework, which aims to propel Iraq's development trajectory. He emphasized the critical role of government engagement and leadership in aligning national priorities with the Cooperation Framework, as well as in regularly monitoring its implementation and results.
The JSC meeting marked a significant milestone in Iraq's pursuit of sustainable development, demonstrating the commitment of both the Government and the UN System to work collaboratively for the betterment of the country. Through ongoing collaboration and effective implementation of the UNSDCF, Iraq aims to achieve its developmental goals and propel itself toward a prosperous future.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/233705-government-iraq-un-iraq-convenes-unsdcf-2020-2024-first-joint-steering-committee-meeting




Date: 26 May 2023
Title: Statement by Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher on visit to Anbar
Content: 26 May 2023
Anbar, 25 May 2023: Today, I came here to Anbar with a delegation of UNITAD, as we work on one of our key structural investigations into ISIL’s crimes; those crimes committed against the Sunni community in Iraq.
With violence at the core of its ideology, ISIL did not spare Iraq, its people from all communities, and its cultural and religious heritage from its vicious attacks. Like in other parts of Iraq, and as our findings indicate, ISIL targeted all segments of the Iraqi community in Anbar, including Sunni tribes that refused to pledge allegiance to ISIL’s rein of terror, declaring them apostates who deserve to be executed. During ISIL’s control of Anbar, a large number of tribesmen, women and children were killed by Da’esh or forcibly disappeared.
Our ongoing investigations are also looking into ISIL’s destruction and desecration of religious places like the shrine and mosque of Abdullah Bin Al-Mubarak, one of the most prominent and widely respected historical Sunni persons. With these acts, ISIL proved, once and again, that its attacks were not founded in religion, but on their twisted manipulative discourses, that have nothing to do with religion or belief. These acts are founded in hate and inhumanity.
Our teams have been working tirelessly to uncover the scope of ISIL’s attacks targeting all those who stood against it, with a dedicated investigative unit for the crimes committed against the Sunni community.
This includes interviewing witnesses and survivors and supporting the excavation of mass grave sites. In addition, our experts very recently launched a digitization project with Al Anbar Criminal Court to digitize and preserve the courts’ records and cases pertaining to ISIL crimes. These operations contribute to drawing the full picture of ISIL’s criminality and enhances our different lines of inquiry. We will go on with such investigations, aiming to establish the legal qualification of the crimes committed by ISIL perpetrators as international crimes, meaning war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide.
With this said, I must stress that UNITAD’s work in Anbar would not be possible without the close cooperation with victim and survivor communities, as well as our Iraqi counterparts including the Iraqi judiciary. I reaffirm my thanks to the Iraqi Jurisprudence Council, for their continued support, and I commend the Council’s firm position against ISIL.
The bereaved families who have waited for long to see the truth uncovered, and for justice to prevail have welcomed UNITAD and welcomed me today, and to them I say, your plights remain at the core of our work. Commemorating ISIL victims from the Sunni community comes in line with our principle that there is no hierarchy of victims. Each and every victim matters, from all affected communities. Yet, remembrance is not the only way we honor the victims and their families. It is through true justice and accountability for the many crimes committed by ISIL perpetrators that we do so.
Through my visit today I reiterate my Team’s commitment to continue its work to establish the truth and serve justice to all victims, including those from the Sunni community. We are here among you and will continue to work jointly with all stakeholders to meet your calls for justice.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/233409-statement-special-adviser-and-head-unitad-christian-ritscher-visit-anbar




Date: 25 May 2023
Title: FAO Training on proper personal protective equipment (PPE) use and biosecurity in field activities
Content: 25 May 2023
24 May 2023 - The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) and Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MoAWR)-KRG, conducted a workshop, from 21 – 24 May, on proper personal protective equipment (PPE) use and biosecurity in field activities as part of the project activities entitled “Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq” funded by the United States Defence Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA).
The workshop aimed to increase the veterinarian field capacities and promote how they can use personal protective equipment (PPE) properly in the field. It also aimed to train technical field staff on how to protect themselves from exposure to pathogenic agents and to manage the field-based biosecurity and biosafety standards.
Thirty-Eight specialists from the veterinary services in Baghdad, Erbil, Duhok, Nineveh, Anbar, Wasit, Muthanna and Basra, including four from each federal and KRG Ministry of Health participated in the training.  The session was attended by the FAO-Representative in Iraq and officials from relevant ministries.
FAO Representative, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, concentrated on the importance of these workshops for field veterinarians, especially since many lethal emerging and re-emerging zoonotic diseases are reported within the country and in the whole region such as Crimean-Congo Haemorrhagic Fever (CCHF); therefore, it requires a dedicated and sustained effort including specific technical and professional training.
Proficiency using PPE in the field is one of the important elements that contribute to biosafety and biosecurity, which provide physical barriers that prevent the hands, skin, clothing, eyes, nose, and mouth from coming into contact with infectious agents and avoiding contamination of samples during collection. This will contribute to avoiding the spread of disease in animal and human population.
The four-day training also included a field visit and practice to apply the training materials presented during the workshop.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/233250-fao-training-proper-personal-protective-equipment-ppe-use-and-biosecurity-field-activities




Date: 24 May 2023
Title: WFP and Iraq develop a mangrove nursery in Basra to foster sustainable development and combat the climate crisis
Content: 24 May 2023
Basra, IRAQ – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), in partnership with the local government of Basra, Iraq’s Ministry of Environment, and the University of Basra’s Marine Science Centre started a mangrove nursery in the tidal flats region with the capacity to produce up to one million mangrove seedlings annually.
The initiative aims to preserve a mangrove ecosystem that enhances the region’s biodiversity, sequesters carbon, and mitigates the risks of climatic shocks while also alleviating poverty by creating sustainable sources of income for coastal and fisherfolk communities.
“Through a collaborative effort with WFP and the international community, we are working towards transforming this area into an environmental exemplar through the planting of mangrove trees,” His Excellency Asaad Al-Eidani, the Governor of Basra said during an event there to launch the nursery. “When people with a genuine interest in improving our environment come together, remarkable achievements are made for Basra.”
WFP and its partners have set an initial target of planting one million mangrove samplings per production cycle. This aligns closely with the Government of Iraq’s commitment to plant five million trees in response to the climate crisis, as demonstrated during the Iraq Climate Conference.
“We affirm the Government of Iraq’s dedication to the Paris Climate Agreement and the Iraqi national contributions to climate change, which serve as the guiding principles for climate action in Iraq,” said His Excellency Nazar Mohammed Saaid Ameedi, Iraq’s Minister of Environment. “We are eager to continue collaborating with the United Nations, diplomatic missions, and international agencies to enhance the resilience of affected sectors.”
Mangrove restoration offers an effective and affordable nature-based solution to combat the climate crisis, providing a return of US$4 for every US$1 invested.
“Addressing the impacts of climate change poses a significant challenge for Iraq. WFP has demonstrated great commitment in finding solutions, and the reintroduction of mangroves is one such solution. I commend our partner for their exceptional efforts,” said Mr. Volker Oel, Director for Middle East; South-Eastern/Eastern Europe and Latin America at the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development. “Germany stands ready to continue supporting Iraq and its people alongside WFP. I am pleased to announce that we have allocated an additional allocation of €11 million (US$12 million) from this year’s budget for WFP’s work in the country.”
The Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Iraq, Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, highlighting the adverse effects of climate change on Iraq, recognized the efforts of all those who have made the nursery project a reality, including the volunteers. “Looking around us today – surrounded by the people who are leading the charge against climate change, reaffirming the success that is born from our collaboration – I believe we can also feel hopeful about what lies ahead,” she said.
Mangroves serve as habitats and nurseries for numerous fish species, safeguard crops and human settlements against storm surges and erosion, and filter pollutants that could contaminate food sources.
“Introducing mangroves in the southern region of Iraq is a significant step towards combating the effects of the climate crisis and enhancing food security,” said Ally-Raza Qureshi, WFP Representative and Country Director in Iraq. “While planting mangrove trees might not be the first solution that comes to mind when considering food security, it is a crucial piece of the puzzle.”

For more information please contact: Edmond.Khoury@wfp.org
Edmond Khoury, WFP/Iraq, Mob. +96181313091
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/232905-wfp-and-iraq-develop-mangrove-nursery-basra-foster-sustainable-development-and-combat




Date: 24 May 2023
Title: Prime Minister of Iraq Launches National Population Policy with Support of UNFPA
Content: 24 May 2023
Baghdad, Iraq — 23 May 2023 — The Iraqi Prime Minister, His Excellency Mohammed Shiaa Al-Sudani officially launched Iraq's National Population Policy in Baghdad on 17 May. The occasion coincided with the annual conference of the Arab League’s Council for Population and Development, which was hosted by the Government of Iraq in Baghdad, with support from the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).
The Prime Minister, while acknowledging UNFPA as a trusted partner and appreciating its support in preparing the Policy, urged government institutions to prioritise requirements outlined in the Policy when formulating relevant development policies. He emphasised that contrary to misconceptions that the National Population Policy contains measures to reduce birth rates or limit population growth, the Policy promotes measures that will lead to a demographic bonus for Iraq and urged that these measures should be rooted in economic, educational, and training plans. He informed that experts and specialists caution that this demographic gift may become a curse if proper attention is not paid to current population changes and challenges.
Representing the United Nations family in Iraq, Mr Ghulam Isaczai, the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General and UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, observed that Iraq is currently experiencing a remarkable surge in the number of young people in its demographic structure, that present a unique opportunity. He emphasised that this opportunity can only be realised when Iraq Government invests in education, health, and employment programs for the youth right now to harness their productivity in the medium term and increase the positive economic impact leading to Iraq’s achievement of Sustainable Development Goals.
The National Population Policy presents a significant milestone for Iraq, providing guiding principles that will shape the country's approach to population-related matters and connecting current demographic realities with sustainable national development plans.




The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/232941-prime-minister-iraq-launches-national-population-policy-support-unfpa




Date: 18 May 2023
Title: Iraq invests in building a social security system that protects workers
Content: 18 May 2023
Iraq’s parliament votes for new social security law, introducing far-reaching reforms to the social security system for private-sector workers
Baghdad, Iraq (ILO News) The Council of Representatives in Federal Iraq voted on Wednesday (May 17) to adopt the new Social Security Law for Private Sector Workers, which introduces far-reaching reforms to the social security system for private-sector workers.
The new law, which will replace Law No. 39 on Pension and Social Security for Private-Sector Workers of 1979, brings the social security system for private sector workers in closer alignment with ILO Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952 (No. 102), which was officially ratified by the Government of Iraq in March 2023. 
The law significantly expands the legal coverage of the social security system, covering all workers including informal workers, the self-employed and contributing family workers. It also expands the range of entitlements to include maternity and unemployment benefits for the first time. The law will also provide health insurance obtained from public, cooperative, and private providers.
A statement issued by the Labour and Civil Society Organizations Committee highlighted the law was “among the priority draft laws in the government programme, in response to the developments of the current situation as well as the future, and in line with the International Labour Organization’s appeal to expand coverage to the private sector”.
Under the European Union funded programme to reform social protection, and in line with the priorities of the Decent Work Country Programme for Iraq, the ILO has been working with its tripartite constituents - government, employer, and worker representatives - and the parliamentary committee in the review of the social security law. This has included bringing together legal as well as actuarial experts to assess the comprehensiveness, coherence, sustainability and alignment of the social security law.
The ILO has also been supporting the Government and tripartite partners to strengthen their capacity to implement the new provisions of the law and strengthen the efficiency in the delivery of social security and related employment services.
“The ILO welcomes the adoption of the new law, which is a key milestone in expanding the scope of support provided to workers by covering a wider range of risks,” said ILO Coordinator in Iraq Maha Kattaa. “For example, unemployment benefits are crucial to prevent workers who become unemployed from falling into poverty, providing them with support while they seek new employment opportunities. Similarly, the introduction of maternity benefits will ensure women are supported before, during and after childbirth, thus potentially improving health outcomes.”
“We look forward to strengthening collaboration with all parties to ensure the effective implementation of the law, and to bring millions of workers in the private sector under the umbrella of social security,” added Kattaa.
Priority now will be placed on the Department of Social Security under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to upgrade its procedures and systems to efficiently administer the reforms introduced under the law, with the support of the ILO. 
The ILO and partners will also embark on an awareness raising campaign for workers and employers on their rights and responsibilities under the social security law, in efforts to support the expansion of coverage to more workers.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/232060-iraq-invests-building-social-security-system-protects-workers




Date: 16 May 2023
Title: UNITAD Welcomes New Support from Sweden for Investigations and Evidence Management
Content: 16 May 2023
Baghdad, 15 May 2023 – The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh / ISIL (UNITAD) welcomes the new contribution of 20, 914,004 SEK (approx. USD 2 million) from the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) supporting UNITAD to advance its core mandate and build capacities of Iraqi civil society.
On 10 May 2023, Special Adviser Christian Ritscher and H.E. Jessica Svärdström, Swedish Ambassador to Iraq signed the contribution agreement, which marks the continued cooperation between the Team and Sweden and inaugurates new initiatives that will support and build the capacities of Iraqi civil society, including vulnerable groups, which helps promote an inclusive society.
“Promoting accountability for international crimes is a process that requires meticulous work and dedication from all relevant stakeholders. Our Team works together with national counterparts to document ISIL atrocities, and digitize evidence in accordance with international standards, to make it stand the test of time,” said Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher. He added that “thanks to this generous contribution, UNITAD will be able to expand such work and the Team’s efforts hand-in-hand with Iraqi counterparts, especially among Iraqi civil society partners.”
In addition to its innovative approach to investigations and digitization of data, UNITAD is also working to empower and enhance national capacities towards the common goal of promoting accountability for ISIL international crimes. UNITAD works closely with numerous civil society organizations, and thanks to this financial contribution from SIDA, the Team will be able to further build and strengthen this cooperation.
The Team remains committed to the pursuit of justice for the many victims and survivors of ISIL crimes, from all Iraqi communities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/231637-unitad-welcomes-new-support-sweden-investigations-and-evidence-management




Date: 16 May 2023
Title: Government consultations advance Iraq’s Potato Sector Strategy
Content: 16 May 2023
15 May Erbil/Baghdad: As part of efforts to support the development of the potato sector strategy in Iraq, consultants at governorate level were held in Baghdad today. Another consultation was held in Erbil on 9 May.
These consultations constitute a milestone for drafting the potato sector’s national strategy as public and private sector representatives, including farmers, processors, traders, retailers, and agri-support business services, as well as development partners actively engaged in the discussions.
The potato sector holds untapped potential for growth as potatoes are expected to have the second highest future demand in the Iraqi horticulture sector after tomatoes.
The Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) is leading the preparation of the strategy with the technical support of the International Trade Centre (ITC) within the framework of the European Union-funded project, “Strengthening the agriculture and agri-food value chain and improving trade policy in Iraq” (SAAVI) and technical and advisory support from the International Potato Center (CIP).
The strategy will provide a roadmap for national stakeholders to improve the competitiveness of farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector. It will be accompanied by a detailed five-year Plan of Action with measurable and prioritized actions.
The consultations build on structured discussions with farmers and small businesses, as well as sector-level assessments, production site visits and targeted interviews. More than 500 competitiveness surveys focusing on agribusinesses and farmers and over 3,000 interviews were conducted at the national level with consumers as well as with representatives from various stakeholder groups, such as traders, wholesalers and retailers, to help better understand market demand, and identify areas of improvement and market opportunities.
These efforts build on the successful development of ITC-facilitated Iraq’s Tomato and Poultry Sustainable Development Strategies (2022-2026), under the leadership of the Government of Iraq. The strategies were endorsed and officially launched in July 2022 and are currently under implementation.
On the side-lines of the multi-stakeholder meetings, the National Core Team, a public and private sector coordination structure under MoA leadership, participated in working sessions and visited farms from the SAAVI agribusiness alliances with support from Norwegian Refugee Council.  The Core Team provides guidance to the implementation of the strategies. It also oversees the design process of the potato sector strategy.
About the International Trade Centre’s SAAVI project: The ‘Strengthening the Agriculture and Agri-Food Value Chain and Improving Trade Policy’ (SAAVI) project, funded by the European Union, focuses on the development and implementation of sector strategies for high-potential products, as well as on defining market-oriented policies to improve predictability and efficiency in the business environment. SAAVI also helps enhance Iraq’s trade policy and supports the country in its WTO accession process.
SAAVI is implemented under the leadership of the Government of Iraq through the Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Trade.
This project is part of the EU-funded Agri-food Business Development Programme (AfBDP). The European Union in Iraq funds international partners - the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), the International Organization for Migration (IOM), the International Labour Organization (ILO), the International Trade Centre (ITC), and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)- under the umbrella of AfBDP. Central to the AfBDP is an agri-food value chain approach that supports stabilisation and governance, while promoting sustainable and decent job creation.
About the International Trade Centre
The International Trade Centre (ITC, www.intracen.org) is the joint agency of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the United Nations (UN), fully dedicated to supporting the development and internationalization of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). ITC's mission is to foster inclusive and sustainable growth and development through trade and international business development. ITC is a UN Resident Agency in Iraq with Headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/231634-government-consultations-advance-iraq%E2%80%99s-potato-sector-strategy




Date: 09 May 2023
Title: WHO and Ministry of Health conduct joint investigation and response plan for meningitis outbreak in Halabjah and Sulaymaniyah
Content: 09 May 2023
Sulaymaniyah, 9 May 2023— Following a surge in meningitis cases in Halabjah City and Sulaymaniyah governorate since mid-April 2023, an expert team from the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Ministry of Health was deployed to the affected areas to perform a joint epidemiological investigation of the reported cases and develop a swift response plan to curb the transmission of the disease.
Preliminary laboratory results from 24 collected samples showed a mixture of bacterial (streptococcus pneumonia) and viral (enterovirus) meningitis, indicating two responsible pathogens. Further laboratory investigations are underway for more conclusive results.
The majority of cases occurred in school-aged children, with males affected twice as often as females. The upward trend in cases is still ongoing, with the epicentre of the epidemic located in the center of Halabja and nearby Serwan City.
“No deaths have been reported so far; nonetheless, it is crucial that we act quickly to detect, confirm and treat cases to effectively curve the transmission and control the outbreak,” said Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative in Iraq.
Visits to Wafaa Hospital in Halabja and Dr Jamal Ahmad Rashid's Pediatric Teaching Hospital in Sulaymaniyah shown a sudden increase in meningitis cases in the last two weeks, mainly affecting children under ten years old. Healthcare professionals have been working tirelessly to treat patients, but challenges such as a critical shortage of staff, essential medicines, and supplies have been observed in both hospitals.
WHO has obtained 20 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from the affected hospitals, which will be shipped to a WHO collaborating Laboratory for further analysis. In the meantime, WHO ordered rapid diagnostic test kits for meningitis to facilitate the timely identification of causal pathogens and enable prompt public health action.
In collaboration with the Ministry of Health, WHO will organize a multidisciplinary training on meningitis for surveillance staff, healthcare professionals, and laboratory technicians in Halabja and Sulaymaniyah during the week of May 21, 2023. This training aims to quickly scale up frontline response capacities in the affected areas.
“Our current priority is to curtail the spread of the meningitis outbreak and deliver urgent and effective care to those affected. We are working closely with the WHO team to develop and deliver a robust response including heightened surveillance and enhanced laboratory capacities,” said Dr Riyadh Al-Hilfi, Director-General of the Public Health Directorate in the Ministry of Health.
Depending on the identified causal pathogen, response strategies may include a pneumococcal vaccination campaign for children, adherence to infection prevention control measures, and enhancing community education and awareness.
“In response to the current outbreak, WHO has already begun to take prompt actions by enhancing the surveillance, data collection and laboratory capacity for and case management,” said Dr Chiori Kodama, Medical Officer, Infectious Hazard Prevention and Preparedness programme at the WHO’s Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/230775-who-and-ministry-health-conduct-joint-investigation-and-response-plan-meningitis-outbreak




Date: 09 May 2023
Title: FAO Training on Good Laboratory Practices and Quality Management System including Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) use and Biosafety and Biosecurity in Lab
Content: 09 May 2023
Baghdad April 30 – May 4, 2023
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) and Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MoAWR)-KRI, conducted  the Good Laboratory Practices and Quality Management System, including Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) use, and Biosafety and Biosecurity in Lab Workshop,  as part of the project activities entitled “Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq “funded  by the United States Defence Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA). The workshop aimed to increase the veterinary laboratories’ capacities and promote the introduction of good laboratory practices and quality management procedures, and to train the lab staff on PPE use, how to protect themselves from exposure to the hazards and pathogenic agent, how to manage the labs based on biosafety and biosecurity standards.
Twenty-seven specialists from the veterinary services in Baghdad, Erbil, Duhok, Nineveh, Anbar, Wasit, Muthanna and Basra, including two from federal Ministry of Health participated to the training. The session was attended by the FAO-Representative in Iraq and officials from relevant ministries.
FAO Representative, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, explained that the successful incorporation of quality management procedures into laboratories requires a dedicated and sustained effort including specific technical and professional training. Proficiency testing is one of the important elements that contribute to preserving the health and safety of livestock while preserving the safety of products of animal origin and preventing transboundary animal diseases, through the reinforcement and establishment of a high quality management system for laboratories for good laboratory practices, biosafety procedures and biosecurity.
The quality Assurance is a key component of any diagnostic laboratory and is now a part of compliance with world organisation for animal health (WOAH) standards. Although initially labour-intensive, once implemented, it provides more of a guarantee that results are reproducible and have optimal accuracy, eventually saving time and resources.
The five days training should contribute to strengthen the quality assurance of veterinary laboratories of the targeted governorates as key component of any diagnostic laboratory to provide and guarantee more results that are accurate.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/230693-fao-training-good-laboratory-practices-and-quality-management-system-including-personal




Date: 04 May 2023
Title: Sweden contributes additional US$ 1.9 million to support stabilization in Iraq
Content: 04 May 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 04 May 2023 – The Government of Sweden has contributed an additional SEK 20 million (US$ 1.9 million) to UNDP’s flagship programme, the Funding Facility for Stabilization. Today, a signing ceremony with Her Excellency Ms. Jessica Svärdström, the Ambassador of Sweden to Iraq, and UNDP Resident Representative in Iraq Auke Lootsma formalized this generous contribution.
Since the establishment of the Facility in 2015, the Government of Sweden has contributed SEK 434 million (US$ 42 million) to stabilization efforts in Iraq. With this additional funding, UNDP will be able to continue rehabilitating critical infrastructure and services damaged during the conflict with ISIL and setting the stage for community-based reintegration.
“The Government of the Kingdom of Sweden has been a valuable partner to UNDP. This new contribution comes at a critical time. While a lot of progress has been made, our work is far from over,” says UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Auke Lootsma.
“We thank the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden for its unwavering commitment to making a lasting impact in the lives of the people of Iraq. Working together, we can ensure that gains made in previous years are sustained and further built upon,” he adds.
“Sweden has a close bilateral relationship with Iraq. The fact that 3% of the Swedish population has its origins in Iraq has created strong people-to-people contacts between our countries. Sweden will continue to support a stable and secure Iraq, including through our bilateral development cooperation,” says Swedish Ambassador to Iraq, Her Excellency Ms. Jessica Svärdström.
“Sweden is proud to be a part of stabilization efforts in Iraq and remains committed to contribute to this collaborative work to build a better future for the people displaced and affected by the ISIL conflict,” she adds.
As of April 2023, UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization has completed more than 3,500 projects across the five liberated governorates of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa, and Salah Al-Din. These projects, which include the rehabilitation of schools, hospitals, water systems, electricity networks, and homes, and the creation of short-term employment, have improved the lives of over 8.3 million Iraqis and facilitated the return of 4.9 million people displaced by the ISIL conflict.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/230069-sweden-contributes-additional-us-19-million-support-stabilization-iraq




Date: 04 May 2023
Title: Funds from Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development allow UNHCR to continue delivering essential services to refugees in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Content: 04 May 2023
UNHCR, the UN refugee agency in Iraq, in cooperation with the Kurdistan Regional Government and Ministry of Interior, with generous financial support from the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, opened a new registration centre in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Erbil.
The new centre will function as a one-stop shop for registration and protection services, allowing UNHCR to obtain biodata to provide its certificates and support refugees according to their specific needs. At the centre, refugees can access an information desk to learn about humanitarian and public services and legal assistance. Women and children survivors of violence also have access to specialised psychosocial services.
In addition to UNHCR staff and its protection partners; INTERSOS, Terre des Hommes, Al-Mesalla, Kurdistan Save the Children, and WCHAN, the registration centre will also house governmental entities, namely General Assayish and the Erbil Directorate of Residency. As a result, refugees will immediately be able to secure their humanitarian residency permits, which are the documents provided by the authorities to asylum-seekers and refugees to regularise their stay in The Kurdistan Region of Iraq and to access public services. It is expected that 24,000 refugees a month will benefit from all these services.
"Registration with UNHCR is a necessary step in the life of a refugee. It will guarantee them to secure a legal residency with the Kurdish authorities and give them access to public and humanitarian services.” Said UNHCR Representative in Iraq, Mr Jean-Nicolas Beuze. “Today’s opening of the registration centre is a testament to the great cooperation with the Kurdistan Regional Government. We are glad that it benefits from the financial support from KFAED as partners with us to protect refugees,” Beuze added.
Nisreen Rubaian, the representative of UNHCR to the State of Kuwait thanked and appreciated the Kuwait government and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development and its role in supporting displaced persons and refugees in the MENA region and around the world, especially in response to the pressing humanitarian needs due to protracted crisis in Syria and Yemen. Kuwait Fund have worked on strengthening their joint efforts to meet the growing humanitarian needs in light of historical numbers of asylum and displacement through sustainable infrastructure projects.
“Today, we are witnessing another achievement written in the record of our joint work in serving our Syrian refugee brothers and host communities. This project is considered one of 5 projects signed with UNHCR towards infrastructure for refugees; we are proud of this strategic partnership and hope it will achieve its ultimate impact on easing challenges they face.” Said the General Director of Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development Mr. Waleed AlBahar
The newly established building will function as a registration centre for refugees and other protection activities. It will eventually serve as a secondary school for the neighbourhood. Education is a priority for the Kuwait government, UNHCR and the Kurdish government to support education for the most vulnerable.
For more information:
In Iraq: Hamzeh Al-Momani, Almomanh@unhcr.org
In Kuwait: Khaled Kabbarah, kabbara@unhcr.org

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/230057-funds-kuwait-fund-arab-economic-development-allow-unhcr-continue-delivering-essential




Date: 03 May 2023
Title: United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) Statement on the 30th World Press Freedom Day
Content: 03 May 2023
Baghdad, 3 May 2023 – This year, World Press Freedom Day is marked under the theme "Shaping a Future of Rights: Freedom of Expression as a driver for all other Human Rights."
Freedom of expression is essential for the functioning of all democratic societies, and a free and independent media serves to promote the healthy exchange of ideas and opinions. It not only increases transparency but is also a critical tool for letting authorities and leaders know when their policies are not having the intended effect, for enabling institutions to adapt and thus to flourish.
That said, across the country, the United Nations continues to document ongoing cases of harassment and intimidation, as well as retribution through both legal means and violence, against those exercising their right to freedom of expression.
Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq, stressed, “Silencing, obstructing, dismissing, or undermining public discourse achieves two things only: it tarnishes the image of the State and erodes public trust. This in turn creates a ripple effect, deterring an open and public dialogue."
It is vital to ensure that anyone can express him or herself freely and without fear of reprisals. This includes guaranteeing that the legal framework protects, rather than unduly restricts, speech. When laws are used to silence, freedom of expression comes under grave threat, thereby undermining one of the most fundamental building blocks of a democratic society.
The United Nations remains committed to supporting Iraqis in defending freedom of expression and other fundamental rights.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/229954-united-nations-assistance-mission-iraq-unami-statement-30th-world-press-freedom-day




Date: 03 May 2023
Title: UNDP partners with private sector companies in Karbala to boost youth employment
Content: 03 May 2023
Karbala, Iraq, 03 May 2023 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has signed a Statement of Intent with eight private sector companies in Karbala during the second phase of a Job Matching Project aimed at curbing youth unemployment in the governorate.
The Job Matching Project is designed to equip young individuals with the skills and knowledge that are required for today’s labor market. The initiative empowers youth to kick-start their own ventures or secure job opportunities in private sector firms, supporting the Government of Iraq’s priority to address unemployment and create work opportunities for young women and men. Additionally, the project seeks to foster the active engagement of the private sector in driving social development in Iraq toward economic empowerment and modern community solutions.
“This partnership with the private sector in Iraq is essential due to the significant role of these companies in developing innovative solutions to tackle development challenges.  Together with the private sector, we can bring about transformative change by reducing the unemployment rate in Iraq through securing job opportunities," says UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Auke Lootsma.
“This Job Matching Project is an important example of innovative collaboration with the private sector. The government is grateful to UNDP for facilitating this partnership, which promises to create new avenues for economic growth and empowerment for the youth in the region.” says Governor of Karbala Nsaif Jassim Al-Khattabi.
The impact of the Job Matching Project in Karbala has been implemented in two phases, with over 100 previously unemployed youth securing sustainable job opportunities with private sector companies. UNDP's Economic Diversification Programme supports the strengthening of business ecosystems, especially in high-impact labor-intensive economic sectors and provides support to the government of Iraq to implement its private sector development strategies.
UNDP would like to thank the eight private sector partners for their commitment to signing the Statement of Intent: Asiacell, Al- Qamar for Printing and Marketing Limited Company, Al-Hathaf General Contracting Limited Company, Al-Serraj Al-Munir for Real Estate, Agricultural and Industrial Investments Limited Company, Bareeq Al-Sabika Company for General Contracting, Ltd, Emaar Albilad Intl. Company, Karbala International Group, and Zain Iraq Telecommunications Company.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/230028-undp-partners-private-sector-companies-karbala-boost-youth-employment




Date: 03 May 2023
Title: New Intensive Care Unit for Respiratory Tract Infection Hospital supported by Canada opens in Sulaymaniyah
Content: 03 May 2023
Sulaymaniyah, Iraq, 03 May 2023 – A new Intensive Care Unit for Respiratory Tract Infection Hospital in Sulaymaniyah was inaugurated today, strengthening health infrastructure in the region and providing access to life-saving and specialized respiratory care services for over 730,000 residents.
The newly constructed facility officially opened during an inauguration ceremony with Canadian Ambassador to Iraq, His Excellency Mr. Gregory Galligan, Kurdistan Regional Government Minister of Health, Dr. Saman Barzanjy, Sulaymaniyah Governor, Dr. Haval Abu Baker, and Sulaymaniyah Directorate General of Health, Dr. Sabah Haorami.
UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization and the Government of Canada built the Intensive Care Unit for Respiratory Tract Infection Hospital and equipped it with advanced medical tools. The unit has 20 isolation rooms, each with a ventilator and humidifier, patient monitor, mechanical bed, and necessary medical devices and accessories. The hospital was also provided with a defibrillator, a video laryngoscope, an ECMO device, and generators.
“We are grateful to the Government of Canada for its commitment to supporting the people of Iraq. The construction of this specialized facility brings treatment closer to people needing immediate medical attention and also eases the burden on major hospitals in the region,” says UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Auke Lootsma.
“Canada is proud to support the establishment of this Intensive Care Unit in Sulaymaniyah that will bring life-saving healthcare services to the doorstep of its residents and surrounding communities. Our partnerships with the Kurdistan Regional Government and the Government of Iraq will not only improve the quality and accessibility of healthcare services but also boost the resilience of the healthcare system, enabling it to respond with agility to future crises and pandemics,” says Canadian Ambassador to Iraq, His Excellency Mr. Gregory Galligan.
“The opening of this facility marks a significant milestone in the efforts to revitalize Sulaymaniyah’s health sector and improve its capacity to respond to public health emergencies such as pandemics,” says KRG Minister of Health, Dr. Saman Barzanjy.
“In recent years, respiratory tract infections have become one of the threats to Sulaymaniyah’s public health. Through this state-of-the-art intensive care unit and with our highly skilled and compassionate medical experts and health professionals, we will be able to provide the best possible care and treatment to patients with respiratory diseases such as pneumonia, bronchitis, and COVID-19,” says Governor of Sulaymaniyah, Dr. Haval Abu Baker.
The construction of the Intensive Care Unit for Respiratory Tract Infection Hospital in Sulaymaniyah, which began in March 2022, took one year. Its design was developed by UNDP engineers in consultation with the Sulaymaniyah Health Directorate.
The Government of Canada has contributed US$ 39.844 million to UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization, supporting 116 projects on infrastructure rehabilitation and livelihood creation and benefitting over 324,000 people.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/230001-new-intensive-care-unit-respiratory-tract-infection-hospital-supported-canada-opens




Date: 20 April 2023
Title: Canada Commits to Protect Iraq’s Mesopotamian Marshlands
Content: 20 April 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 20 April 2023- The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq and Canada’s Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development (DFATD) signed an agreement for a project to protect Iraq’s southern Marshlands earlier this month, with a CAD 5 million (approximately US$ 3.7 million) contribution to increase biodiversity protection and people resilience in face of climate change. The project will be implemented under the leadership of the Center for Restoration of Iraqi Marshes & Wetlands (CRIMW) at the Ministry of Water Resources of Iraq.
The Iraqi Mesopotamian Marshlands, one of West Asia's most important biodiversity hotspots, a UNESCO World Heritage site, and home to the country's famed Marsh Arab culture are now under threat from climate change and unsustainable human activities. The unique marshes’ ecosystems are influenced by severe droughts, rising temperature, reduced precipitation and higher evaporation rates. On top of climate change impacts, the resilience of the ecosystems and biodiversity of the Marshes are being weaken by human impact on the rivers flow, chemical and wastewater pollutants, and habitat destruction.
Indigenous habitants of the Mesopotamian Marshlands, particularly women and girls, are among the first to face the direct consequences of climate change and ecological destruction, due to their close relationship with the nature.
A set of activities proposed under the project aims to build resilience of local communities to climate change impacts, particularly indigenous Marsh women, tackle root causes of biodiversity degradation, and protect the wildlife population, in such way that it brings co-benefits across poverty reduction, social cohesion, and climate mitigation.
In the context of southern Iraq where gender inequality is significant, the project will give a special focus on investing into the empowerment of Marshland women, increasing their involvement in decision-making processes and encouraging to become change agents in the Marshlands. Given the severe water scarcity, the project will increase local water security by rehabilitating water recycling systems, equipping them with solar energy units, and carrying out a comprehensive analysis of possible solutions for securing drinking water for the Marshes population, which are sustainable and scalable in the long run. With climate change acting as a stress factor, accelerating the depletion of Marshlands resources, the project will undertake an important Ecosystems Assessment to provide a first ever scientific analysis of the state of ecosystems in the Marshes, its economic, social and cultural composition, and offer scenarios of future human and ecological well-being, to adapt conservation policy and management strategies accordingly.  To support ecosystems restoration and conservation on the ground, the project will establish locally managed hatcheries to re-populate the native fish stock, improve regulations on sustainable hunting and fishing, and enforce such regulations in gender and culturally sensitive manner, along with awareness campaigns to increase local people ownership over biodiversity conservation.
The project focuses on a particular area of the Central part of the Marshlands, located in Al-Chibayish district, ThiQar Province, as the Central Marshes was listed as one of the Mesopotamian wetlands of international importance, and characterized as a socio – ecological site due to the high levels of interaction between local people and nature for thousand years. This project is a critical step towards protecting the Mesopotamian Marshlands, addressing the growing effects of climate change, and preserving Iraq’s natural heritage for generations to come.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/228305-canada-commits-protect-iraq%E2%80%99s-mesopotamian-marshlands




Date: 20 April 2023
Title: UNIDO and Government of Japan collaborate on Sustainable Development of the Food Industry in Iraq
Content: 20 April 2023
Baghdad, April 2023: The United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and the Government of Japan are proud to announce their collaboration on the "Emergency livelihood support to mitigate the food insecurity crisis among vulnerable people in Iraq" project. This project is part of Japan's long-running support through the Japanese Supplementary Budget to the Iraqi people.
The project will enhance sustainable livelihood opportunities and food security in Iraq and builds on the foundation of previous projects supported by the Japanese Government and UNIDO to strengthen resilience and employability.
The project will address the critical issue of food insecurity by revitalizing traditional food processing industries in Nineveh and Duhok Governorates, which have been heavily impacted by the ongoing crisis in Iraq. The project will also target internally displaced persons (IDPs) and refugees to scale-up domestic and household-level food production and support the transition from subsistence to self-reliance.
As part of the project, UNIDO will provide hands-on training and market-oriented growth guidance to MSMEs producing traditional food products with business and food safety and hygiene training. This will help to strengthen the capacities of communities to address the lack of livelihoods, dependence on food imports, significantly decreased income, and increased food prices. In addition, UNIDO will also support the Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources, Ministry of Agriculture in these governorates and non-government institutions to provide training and extension services to the MSMEs producing traditional food products.
The project directly contributes and promotes women's economic empowerment through income generating activities and livelihood opportunities. Women who are extensively involved in agricultural activities, food processing, and preservation will be provided training for improved business management, tools, and equipment as well as extension services.
The emergency livelihood support project is aligned with the overall country's strategy to support longer-term development objectives in rural areas. The project will contribute to improving the lives of vulnerable people, particularly women, in Iraq.
“We recognize that there are still tremendous basic needs of vulnerable groups including IDPs, returnees and refugees in Nineveh and Duhok. I commend UNIDO for its tireless efforts to respond to those people’s needs”, said Mr. MASAMOTO Kenichi, Charge d' Affaires ad interim, the Embassy of Japan in Iraq.
“I trust that UNIDO will improve the people’s livelihood in Nineveh and Duhok backed by the coordination with the authorities and communities of these governorates, through completing this project and making use of UNIDO’s excellent expertise” added Mr. Kenichi.
UNIDO and the Government of Japan are committed to continue their long-running support to Iraq and its people through projects that foster sustainable development and promote economic growth.
For more information, please contact:
Eduardo Moreira, International Project Coordinator
e.ferreiradesamoreira@unido.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/228287-unido-and-government-japan-collaborate-sustainable-development-food-industry-iraq




Date: 19 April 2023
Title: Statement by the Office of the Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq on the closure of Jeddah 5 camp
Content: 19 April 2023
Baghdad, 19 April 2023 – The Office of the Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq calls on the Government of Iraq to ensure the safety and well-being of the 342 families who had to depart from the Jeddah 5 IDP camp in Ninewa Governorate following its closure.
The humanitarian community is concerned by the impact of the closure of the camp on 18 April by the Government of Iraq, without adequate notification and preparation for the IDPs and the receiving communities. The United Nations in Iraq will continue to work in close coordination with the Iraqi authorities, to ensure the sustainable reintegration of those 1,566 former camp residents, with almost two thirds are children.[i]
The United Nations reiterates its longstanding principles that call for the voluntary, informed, safe and dignified return of all IDPs. The UN also urges the relevant authorities to ensure IDPs are able to return to their homes or places of habitual residence, integrate locally or relocate voluntarily to another part of the country in a safe and dignified manner.
The UN stands ready to provide further assistance to those former camp residents and is working with the Government of Iraq to find durable solutions for all the remaining IDPs in and out of camps.

For further information, please contact:
Zainab Salih, Communications Officer, zainab.salih@un.org

[i] IOM Data as of 17 April 2023
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/228270-statement-office-humanitarian-coordinator-iraq-closure-jeddah-5-camp




Date: 19 April 2023
Title: The Ministry of Youth and Sports and UNICEF, in partnership with the Kurdistan Organization for Human Rights Watch, call on young changemakers in Iraq for the imaGen Ventures Youth Challenge
Content: 19 April 2023
The Ministry of Youth and Sports and UNICEF, in partnership with the Kurdistan Organization for Human Rights Watch (KOHRW), call on young changemakers to participate in the imaGen Ventures Youth Challenge and accelerate progress towards the SDGs
Erbil, 18 April 2023 – The Ministry of Youth and Sports, in partnership with UNICEF, launched today the Generation Unlimited Youth Challenge “imaGen Ventures”, calling on young changemakers to design solutions to accelerate progress towards the SDGs.
Successful applicants will be invited to take part in design workshops to make their ideas reality. Following these workshops, the most promising ideas will be selected and provided with seed funding as well as mentorship to support the projects’ implementation.
In August 2023, solutions from all countries participating in this year’s challenge will be submitted to a global judging process. These projects will receive further funding, and will be included in a tailored global incubation programme from Generation Unlimited partners to support them to scale.
Co-hosted globally by five Generation Unlimited partners – UNICEF, UNDP, Plan International, USAID, and the World Organization of the Scout Movement – and, in Iraq, in partnership with the Ministry of Youth and Sports and KOHRW, the challenge calls on young innovators across Iraq to design solutions to accelerate progress towards the SDGs, in line with UNICEF Iraq’s priority areas such as Climate Change and Gender Equality.
The Youth Challenge is a global initiative meeting young people where they are and working with them in supporting the realization of their full potential. It aims to inspire young people with brilliant ideas, providing the resources needed to bring them to life. This includes young people that are forcibly displaced, those who face daily discrimination due to their ethnicity, their gender, their disability or disadvantaged by poverty.
In line with the SDG-focused solutions, GenU's imaGen Ventures 2022 awarded twelve teams of young entrepreneurs as global winners at the youth pavilion during COP27. These innovative teams showcased their talents by presenting projects that included eco-friendly plastic, sustainable sanitation technologies, solar-powered lighting systems for schools, and bio-briquettes. With the seed-funding provided, these winning ventures have the necessary resources to advance their ideas and make a greater impact on their communities.
The most promising ideas will contribute to the success of Generation Unlimited, an ambitious global public-private-youth partnership meant to meet the urgent needs for expanded education, training and employment opportunities for young people on an unprecedented scale.
Notes to Editors:
For more details on how to apply, please follow this link: https://bit.ly/41tT8hD
UNICEF: UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across over 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
Generation Unlimited: Generation Unlimited is a global public-private-youth partnership working to prepare young people to become productive and engaged citizens. It connects secondary-age education and training to employment and entrepreneurship, empowering every young person to thrive in the world of work.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/228227-ministry-youth-and-sports-and-unicef-partnership-kurdistan-organization-human-rights-watch




Date: 19 April 2023
Title: WFP and Ministry of Environment host national consultations on climate action in Iraq
Content: 19 April 2023
Baghdad – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and Iraq's Ministry of Environment held a three-day national consultation event aimed at enhancing the country's climate adaptation efforts.
The workshop focused on bolstering Iraq's climate information system with the aim of having unified and consolidated data across the entire country and strengthening early warning mechanisms. The participants unanimously agreed that establishing an inter-ministerial technical committee and creating a roadmap to achieve this goal is of utmost importance.
The Ministry of Environment will disseminate the workshop's recommendations to all stakeholders. This initiative marks a significant step in Iraq's national efforts to address the repercussions of the climate crisis and pave the way for a more comprehensive and effective approach to climate information management in the country.
The workshop was attended by technical experts from ministries in the federal and Kurdistan region of Iraq, who are involved in collecting, analyzing, using, or are custodians of climate data, to facilitate efficient decision-making and promote the country's ability to anticipate and respond to climate impacts.
Deputy Technical Minister of Environment Dr. Jassem Abdel Aziz stressed the pressing need for collaboration among ministries to address the effects of climate change in Iraq. He highlighted that working in isolation is no longer viable as climate change brings security, political, and economic challenges that lead to water scarcity, desertification, and salinization, all of which threaten food security. To address these challenges, Dr. Aziz emphasized the necessity of establishing a centralized climatic data center that collects, analyzes, and disseminates all climate data to communities and stakeholders, facilitating informed decision-making.
“WFP is committed towards supporting the development of a comprehensive climate information system. This is of utmost importance to Iraq, and we believe it will provide integrated, accurate, and relevant data on climate change accessible to decision-makers including local governments, policymakers, and relevant ministries,” said WFP Representative and Country Director in Iraq Ally-Raza Qureshi. “WFP will also work hand in hand with the government to unlock the various regional and international forecast-based financing mechanisms for achieving early warning and anticipatory actions in the country."
Iraq's Climate Envoy, Dr. Fareed Yasseen, reiterated the need to break down the barriers that limit climate data and information sharing between various ministries to strengthen the country's position within the region and internationally in having a reliable and robust climate information system.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/228225-wfp-and-ministry-environment-host-national-consultations-climate-action-iraq




Date: 18 April 2023
Title: The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and Partners Continue to Boost Agricultural Livelihoods in Nineveh
Content: 18 April 2023
15 April 2023, Ninawa - FAO representative in Iraq, Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan led a mission to several sites in Nineveh to follow up on the implementation of FAO-EU funded project, "Support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh Governorate in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) joined by Dr Rabea Yousef Elias, the Director of Agriculture, FAO experts and MoA team.
The mission started in Baashiqa, where 50 cooling tanks of different capacities were received and will be distributed to milk collection centres. According to Dr Chedly Kayouli, FAO livestock expert, “This new equipment for cooling milk is used for the first time in rural areas at a large scale in Iraq and will prevent and reduce milk post-harvest losses and improve milk quality." The project is also empowering additionally 30 women households with milking machines that will enable them to have less physical work and more time dedicated to their families.
The delegation visited one of the wheat producers in Mosul who is already implementing the FAO wheat improvement package where the FAOR in Iraq highlighted the importance of scaling up the successful examples implemented on wheat production improvement through the complete package jointly introduced by FAO and MoA under this EU funded project that will allow inclusion of other crops like fodder crop in the crop rotation with wheat which improved productivity and may promote further food security.
Ahmed Rashad Ajaj, owner of the wheat field, acknowledged the techniques and inputs introduced by FAO which enabled him to increase wheat productivity by up to 50%.
Water scarcity and crop adaptation were discussed during a meeting with the Deputy Director of Al-Mhallabia district.
The mission also visited additional fodder-producing beneficiaries adopting fodder production package which achieved great success, according to one of the beneficiaries, Muhammad Adel Ibrahim, who was able to increase his production as well as better quality of produced milk, and positive results on animal health.
Under further rural empowerment activities and support the visit ended with the inauguration of two village milk collection and processing centres run by two women groups for dairy products in Al-Bakr neighbourhood in Mosul and Al-Mahalabiya. These centres will contribute to improved milk productivity, hygiene, and overall food safety.
At the end of the mission, Dr. Rabea Yousef Elias, stressed on the importance of conveying new ideas to local farmers, including the adoption of modern techniques and praised the distinguished interventions of FAO in Ninawa.
FAO representative in Iraq stated: "FAO is committed to supporting the agricultural sector throughout the development of the main value chains. Our cooperation with the EU and the Ministry of Agriculture is a significant step towards achieving sustainable agricultural livelihoods in Iraq, and we will continue to work diligently to support the country's farmers and agricultural communities. We are proud of the progress made so far and are confident that these projects will make a significant impact on the lives and livelihoods of the people in Nineveh.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/228066-food-and-agriculture-organization-fao-and-partners-continue-boost-agricultural-livelihoods




Date: 13 April 2023
Title: Government of Iraq and UNDP sign Memorandum of Understanding to boost the fight against corruption
Content: 13 April 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 12 April 2023 – The Government of Iraq, represented by the Prime Minister’s Office, and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have reaffirmed their partnership and commitment to preventing and combating corruption in Iraq by signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) designed to promote transparency, accountability, and integrity in the public and private sectors.
The MoU, signed for a two-year period, builds on UNDP’s current support to respond to anti-corruption priorities in Iraq, including capacity development of anti-corruption bodies and support to strategic and legal frameworks in line with the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Joint efforts will also focus on creating an enabling environment for constructive dialogue with civil society, the private sector, academia, and media on reporting corruption, and empowering key national stakeholders to play a stronger role in enhancing transparency and accountability systems.
His Excellency, the Prime Minister of Iraq, Mohammad Shia' Al-Sudani, while attending the signing ceremony, affirmed that countering corruption through enhanced transparency and public accountability is one of the most important priorities of his government, and thanked UNDP and all international development partners for their support to Iraq in this field.
“Corruption is a serious issue in Iraq. It is our duty and commitment to work side by side with the Government of Iraq to enhance the accountability of Iraqi institutions. With this MoU, we will work together to help improve public services, reduce inequalities, strengthen rule of law, create a more resilient society, and rebuild trust between Iraqi citizens and public institutions. This MoU encourages us to revisit our ambition to expand anti-corruption engagement in key strategic areas that are urgently needed to improve the investment environment in Iraq and open new avenues for public-private partnerships,” states UNDP Resident Representative, Auke Lootsma.
Combatting corruption is imperative for progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals, including job creation, protecting the environment, increasing gender equality, and supporting access to basic services.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/227533-government-iraq-and-undp-sign-memorandum-understanding-boost-fight-against-corruption




Date: 10 April 2023
Title: Japan and UNICEF will work together to provide access to services for more than 88,000 children living in areas of origin and returning from northeast Syria
Content: 10 April 2023
UNICEF receives almost $7 million from Japan which will also serve to reach over 47,000 women. Overall, the number of beneficiaries will be more than 180,000 vulnerable people.
BAGHDAD, 10 April 2023. – As announced today, UNICEF has received almost $7 million from Japan to promote equitable access to life-saving child protection, health, nutrition, and education services for returnees from northeast Syria. The project will be finalized by the end of 2023 and will benefit more than 180,000 people, including 88,000 children and more than 47,000 women.
The situation in northeast Syria remains a humanitarian and human rights challenge, and this new project will support the Government of Iraq-led efforts to scale up the returns process. The agreed interventions will address the reintegration needs of children and women in areas of origin as well as returnees. Support includes prevention and response to gender-based violence, mental health and psycho-social support (MHPSS), health, nutrition, and education services. Unaccompanied children in detention and young people detained and released from detention will also be supported.
“UNICEF deeply appreciates Japan´s continued support to most vulnerable children in Iraq. This joint effort between UNICEF and Japan will enable returnee children and young people, especially girls to realize their rights, equipping them with critical skills and strengthening their ability to meaningfully contribute to society, promoting cohesion of communities affected by conflict and displacement,” said Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. “By protecting and empowering the most vulnerable children and young people, with a special focus on girls, we can ensure that no one is left behind.”
“The needs of returnees remain high in Iraq, and it is critical to enhance a protective environment and ensure that returnees have better access to quality basic services,” said Kenichi Masamoto, Charge d'Affaires ad interim in the Embassy of Japan in Iraq. “Japan and UNICEF share a vision of a seamless transition from humanitarian action to development and peace in Iraq, and this project aims to build social cohesion and acceptance of returnees. Japan is committed to work with UNICEF to support children, women and youth returning from northeast Syria and to address key challenges in their safe return and integration.”
The project will reach children below the age of 5 years as well as women, targeting both those who have returned to Iraq from northeast Syria, including Al-Hol camp, and those living in areas of origin. It will provide access to health and nutrition services, where children and adolescents will have access to formal and non-formal education, including life-skills based education and social cohesion programmes.
The funds will provide services that benefit returnees and other children in the areas of origin, including improved child protection services. Social cohesion and acceptance will be built through the provision of inclusive services to a wider population as well as targeting assistance to the returnee population.
By combating stigma and discrimination, the proposed interventions will foster social cohesion, peace and stability. In addition, UNICEF will work with communities to prevent discrimination based on gender and will promote equity by reaching the most vulnerable girls and young women who are excluded from various socioeconomic areas. Gender-related issues specific to both girls and boys will be identified to ensure unique needs are met and addressed.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/227038-japan-and-unicef-will-work-together-provide-access-services-more-88000-children-living-areas




Date: 06 April 2023
Title: WHO Representative in Iraq meets with the Iraqi Prime Minister on World Health Day and 75th anniversary of WHO
Content: 06 April 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 6 April 2023— The WHO Representative, Dr Ahmed Zouiten, met today in Baghdad with the Iraqi Prime Minister, Mr. Mohammed S. Al-Sudani, on the occasion of the celebration of World Health Day, which also commemorates the 75th anniversary of the establishment of WHO on 7 April 1948.
The meeting discussed the collaboration between the Government of Iraq and WHO and the progress made in the health sector over more than three decades of WHO presence in Iraq.
During the meeting, the Prime Minister congratulated WHO on its 75th anniversary, emphasizing that the WHO theme of providing health is perfectly in sync with the Iraqi government program that placed the health sector at the top of its priorities.
‏‏"WHO has witnessed significant efforts from the Iraqi government in improving the healthcare sector, as demonstrated by H.E. Prime Minister's commitment, who prioritized hospitals for his first field visit soon after being nominated the head of the Iraqi Government," said Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative in Iraq.
‏"We're grateful for the government's focus on primary healthcare, health security and health promotion. WHO is committed to partnering with the Iraqi Ministry of Health to support the development of the National Plan for Health Development, aiming to achieve the targets of the health-related sustainable development goals and ensure the highest attainable health status for everyone everywhere in Iraq," he added.
The Prime Minister also emphasized the importance of providing healthcare services and working to achieve this through various initiatives. These include adopting joint management programs for large hospitals in line with international best practices, completing stalled hospital projects, supporting specialized centers, allocating unprecedented budgets for the Ministry of Health within the federal budget, and implementing the national health insurance program.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/227009-who-representative-iraq-meets-iraqi-prime-minister-world-health-day-and-75th-anniversary-who




Date: 06 April 2023
Title: Fostering youth employment through sports
Content: 06 April 2023
It was a day for realizing career aspirations, when more than 100 youth participated in a job fair organized recently in Basra.
Over the course of two days, they were interviewed by 10 companies for more than 5,000 vacancies.
The venue was the Sports City Basra where the UEFA Foundation, Common Goal and Palestine Sport4Life (PS4L), the Iraq Ministry of Youth & Sport and the International Trade Centre (ITC) hosted the first Kick for Trade football festival.
Selected youth interacted with prospective employers, and representatives from private sector organizations gained access to a potentially skilled workforce.
The festival featured social and educational events, including a youth forum designed to help with developing leadership skills and promoting important social messages.
Other activities organized at the fair included helping young people to develop their CV writing and interviewing skills, developing life-skills opportunities through the Kick for Trade initiative and workshops on opportunities in the agri-value chain.
“PS4L is glad to have led the football festival, contributing to the development of life skills for youth such as respect, adaptability and leadership,” said Sameh Masri, chairman of PS4L.
The Kick for Trade Football Festival was organized under the framework of the European Union-funded ‘Strengthening the Agriculture and Agri-food Value Chain and Improving trade policy’ (SAAVI) project.
David Cordobes, Head of Youth & Trade programme at ITC said, “With the SAAVI project, ITC is closely engaged with youth to build their skills for employment, expanding young people’s entrepreneurship capacities, ultimately creating job opportunities and promoting the socio-economic inclusion of youth in Iraq.”
The collaboration will contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals, through promoting inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment, and decent work for all. SAAVI focuses on the development and implementation of sector strategies for high-potential products, as well as on defining market-oriented policies to improve predictability and efficiency in the business environment. SAAVI also helps enhance Iraq’s trade policy and supports the country in its WTO accession process.
SAAVI is implemented under the leadership of the Government of Iraq through the Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Trade.
The project forms part of the overall European Union Special measure for supporting employment creation and improving economic governance in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/227008-fostering-youth-employment-through-sports




Date: 05 April 2023
Title: Japan provides US$2.6 million to improve food security for vulnerable communities in Diyala
Content: 05 April 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 5 April 2023 – Supported by the Government of Japan, UNDP Iraq is implementing a new project for "Improving food availability for communities vulnerable to food insecurity in Diyala Governorate of Iraq.” This project is aimed at supporting small-scale farmers and micro/home-based food businesses vulnerable to food insecurity in Diyala to maintain and improve their production and reduce food losses and waste.
Through this new project, small-scale farmers in Diyala Governorate will receive training and in-kind/cash grants to enhance their production capacities and adapt to climate induced shocks – drought - in the plant and animal sub-sectors. Building upon UNDP’s work to ensure gender equality and increase livelihood opportunities for women, female trainers will be engaged through the project to conduct female-only information sessions. The project will also focus on micro/home-based food businesses working across the food value chain in targeted areas of the governorate to diversify their production, improve food safety, and reduce food waste through training, mentoring, and cash grants.
To ensure an inclusive and informed participation process, UNDP will conduct a detailed vulnerability assessment to select beneficiaries in collaboration with the Government of Iraq and local authorities.
Auke Lootsma, UNDP Iraq Resident Representative, states, "We are grateful to the Government of Japan, our steadfast partner in development, for their contribution to such an important project to benefit the people of Diyala. Working closely with the government and local authorities, this project will ensure that local, climate smart and resilient solutions are provided to sustain community needs related to food security. Our goal is to prepare community members to adapt and be able to respond to future shocks and stresses beyond to ensure long-term impact and improved resiliency.”
“I commend UNDP for its attentive and detailed response to the needs of people of Diyala, which is increasingly complex and multi-dimensional”, said Mr. MASAMOTO Kenichi, Charge d' Affaires ad interim, the Embassy of Japan in Iraq. “I respect UNDP’s continuous and tireless endeavor to mitigate sufferings of those most vulnerable people.  I hope that this project will alleviate the hardships of those people in Diyala, who also have been most affected by current food security in the wake of the crisis in Ukraine.”
This project is part of UNDP’s Iraq Crisis Response and Resilience Programme, which works to provide locally tailored interventions that combine short, medium and long-term solutions for post-conflict recovery and development, emphasizing resilience and building back better.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/226396-japan-provides-us26-million-improve-food-security-vulnerable-communities-diyala




Date: 05 April 2023
Title: On International Day for Mine Awareness, UNICEF calls for strengthened investment in mine action and explosive ordnance risk education
Content: 05 April 2023
In the first three months of 2023 alone, 16 children were affected by unexploded ordnance in seven incidents, with close to 80 per cent of the victims being boys
BAGHDAD, 4 April 2023 — On International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action, UNICEF expressed grave concern as children continue to be victims of explosive weapons in Iraq. In the first three months of 2023 alone, 16 children were affected by unexploded ordnance (four were killed and another 12 maimed) in seven incidents, with close to 80 per cent of the victims being boys.
This trend marks a tragic continuum with 2022, when unexploded ordnance killed 38 children and maimed 47. Despite UNICEF advocacy efforts last year to put an end to these practices, through the support to the Political Declaration on Strengthening the Protection of Civilians from the Humanitarian Consequences Arising from the Use of Explosive Weapons in Populated Areas, Iraq numbers show how conflicts continue to affect children years after they are over.
“These figures are extremely alarming considering the will and the efforts deployed by the Government of Iraq and their partners to ensure children are protected from explosive weapons,” said Sheema Sen Gupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. “National and international stakeholders must do more to achieve an Iraq free of explosive weapons, right now. Mine action and explosive ordnance risk education cannot wait”, she added.
UNICEF continues to work with partners, including the Directorate of Mine Action within the Government of Iraq and the Iraqi Kurdistan Mine Action Agency to raise awareness and increase safety for children, their families and communities in highly contaminated areas. Only last year, 28,031 children and 8,303 adults were reached with explosive ordnance risk education.
No matter where they are used, explosive weapons endanger a child's most fundamental rights. UNICEF calls on governments to avoid the use of explosive weapons in populated areas, and to speak out to protect children worldwide from conflict.
#####
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit www.unicef.org.
Follow UNICEF in Iraq on our website,  Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.

For further information, please contact:
Miguel Mateos Muñoz
Chief of Communication and Advocacy, UNICEF in Iraq
email: mmateosmunoz@unicef.org

Alix Reboul-Salze
Communication Specialist, UNICEF in Iraq
email: areboulsalze@unicef.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/226387-international-day-mine-awareness-unicef-calls-strengthened-investment-mine-action-and




Date: 03 April 2023
Title: Iraq’s accession to the United Nations TIR Convention will boost trade and growth in the Middle East
Content: 03 April 2023
03 April 2023
Iraq’s has become the 78th contacting party to the TIR Convention. All its neighbours: the Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, Kuwait, the Syrian Arab Republic, Saudi Arabia and Türkiye, are also contracting parties, opening up perspectives for more efficient and secure flow of goods across the region, connecting with markets across all of Europe, Asia – including India, Pakistan  and China – and beyond.
“One week after welcoming Iraq to the Water Convention, I am happy to congratulate Iraq for its accession to the TIR Convention”, declared UNECE Executive Secretary OIga Algayerova. “This opens new opportunities to foster economic growth as a driver of development through efficient trade procedures across the Middle East.”
The TIR system, used by over 34,000 transport and logistic companies, reduces cross-border transport time by up to 80%, and costs by up to 38%.
The TIR Convention (1975), serviced by UNECE, is the only global customs transit system in existence.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/226134-iraq%E2%80%99s-accession-united-nations-tir-convention-will-boost-trade-and-growth-middle-east




Date: 31 March 2023
Title: The Government of Iraq, supported by the United Nations, strengthens its commitment to prevent the recruitment and use of children by armed forces
Content: 31 March 2023
The Government of Iraq through its designated entity, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs (MoLSA), and the United Nations, signed today an action plan to prevent the recruitment and use of children by the Population Mobilization Forces (PMF).
BAGHDAD, 30 March 2023 – The Action Plan signed today commits MoLSA and the National Committee for the Monitoring and Reporting Mechanism on Children and Armed Conflict (CAAC) to put in place response and prevention mechanisms within the Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF) to strengthen the existing child protection framework.
This framework is supported by UNICEF and the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) as co-chairs of the CAAC Country Task Force on Monitoring and Reporting, in cooperation with the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict (SRSG-CAAC).
Among other steps to prevent the recruitment and use of children by the PMF, the Action Plan includes measures to strengthen age verification, in addition to awareness raising campaigns to prevent child recruitment. The plan also supports the adoption of the necessary legislation and administrative measures to prevent the recruitment and use of children and promptly investigate any allegation of recruitment and use of children.
“The Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, as representatives of the Government of Iraq, along with the National Committee for the Monitoring and Reporting Mechanism, would like to express its commitment to implement the plan to serve children exposed to recruitment in armed conflict, in order to ensure Iraq's compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child as well as with the protocols signed by the Iraqi government," said the Minister of Labor and Social Affairs, Ahmed Jassim Al-Asadi. "While we continue to work on implementing the national child protection policy as part of the Government program, we are also supporting the Child Protection Law, pending Parliament ratification."
“The Action Plan reflects the commitment of the Government of Iraq, working in partnership with the United Nations, to ensure the protection of all children affected by conflict in Iraq”, said Claudio Cordone, the Deputy Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq for Political Affairs and Electoral Assistance.
“The signing of the Action Plan is a key step on the journey to ensure the protection of children in Iraq and to avoid their recruitment and use by armed forces”, said UNICEF Representative in Iraq, Sheema SenGupta. “UNICEF will continue to support the Government of Iraq on the full implementation of the Action Plan and continue working with all parties for the protection and wellbeing of children in Iraq.”
The Action Plan is a follow-up to the call by the Security Council to parties to the conflict listed in the annex of the Secretary-General on Children and Armed Conflict report to strengthen the protection of children and to prepare concrete time-bound Action Plans in close cooperation with the United Nations Country Task Force to halt recruitment and use of children.
All measures listed under this agreement fall under the obligations of Iraq under its national legislation, as well as under International Human Rights Law and International Humanitarian Law, notably the Convention on the Rights of the Child (since 1994) and its Optional Protocol on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict (since 2008) and other commitments.
“I welcome this long awaited and positive outcome of the engagement between the Government of Iraq and the United Nations and stand ready to assist the Government towards its full implementation”, said Virginia Gamba, the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/225783-government-iraq-supported-united-nations-strengthens-its-commitment-prevent-recruitment-and




Date: 30 March 2023
Title: UN report warns of accelerating food insecurity in the Arab region due to global crises
Content: 30 March 2023
2022 Overview highlights the need to focus on trade as an enabler to achieve food security and nutrition
30 March 2023, Cairo, Egypt – Hunger and malnutrition have reached critical levels in the Arab region as access to basic foods has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine, says a UN report.
Yesterday FAO, IFAD, WFP, WHO, UNICEF, and ESCWA have released the 2022 Near East and North Africa Regional Overview of Food Security and Nutrition: Trade as an Enabler for Food Security and Nutrition, examining the state of regional food security and providing analysis and recommendations on how to mitigate the situation.
The report reveals that an estimated 53.9 million people suffered from severe food insecurity in the Arab region in 2021, accounting for a 55 percent increase since 2010. This is also an increase of 5 million people from the previous year. Moderate or severe food insecurity has also continued its upward trend, affecting an estimated 154.3 million people in 2021, an increase of 11.6 million people over the previous year, the report also warned.
In addition, it stated that more than half the population in the Arab States, or 162.7 million people, could not afford a healthy diet in 2020. The cost of a healthy diet in the Arab region has been increasing each year since 2017, reaching USD 3.47 per person per day in 2020.
The Arab region continues to suffer from multiple forms of malnutrition. While the prevalence of stunting[1] of 20.5 percent and affecting one out of every five children under  5 years of age was lower than the global average, the report indicates that the regional indicator for wasting[2], 7.8 percent, is higher than the global average of 6.7 percent. The prevalence of overweight among children under 5 years of age has shown a steady increase since 2000 and has reached 10.7% in 2020.
In addition, the report highlights that the latest available estimates show that 28.8 percent of the adult population (18 years and above) of the Arab region was obese, which is more than double the global average.
While the Arab region was already off-track from achieving zero hunger and nutrition-related Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) targets, the pandemic and the war in Ukraine have exacerbated the situation by creating disruptions in supply chains and inflating the prices of grains, fertilizers and energy. Since the region depends heavily on imported food to meet its food security requirements, these crises have affected Arab countries disproportionately and aggravated food insecurity and malnutrition in the region.
In addition to these global events, climate change, conflicts and structural issues such as poverty and inequality add to the burden of achieving food security and improved nutrition in the region. Therefore, the UN partners have concluded that the Arab region is unlikely to achieve zero hunger (SDG 2) by 2030.
The Overview highlights that trade is an essential enabler to ensure all four dimensions of food security and nutrition (availability, access, utilization, and stability) by increasing the quantity and variety of food and decreasing its price for net-food importing countries. However, most of the countries in the region have not mainstreamed trade into food security policies; thus, relevant policies must be redesigned accordingly and agrifood systems in the area must be transformed to make them more efficient, inclusive, resilient and sustainable.
The report recommends that policymakers should focus on policies facilitating food trade such as reducing trade barriers, developing new free trade areas, promoting digital technologies, reducing non-tariff barriers, harmonizing regulatory practices, strengthening governance, and promoting collaboration and coherence among countries and the global community.
International trade is not only vital for the availability of food, but it plays a major role in enhancing technology through knowledge spillovers that can increase productivity, improve employment opportunities and raise incomes, highlights the report.
The Overview also calls on Arab countries to leverage intra-regional trade and rely more on each other’s capacities as regional trade helps reduce food shortages during normal agricultural production cycles and provides an important mechanism to address production shortfalls or supply chain disruptions caused by adverse and unforeseeable global events.
In this United Nations Decade of Action on Nutrition 2016–2025, completing the ambitious development agenda requires accelerated action to end hunger and eliminate malnutrition in all its forms by ensuring that sufficient quantities of safe, nutritious and affordable foods are available to all. Therefore, the Arab region must improve agrifood systems to deliver food security and better nutrition for all, to be economically sustainable, to be inclusive, and to have a positive impact on the climate and the environment.
The main findings of the report were launched today at an event in Cairo. The full report is available online here.
***
The 2022 Near East and North Africa Regional Overview of Food Security and Nutrition: Trade as an Enabler for Food Security and Nutrition examines the food security and nutrition situation in the Arab and Near East and North Africa region. It discusses how international trade can enhance food security and nutrition in a region that is experiencing an array of external shocks. The report provides recommendations on how the region can improve agrifood systems to deliver food security and better nutrition for all, to be economically sustainable, to be inclusive, and to have a positive impact on climate and the environment.

CONTACT
Mariam Hamed Hassanien
Regional Media Relations Specialist 
mariam.hassanien@fao.org
(+2) 0100 733 5492

Mohamed Moussa
Communication Expert
mohamedali.moussa@fao.org
(+2) 0100 1400 724

[1] Stunting is the impaired growth and development that children experience from poor nutrition, repeated infection, and inadequate psychosocial stimulation. Children are defined as stunted if their height-for-age is more than two standard deviations below the WHO Child Growth Standards median.
[2] According to WHO, Wasting is defined as low weight-for-height. It often indicates recent and severe weight loss, although it can also persist for a long time. It usually occurs when a person has not had food of adequate quality and quantity and/or they have had frequent or prolonged illnesses.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/225672-un-report-warns-accelerating-food-insecurity-arab-region-due-global-crises




Date: 28 March 2023
Title: Hamadan: the latest in UNITAD and Iraqi Authorities Joint Excavation and Investigation of ISIL Victims’ Mass Graves in Sinjar
Content: 28 March 2023
28 March 2023 Baghdad: The Iraqi authorities, supported by the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) concluded the excavation of multiple mass grave sites in the vicinity of Hamadan, near Sinjar town.
The excavations were led by the Mass Graves Directorate (MGD) in cooperation with the Medico-Legal Directorate (MLD) in line with the national strategy for excavation of mass graves and the Iraqi Law on the Protection of Mass Graves. UNITAD provided support to the excavations including financial, technical, and expert support as well as necessary equipment.
In August 2014, ISIL committed atrocious crimes against the Yazidi community in Iraq, which UNITAD had deemed as amounting to Genocide. The excavation of Hamadan mass graves offers additional evidence that contributes to prove such crimes against the Yazidis. These excavations and investigations of multiple mass graves are critical components in advancing efforts for holding ISIL perpetrators accountable for atrocities committed against the Yazidi community in Sinjar. Moreover, the recovered remains were transported to MLD facilities in Baghdad to be identified, allowing for their return to the next of kin to provide their loved ones with dignified burials in accordance with religious or cultural practices.
Special Adviser and Head of the Investigative Team Christian Ritscher stated that “UNITAD will continue to support Iraqi efforts to excavate mass graves of ISIL victims. The Yazidi community in Hamdan, as other communities impacted by ISIL crimes in Iraq, deserve to see justice served for the international crimes committed against them and their loved ones. It is through our joint endeavors with the Iraqi Government and competent national experts that we are able to move forward towards pursuing accountability and achieving justice.”
Mr. Dia’ Karim Tehmeh, Director General of MGD pointed that: “usually, MGD and in consultation with all partners, draws an annual plan for the excavations. These activities are the first step in this plan that ensures the opening and excavation of several sites in different governorates.”
The identification of the recovered remains will be carried out in accordance with international standards, and using advanced technology, including the Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) which was provided by UNITAD to support MLD in its efforts to establish robust scientific identifications of the remains of victims recovered from ISIL mass graves across Iraq. So far, UNITAD has supported the excavation of over 40 mass graves of ISIL victims.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/225220-hamadan-latest-unitad-and-iraqi-authorities-joint-excavation-and-investigation-isil-victims%E2%80%99




Date: 28 March 2023
Title: Toward Comprehensive Rehabilitation: Mental Health Service Referral System Launched for Genocide Survivors in Iraq
Content: 28 March 2023
Erbil – On March 26, the Directorate for Survivors Affairs and eight NGOs from across Iraqi Kurdistan and Ninewa Governorate signed an Agreement of Cooperation for the establishment and activation of a formal referral system through which beneficiaries of the Yezidi Survivors Law (YSL) – individuals who survived the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant’s (ISIL, also referred to as Daesh) genocide – can receive referrals for mental health and psychosocial support (MHPSS) services in their areas of residence.
Under the Agreement, Directorate staff will refer survivors to and follow up with these organizations, which have committed to the ethical provision services according to their respective capacities. Located in areas of displacement and return, the eight organizations include: Dialogue Organization for Development and Relief, Farida Global, Free Yezidi Foundation, Hope Makers, Jesuit Rescue Services, Jiyan Foundation, SEED Foundation and Yazda.
“Iraq is showing the world what commitment to transitional justice looks like – first with the passage of the YSL in March 2021 and establishment of the Directorate for Survivors Affairs; then with the opening of the application process last September for survivors to begin receiving reparations; this month with the first distribution of monthly salaries promised to survivors under the YSL; and now through the activation of the MHPSS Referral System,” said Chief of Mission for the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Iraq, Mr. Giorgi Gigauri. “IOM Iraq is proud to have been able to support every step along the way, and we remain committed to a trauma-informed, survivor-centred transitional justice process.”
The aim of the Directorate’s MHPSS Referral System is to bridge the institutional gap in the MHPSS services available to survivors in Iraq as they undergo rehabilitation in the genocide’s aftermath; Indeed, the need for such services and care among genocide survivors is immense, but state facilities and resources for MHPSS provision are almost non-existent, with local and international organizations acting as the main providers of such services for survivors.
“Many survivors who escaped ISIL in 2014 have not seen any MHPSS providers at all,” said Khawla, a Yezidi survivor and member of the Survivors Voices Network. “It is very important for survivors to know that there are people who think about them, there are people supporting them to rebuild their lives. And it is crucial that the MHPSS services are sustained because many survivors will need MHPSS support over a long period to be able to overcome their trauma, heal and rebuild their lives.”
The Referral System will function as the main framework through which beneficiaries of YSL can access MHPSS services, until the official MHPSS institutional framework is properly equipped and effective. IOM Iraq will help to strengthen the Referral System over the course of 2023 through capacity building, in-kind support and funding. In parallel, the Directorate will initiate work to build a specialized MHPSS facility for YSL beneficiaries in collaboration with the Ministry of Health.
Director General of the Directorate for Survivors Affairs, Ms. Sarab Elias Barakat, said, “This is an important step in the implementation of the YSL. We are happy with this cooperation with NGOs to provide MHPSS services to the survivors who have been suffering greatly and are in desperate need of this support. This referral mechanism will enable survivors to have access to MHPSS services in their own areas of residence.”
“The UK continues to champion the rights of survivors and remains a strong advocate for the implementation of the Yezidi Survivor’s Law. We are delighted by the launch of the referral system – the atrocities committed by Daesh have had a profound impact on minority communities; mental health and psychosocial support remains essential. We look forward to continuing our close cooperation with IOM and the Directorate for Survivor Affairs to further help survivors,” said British Ambassador to Iraq, H.E. Mark Bryson-Richardson.
“The Dutch Government is a very proud partner of IOM for their advert support in the making and implementation of the Yezidi Survivors Law. We are very pleased to see this step – hopefully one in line of many – to have a direct effect on the lives of those impacted so devastatingly nine years ago. This is really a strong sign that successful steps are being made in the pursuit of transitional justice and a major step towards a more hopeful future for those who were affected,” said Mr. Jelle-Jochem Duits, Second Secretary of the Dutch Consulate General.
The YSL represents a key institutional framework for addressing the legacy of ISIL’s genocidal crimes against Yezidis, Shabak, Turkmen and Christians, and also stipulates a variety of rights and benefits – including monthly pension, rehabilitation support and a plot of land ­– for women and girls who survived conflict-related sexual violence and children who survived abduction at the hands of ISIL.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/225283-toward-comprehensive-rehabilitation-mental-health-service-referral-system-launched-genocide




Date: 27 March 2023
Title: Signature of the Regional Framework for Arab States (2023 – 2028)  And  Launch of the Arab Plan for Prevention and Reduction of the Dangers of Drugs to Arab Society: Towards Effective Handling of the Issue from a Social Perspective
Content: 27 March 2023
26 March 2023 – Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
In continuation of the strong cooperation between the League of Arab States (LAS) and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the “Regional Framework for the Arab States (2023 – 2028)” was signed and the “Arab Plan for Prevention and Reduction of the Dangers of Drugs to Arab Society: Towards Effective Handling of the Issue from a Social Perspective” was launched today Sunday the 26th of March at the LAS Headquarters. H.E. Mr. Ahmed Aboul Gheit, Secretary-General of LAS and H.E Ms. Ghada Waly, UNODC Executive Director co-signed the aforementioned Regional Framework (2023 – 2028).
The signature of the Framework and the launch of the Plan included the participation of H. E. Ms. Nivine El Kabbaj, Minister of Social Solidarity of the Arab Republic of Egypt and Permanent Member of the Executive Office of the Council of Arab Ministers of Social Affairs, H. E. Maryam Bint Nasser Al-Misned, Minister of Social Development the State of Qatar and Chair of the 42nd session of the Council of Arab Ministers of Social Affairs, and with the presence of the Permanent Member States’ Ambassadors at LAS, a number of Ambassadors of different countries, in addition to Heads and Representatives of United Nations bodies and agencies.
The Regional Framework for the Arab States 2023-2028acts as the overarching strategic framework for cooperation between UNODC and LAS. It frames how UNODC will strengthen, prioritize, customize, and deliver support to the Arab region in effective response to some of the most pressing challenges faced by these countries and in connection with UNODC’s mandates and specialties.
The Regional Framework articulates six focus areas for guiding UNODC-implemented programming at the regional and national levels and they are: a balanced approach to drug control, strengthening the response to organized crime, combating trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants, action against corruption and financial crime, preventing and countering terrorism and violence, and strengthening crime/violence prevention and criminal justice.
Furthermore, the Regional Framework applies six key accelerators across all programmatic interventions to speed up progress and maximize efforts towards fast-tracking the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and they are: partnerships, women and girls, innovation, science, and forensics, human rights, youth and children, and inclusive and people-centered programming. The programme will also support UNODC’s partnership expansion with Member States in the region to include current vital Ministries and Institutions relevant to youth, solidarity, education, culture, human rights, countering corruption; in addition to previous partnerships with the Ministries of Justice, Interior, and Health.
The event also saw the launch of the Arab Plan for Prevention and Reduction of the Dangers of Drugs to Arab Society: Towards Effective Handling of the Issue from a Social Perspective. This important plan represents a regional social framework for combating drugs in the Arab States by highlighting the social dimension of drug demand reduction in the context of its negative impact on social development in specific and sustainable development in general. This is also at the heart of efforts to achieve the Arab Declaration adopted by LAS in 2016 to implement the Sustainable Development Agenda 2023. The present document provides an indicative vision for guiding Arab action towards a comprehensive and integrated response based on scientific evidence and consistent with Arab specificity of this phenomenon. The Plan aims to build national strategies and action plans that meet national requirements and includes a number of initiatives, projects and activities that achieve their objectives in complementarity with Arab efforts to combat the supply of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances through comprehensive actions that include proactiveness and social resolution.
The Arab Plan’s dimensions showcase the methods of how to address this phenomenon from a social perspective and in line with Arab countries’ regulations and conditions in order to implement effective interventions including related multidimensional social and development consequences and to strengthen Arab efforts to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The important dimensions of the Plan include community prevention, rehabilitation and social integration, addressing drug-related harm and its consequences, as well as the dimensions and themes in support of the Plan's areas of action, namely international cooperation, scientific research and innovation, coordination mechanisms, governance, implementation, measurement and impact assessment.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/225021-signature-regional-framework-arab-states-2023-%E2%80%93-2028-and-launch-arab-plan-prevention-and




Date: 27 March 2023
Title: WFP IRAQ PARTNERS WITH THE MINISTRY OF TRADE TO REFORM THE PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM IN IRAQ
Content: 27 March 2023
BAGHDAD – On Sunday, 26 March, the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) signed a Letter of Cooperation (LoC) with the Government of Iraq’s Ministry of Trade (MoT) to formalize their collaboration to reform the Public Distribution System (PDS) in Iraq.
By signing the LoC, WFP and MoT  commit to providing access to a comprehensive, inclusive, shock-responsive, and end-to-end digitalized Public Distribution System. The joint goal is to ensure that no one is left behind and that vulnerable groups, including children, youth, women, the elderly, and people with disabilities inside Iraq will benefit.
WFP and MoT have successfully introduced end-to-end digitalization in the governorate of Najaf in record time and are currently preparing to scale it up in other parts of Iraq, gradually moving towards a reformed PDS in Iraq. Further down the line, WFP and MoT aim to incorporate the results of this collaboration towards integration with the Single Registry platform.
As part of its strategic support to the Government of Iraq, WFP has been providing technical assistance bringing in best practices to ensure citizens have improved access to social protection. In addition to building the capacities of MoT staff, WFP has supported the Government by providing equipment and increasing public awareness of the PDS reform, including through a social behavioural change communication campaign.
“I trust that this solid collaboration with the Iraqi Ministry of Trade will stand as a testament to the will and perseverance of both parties to give their utmost to support the people of Iraq,” said WFP Iraq Representative, Ally Raza Qureshi. “This collaboration will pave the way towards more efficient and meaningful change in Government processes towards helping the people of Iraq.”
WPF thanks its donors, the EU, BMZ and BHA, who, through their generous support, have ensured that this reformative work can be carried out.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/224961-wfp-iraq-partners-ministry-trade-reform-public-distribution-system-iraq




Date: 26 March 2023
Title: Iraq and ILO intensify efforts to strengthen social security system, in light of recent ratification of ILO flagship Social Security Convention (C102)
Content: 26 March 2023
Baghdad, Iraq (ILO News) The Government of Iraq ratified ILO Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952 (No. 102)  and the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006, as amended (MLC, 2006) on March 22.
This makes Iraq the second country in the region to ratify ILO Social Security Convention No. 102, after Jordan.
ILO Social Security Convention No. 102 is the foundation of all ILO Social Security Conventions. It outlines the minimum standards of the nine branches of social security: medical care, family benefit, maternity benefit, sickness benefit, unemployment benefit, employment injury benefit, old-age benefit, invalidity benefit, and survivors’ benefit.
“The ratification of Convention No. 102 by Iraq emphasizes its commitment to enshrining social security as an inherent right and to reforming national legislation and regulations to strengthen legal protection and safeguards for workers and improve the business environment,” said Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the Republic of Iraq, Ahmed Jasim Al-Asadi, when depositing the instrument of ratification to Director-General of the ILO Gilbert F. Houngbo in Geneva.
The Government of Iraq, including the Kurdistan Regional Government is already in the process of revising its social security legislation.
Currently, the social security system for private-sector workers in Iraq has very minimal coverage, and lacks two branches of social security - maternity and unemployment benefits – leaving covered workers vulnerable to poverty in the event of job loss or pregnancy.
Supporting the process to ensure the extension of social security coverage to workers in the private sector has been one of ILO’s key priorities under a European Union funded programme to reform social protection, which is being jointly implemented by the Government of Iraq, ILO, UNICEF and WFP.
The ILO has been working closely with government, workers’ and employers’ representatives, and Members of Parliaments on the proposed amendments to the legal instruments in Federal and the Kurdistan region. The proposed amendments are based on legal assessment and actuarial valuations, conducted by the ILO.
The current drafts for Federal Iraq and Kurdistan Region, upon endorsement by both governments, will strengthen the sustainability of the schemes, expand the range of entitlements to include maternity and unemployment benefits, and support the extension of legal coverage to informal workers, which represent 66.6% of total employment.
“The legal reform process aims to bring national legislation more closely in line with the Convention. This is critical in ensuring a more inclusive social protection system for workers and future generations in Iraq,” added ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq Maha Kattaa.
Moving forward, the ILO will continue to provide technical assistance, as required, to the legislative reform process and support the Government of Iraq in its reporting responsibilities towards the ILO supervisory bodies.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/224954-iraq-and-ilo-intensify-efforts-strengthen-social-security-system-light-recent-ratification




Date: 26 March 2023
Title: WHO and JICA partner to enhance IPC implementation strategy in Iraq
Content: 26 March 2023
Baghdad, 23 March 2023 – The World Health Organization (WHO), in collaboration with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), completed a pilot project aimed at enhancing the comprehensive COVID-19 infection prevention and control (IPC) implementation strategy in Iraq.
The project was designed to reduce avoidable morbidity and mortality in Iraq by cutting the transmission chain of COVID-19 and other diseases in health care and construction settings through enhanced IPC strategies, primarily targeting Basrah and Dhi Qar governorates.
"The project's geographical scope was limited to southern governorates, but its success paves the way for future expansion to all governorates in Iraq," said Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative in Iraq.
"Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) remains one of the most important threats to public health in recent history. Yet, with an effective IPC, we not only control diseases but also get closer to reducing AMR countrywide."
The project supported 10 primary health care facilities and two hospitals with comprehensive training in IPC practices, enabling health professionals to better protect patients and staff in the fight against infectious diseases, handling and managing oxygen cylinders for clinical use and peripheral devices, and enhancing their capabilities in providing critical care to patients in need.
The contribution also enabled WHO to procure and distribute essential equipment, including 4 medical waste management devices, 3 anaesthesia devices, and 405 medical oxygen cylinders.
All equipment has been delivered and installed at the project locations. These have enabled thousands of people to benefit from the enhanced capacity of the supported health facilities.
The project team also developed an IPC training manual tailored for pilot construction sites to ensure infection prevention measures are implemented in high-risk environments. This manual is a blueprint for future construction projects to enhance safety and health standards.
As part of the project, WHO conducted a seminar today that brought together stakeholders from various governorates to share the project's achievements and lessons learned from the pilot phase of implementing IPC with relevant stakeholders.
"I am glad to learn that our contribution has enabled the hospitals to strengthen their response to the diseases in Dhi Qar," said Mr Masamoto Kenichi, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of Japan to Iraq. "Japan remains committed to supporting Iraq to make the life of people better and protect the vulnerable."
This project, which was made possible through collaboration with the Ministry of Health and the partnership with JICA, proved that significant accomplishments could be achieved when organizations join forces and work together.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/224895-who-and-jica-partner-enhance-ipc-implementation-strategy-iraq




Date: 24 March 2023
Title: Iraq’s accession to UN Water Convention opens new opportunities to strengthen transboundary water cooperation in the Middle East
Content: 24 March 2023
Iraq today made history as the first country in the Middle East to join the Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes (known as the UN Water Convention). It becomes the 49th Party to this unique international legal and intergovernmental framework,  which aims to ensure the sustainable use of transboundary water resources by facilitating cooperation across borders. 19 of the 22 Arab countries are considered water scarce. Nearly all Arab States draw upon transboundary water resources that cross one or more international boundaries.
The Tigris and Euphrates Rivers Basins are the most important sources of surface water for some 237 million people across Iraq (43.5 million), Iran (88 million), Syria (21 million) and Türkiye (85 million). The rivers system, including their many tributaries, is essential to Iraq, and its riparian States. But competing needs of water for irrigation, drinking water supply (only some 60% of the population has access to safely managed drinking water services), industry, hydropower production and the environment, combined with diminishing water quantity and deteriorating water quality, pose difficult management challenges. These challenges are exacerbated by the impacts of climate change.
Facing high water stress, Iraq is experiencing mounting social, economic and political pressures due to water scarcity. Low rainfall, increasing temperatures and reductions in the country’s surface water have all led to critically low levels of water in Iraq in recent years. Transboundary cooperation is therefore increasingly important to promote sound management of the country’s transboundary water resources, to contribute to its sustainable development and to enhance regional stability and peace.
“Iraq faces a real water crisis”, warned the President of the Republic of Iraq, H.E. Abdul Latif Rashid at the UN Water Conference, who stated that over the last 40 years water flows from the Euphrates and Tigris, which provide up to 98% of Iraq’s surface water, have decreased by 30 to 40%. He cited challenges including impacts on agriculture and the health of the citizens from drinking saline and polluted water, and the drying out of UNESCO World Heritage-listed marshlands. “At present no basin-wide arrangement consensus exists among riparian countries regarding the management of Euphrates and Tigris… I strongly encourage all the countries to follow Iraq in acceding to both the 1997 United Nations Convention on the Law of Non-Navigational Uses of International Watercourses and the 1992 Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes”.
Ms. OIga Algayerova, UNECE Executive Secretary, welcomed this important step. “I congratulate Iraq, the first country in the Middle East to accede to the Water Convention. This opens new opportunities to enhance transboundary water cooperation. With 153 countries sharing water resources worldwide, water cooperation is a critical issue for the entire sustainable development agenda. I encourage governments in all regions to join the UN Water Convention.”
Mr. Ghulam Mohammad Isaczai, United Nations Deputy Special Representative for Iraq, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, emphasized that “Water must be shared at all levels: globally; regionally; between countries; and between men and women at the community level. It must be a source of cooperation rather than conflict. The Water Convention is an additional asset for Iraq to improve the management of its shared water resources for future prosperity, sustainable development and peace.”
Ms. Rola Dashti, Executive Secretary of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA), stated, “Iraq’s decision to accede to the Water Convention sends positive signals to the international community and to investors. Iraq is now Party to both UN water conventions and I am confident that this will foster cooperation in the region.”
UN Secretary-General António Guterres this week urged all Member States to join the Convention and ensure its full implementation, and has stressed that “the 1992 Water Convention is a powerful tool to advance cooperation, prevent conflicts and build resilience”.
Iraq’s accession follows that of Nigeria on 22 March 2023. Some 10 states have committed to join the UN Water Convention at the milestone UN Water Conference, where water cooperation is a major theme. More than 20 countries worldwide are in the process of joining the Water Convention.
The Water Convention, whose secretariat is serviced by UNECE, is a unique and widely accepted intergovernmental legal framework. It requires Parties to prevent, control and reduce negative impacts on water quality and quantity across borders, to use shared waters in a reasonable and equitable way, and to ensure their sustainable management through cooperation. Parties bordering the same transboundary waters are obliged to cooperate by concluding specific agreements and establishing joint bodies.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/224896-iraq%E2%80%99s-accession-un-water-convention-opens-new-opportunities-strengthen-transboundary-water




Date: 23 March 2023
Title: New ILO paper: “Education attainment gap in Iraq and the potential of social protection to reverse it”
Content: 23 March 2023
A new ILO working paper examines loss of earnings due to Iraq’s education gap and outlines the potential of social protection to address this gap, based on international good practices.
Baghdad, Iraq (ILO News) A new working paper, developed by the ILO, looks at how the low rate of secondary school completion in Iraq leads to loss of earnings to Iraqis and the economy, and ways in which social protection can play a role in closing the education gap.
The paper examines and estimates the national economic loss in terms of potential cash flow from the labour market that could have been generated if young Iraqis received education at the same level as their peers in other countries.
According to the paper, Iraq is in the early stage of an “demographic window of opportunity”, with a young population and a growing labour force. However, the young generation entering the labour market in Iraq is facing an education gap, compared with peers in countries at the same income level.
The paper draws on international practices from other countries’ experiences that have demonstrated positive impact on school enrolment.  It outlines how effective social protection programmes can strengthen access to education, by addressing some of the financial barriers faced by school-aged children.
The working paper was presented during a session, organised by the Ministry of Planning and the ILO in Baghdad on Wednesday (March 22), which brought together thought leaders, academics, decision-makers and development partners. Inclusive roundtable discussions have been held in recent months by the ILO and the Ministry to discuss key issues and priorities relating to social and labour policy in Iraq.
The latest paper forms part of series of working papers produced by the ILO, often in collaboration with UN partners, to support the Government of Iraq in reforming its social protection system, with the support of the European Union.
English paper: https://www.ilo.org/beirut/information-resources/WCMS_873037/lang--en/index.htm
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/224330-new-ilo-paper-%E2%80%9Ceducation-attainment-gap-iraq-and-potential-social-protection-reverse-it%E2%80%9D




Date: 22 March 2023
Title: First SAAVI local agribusiness development and investment plan endorsed
Content: 22 March 2023
Basra: Iraq's agriculture sector is set for a transformational boost, as Al Zubair farmer alliance's first local agribusiness development and investment plan is now endorsed by local authorities, private sector, and international partners.
The plan was prepared by stakeholders themselves, giving them an opportunity to prioritize their own needs under the framework of the International Trade Centre's EU-funded "Strengthening the agriculture and agri-food value chain and improving trade policy in Iraq" (SAAVI) project.
It was officially signed by the alliance's representative, a buyer (retail stores), the Director of Agriculture, and ITC's SAAVI implementing partner (NRC) earlier in Al Zubair.
The five-year local agribusiness development and investment plan was developed as part of a participatory process which culminated with a workshop to define the priorities of the alliance's members: improving their profitability and overall competitiveness in the market.
It outlines key activities and provides a detailed costed plan for investment to improve production and productivity, enhance quality, improve efficient marketing, and create a conducive business environment.
The plan also includes clear strategies for inclusion of various groups, adaptation and contribution to climate change mitigation, and overall impact on employment.
It will also be instrumental in preparing micro-project proposals that will be competitively selected to receive block grants through SAAVI project. It will be used to provide support to the alliance from various agencies including FAO, IOM, WFP, ACF, and Eco-consult in the same location. The representatives readily expressed support for the plan, and willingness to work in a coordinated manner towards its implementation.
SAAVI has established 10 similar agribusiness alliances across Iraq, each linked with reputable buyers, and it is anticipated that this market-based model will improve the competitiveness of over 1500 farms and SMEs. The SAAVI Agribusiness alliance model is an innovative business model that offers farmers support to improve their production capacities, upgrade their business models, develop their own local business plans, and establish long-term mutually beneficial partnerships with buyers.
SAAVI has also formalized partnerships with major private sector actors to be lead buyers in the agribusiness alliances, including Zuhoor Alwatan, Rawnaq aldur, Waffir, Beirut Erbil Potato Company, and Finest Foods Germany. Additional potential partners include Carrefour, MONRO Company, VANO Group, and Pepsico.
Dr. Hussain, Director of Agriculture in Basra speaking on the occasion said, "We warmly welcome this agribusiness development and investment plan, which is closely aligned with our own goals of revitalizing and transforming Iraq's agriculture sector for the benefit of our farmers and communities. Our doors are always open to support such initiatives that drive sustainable economic growth and job creation, and we look forward to working hand in hand with our partners to turn this vision into a reality."
Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation for the EU Delegation said, “The European Union is proud to support the SAAVI project in Iraq, which is unlocking the potential of the country’s agri food sector and creating opportunities for inclusive economic growth and job creation. Through strategic partnerships and innovative business models, SAAVI is driving sustainable development and strengthening the resilience of Iraqi farmers and agribusinesses. We are confident that this project will have a lasting impact and pave the way for a brighter future for Iraq.”
Eric Buchot, who leads the International Trade Centre’s operations in Iraq said, “We are thrilled to see the SAAVI alliances recognized as powerful instruments of sustainable development, backed by strategic partnerships with local and international organizations that amplify our impact and transform Iraq's agriculture sector for the better.”
SAAVI project contributes to inclusive economic growth and job creation, particularly for youth in Iraq, by improving the country's agriculture competitiveness and supporting trade development.
The project is funded by the European Union (EU) and forms part of the overall EU Special Measure 2019 for Iraq which aims at supporting stabilization and governance through building the capacities of key Iraqi institutions to deliver public services, as well as sustainable job creation through the development of human capital and the private sector.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/224281-first-saavi-local-agribusiness-development-and-investment-plan-endorsed




Date: 22 March 2023
Title: FUNDING SHORTFALL FORCES WFP IRAQ TO REDUCE LIFE-SAVING FOOD AND CASH ASSISTANCE TO DISPLACED IRAQIS AND SYRIAN REFUGEES
Content: 22 March 2023
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) announced today that due to funding shortfalls it will not be able to continue providing monthly food assistance to 137,000 Internally Displaced People (IDPs) who were being served by WFP in 27 camps. In addition, according to the current funding situation assistance to 38,000 Syrian refugees in 10 camps will seize by July 2023.
WFP conducted a targeting exercise in 2022 to allocate the then-available resources to the most vulnerable families, as the humanitarian response across Iraq has been reduced significantly. The international donor community has generously supported WFP’s life-saving efforts when millions of IDPs and Syrian refugees where in need of assistance due to the conflict with ISIL / Da’esh and then the COVID-19 pandemic.
As the funding shortfall coincides, regrettably, with the Holy Month of Ramadan, WFP is urgently seeking USD 10 million from donors to continue with the provision of food assistance to vulnerable IDPs until June 2023 and refugees until 31 December 2023. This will provide the Government of Iraq with the time needed to complete the survey of IDPs to include them into its social safety nets.
“There will always be humanitarian residual needs in Iraq and these are the ones we are now actively fundraising for. WFP Iraq serves the most vulnerable caseload in the camps. At the same time, the climate crisis risks further displacing people in Iraq, potentially triggering another humanitarian crisis
this time triggered by water scarcity, desertification, and lack of agricultural prospects. WFP Iraq find itself forced to make difficult choices on who we assist and who we cannot. As an agency with a dual humanitarian and development mandate, we continue to advocate for the needs of thousands of Internally displaced people and Syrian refugees living in camps and the long-term impactful work that WFP is doing in Iraq,” said Ally Raza Qureshi, WFP Iraq Representative.
“We cannot turn our backs to those in need of essential food assistance, those who are most vulnerable and have no other source of livelihood. We have intensified our communication with the Government of Iraq and the International donor community to ensure that means to provide food are found urgently, especially since the cessation of assistance to IDPs is coinciding with the Holy month of Ramadan.”
WFP remains a major partner to the Government of Iraq and has been providing assistance to the humanitarian crisis since its onset in 2014. Currently the World Food Programme is engaged with long-term sustainable development programmes that aim to address the root causes for food insecurity and provide practical, achievable and scalable solutions to the adverse effects of climate and reforming the country’s Public Distribution System.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/224256-funding-shortfall-forces-wfp-iraq-reduce-life-saving-food-and-cash-assistance-displaced




Date: 21 March 2023
Title: Funding shortfall forces WFP Iraq to reduce life-saving food and cash assistance to displaced Iraqis and Syrian refugees
Content: 21 March 2023
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) announced today that due to funding shortfalls it will not be able to continue providing monthly food assistance to 137,000 Internally Displaced People (IDPs) who were being served by WFP in 27 camps. In addition, according to the current funding situation assistance to 38,000 Syrian refugees in 10 camps will seize by July 2023.
WFP conducted a targeting exercise in 2022 to allocate the then-available resources to the most vulnerable families, as the humanitarian response across Iraq has been reduced significantly. The international donor community has generously supported WFP’s life-saving efforts when millions of IDPs and Syrian refugees where in need of assistance due to the conflict with ISIL / Da’esh and then the COVID-19 pandemic.
As the funding shortfall coincides, regrettably, with the Holy Month of Ramadan, WFP is urgently seeking USD 10 million from donors to continue with the provision of food assistance to vulnerable IDPs until June 2023 and refugees until 31 December 2023. This will provide the Government of Iraq with the time needed to complete the survey of IDPs to include them into its social safety nets.
“There will always be humanitarian residual needs in Iraq and these are the ones we are now actively fundraising for. WFP Iraq serves the most vulnerable caseload in the camps. At the same time, the climate crisis risks further displacing people in Iraq, potentially triggering another humanitarian crisis
this time triggered by water scarcity, desertification, and lack of agricultural prospects. WFP Iraq find itself forced to make difficult choices on who we assist and who we cannot. As an agency with a dual humanitarian and development mandate, we continue to advocate for the needs of thousands of Internally displaced people and Syrian refugees living in camps and the long-term impactful work that WFP is doing in Iraq,” said Ally Raza Qureshi, WFP Iraq Representative.
“We cannot turn our backs to those in need of essential food assistance, those who are most vulnerable and have no other source of livelihood. We have intensified our communication with the Government of Iraq and the International donor community to ensure that means to provide food are found urgently, especially since the cessation of assistance to IDPs is coinciding with the Holy month of Ramadan.”
WFP remains a major partner to the Government of Iraq and has been providing assistance to the humanitarian crisis since its onset in 2014. Currently the World Food Programme is engaged with long-term sustainable development programmes that aim to address the root causes for food insecurity and provide practical, achievable and scalable solutions to the adverse effects of climate and reforming the country’s Public Distribution System.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/224039-funding-shortfall-forces-wfp-iraq-reduce-life-saving-food-and-cash-assistance-displaced




Date: 19 March 2023
Title: UNFPA teams up with Viber to raise awareness on early marriage and facilitate information-sharing
Content: 19 March 2023
16 March 2023, Baghdad, Iraq - UNFPA Iraq and Viber have officially launched a social media awareness campaign to promote information-sharing on early marriage in Iraq. The campaign seeks to engage young people in an easy and interactive approach, providing them with the necessary knowledge and information to make informed choices about their lives.
The initiative is part of UNFPA's efforts to reduce early marriage in Iraq, which affects girls disproportionately, has a serious negative impact on their health, education, and prospects. Through the campaign, UNFPA and Viber aim to increase understanding of the risks associated with early marriage and to provide young people with resources and support to resist pressure to marry before they are ready.
"We are delighted to partner with Viber on this important initiative to raise awareness on early marriage and empower young people with the knowledge and resources they need to make informed choices about their lives," said Mr. Nestor Owomuhangi, UNFPA Representative in Iraq. "By leveraging the power of social media, we can reach more young people than ever before and help them build a brighter future for themselves and their communities."
"We are excited to collaborate with UNFPA on this initiative to support young people in Iraq," said Atanas Raykov VP of Growth, Key Markets at Rakuten Viber. "We believe that by using our platform to share information and create interactive experiences, we can help raise awareness and promote positive change in the country."
The campaign will feature a series of social media posts and interactive content, including videos, still designs, a pack of Viber stickers and chatbots designed to engage and educate young people in Iraq. The content will be available on UNFPA Iraq’s Channel on Viber's platform. Viber is one of the top communication apps in the region.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/223808-unfpa-teams-viber-raise-awareness-early-marriage-and-facilitate-information-sharing




Date: 19 March 2023
Title: Ten peace agreements signed across Kirkuk and Ninewa to boost social cohesion in Iraq
Content: 19 March 2023
Erbil, Iraq, 16 March 2023 – Today, local authorities, community leaders, and civil society members came together following the signing of ten peace agreements to enhance social cohesion across areas of Kirkuk and Ninewa. The peace agreements were tailored to maximize impact for each area, addressing the creation of administrative units as needed and agreeing upon key tenets to promote peaceful coexistence including encouraging community reintegration and combatting hate speech.
The agreements were signed as part of a larger project implemented by UNDP Iraq in partnership with Public Aid Organization (PAO) and generous support from the Government of the Netherlands.  The year-long project to promote social cohesion and trust-building among local authorities and community mechanisms has included various capacity building, mediation sessions, and focus group discussions for over 2,000 community police, police, local officials, and community leaders. The project was implemented across twelve areas of Kirkuk and Ninewa, and included development of a peacebuilding curriculum, created with direct input from community members.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative, Auke Lootsma, states, “We are grateful to the Government of the Netherlands for their unwavering support to social cohesion in Iraq. These communities across Kirkuk and Ninewa are continuing to recover following liberation from ISIL. Providing tailored support to their individual needs for community empowerment in partnership with local and national government is key to supporting the region’s social fabric.”
Mr. Zidan Khalaf Obaid, Advisor to the Prime Minister of Iraq on Human Rights, emphasizes, “One of the most important things we are working on today is incorporating social mechanisms into peaceful coexistence. Iraqis have suffered after ISIL’s occupation, and these agreements and conferences help to maintain and celebrate a peaceful society. We thank UNDP and PAO for supporting the Government of Iraq’s efforts.”
Empowering and engaging community mechanisms and local authorities to promote social cohesion is implemented is part of UNDP Iraq’s five-year Social Cohesion Programme launched in January 2020 to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/223810-ten-peace-agreements-signed-across-kirkuk-and-ninewa-boost-social-cohesion-iraq




Date: 15 March 2023
Title: FAO participation in the 14th Agricultural Week exhibition in Baghdad to support rural women
Content: 15 March 2023
Baghdad, Iraq – The 14th edition of the Agricultural Week exhibition was officially launched yesterday at the Baghdad International Fair, under the patronage of His Excellency the Prime Minister and the auspices of His Excellency the Minister of Agriculture.
Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO representative in Iraq, participated in the opening ceremony and welcomed the Minister of Agriculture at the FAO-MOA stand, where women beneficiaries from FAO-EU-funded projects showcased their dairy products. He highlighted the efforts in supporting these women and building their capacity, saying: “I am proud of the progress these women beneficiaries have made in milk processing and cheese production. Thanks to the EU support and the commitment of FAO and MOA teams in supporting and building their capacities, they are now able to produce natural, local, and new brands of dairy products with exceptional high-quality.”
The FAOR also highlighted the importance of this partnership “Those women, who fled their lands and houses years ago because of ISIL's takeover of their regions and facing not only the challenges of the aftermath of war but also climate change, are playing an important role in rebuilding their communities and livelihoods, bringing hope and employing youth."
Dr Chedly Kayouli, Senior FAO Livestock Expert who has been accompanying and training these women since the beginning of the projects, praised the quality of their products and new brands of cheeses and that the hygiene, high quality, and variety of the produced cheeses are exceptional and well appreciated by stand visitors, customers, and even restaurants in Erbil and other regions in Iraq.
FAO projects funded by the EU implemented in close collaboration with the ministry of agriculture and local governments aim to diversify and improve livelihoods while addressing climate change and water scarcity challenges facing Iraq through the implementation of smart agricultural practices to be more climate-resilient and contribute to food security and increase employment opportunities.

The Agricultural Week is being held during the period from the 14th to the 19th of March, the exhibition is an excellent opportunity to showcase the potential of Iraq's agricultural sector and the country's economic development. FAO is proud to participate in this exhibition and invites all colleagues from UN agencies and partners to visit and support these women by promoting their excellent local products.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/223817-fao-participation-14th-agricultural-week-exhibition-baghdad-support-rural-women




Date: 15 March 2023
Title: Germany and UNICEF step up their joint efforts to reach over one million vulnerable people in Iraq
Content: 15 March 2023
The German Government, through the KfW Development Bank, supports UNICEF with €35 million to ensure children’s equitable access to basic sustainable social services.
Baghdad, 15 March 2023 – The Government of Germany, through the KfW Development Bank, has stepped up its efforts in supporting UNICEF with a €35 million grant to reach more than 1,000,000 people in Iraq, including returnees, vulnerable Iraqis, IDPs, Syrian refugees in and out of camps, host communities and marginalized groups.
This partnership will ensure equitable access to basic sustainable social services through resilience-building and system strengthening. The grant is the largest contribution by Germany to UNICEF for the period 2020-2024 and will support five main areas: water; sanitation and hygiene; education; child protection; social protection, and COVID-19 response.
Over the next two years, and as part of joint efforts to respond to climate change, this grant will enable more than one million vulnerable people, half of them girls and women, to gain improved access to sustainable, equitable and safely managed climate-resilient water, sanitation, and hygiene promotion services.
In addition, 332,000 children and young people will be protected from violence, abuse, and exploitation in accordance with international standards. This will be achieved through preventive and responsive child protection and GBV services, including access to justice, training and mentoring of social service and justice sector, and strengthening the resilience of national systems. As part of support to education efforts, 75,000 children, including those out-of-school, will gain access to basic education and 1,500 most vulnerable young people will acquire skills to better engage in their own communities.
In addition, as part of Germany and UNICEF support to social protection and inclusion, 10,000 poor children (4,000 of them, girls) will have enhanced access to integrated education, child protection, and social protection services that are shock responsive.
“This contribution comes at a critical time in Iraq’s stabilization process,” said Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. “It will enable us to support the Government of Iraq in improving the lives of over one million vulnerable people, including children and young people.”
“Investing in children is an investment for life,” added SenGupta. “It not only breaks the cycle of poverty, but it can shape the country’s future ensuring stability and prosperity for every child.”
“We commend UNICEF’s efforts to support vulnerable children and youth in Iraq including those still being forcibly displaced. Providing access to quality education lays the foundation for a healthy and successful society – we can’t risk losing a generation,” said the German Ambassador to Iraq, Martin Jäger. “Contributing to children and young people´s well-being is a moral, economic and social imperative to which the Government of Germany is committed to.”
“We value our partnership with UNICEF and the Government of Iraq to improve the lives of most vulnerable children and women,” said Dr. Anna Janke, Country Director of the KfW Development Bank.
Overall, joint efforts will also pay attention to Iraq´s recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic’s impact on the health system, including reaching 150,000 people with awareness-raising messages and social behavioral change tools and contributing to reach 60 per cent of the eligible population with COVID-19 vaccines by the end of 2024.
In line with the Sustainable Development Goals, as well as the Durable Solutions framework for the transition from humanitarian to development in Iraq, this grant will contribute to UNICEF’s efforts to support most vulnerable children, young people, and women after years of conflict, to achieve collective results that contribute to the sustainable reduction of humanitarian needs in the country.

###
For further information, please contact:
Miguel Mateos Muñoz, Chief of Communication and Advocacy, UNICEF in Iraq
email: mmateosmunoz@unicef.org
Alix Reboul-Salze, Communication Specialist, UNICEF in Iraq
email: areboulsalze@unicef.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/223812-germany-and-unicef-step-their-joint-efforts-reach-over-one-million-vulnerable-people-iraq




Date: 13 March 2023
Title: Renovated Women Protection Centre in Baghdad provides hope for gender-based violence survivors
Content: 13 March 2023
Baghdad, 13 March 2023 – UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, opened a newly renovated women's protection centre in Baghdad on 11 March. The centre was upgraded and rehabilitated in partnership with UN-HABITAT with financial support from the French Government. The centre provides physical protection and a range of services to gender-based violence survivors.
Dr. Isam Abdul-lateef Al Tamimi, the Director General of the Department of Persons with Disabilities at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, emphasised on the Iraqi Government’s strategy towards protecting survivors of gender-based violence and stated that this protection centre is a positive initiative to empower women and promote gender equality.
Speaking at the event, Mr Eric Chevallier, the French Ambassador to Iraq, highlighted the importance of supporting survivors of gender-based violence. "This is an important milestone for a project that we have been proudly supporting since December 2021. I would like to thank all the stakeholders for their engagement, especially UNFPA and UN_HABITAT and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The project has not only renovated the infrastructure of the Sulaikh Center but has significantly improved the well-being of the young women and girls residing here, even though the project's ultimate goal is to help them leave this place and rebuild their lives.” “In the coming months, I hope to take part in the inauguration of centres like this one, in Diwaniya, Mosul and Ramadi, which are also part of the project," he added.
"This centre will provide a safe and supportive environment for gender-based violence survivors in need of critical services and the care that they need to heal”, said Mr Nestor Owomuhangi, UNFPA’s Representative to Iraq. “In addition to establishing services for survivors, UNFPA will be working with the government to improve the policy environment that prevents all forms of violence against women and girls.”
UN-HABITAT Representative Mr Wael Al-Ashhab highlighted the good efforts that both agencies are working on to ensure high quality of renovation of a proper venue that provides a convenient and comfortable environment for vulnerable groups.
The women protection centre will provide survivors of gender-based violence with medical, psychosocial, legal and livelihood support to enable them to reintegrate into society. With support from the French Government, UNFPA in collaboration with UN-HABITAT is also rehabilitating another centre in Al-Diwaniyah and building two new centres in Ramadi and Mosul.
For more information, please contac:
Ms Sana Jalal, Communications Consultant – UNFPA @ karwan@unfpa.org
Mr Maan Sami, Programme Officer – UNHabitat @ maan.sami@un.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/223809-renovated-women-protection-centre-baghdad-provides-hope-gender-based-violence-survivors




Date: 12 March 2023
Title: Association of Women Judges Commemorates International Day of Women Judges with the support of UN Iraq
Content: 12 March 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 10 March 2023 – Iraq’s Association of Women Judges commemorated the International Day of Women Judges for the first time in Iraq with the support of Honorable Chief Justice Faiq Zaidan and the United Nations in Iraq.
In 2021, with Resolution 75/274, the United Nations General Assembly declared 10 March as the International Day of Women Judges and encouraged that the day is commemorated through activities promoting the full and equal participation of women at all levels of the judiciary.
His Excellency, the Honorable Chief Justice of Iraq, Mr. Fa’iq Zaidan, spoke at the event and emphasized, “the Supreme Judicial Council has an ambitious plan to increase the number of judges, particularly women judges, and the Council has already contributed to supporting, motivating and strengthening the role of women judges by ensuring they assume leadership roles in some of the key departments of the Judiciary.”
During the commemoration, women judges from across Iraq further discussed how to strengthen their roles, responsibilities and contributions at all levels and across all sectors of Iraq’s judiciary. They were also joined by the representatives of the Iraqi Parliament and the Government to explore legislative and policy measures to address gender norms and enable gender equality in Iraq.
“Supporting women’s advancement and promoting women justice leaders at all levels in the judiciary and across all types of cases is an investment in justice being better served and in equality before the law,” said Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary General, Mr. Ghulam Mohammad Isaczai. “The establishment of a dedicated Women Judge’s Association in Iraq is an encouraging step to build gender equality within the Iraqi judiciary, paving the way for women across the nation to achieve equitable access to justice”, he added.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/222887-association-women-judges-commemorates-international-day-women-judges-support-un-iraq




Date: 12 March 2023
Title: Italy and the ILO support private sector development in Southern Iraq’s green economy
Content: 12 March 2023
An agreement between the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the International Labour Organization will enhance support to private sector development and decent work creation, with a focus on green jobs.
Baghdad, Iraq (ILO News) A new agreement between Italy and the International Labour Organization (ILO) will enhance support to private sector development and decent job creation in Southern Iraq, with a focus on promoting sustainable green businesses.
Under the agreement, hundreds of young women and men looking to grow or develop their micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) will be provided with skills trainings in business management and financial literacy, as well as with access to much-needed financial services.
At the same time, better support to entrepreneurs and MSMEs - to unleash their full potential – will be provided by capacity-building of staff from non-financial and financial institutions, including partner banks, microfinance institutions and service providers.
The agreement between Italy and the ILO was officially launched on Thursday (March 9), at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, one of the main partners that will work closely with the two counterparts to implement the project. The support from Italy will be delivered through the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS). Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Ahmad Al-Asadi, Italian Ambassador to Iraq Maurizio Greganti, and ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq Maha Kattaa attended the signing ceremony.
“We welcome this new initiative by Italy and the International Labour Organization, which is aligned with our Government’s strategies to promote economic growth, private sector development, employment, and the green economy,” said Minister Al-Asadi. “The Prime Minister launched last week the Riyada initiative to support entrepreneurship and decent work creation among students and youth in Iraq, allowing youth to unleash their potential and encourage the establishment of small and medium enterprises. This is aligned with the government's approach to reduce unemployment and enhance the reality of investment in a way that contributes to promoting the private sector.”
A thorough assessment of the business environment will be conducted, using ILO’s assessment tool ‘Enabling Environment for Sustainable Enterprises,’ which provides evidence-based recommendations on how to improve the business-enabling environment. The assessment, which will be developed in consultation with ILO’s tripartite constituents and national partners, will help define priorities for a business environment more conducive to sustainable enterprise creation, especially in relation to the development of the green economy.
“We are proud to partner with the International Labour Organization to enhance support for private sector development and job creation in Southern Iraq, with a focus on promoting sustainable green businesses. The partnership will provide critical skills training and access to financial services for entrepreneurs, as well as build the capacities of financial institutions to better support MSMEs, with a specific focus on climate-change resiliency,” said Ambassador Greganti.
“Support to private sector and better jobs has been one of the main priorities of the Italian Cooperation in Iraq since many years and we are eager to work with ILO in support to the green economy priority. During the next three years, we will support the implementation of this project, aiming at the strongest positive impact for entrepreneurs, employees and the sector of financial services that plays a key role in enterprise development,” said Emilio Cabasino, Head of Office at the AICS office for Jordan and Iraq.
The ILO will train and certify trainers from across the spectrum on its well-established business management and financial literacy tools, so they can in return deliver the trainings to potential entrepreneurs.
It will work closely with the Central Bank of Iraq, its partner under financial inclusion initiatives, to further provide access to affordable loans, and build the capacities of partner banks to design products and services to meet their clients’ needs.
“The generous contribution of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, coupled with the involvement of AICS will support efforts to encourage more young women and men to establish green businesses and create decent green jobs that will promote sustainable development and inclusive growth,” said Kattaa.
In addition, the project will collaborate with a range of partners to identify bottlenecks to the formal registration of businesses and seek practical solutions for reducing those barriers, while conducting at the same time awareness-raising campaigns to encourage the registration and formalization of businesses.
The project is part of broader efforts under the Iraq Decent Work Country Programme signed by the Government, employers’ and workers’ organizations and the ILO to promote employment opportunities and decent work. It is in line with the new government Riyada' initiative for development and employment, which was launched by Prime Minister Mohammed S. Al-Sudani earlier this week.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/222886-italy-and-ilo-support-private-sector-development-southern-iraq%E2%80%99s-green-economy




Date: 09 March 2023
Title: Ba'aj Court House in Ninewa officially reopens after rehabilitation
Content: 09 March 2023
Ba’aj/Baghdad, 8 March 2023 - The Ba'aj Court House in Ninewa has officially reopened after extensive rehabilitation, aiming to improve judicial infrastructure in western Ninewa. The facility was inaugurated during a two-day visit by the UNDP Resident Representative to western Ninewa, where he took stock of the progress made and explored new opportunities for intervention.
The Court House, severely damaged during the ISIL occupation, forced judges to operate from a makeshift facility lacking sufficient space and capacity to support court operations. With generous support from the Netherlands, the UNDP rehabilitated the facility through its Funding Facility for Stabilization.
Today, the spacious and purpose-built facility serves over 70,000 people across western Ninewa. The reconstructed court will offer various judicial services, including marriage contracts, legal authorizations, dispute resolution, and arrest warrants.
Speaking at the opening ceremony, UNDP Iraq Resident Representative, Auke Lootsma, says, “Rehabilitation of the Ba'aj Court House is not only about improving the infrastructure, but it is also about strengthening the capacity of judicial services to ensure the rule of law is protected in Ninewa. By providing a safe and accessible space for judges and prosecutors to carry out their duties, we are helping to restore confidence in the judicial system and ensure equal access to justice for all.”
“We extend our deepest gratitude to the international community, and in particular the Government of the Netherlands, for their commitment to the rehabilitation of the Ba'aj Court House. This project demonstrates the impact of international cooperation and solidarity in building a stronger Iraq,” Auke Lootsma adds.
In response to the completion of the project, the Netherlands’ Ambassador Hans Sandee explains, “The Netherlands has been a strong supporter of the Funding Facility for Stabilization in Iraq, as implemented by our partner UNDP. The Netherlands sees great value in contributing to strengthening the rule of law in Iraq, and by rehabilitating the Ba’aj Court House, we hope to ensure access to justice and accountability in western Ninewa.”
With the Netherlands' support, UNDP rehabilitated 46 law enforcement facilities, including three courthouses, four national security buildings, 28 police stations, one police training centre and ten police directorate offices in Ninewa, Kirkuk, and Salah al-Din.  This also complements UNDP's ongoing security sector reform initiatives, including training law enforcement officers and police to improve local police effectiveness, leadership, and criminal investigation.

About:
The project was implemented through UNDP’s flagship programme, the Funding Facility for Stabilization, with generous support from the Government of the Netherlands. Since 2015, the Netherlands has contributed over US$ 107 million to the Funding Facility for Stabilization and US$ 8.5 million to security sector reform, making it one of UNDP's largest contributors in Iraq. The funding has focused on infrastructure rehabilitation, restoring local police services, and building the capacity of the Iraqi government to meet citizens' needs.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/222350-baaj-court-house-ninewa-officially-reopens-after-rehabilitation




Date: 09 March 2023
Title: On International Women’s Day, the Ministry of Interior of the KRG and UNICEF, with support from USAID/BHA, launch ‘Laaha’, a virtual safe space platform for women and girls in Iraq
Content: 09 March 2023
Under the theme of the IWD this year, "DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality”, Laaha, a virtual safe place for girls and women, provides adolescent girls and women to access information, support and services in a safe way.
ERBIL, 08 March 2023 – Marking International Women’s Day (IWD), the Ministry of Interior of the KRG, jointly with UNICEF, and supported by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), officially launched ‘Laaha’ an online virtual safe space platform for girls and women to provide adolescent girls and women, including those most at risk, with a virtual space to access information, support and services in a way that is safe, culturally appropriate and accessible – even when they are unable to reach a physical safe space.
The launch event included speeches from participating organizations, multimedia presentation of the platform, and the presentation of the results of a special UNICEF U-Report poll on the situation of women and girls.
“Physical safe spaces are a lifeline for many girls and women around the world, giving them access to mental and physical health advice, relationship help and a range of services and support to promote their resilience. But access considerations mean that many can be cut off from vital services and support they can trust - right when they need it the most. UNICEF and the Ministry of Interior, thanks to USAID/BHA funding, and working with women and girls, has created Laaha, a virtual safe space for them and ran by them”, said Adele Khodr, UNICEF's Regional Director for the MENA region.
“In this age, known as the age of technology. The KRG, in collaboration with its partners, has made good efforts to digitize services provided to women. We are gathered here today to announce another important project with the support of UNICEF and USAID and the US Consulate in Erbil, which is the launch of an electronic platform for women. Women can access specialized information in the fields of health, prevention, legal and various other services. Governments and organizations are brought together to make services available to women easily accessible to women in need.” Expressed Mr. Rebar Ahmed, the Minister of Interior of the KRG.
“USAID’s Bureau for Humanitarian Assistance is committed to combatting the scourge of violence against women and girls in Iraq. In partnership with UNICEF, USAID/BHA continues to support GDCVAW and other government line ministries to build technical capacity and promote women and girls’ rights to contribute to longer-term and more sustainable solutions to GBV in the Iraqi Kurdistan Region”, stressed Ms. Carrie Denver, Acting Deputy Principal Officer for the US Consulate. “We commend the Kurdistan Regional Government for their support to the platform, and for working on tools supporting gender equality.”
An increasing number of women and girls across the globe require assistance; yet, in many emergency-affected locations - providing support is often complicated and unpredictable. In addition to exacerbating gender-based violence (GBV) risks, such situations also increase the barriers women and girls face to accessing services, due to cultural norms that restrict their mobility and access to lifesaving services; domestic responsibilities and cultural norms that keep them isolated in their homes; and/or protective approaches employed by their relatives in an attempt to shield them from violence. Across Iraq, threats and incidents of GBV against women and girls persist, particularly sexual violence, intimate partner violence, domestic violence, sexual exploitation, harassment, early and forced marriage.
For International Women’s Day, an online poll was organized via U-Report in Iraq. The poll showed that 48% of the respondents have faced barriers to accessing or using technology because of their gender. In addition, 80% stated that promoting greater gender diversity in tech industry, empowering women entrepreneurs, and creating safer online spaces for women can play a significant role in advancing gender quality.
The poll results also indicated that technology has impacted the life and work of women positively by increasing access to education and providing flexible work options, and by giving women and girls a platform to voice their opinions and advocate for their rights. In exchange, U-Reporters also referred to the potential negative impact of technology in women and girls´ lives, including cyberbullying, online harassment, and the perpetuation of gender stereotypes in media and advertising.
The content on Laaha has been designed for a range of literacy levels through formats including podcasts, videos, simple interactive games, and audio voicer for all text. The platform design also takes into account low bandwidth or unstable internet connections.
Laaha has been built by and for women and girls and has been community-led by NGOs, CSOs and youth-led organisations who have informed the content and functionalities, accounting for digital gender gap.

Content includes topics related to:
•           Help and services: including types of services including case management, health, MHPSS, legal; how to support other women and girls in your community; and how to directly access support or assistance
•           Relationship & Rights: including decision making and trust; consent in relationships; consent in service provision; understanding types of violence including early marriage and intimate partner violence;
•           Body & Health: including pregnancy and birth; menstruation and puberty; female and male anatomy;
•           Safety: including information on staying safe online; community safety planning; setting boundaries.

In addition to Laaha, UNICEF continues to work with the Government of Federal Iraq and the KRG in establishing safe spaces for women and girls, as a key approach of reaching and providing them with key information, links to services, skills-building, peer connection, and support. In Iraq, UNICEF has eleven (11) CSO implementing partners for providing services to women and girls, covering 9 governorates with the greatest needs and where there are significant gaps in services. Additionally, UNICEF supports increasing access to comprehensive, multi-sectorial GBV response services, embedded within the available governmental structures, such as health facilities as well as centres managed by GDCVAW in KRI and Family Protection Units in Federal Iraq.  Prevention interventions, targeted at changing behaviour, social and gender norms that enable gender inequality and violence to continue, are also implemented through these partnerships and safe spaces. UNICEF utilizes both static women and girls' safe spaces and mobile team service provision approaches to increase access to services.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/222351-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-ministry-interior-krg-and-unicef-support-usaidbha-launch-%E2%80%98laaha%E2%80%99




Date: 09 March 2023
Title: On International Women’s Day, UN renews commitment to Iraqi women and girls as Baghdad named the Capital of Arab Women 2023
Content: 09 March 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 08 March 2023 – On International Women’s Day (IWD), the United Nations family in Iraq renews its commitment to support the rights of women and girls in Iraq, and to advocate for the acceleration of their empowerment as well as the strengthening of gender equality.
To mark the occasion in Iraq, the Council of Ministers Secretariat (ComSec)/Women Empowerment Directorate, under the auspices of H.E. Prime Minister Mohammed S. al-Sudani and in cooperation with UN agencies, launched a conference in conjunction with the declaration of Baghdad as the Capital of Arab Women for 2023, as decided by the Arab Women’s Committee.
At the conference, the government also launched its National Strategy for Iraqi Women 2023-2030, with special focus on the importance of women’s political participation, protection of women and girls, economic empowerment, and climate change. The national strategy is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1325, constitutional principles of human rights, and the Government of Iraq’s priority to empower women.
International Women’s Day was proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly as a global call to recognize the social, economic, cultural, and political achievements of women, and an opportunity to advocate for their rights and empowerment.
This year’s International Women’s Day theme is “DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality,” recognizing how a gender-responsive approach to innovation, technology and digital education can help us to collectively achieve the Global Goals and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Advancements in digital technology offer opportunities to address development and humanitarian challenges, including increasing participation of women and girls in leadership and political realms, as well as entrepreneurship.
“On this occasion, we congratulate Iraqi women for the recent vote by the Council of Ministers to approve the National Strategy for Iraqi Women for the years 2023-2030. The General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers contributed to its formulation and adoption of its axes through the participatory effort of the executive and legislative sectors, local organizations, and supporting international bodies.”
“The axes of the strategy focus on advancing the reality of Iraqi women and empowering them in various fields, such as social, political, economic, protection, participation, financial inclusion, and facing climate challenges. The government believes in the active and influential role that women have accomplished and continue to achieve in building state institutions and maturing their democratic experience.” said Hameed al-Ghizi, Secretary-General of the Cabinet, on behalf of Prime Minister Mohammed Shiaa Al-Sudani and expressed these views.
“The UN stands with the women and girls of Iraq, and their empowerment is at the heart of our work in this country,” said Ghulam Isaczai, the United Nations Resident Coordinator for Iraq. “UN family in Iraq is committed to see Iraqi women enjoy full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic, and public life. To achieve this, we must keep moving forward to ensure the root causes of systemic inequality are addressed, and women and girls are provided with every opportunity to participate in an increasingly digitized world”, he added.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/222362-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-un-renews-commitment-iraqi-women-and-girls-baghdad-named-capital




Date: 09 March 2023
Title: ITC and UN WFP Sign an Agreement to Promote Development and Strengthening of Entrepreneurship
Content: 09 March 2023
09 March 2023; Baghdad, Iraq,
The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and the International Trade Centre (ITC) signed an agreement on 6 March 2023 to collaborate on improving the efficiency and competitiveness of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs) in Iraq.
The partnership will leverage the technical support of ITC and community level presence and operational capacity of WFP to equip small holder farmers with climate adaptation tools to build competitiveness, develop agribusiness alliances for selected value chains and strengthen food systems in the country.
Increased local production and value addition activities will improve farmers’ incomes and will create new jobs, promoting sustainable economic growth and helping Iraq achieve zero hunger goal for all.
“Our partnership underscores the importance of promoting private sector development, particularly that of micro small and medium-sized enterprises and developing agriculture value chains to end hunger and achieve food security. These efforts are crucial in our collective quest to eradicate poverty and achieve sustained, inclusive, and sustainable economic growth in Iraq," said Eric Buchot, ITC Representative, Head of Country Programme, Iraq.
“This agreement will allow WFP to further help young Iraqi entrepreneurs and business owners, who brave the odds and choose to pursue their own livelihoods with and perseverance. We at WFP have strong faith in the future of private, small economies and the impact that they will have on diversifying the economy of Iraq,” said WFP Iraq Representative, Mr. Ally Raza Qureshi. “With the expertise of our colleagues at ITC, we are confident that we’ll be able to contribute greatly to strengthening the growing private sector of Iraq.”
WFP is invested in promoting gender mainstreaming in collaboration with the Government of Iraq and key implementing partners. This is evident in the work done to support evidence-building and capacity strengthening the policies required best support vulnerable women and their families and to help mitigate and adopt to climate change, as women and children are facing the main brunt of its perceivable impact.
ITC is creating agribusiness alliances between farmers and major agri-food companies through the European Union funded Strengthening the Agriculture and Agri-food Value Chain and Improving Trade Policy (SAAVI) programme. Agribusiness alliances are strengthened with technical assistance, providing farmers with emphasis on women and youth, with support in adopting less resource-intensive agriculture, enhanced post-harvest practices, quality improvement and food safety standards in alignment with buyers’ requirements. The five-year SAAVI project seeks to enhance competitiveness of agriculture and agri-food value chains and improve trade policy in Iraq. SAAVI is in close collaboration with the Government of Iraq, NRC, and other implementing partners.

Ally Raza Qureshi, WFP Representative, Iraq
Eric Buchot, ITC Representative, Head of Country Programme
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/222361-itc-and-un-wfp-sign-agreement-promote-development-and-strengthening-entrepreneurship




Date: 08 March 2023
Title: Plans Launched for the Prevention of Violent Extremism in Mosul and Tel Afar
Content: 08 March 2023
Mosul – On 1 March 2023, the Government of Ninewa formally launched Plans of Action for the prevention of violent extremism (PVE) for West and South Mosul, and Tel Afar centre. The ceremony took place at the University of Mosul – a site once occupied by the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), during which a curriculum to indoctrinate school-aged children into violent extremism was developed.
Developed over the last year in close consultation with a diverse range of national and Ninewa Governorate authorities, civil society actors and community stakeholders, with support from the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Iraq and in partnership with the National Security Advisory, each plan identifies key drivers and factors that increase the risk of violent extremism and outlines resilience-building responses tailored to the corresponding context.
“The role of the Government is to prepare the infrastructure needed to protect society from violent extremism. Our focus will be on implementing the National Strategy to Combat Violent Extremism Conducive to Terrorism among all segments of society, giving priority to youth and women. We must also focus on social cohesion, as diversity is what makes Ninewa Governorate beautiful. We aspire to be a cohesive community, as we were in the past,” said Mr. Ali Omar, Head of the Ninewa Governorate PVE sub-committee.
“With these Plans of Action – the first of seven that will launch across the country – we see our collective efforts begin to bear fruit,” said IOM Iraq Chief of Mission, Mr. Giorgi Gigauri. “Indeed, the key to effective PVE projects is local planning – local planning is what enables these efforts to take root in and speak to the specific realities and conditions faced by Iraq’s diversity of communities.”
These plans of action are evidence-based; inclusive and grounded in whole-of-society, gender mainstreaming and human rights-based approaches; and designed to contribute directly to the objectives outlined in the Government of Iraq’s National Strategy to Combat Violent Extremism Conducive to Terrorism.
Attended by district-, sub-district- and governorate-level government officials, as well as representatives from the University of Mosul and civil society, the event also announced the establishment of two PVE sub-committees in Mosul and Tel Afar, areas that have both been major targets of violence and extremist groups over the last twenty years. The sub-committees will be responsible for implementing the local PVE Plans of Action in their respective districts, with technical and capacity-building support from IOM Iraq.
Violent extremism has had catastrophic impacts in Iraq, including mass displacement, widespread destruction and the deepening of social divisions. As part of its efforts to address the underlying causes of irregular migration, IOM remains committed to supporting the Government of Iraq as it pursues a whole-of-society, whole-of-government approach to PVE, informed by rigorous, cutting-edge research and grounded in gender-mainstreaming principles and human rights.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/222248-plans-launched-prevention-violent-extremism-mosul-and-tel-afar




Date: 07 March 2023
Title: Introducing labour and social security laws to university students in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Content: 07 March 2023
The Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the ILO hold symposium on introducing labour and social security laws into university teaching curricula.
Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq (ILO News) The Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, together with the International Labour Organization, held a symposium in Erbil on Monday (March 6) to discuss the introduction of labour and social security laws into university curricula.
The event brought together representatives from the government, Members of Parliament, employers' and workers' organizations, key policymakers, academics and representatives of universities, career development centres and several other entities.
It included panel discussions on the changing outlook and prospects of young graduates towards employment in the private sector and some of the key obstacles and challenges in this regards. Discussions also highlighted the importance of introducing the labour and social security laws into university curricula and the modalities and mechanisms needed to ensure these topics are taught in higher education.
“Access to job opportunities and developing the capacities of our youth is an important national issue," said Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research Aram Mohammad Qadir. "We, at the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, are doing our utmost to develop the capacity of our youth and university graduates, so they can compete for job opportunities. We are currently working to better align the content of the curricula with the needs of the labour market, ensuring they are relevant to the needed skills of the labour market."
“This event is important as coordination between the two ministries concerning the labour and social security laws is of great importance and we have a Memorandum of Understanding between the two ministries in this regard," said Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Zakia Syed Saleh. "We invite all partners involved to strengthen their coordination, especially in implementing these policies and for the ILO to continue to provide its specialised technical support, so we can ensure that workers in the private sector and those who are self-employed are well protected.”
Introducing the laws to graduates would allow students to understand the benefits of social security and cultivate broader support for social security coverage among young workers as well as the wider public. 
The discussions are part of broader efforts to extend social security coverage, strengthen legal protections and guarantees for workers and to improve the business environment.
With the support of the European Union, the ILO has been working with its tripartite constituents - government, employer, and worker representatives – as well as parliamentarians, to review the draft retirement and social security law. Key improvements under the draft law include extending coverage to workers in the informal sector, self-employed, and business owners. It also introduces new benefits to all workers in the private sector, both formal and informal, such as those related to maternity and unemployment.
It has also provided technical support in the review of the Labour Law to ensure the law meets international standards and best practices. The law was approved by parliament recently.
“We commend the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for the recent development in relation to parliament’s approval of the labour law, which seeks to protect workers and enhance working conditions particularly for women and youth and address child labour, including its worst forms,” said ILO Country Coordinator for Iraq Maha Kattaa. “Introducing the labour law and social security law into university curricula is an excellent step in enhancing the awareness of young graduates on their rights in the world of work” Kattaa added.
The ILO will provide technical support to the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research in simplifying the two laws in a booklet to be used as learning material for students. It will also support training university lecturers in conducting sessions on labour and social security laws and rights.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/221988-introducing-labour-and-social-security-laws-university-students-kurdistan-region-iraq




Date: 06 March 2023
Title: UNITAD and Iraqi Officials Discuss Pathways to Accountability for ISIL’s International Crimes, and Launch Joint Working Group
Content: 06 March 2023
Baghdad 6 March 2023: The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL took part in a joint meeting with Iraqi members of the judiciary alongside legal experts from the Prime Minister’s office and the National Permanent Committee for International Humanitarian Law, as well as the Iraqi State Council, to discuss “Working Towards International Crimes Charges for ISIL Perpetrators in Iraq”, which was hosted at the Judicial Development Institute in Baghdad.
Judge Laith Hamza, Chief of the Judicial Oversight Commission inaugurated the meeting on behalf of Chief Justice Faiq Zaidan, stating that “the Supreme Judicial Council in its capacity as the judicial institution responsible for investigations and trials, in cooperation with all concerned entities in Iraq, appreciates, respects and commends the remarkable role which UNITAD plays,” thanking the Team for its work in the pursuit of justice for victims of ISIL crimes.
In his opening remarks Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher, stressed the importance of this meeting, as it “brings us closer to see the common goal of achieving accountability and ensuring justice for ISIL’s international crimes realized in Iraq,” adding that the purpose of the meeting was “to explore how best to support this Iraq-led process in navigating pathways for an appropriate legal framework that allows for dealing with ISIL crimes as international crimes in Iraq, in order to see ISIL perpetrators stand trials before competent courts.” He stressed that UNITAD stands ready to assist and provide technical support, including by supporting capacity building and leveraging international expertise. He further extended his thanks to the Supreme Judicial Council and to H.E. Dr. Faiq Zaidan for his continuous support.
At his end, Dr. Fadhil Al Gharawi, gave remarks on behalf of Dr. Ali Fawzi, Legal Adviser to the Prime Minister of Iraq and the Chairman of the National Permanent Committee for International Humanitarian Law, expressing his appreciation to the work of the Supreme Judicial Council and UNITAD to ensure that justice is delivered to Iraqi victims of ISIL international crimes. He explained how the National Permanent Committee has been working since 2014 to ensure that the rights of the victims of ISIL international crimes are preserved.
The meeting discussed various tools and options for the prosecution of ISIL international crimes internationally and in Iraq, including through adopting a national legislation, or amending existing legislations. The participants agreed to establish a joint working group as a mechanism that will meet regularly, and that will invite concerned parliamentarians and other experts as they deem needed.
After the conclusion of the meeting, Special Adviser Ritscher reiterated his thanks to the Judicial Development Institute for hosting the meeting, and expressed his confidence that this work will continue, stressing that UNITAD will spare no effort to support Iraq in its pursuit of accountability and justice for ISIL international crimes.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/221914-unitad-and-iraqi-officials-discuss-pathways-accountability-isil%E2%80%99s-international-crimes-and




Date: 03 March 2023
Title: FAO strengthens Iraq’s animal disease surveillance and reporting system capacity through the Event Mobile Application (E MA-I) 21-23 February 2023
Content: 03 March 2023
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Agriculture and water resource-KRG and with the financial support of the United States Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), conducted a follow up-training workshop on the Event Mobile Application (EMA-i) in Erbil from 21 to 23 February 2023.
For the first time in Iraq and in collaboration with veterinary services, FAO introduced the Event Mobile Application (EMA-i) services. The first workshop was organized between 17 and 19 October 2022, in Baghdad, to facilitate real-time disease reporting and improve quantity and quality of notified disease reports, and to display disease situations, support decision-making, and prevent potential disease spread and early response to emergency cases.  Therefore, it is crucial to apply a system at the national level, to enhance veterinary services’ capacities in disease reporting from the field to decision-makers, ease and speed information sharing among stakeholders. FAO has developed EMA-i for data collection and to facilitate real-time disease reporting to support veterinary services’ capacities in disease surveillance and notification implemented in the field.
Dr.Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, underlined the importance of this collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (KRI) to improve early warning system and response to exceptional disease events, offer a better knowledge of animal health situation in regions and in the country for targeted disease control to protect and improve animal health of the livestock and livelihoods of farmers and livestock owners in the country and in the whole region. He added: “This training of trainers on the Event Mobile Application (EMA-i) aims at enhancing early warning systems and will ultimately contribute to the reduction of the food and health security threats arising from emerging, transboundary as well as endemic pathogens.”
The use of an electronic system for data collection by EMA-I application on smartphones, as well as data management, analysis, and reporting using Global Animal Disease Information System (EMPRES-i) will support veterinary services capacities in disease surveillance implemented in the field. Using the application will significantly increase the number of reports received from field veterinarians. Moreover, it will improve the coherence in sharing epidemiological information between neighbouring districts, regions, and national governments.
Following the requests raised after the first training held in Baghdad, Iraq, an updated version of the application was developed considering participants' notes and recommendations. A training, integrating these new requested functionalities, is conducted amongst trainees from the first session to strengthen their skills. Practical exercises were conducted to guide them in mastering the application. A particular focus was given to the web-based platform (EMPRES-i+) allowing the completion of disease report workflow ( for data management).
The activity involved 33 participants from the veterinary departments from   Al-Anbar, Al-Muthanna, Basrah, Duhok, Ninawa and Wasit in addition to Baghdad and Erbil central departments, and representatives from the Ministry of Health were invited to strengthen collaboration and exchange information related to zoonotic diseases as part of the One Health concept.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/221697-fao-strengthens-iraq%E2%80%99s-animal-disease-surveillance-and-reporting-system-capacity-through




Date: 03 March 2023
Title: FAO Iraq trains ministry of agriculture staff on good agricultural practices
Content: 03 March 2023
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in Iraq held a training of trainers’ workshop for the Ministry of Agriculture’s staff under the project funded by the Belgian Government. The workshop aimed to train farmers on Good Agricultural Practices, which develop capacity building and technical skills in crop production, fertilization, irrigation, pest control, harvesting, and equipment maintenance, leading to improved agricultural productivity, food security, and farmers’ income.
Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, inaugurated the workshop and emphasized the importance of raising farmers’ awareness and improving their technical skills. He also stressed that the training aimed to equip the Ministry of Agriculture’s staff with the necessary knowledge and skills to train farmers, including the new approach of Good Agriculture Practices contributing to reducing production costs, preserving natural resources, protecting the environment, and increasing farmers’ income.
The workshop was a part of FAO's ongoing efforts to support the development of Iraq's agricultural sector and enhance food security through a project that aims to improve the farmers’ technical skills and increase their productivity, leading to the sustainable development of Iraq’s agricultural sector.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/221699-fao-iraq-trains-ministry-agriculture-staff-good-agricultural-practices




Date: 03 March 2023
Title: FAO Iraq Empowers Seed Producers and Multiplication Staff with Innovative Training Workshop
Content: 03 March 2023
Nineveh, Iraq, 20 February 2023 - The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq recently conducted a training workshop in collaboration with engineers. The workshop focused on the operation and maintenance of field seed cleaners’ plant, which were provided by FAO under a European Union-funded project. The project aims to boost the production of high-quality seeds and contribute to the development of the seed production industry in Iraq.
The training was attended by several seed producers and agriculture seed multiplication staff, who were eager to learn more about the innovative technology and techniques for producing high-quality seeds. The workshop covered a range of topics, including the latest best practices for seed cleaning, grading, treatment and storage. Participants were also given hands-on practical experience, allowing them to develop the skills needed to operate and maintain the equipment effectively.
FAO Iraq is committed to promoting sustainable agriculture and food security, and this training workshop is just one example of our efforts to support the growth of the seed production industry in the region. We are grateful to our partners and colleagues for their collaboration in making this workshop a success, and we look forward to continuing to work together to achieve our common goals.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/221698-fao-iraq-empowers-seed-producers-and-multiplication-staff-innovative-training-workshop




Date: 02 March 2023
Title: On 2nd Anniversary of YSL: Yezidi Survivors See First Benefits of Landmark Reparations Law
Content: 02 March 2023
Mosul – On March 1, the Directorate of Survivors Affairs (Directorate) distributed the first salary payments promised under the Yezidi Survivors Law (YSL) to survivors of Daesh’s 2014 genocide against Iraq’s Yezidi, Shabak, Turkmen and Christian communities – two years to the day since the Law’s adoption by the Iraqi Council of Representatives.
The YSL established a framework for the provision of financial support and other forms of reparations to survivors. These include a monthly salary, a plot of land, access to health and mental health services and more. Since the application portal was launched in September of last year, 348 survivors have been verified and approved to receive reparations under the YSL.

During the distribution ceremony, which took place at the Directorate’s office in Mosul and was attended by members of the YSL Committee including Director General for Survivors Affairs, Sarab Alias Barakat, 24 survivors (21 women and 3 men, all Yezidis) received debit cards that they can now use to withdraw their monthly salaries from the Government. Such distributions will persist as the YSL Committee continues to review survivors’ applications for benefits.

“We are very happy to mark the second anniversary of the passage of the YSL by handing out these debit cards to the first group of survivors, thereby enabling them to access their monthly salaries,” said Director General Barakat. “The work of our Directorate is ongoing towards the full implementation of this landmark YSL, which stipulates reparations for survivors both male and female from the Yezidi, Shabak, Turkmen and Christian communities.”

“This is the first tangible benefit that survivors are seeing from the law, an important moment in the reparations roll-out and larger transitional justice process in Iraq,” said IOM Iraq Chief of Mission, Mr. Giorgi Gigauri. “Just as we were extensively involved in the development of the application portal, IOM will continue to support the Government of Iraq to compensate survivors to the extent possible for the losses – material, mental and physical – they sustained as a result of the genocide, and thereby better enable them to heal, return home and achieve durable solutions to their displacement.”

“Today, I feel better because I am seeing a tangible step toward the implementation of the YSL,” said Manal, a survivor from Sinjar and member of the Survivors Voices Network. “As I receive this card, I remember everything that we survivors went through at the hands of Daesh, and all the years waiting for justice. I am happy to be here today and witness this support from our government. We hope that this will be followed by the implementation of the rest of the reparations provided for in the law.”

IOM continues to work with the Directorate to strengthen its capacity to implement the YSL, including through capacity building, technical guidance, material assistance and outreach among survivors, affected communities and the general public. This programming is made possible by support from the governments of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Germany, Australia and the United Kingdom, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and UN Action Against Sexual Violence in Conflict.

Survivors can apply to receive benefits under the YSL by submitting an application directly through the Directorate’s online portal, or by scheduling an in-person meeting at the Directorate’s main office in Mosul or any of its branch office locations and submitting an application during the meeting with the Directorate’s staff.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/221407-2nd-anniversary-ysl-yezidi-survivors-see-first-benefits-landmark-reparations-law




Date: 01 March 2023
Title: UNDP and USAID reopen Ninewa’s Medical Fluids Factory to strengthen Iraq's health system
Content: 01 March 2023
1 March 2023, Mosul/Baghdad, Iraq - Today, U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, Alina Romanowski, and Deputy Resident Representative of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq, Ghimar Deeb, participated in the reopening of the Ninewa Medical Fluids Factory, which will provide over 300 jobs and strengthen Ninewa's capacity to produce essential medical fluids.
The Factory, which had been severely damaged during the ISIS conflict, was rehabilitated through UNDP's flagship programme, the Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS), with generous funding provided by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).  The reopened facility will produce a range of general medical fluids, including saline, dextrose, and other essential products for patient care in hospitals and health centers across Mosul and greater Ninewa.
"The opening of the Ninewa Medical Fluids Factory is a major achievement and an important milestone in UNDP's stabilization efforts in Iraq," said Resident Representative of UNDP in Iraq, Auke Lootsma.  "The factory will provide jobs and support the delivery of essential medical supplies to hospitals and health centers in Mosul and greater Ninewa, benefiting over 800,000 people.  The reopening of this factory is a testament to the resilience of the Iraqi people and their determination to rebuild their lives and communities."
The factory's rehabilitation included installing state-of-the-art equipment and validating existing equipment to meet current specifications.  The rehabilitation was also done following international standards to ensure the quality of the products produced.
“We are here today because of the generous funding provided by USAID.  As one of the founding partners of the facility, USAID has made important contributions to Mosul and to stabilization in Iraq,” added Mr. Lootsma.
The reopening of the Ninewa Medical Fluids Factory will strengthen the region's health system and the availability of essential medical supplies to patients across the region.

About:

Since 2015, UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization has worked with the Government of Iraq and local actors to ensure safe, dignified, and voluntary returns and to lay the foundation for the successful reintegration of displaced populations into the community.
Since 2003, the United States, through USAID, has partnered with Iraq to help enhance the country's overall stability and promote greater prosperity for all citizens.
USAID has contributed US $439.3 million to stabilization in Iraq, including over $76 million to the health sector, making it the Facility’s leading partner.  To date, USAID has completed 885 stabilization projects, including rehabilitation of critical water and electrical infrastructure, schools, housing, and health facilities.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/221349-undp-and-usaid-reopen-ninewa%E2%80%99s-medical-fluids-factory-strengthen-iraqs-health-system




Date: 01 March 2023
Title: Challenges to Investigating ISIL Gender-Based Crimes Discussed in the 5th Thematic Roundtable of the UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum
Content: 01 March 2023
Baghdad 01 March 2023: The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL convened the Fifth Thematic Roundtable of the UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum titled “Towards holding ISIL perpetrators accountable for international crimes: Investigating Gender-based Crimes”, bringing together 50 participants from civil society organizations and UNITAD team members, to reflect on the work that has been done so far in investigating ISIL’s gender-based crimes, and exchange thoughts and best practices to strengthen UNITAD’s cooperation with the NGO community in this area.
On behalf of Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher, Ms. Defne Akca, Chief of Office of Field Investigations, delivered the opening remarks for this roundtable, emphasizing the importance of investigating gender-based crimes as a cross-cutting theme while looking into ISIL’s international crimes against various communities in Iraq, including crimes against Yazidi, Christians and Shia Turkmen.  “It is important to highlight that ISIL committed gender-based violence and crimes against children of all communities. Over the past months, UNITAD has expanded its investigations into ISIL’s use of child soldiers from different communities. This includes Yazidi and Shia Turkmen boys, and also Sunni boys who were forced into conscription. The scale of ISIL’s crimes impacted a wide range of communities in Iraq, and UNITAD’s lines of investigations cover the breadth of crimes committed against all impacted communities”, she emphasized.
Ms. Maria Pimentel Biscaia, Head of UNITAD Gender and Children Crimes Unit (GCU) gave an overview of the role of GCU in UNITAD’s investigations and what has been achieved so far, including in analyzing the patterns of sexual and gender-based crimes committed by ISIL against women and girls. She also presented challenges facing investigations into such crimes, especially those pertaining to interviewing survivors, while highlighting UNITAD’s approaches aiming at overcoming such challenges, setting best practices through the Team’s trauma-informed and victim-centered approaches, as well as measures to minimize the risk of re-traumatization by ensuring psychosocial support to witnesses before and during interviews.
Ms. Gergana Yancheva, Investigator at the United Nations, took part in the event remotely, and presented a comparative angle from her experiences investigating sexual and gender-based crimes internationally, stressing that fear of social stigma, fear of retaliation, and lack of proper spaces for interviewing victims remain some of the common challenges across different countries when it comes to investigating such crimes. She presented some best practices in dealing with these challenges, including advocacy for justice and against stigmatization of victims.
Ms. Hajir Abbas, Transitional Justice Researcher and Consultant provided insights from her experience on the challenges facing Iraqi survivors in investigative processes, whether for accountability purposes or for other reparative or restorative justice purposes, mentioning also the Yazidi Survivors Law, its drafting and mechanisms for its implementation. She further explained some of the challenges which the survivors face in Iraq, including security and privacy concerns, the spread of misinformation, survivors’ fatigue, and the lack of faith in the justice process. She presented recommendations to deal with such challenges, including the importance of effective coordination among NGOs.
Several NGO representatives discussed various challenges that they face while working with survivors. More common were the fear of stigmatization, the need for improvements on the Survivors Law, and the need for tangible support to survivors in justice, protection, and reparations processes.
The UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum was launched in December 2020, with the aim of serving as a platform that brings together all relevant international and Iraqi NGOs for regular collaboration, exchange of ideas and best practices, as well as exploring areas for enhancing cooperation. To learn more about the Forum you may visit UNITAD official website.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/221251-challenges-investigating-isil-gender-based-crimes-discussed-5th-thematic-roundtable-unitad




Date: 01 March 2023
Title: Secretary-General's remarks to the press upon arrival in Baghdad, Iraq
Content: 01 March 2023
1 March 2023
SG: Shukran, Honourable Minister.
It is for me an enormous pleasure to be back in Baghdad, a city I have visited already as Secretary-General of the United Nations and a city where I came many times as United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
But this is a visit of solidarity. A solidarity with the people and the democratic institutions of Iraq and a solidarity that means that the United Nations is totally committed to support the consolidation of the institutions in this country and to express my confidence that Iraqis will be able to overcome the difficulties and challenges they still face through an open and inclusive dialogue.
On the other hand, I have enormous admiration for the Iraqi people. I had the opportunity to meet the Iraqis displaced inside the country several times and to witness their courage. I also had the opportunity to visit Iraqi refugees in Jordan and in Syria, before conditions [inaudible] for them to come back to the country. And you could see also how they were able to live in solidarity with each other, to help each other in the spirit that, in my opinion, is the best hope for the future of the country.
I want to praise the efforts the Government is making to allow the Iraqis outside the country to come back and we will be fully supporting those efforts and I want to, once again, express my deep solidarity with the Iraqi people and my hope that Iraq will face a future of peace and prosperity and with consolidated democratic institutions.
Shukran.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/221263-secretary-generals-remarks-press-upon-arrival-baghdad-iraq




Date: 28 February 2023
Title: United Nations Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs in Iraq launches the Humanitarian Transition Overview on behalf of the Iraq Humanitarian Country Team
Content: 28 February 2023
Baghdad, 28 February 2023 – On behalf of the Iraq Humanitarian Country Team (HCT), the United Nations Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UN OCHA) in Iraq has launched the Humanitarian Transition Overview (HTO) to encapsulate the critical residual humanitarian needs and define the HCT’s priorities for programming. The Overview intends to also help donors and agencies prioritize support in 2023.
The HTO was produced following extensive consultations within the Iraq HCT, it sets the pace for the transition from humanitarian response to the development phase, with the Government in the lead to deliver basic services and protection to the people of Iraq, including displaced and returnee populations.
“The noticeable drop in the number of people in need, and the return of around five million displaced Iraqis to their homes, as well as the Government’s enhanced ability to generate more revenues and provide for its citizens, have naturally created favorable conditions for this transition,” said the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, Ghulam Mohammed Isaczai.
The HTO will replace the Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) for 2023, which has been the basis that guided humanitarian programming in Iraq for the past nine years. With the humanitarian efforts in the country scaling down, the HCT made the decision to develop this Transition Overview that also provides a summary of the transition process and planning to durable solutions for IDPs. The UN will continue to work with the Government of Iraq including the Kurdistan Regional Government to integrate the IDPs in national service delivery and protection system.
The Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq stressed that “the humanitarian community, which has been a close partner of Iraq for many years, reiterates its commitment to continue supporting the people and the authorities in Iraq.”
The Humanitarian Transition Overview is published on the ReliefWeb and can be accessed at: Iraq Humanitarian Transition Overview 2023 (February 2023) - Iraq | ReliefWeb
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/221030-united-nations-office-coordination-humanitarian-affairs-iraq-launches-humanitarian




Date: 27 February 2023
Title: FAO launching training workshop on Conservation Agriculture for Sustainable Land Management in the south
Content: 27 February 2023
Basra, Iraq - The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in collaboration with the Iraqi Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Water Resources,and local governments launched a seven-day training workshop for 30 agriculture extension officers from Muthana governorate as part of a cohort-training program. The workshop is under the "Sustainable Land Management for Improved Livelihoods in Degraded areas of Iraq" project funded by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and l focused on Conservation Agriculture as a Sustainable Land Management practice through Farmers Field School approach.
The extension officers trained as trainers of farmers, who will in turn spearhead a farmer-to-farmer extension delivery on Conservation Agriculture for Sustainable Land Management across the project locations. The training covers thematic subjects such as the roles and responsibilities of farmers field school trainers, criteria for selection and management of farming demonstration sites, principles of conservation agriculture, diagnosis and combating land degradation, climate smart agriculture, and the design and implementation of an action plan on rural participatory farmer-to-farmer extension service delivery.
"By enhancing the capacity of extension officers and lead farmers, FAO aims to promote sustainable land management practices in Iraq and improve the livelihoods of farmers in degraded areas," said FAO Iraq Representative Dr Salah El hajj Hassan. "This training is a milestone in our efforts to support the agriculture sector in Iraq, and we remain committed to working with our partners to ensure sustainable food systems in the country."
FAO's training workshop on Conservation Agriculture is a crucial step towards improving the livelihoods of farmers in degraded areas of Iraq. By empowering extension officers and lead farmers with knowledge and skills, we aim to positively impact agricultural productivity and environmental sustainability. FAO is committed to supporting the agriculture sector in Iraq and working with partners to ensure food security and sustainable development.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/220933-fao-launching-training-workshop-conservation-agriculture-sustainable-land-management-south




Date: 22 February 2023
Title: Where the Heart is: Five Years of IOM Shelter Interventions in Iraq
Content: 22 February 2023
Erbil – Since 2017, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Iraq has assisted over 15,000 families across the country through shelter interventions with the sustained support of the United States of America. Earlier today, IOM held a ceremony at the Catholic University in Erbil to mark this milestone, achieved through five years of housing repair, rehabilitation and reconstruction; debris removal and recycling; housing, land and property (HLP) support; and shelter assistance in informal sites.
Between 2014 and 2017, conflict with the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) displaced millions of people from their homes and created devastating material, economic and social repercussions across the country. Private housing was particularly hard hit, with approximately 140,000 residential buildings damaged or destroyed. The conflict left behind an estimated 55 million tonnes of debris – for many families, this debris is all that remains of their original homes.
A significant number lost not only their homes but also their home ownership and occupancy documents, leaving them without the means to prove that their property and land are indeed theirs. Add to this the over 104,000 internally displaced persons (IDPs) living in critical conditions in informal sites – locations typically unintegrated with surrounding communities and excluded from public services – and the urgency of shelter interventions in Iraq becomes especially salient.
“Although increasingly viewed as a commodity in many contexts, access to adequate housing is a fundamental right inscribed in international law,” said IOM Iraq Deputy Chief of Mission, Caroline Henderson. “Lack of safe, dignified housing can make sustainable returns extremely difficult, put women and girls in particular at risk of gender-based violence and cause additional hardship for households including elderly relatives and persons with disabilities or limited mobility.”
Information coming directly from displacement-affected communities has consistently revealed that housing destruction remains not only one of the biggest obstacles to return faced by IDPs, but also one of the largest challenges to reintegrating and achieving durable solutions for those who have already returned.
"We are very proud of the work that we have achieved together with IOM. The rehabilitation of 15,000 shelter units represents a monumental effort,” said U.S. Consul General, Irvin Hicks Jr. “The United States has long been a committed partner to Iraq and the Iraqi Kurdistan Region and remains committed to supporting efforts to build a more equitable society for all Iraqis. Together, we have made tangible improvements in the lives of those affected by conflict.”
Addressing all levels of housing damage – from partial to full – in synergy with other interventions allows IOM and its partners to comprehensively respond to a wide range of needs, not only through shelter repair and reconstruction, but also through the establishment of environmentally-sustainable debris recycling plants operated by returnees from the local community, the provision of HLP-related legal services and more.
The ceremony highlighted work implemented by IOM with support from Samaritan’s Purse, Kurdish Organization for Human Rights Watch and ACTED; resourced by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration; and made possible by strong partnerships with local counterparts: from the respective Governor’s offices to local mayors, registries and courts, to community leaders and civil society organizations, to the Government of Iraq’s Ministry of Migration and Displaced and Joint Coordination and Monitoring Center (JCMC).
IOM will continue to cooperate with the Government of Iraq, local communities and national and international partners to action innovative, comprehensive projects in areas of displacement, return and relocation to assist the sustainable reintegration of IDPs.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/220207-where-heart-five-years-iom-shelter-interventions-iraq




Date: 22 February 2023
Title: During a visit to Karbala, the Ambassador of Japan to Iraq confirms support to government efforts for Preventing Violent Extremism in partnership with UNDP
Content: 22 February 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 21 February 2023 – Today, during a visit to Karbala, His Excellency Mr. Futoshi Matsumoto, Ambassador of Japan to Iraq, met with the Karbala Sub-Committee on the Prevention of Violent Extremism (PVE) headed by the deputy governor, with the presence of the governor, and the head of the national committee for implementation of Iraq’s prevention of violent extremism strategy from the National Security Advisory, with participation of local NGOs. The aim of the meeting was to discuss objectives and progress of the sub-committee’s efforts implemented through support from the United Nations Development Programme in Iraq (UNDP) in partnership with the Government of Japan.
Supporting the Government of Iraq with strengthening capacities on PVE and ensuring community readiness for reintegration is a priority for the Government of Japan, as part of generous support provided through UNDP’s Support to Social Stability in Iraq through Preventing Violent Extremism Project. The project assists the Government of Iraq to implement its National Strategy to Combat Violent Extremism Conducive to Terrorism by building institutional capacity at the national and sub-national levels, enhancing community resilience, and promoting viable pathways to reduce violent extremism with focus on women and youth. The project also focuses on improving human security by providing socio-economic and Mental Health and Psychosocial Support to communities in need across several governorates.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative, Auke Lootsma, states, “We are grateful to the Government of Japan for our continued work to support the people of Iraq. Through this project we are contributing to enhancing the Government of Iraq’s efforts in expanding on stabilization gains with a preventative approach, ensuring support to a healthy environment and strong social fabric for various communities.”
His Excellency, Mr. Futoshi Matsumoto, Ambassador of Japan to Iraq, emphasizes, “In fighting extremism, it is critical to continue to promote a message of peace and moderacy. All of us share the importance of the words in al-Hadith: the best thing is found in the middle  ‘خير الأمور أوسطها.’ Japan will continue to support Iraqis to attain a peaceful and prosperous society in cooperation with UNDP.”
Nasif Jassim al-Khattabi, the Governor of Karbala, states, “Today the attendance of His Excellency the Ambassador of Japan to Iraq was very important for our sub-committee meeting. Karbala Governorate works continuously to combat violence that may lead to terrorism in all its forms. Today we express our readiness to adopt any project that will contribute to PVE in Iraq.”
Ali Abdullah Albedeiri, Chairman of the National Committee on the implementation of the National Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism, notes, “Today’s activity is part of the national committee’s support to the sub-committee in Karbala, including discussion on upcoming projects in 2023-2024. We believe these projects should be ratified and implemented at the governorate and national level.”
The Support to Social Stability in Iraq through Preventing Violent Extremism Project is part of UNDP Iraq’s five-year Social Cohesion Programme launched in January 2020 to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/220210-during-visit-karbala-ambassador-japan-iraq-confirms-support-government-efforts-preventing




Date: 20 February 2023
Title: Nineveh FAO-EU Funded Project Launches Innovative Training Program for Women-Headed Households for Sustainable Development of Small and Medium Rural Dairy Businesses
Content: 20 February 2023
Nineveh, Iraq, 16 February 2023 - The Nineveh FAO-EU Funded Project has launched a Farmer Field Day (FFD) program aimed at training women-headed households in the sustainable development of small and medium rural dairy businesses. The program was implemented in Al-Hamdaniya and Bartella for thirty dairy women supported by the project from seven villages in the Tel Kaif district.
The FFD program links dairy women producers from different regions in the governorate and encourages them to share experiences in improving and developing practices of processing and marketing their cheese and dairy products. The program includes training on dairy handling, processing, and marketing of improved traditional home-processed dairy products, as well as on fodder crops.
The Nineveh FAO-EU Funded Project is replicating this innovative learning method to all targeted districts to support the sustainable development of small and medium rural dairy businesses. The project has already supported 4000 women with training sessions as well as with dairy equipment for milk handling and processing. The FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan highlighted that the priorities of the FAO are to seek a real partnership with these groups and empower them to support their families independently, emphasizing the need to activate their role.
FAO’s International Livestock Expert, Dr. Chedly Kayouli said that during the farmers’ field day, the visiting women had the opportunity to meet with three groups of women who have excelled in the production and marketing of high-quality dairy products and in the cultivation of fodder crops. He added, women working in the same field and from rural villages interacted with each other, sharing their experiences, knowledge, skills, and even their challenges.
Finally, the visiting women led by Om Chaker from Tal-Kif villages concluded that the enthusiasm and the family atmosphere that prevailed during the farmers’ field day was remarkably interesting, as we are working in the same field, we interacted with each other sharing our experiences, knowledge and skills. Mouna from Al-Hukul village (Tal-Kif district) expressed the women’s interest and satisfaction in learning new techniques and practices in milk processing and animal feeding from their peers which was evident.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/220016-nineveh-fao-eu-funded-project-launches-innovative-training-program-women-headed-households




Date: 14 February 2023
Title: FAO hold meeting with Ministry of Water Resources
Content: 14 February 2023
Baghdad, 8 February 2023
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), represented by Dr. Salah ElHajj Hassan, FAO Country Representative, held with the Ministry of Water Resources the first meeting of the Steering Committee of the project funded by the Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs "Land and Water Monitoring by Remote Sensing, the second phase of the WaPOR project”
The meeting was chaired by Mr Zaid Hamoudi Habib, Director General of the Planning and Follow-up Department at the Ministry. During the meeting, a summary of the foundation phase of the project in Iraq and the selected study areas for activities in the West Al-Gharraf irrigation project area in Wasit and Thi Qar provinces and the Shamamuk irrigation project in the Erbil Basin area were discussed.
The meeting was attended by Ms. Livia Peiser, Land and Water expert at FAO Rome office, steering committee member from the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources in the Kurdistan Region, and the project coordinators. The work plan and the importance of coordination with project stakeholders were highlighted. During the meeting, the proposed activities for the two study areas were confirmed, and the potential of linking project data with other related projects, in addition to recommendations and concluding observations, including the consultative meeting that was held on the 9th Feb at the MoWR HQ between the national interdisciplinary team and project partners -IWMI and IHE Delft- to outline the capacity building plan associated with the proposed activities for both study areas.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/219142-fao-hold-meeting-ministry-water-resources




Date: 13 February 2023
Title: His Excellency Mr. Futoshi Matsumoto, Ambassador of Japan to Iraq, visited Bab Sinjar Housing Complex in Mosul constructed by UN-Habitat
Content: 13 February 2023
13 February 2023 - The United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) is honored to have received His Excellency Mr. Futoshi Matsumoto, Ambassador of Japan to Iraq, to Bab Sinjar Housing in west Mosul, Ninawa Governorate, social housing complex constructed by UN-Habitat Iraq under the project titled “Support to Reconstruction and Peacebuilding of Liberated Cities in Iraq” funded by the Government of Japan.
On this special occasion a soft inauguration ceremony was held on 12th February 2023 with the presence of Ms. Evan Jabro, Minister of Migration and Displaced, Mr. Ghulam Mohammad ISACZAI, Deputy Special Representative of the United Nations, Resident Coordinator, Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, Mr. Najim Abdullah Al-Jubouri, Governor of Ninewa along with the representative of UNICEF, relevant government officials, and construction partners.
UN-Habitat successfully completed the project of Bab Sinjar Housing Complex in Mosul and the official handover process to the municipality of Mosul has been completed in January 2023. UN-Habitat did not just implement the project, but also provided the technical assistance to the Government of Iraq, including providing the guideline of beneficiary selection based on the socio-economic vulnerability. Approximately 2, 300 returnees currently reside in nine buildings of 324 units. The great collaboration between the Government of Iraq and UN-Habitat was made and the project is seen as one of the best practices for durable solutions towards the returnees.
His Excellency Mr. Futoshi Matsumoto, Ambassador of Japan to Iraq, congratulated the completion of the Bab Sinjar Housing Complex project implemented by UN-Habitat with the support of Japan. He expressed that the project would help the returnees rebuild their lives and support their smooth reintegration. The Government of Japan remains committed to standing by the people of Iraq.
Ms. Evan Jabro, Minister of Migration and Displaced, stated that “UN-Habitat’s effort to support displaced at the area and their return to dignified housing is much appreciated by Government and all the local counterparts. Displaced persons are a priority for the government, which is keen to assist and facilitate all the requirements for a safe return of the citizens to their areas of residence. The Ministry, UN and the Government of Japan shall continue working together to archive greater goals for the people and for development of the area”in her remark.
Mr. Ghulam Mohammad Isaczai, Deputy Special Representative of the United Nations, Resident Coordinator, Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, stated that “Bab Sinjar Housing Complex project is a sensible move towards finding durable solutions for the returnees. It is a solid demonstration of partnership among the governments of Iraq and Japan and the UN, and strengthens ongoing cooperation towards building inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable cities and communities in Iraq, particularly in Ninewa governorate,” in his remark.
Mr. Wael Al-Ashhab. Head of Country Programme of UN-Habitat Iraq expressed his sincere gratitude to the people and the Government of Japan, stating “this project builds on UN-Habitat’s comprehensive urban recovery approach, which simultaneously addresses multiple challenges faced by vulnerable returnees. UN-Habitat is committed to promote adequate housing, access to basic services and decent job opportunities for conflict-affected persons in urban settings.”
With a contribution of more than USD 56 million since Japanese Fiscal Year 2014, the Government of Japan has been a vital partner to UN-Habitat’s Iraq Programme. With the generous funding from the Government of Japan, UN-Habitat constructed and rehabilitated more than 1,100 houses accompanied with basic infrastructure for approximately 10,000 returnees in Ninewa Governorate since 2018.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/219018-his-excellency-mr-futoshi-matsumoto-ambassador-japan-iraq-visited-bab-sinjar-housing-complex




Date: 13 February 2023
Title: Nadia’s Initiative and IOM Iraq Break Ground on Cemetery and Memorial for Yazidi Genocide Victims
Content: 13 February 2023
Solagh, Sinjar – As the Yazidi community in Iraq continues to rebuild in the wake of genocide, construction of a cemetery and memorial in Solagh, Sinjar, has officially commenced. Launched by Nadia’s Initiative (NI) in 2021 in response to requests from the Yazidi community, NI spent the last two years designing the cemetery and memorial in partnership with community members and a Yazidi architect. This week, construction is officially underway with support from the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Iraq and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
In August 2014, the Yazidi ethno-religious minority community in Sinjar was attacked by Daesh in a systematic attempt to erase them from existence. Thousands of people were killed, hundreds of thousands were displaced, and more than 6,000 women and children were enslaved. Today, around 2,700 Yazidis are still considered missing, while dozens of mass graves remain unexhumed.

“Grief is part of the healing process,” said Nadia Murad, founder and president of Nadia’s Initiative. “Having a place to collectively mourn and remember our families, friends, and neighbors is vital for survivors, especially those who have returned to Sinjar. It also serves an educational purpose – reminding the world of what our community suffered, and how we must continue to focus on preventing such atrocities.” 

“When a community has experienced this degree of trauma and devastation, memorializing the past and paying tribute to lost loved ones become essential components of efforts to support survivors as they return home from displacement,” said IOM Iraq Chief of Mission, Giorgi Gigauri. “This is what we are endeavoring to do here – a memorial by and for the community, that is also consistent with the provisions enshrined in the Yazidi Survivors Law, which IOM and Nadia’s Initiative have worked to support from its inception, and to which we remain committed as the reparations roll-out continues.”

“This cemetery will be the first project of this scale documenting the Yazidi genocide. It will be a historical landmark for future generations and will visually demonstrate the magnitude of the genocide and its impact on our community. Establishing a symbolic mass grave will attract the attention of public figures and those who are interested in human rights and justice issues,” says Khaled Talo Khedr, community member and relative of a Solagh victim.

Memorializing the victims of genocide is essential to the Yazidi community, many of whom remain displaced within Iraq more than eight years later. The final design for the cemetery and memorial was selected through extensive consultations with survivors both displaced and returned and aims not only to honor those who were lost, but also to act as a catalyst for the collective healing of a people, community, and region that has withstood incredible trauma. 

This is the first memorialization project of this size and scope to be implemented in Sinjar. The construction’s design aims to preserve and honor the memories of Yazidis in Sinjar, and it will serve as a place of solace and remembrance for the greater Yazidi community.

 
About Nadia’s Initiative:
 
Nadia’s Initiative is an international NGO dedicated to rebuilding communities in crisis and advocating globally for survivors of sexual violence. Its current work is focused on the sustainable redevelopment of the Yazidi homeland in Sinjar, Iraq. Nadia’s Initiative works with the local community and a variety of implementing partners on the ground in Sinjar to design and support projects that promote the restoration of education, healthcare, livelihoods, WASH (water, sanitation, and hygiene), culture, and women’s empowerment in the region. All Nadia’s Initiative programs are community-driven, survivor centric, and work to promote long term peacebuilding. Nadia’s Initiative advocates governments and international organizations to support efforts to rebuild Sinjar, seek justice for Yazidis, improve security in the region, and support survivors of sexual violence worldwide.

About IOM Iraq:

IOM is the leading intergovernmental organization in the field of migration, working in cooperation with the Government of Iraq, the Kurdistan Regional Government, civil society organizations and international partners to provide support across the country’s 18 governorates. As part of its multi-sectoral response covering camp management and camp coordination, shelter and infrastructure rehabilitation, healthcare, mental health and psychosocial support, livelihood assistance, policy development and more, IOM plays a key role in advancing a trauma-informed, survivor-centered transitional justice process in Iraq.


For more information, please contact:
 
NI's press team, press@nadiasinitiative.org  
 
IOM Iraq’s Public Information Unit, iraqpublicinfo@iom.int
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/219020-nadia%E2%80%99s-initiative-and-iom-iraq-break-ground-cemetery-and-memorial-yazidi-genocide-victims




Date: 12 February 2023
Title: Iraq celebrates first International Day for the Prevention of Violent Extremism as and when Conducive to Terrorism
Content: 12 February 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 12 February 2023 – Today, the United Nations marks the first ever International Day for the Prevention of Violent Extremism as and when conducive to terrorism. In December 2022, the General Assembly designated this international day to advocate the dangers of violent extremism and the international cooperation required to prevent it. The designation itself was introduced by the representative of Iraq, emphasizing how Iraq has suffered at the hands of terrorist groups.
Preventing and countering violent extremism conducive to terrorism is a priority for the UN family in Iraq, and an integrated approach is required to ensure sustainable community solutions. Ensuring factors that contribute to economic marginalization and inequality are addressed, and the provision of mental health support and livelihood opportunities, are key to mitigating the risks of violent extremism.
Violent extremism in Iraq has led to widespread devastation and mass displacement, with marginalized groups such as women, children, young people and persons with disabilities disproportionately affected. As part of efforts to build peace and mitigate factors that compel people to leave their area or country of origin, the UN in Iraq supports a whole-of-government and whole-of-society approach to address underlying factors, drivers, and motives that could contribute to increasing the risk of violent extremism, including through support to national and subnational government actors and civil society to devise and implement plans of action and interventions to identify and address these risk factors.
The UN in Iraq, in partnership with the Government of Iraq, is committed to supporting women and children, religious leaders, youth, educators, local authorities, civil society, and all members of Iraqi communities to prevent violent extremism and promote peaceful coexistence.
“This international day represents an opportunity for us to acknowledge the dangers of violent extremism and raise awareness on activities and interventions to prevent it. We all have a part to play in preventing violent extremism, and the United Nations in Iraq is working together in partnership with the Government of Iraq to involve a cross-section of society in advocacy and preventative measures. Together, we must keep working to address the marginalization, lack of livelihood opportunities, and spread of discourse that is conducive to violent extremism in Iraq,” said Resident Coordinator Ghulam Isaczai.
“This idea for this day was presented by the Iraqi representative to the United Nations, thus it is very important to us. The National Committee for the Prevention of Violent Extremism believes that this day will open horizons for international cooperation, agreements and memorandums of understanding, and coordination on capacity building. We hope to continue to work closely with the international community on this important topic,” said Ali Abdullah Al-Badiri, Chairman of the National Committee on the Implementation of the Strategy to Combat Violent Extremism in Iraq.
Violent extremism undermines the values that bind us together. It threatens our collective efforts to promote security and peace, protect human rights, provide humanitarian aid, and advance sustainable development. We must be more vigilant than ever, and continue to work together to prevent it, for a safer and brighter future for Iraq.

Media Contact:
Zainab Salih, Communications Officer, zainab.salih@un.org, 009647901105664
Photos:  https://bit.ly/40HzEq2


The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/218885-iraq-celebrates-first-international-day-prevention-violent-extremism-and-when-conducive




Date: 11 February 2023
Title: UNDP supports community resilience and Prevention of Violent Extremism across 30 villages in Ninewa
Content: 11 February 2023
Erbil, Iraq, 09 February 2023 – The United Nations Development Programme Iraq (UNDP) in partnership with local organization Al-Tahreer Association for Development (TAD), has completed a project to support community resilience and Prevention of Violent Extremism across 30 villages in Ninewa. Many of the 30 villages, within the districts of Ba’aj and Hatra, were used as terrorist bases during conflict with ISIL (Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant) and community members who fled the area have since returned.
The project aims to enhance the role of community leaders to contribute to building sustainable peace and strengthening the participation of youth in advocating for community needs and the Prevention of Violent Extremism. Community Service Committee members were supported with capacity building and opportunities to network with local authorities to discuss challenges and needs, and 150 community peace initiatives were implemented. Through the project, over 60 schools were outfitted with school supplies and equipment, benefitting 25,000 students and 35 generators were delivered to the 30 villages, providing a source of electricity for 150,000 people.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative, Auke Lootsma, states, “UNDP’s interventions in the districts of Ba’aj and Hatra are intended to address the factors that undermine social cohesion. Poverty and lack of education can lead to marginalization and must be mitigated to prevent individuals from falling victim to violent extremism. We are grateful to the governments of Germany and the Netherlands for their support to bolster community resilience and Prevent Violent Extremism in these 30 villages.”
During a ceremony in Tal Abta to commemorate the project, the Governor of Ninewa, Mr. Najm al-Jubouri, expressed his gratitude to UNDP, national partner TAD, and the donor community for supporting the pathway to stabilization and peaceful coexistence in Ninewa, assuring his commitment to continue local government efforts in responding to community needs.
Across western Ninewa, UNDP has rehabilitated 41 schools, eight municipality buildings, two water treatment plants and created jobs for 3,862 people, to date. UNDP’s approach to stability in Iraq includes support to stabilization in liberated areas through rehabilitation of infrastructure and services, livelihoods creation, strengthening local government capacities, and social cohesion.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/218859-undp-supports-community-resilience-and-prevention-violent-extremism-across-30-villages




Date: 09 February 2023
Title: High-Level Mission from the Delegation of the European Union to Iraq visited EU-FAO’s project Activities in the Southern Marshlands (Al-Ahwar)
Content: 09 February 2023
Al Ahwar  - 8 February 2023  - A high-level delegation of European Union ambassadors including the ambassador of Romania H.E. Mr. Radu Octavian Dobre, Greece H.E. Mr. Georgios Alamanos and the general consul of Poland led by EU Ambassador H.E. Mr. Ville Varjola, visited - on 6th February 2023-   FAO activities in the Southern Marshes of Iraq to assess the progress of the "Restoration and Strengthening the Resilience of Agri-Food Systems in Southern Iraq" project ,implemented by FAO in coordination with ministry of agriculture and local governments in  Basra ,Thi-Qar and Missan . The mission, which was accompanied by FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan and a team of FAO experts, met with project partners and observed the impact of the project on local communities.
"Ancient Mesopotamia, cradle of human civilization, is not only an Iraqi heritage but a world treasure. The improvement of traditional agriculture practices and livelihood interventions offer sustainable and dignifying solutions to the challenges faced by the Marshes." said EU Ambassador, H.E. Mr Ville Varjola.
"We are proud to be a part of this important initiative, which not only restores and strengthens the resilience of agri-food systems in Southern Iraq, but also empowers women and ensures the preservation of traditional livelihoods in the region," said Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq. "This mission and its successful outcomes are a testament to the close cooperation between the European Union, the Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture, and FAO in promoting sustainable development in Iraq."
The project, which is funded by the European Union and implemented by FAO in close cooperation with the Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture, aims to restore and strengthen the resilience of agri-food systems in Southern Iraq. It focuses on supporting women's groups and introducing climate-smart fodder practices in the region through the distribution of high-quality, drought and saline-tolerant seeds.
"The project is giving priority to support women’s groups due to their contribution to the development of their livelihoods," said the Senior FAO Livestock Expert, Dr Chedly Kayouli. "2500 rural women have already started enhancing their skills in dairy handling, processing, and hygiene with the support of hygienic stainless steel and food-grade equipment."
During the visit, the delegation observed the positive impact of the project on the livelihoods of buffalo breeders in the marshes, who expressed their gratitude for the support from FAO and the European Union. The delegation also visited two women's groups in the Al-Chabayish marshes, where they saw the traditional method of dairy processing and the positive change brought about by FAO's support with the rehabilitation of a dairy centre equipped with hygienic equipment.
"The marshes of southern Iraq are a vital sector, and the interventions by FAO with the support of the European Union will contribute to safeguarding the livelihoods of buffalo breeders in the region," said a buffalo farmer from the Al-Chibayish marshes.
For more information, please contact:
FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan: salah.elhajjhassan@fao.org
Communications Specialist for FAO Iraq, Ms. Khawla Ben Aicha: khawla.benaicha@fao.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/218470-high-level-mission-delegation-european-union-iraq-visited-eu-fao%E2%80%99s-project-activities




Date: 09 February 2023
Title: Estonia and Slovakia Bring Further Support To Humanitarian Mine Action in Iraq
Content: 09 February 2023
Baghdad, 9 February 2023 - The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) welcomes two additional generous contributions from Estonia and Slovakia. As part of UNMAS Iraq efforts to support the mine action sector, this funding will enhance clearance operations and support life-saving mine action activities in Iraq.
As a result of four decades of war and conflict, Iraq has many layers of explosive ordnance contamination which threatens the lives and safety of Iraqi communities. UNMAS continues to clear explosives and will be able to do more with support from donors. The contribution from Estonia and Slovakia will make it possible for UNMAS to s facilitate the safe, dignified, and voluntary return of nearly 1.2 m displaced communities and will allow for the rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts to progress.
This support will also enable UNMAS to assist a nationally led mine action response. UNMAS can provides technical support to national authorities to further enhance Iraqi national clearance capacity in line with national and international mine action standards. UNMAS is supporting national capacity enhancement through a partnership model which pairs international mine action NGOs with local NGOs, to build a sustainable mine action response in Iraq, and expand the national mine action capacity.
Remarking on the contribution, the representative of the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated, “Estonia is proud to continue with our contribution to UNMAS to support the Mine Action programmes in Iraq. Mitigating the threats posed by explosive ordnance and managing operations to clear landmines and explosive remnants of war is of great importance.”
“The UN´s collective commitment to sustaining peace is not only about conflict prevention but also about reduction and removal of consequences of conflicts. Therefore, alongside deploying troops to UN peacekeeping operations, we also repeatedly financially support UNMAS Iraq, which has been tasked with managing operations to clear explosive remnants of war. We are really delighted that our contribution will enable displaced Iraqi civilians to return to safe and mine-cleared areas,” stated a representative of the Government of Slovakia.
“The additional funding from Slovakia and Estonia will allow UNMAS to continue the current partnership model until such time that the national partners can operate fully autonomously and independently”, said Mr. Pehr Lodhammar, Chief Mine Action Programme, UNMAS Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/218527-estonia-and-slovakia-bring-further-support-humanitarian-mine-action-iraq




Date: 08 February 2023
Title: Multi-stakeholder meeting focuses on the extension of social security to Iraq’s farm workers
Content: 08 February 2023
Organised by the ILO with the support of the European Union, a meeting with multi-stakeholders in Basra centred around the challenges faced in the inclusion of farm workers in social security coverage and ways to address them.
Basra, Iraq (ILO News) Farm owners, representatives of the farmers’ association union, government officials, local Civil Society Organizations, academics and others joined a debate on the extension of social security in Iraq’s agricultural sector, organised by the ILO with the support of the European Union.

With a focus on agricultural areas in Iraq’s southern governorate of Basra, the event centred around the challenges faced by farm owners in the inclusion of their workers in social security coverage. It included discussions with the various stakeholders, such as those from government, employers’ and workers’ organizations and local implementing partners, on ways to address these obstacles.

Assistant Governor of Basra, Hassan Al Najjar reaffirmed that “the continued cooperation between the Basra Governorate, the ILO and the European Union to advance the agricultural sector, in all its sub-sectors, will allow us to identify and further promote the positive elements, and address the negative ones.” Mr. Al Najjar also commended the sessions organised by the ILO on rights at work and social security in the agricultural sector of Al-Zubair District of the Basra Governorate, conducted with farm owners and workers in the area, and reiterated the importance of expanding coverage of social security to the rest of Basra.

According to a recently published ILO study, on National Regulatory Frameworks and Structures in the Agriculture Sector , Iraq’s agricultural sector suffers from lack of regulatory frameworks and support structures to govern agriculture activities, protect its workforce, and address concerns collectively. There are persistent decent work deficits at the farm level including insufficient occupational safety and health measures and lack of social protection coverage.

Findings from the Labour Force Survey 2021  indicate that 98.1 percent of those engaged in agriculture hold informal jobs. Currently, coverage of social security for workers in the informal sectors is very limited, which puts farmers and their family at higher risk of poverty related to economic shocks and lifecycle risks.

The event also reviewed current activities being implemented by the ILO and its partners, under different projects funded by the European Union, to extend social protection and improve working condition in Iraq’s agricultural sector, in line with International Labour Standards.

“Social security for the Iraqi citizens is a very important topic for the EU. The EU is keen to ensure that Iraq develops a sustainable and inclusive social protection systems, and we work closely with the Government of Iraq to achieve a fair system, also in the agricultural sector that employs roughly 20 percent of the country’s workforce,” said Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation at the European Union Delegation to Iraq.

“Extending legal coverage of social security to workers, particularly those in informal employment, is a key priority for the ILO and its tripartite constituents in Iraq, as we continue to work collectively on different fronts to strengthen the adequacy, coverage and sustainability of the social protection system,” explained ILO Country Coordinator Maha Kattaa. “These efforts go hand-in-hand with efforts to enhance labour governance and working conditions for workers particularly those in the agriculture sector – a sector which provides a critical source of employment and income but which suffers from a number of decent work deficits including lack of social protection coverage.”

Under a social protection reform programme , the ILO has been providing technical support to the government in the review of the draft retirement and social security law. The draft law will bring in several changes that would make the Iraqi social security legislation closer to meeting the minimum requirements of International Labour Standards, including extending coverage to informal economy workers including those in the agriculture sector.

Parallel to this work, the ILO is supporting the production of various pieces of research  to inform decision-making processes, including those on challenges and opportunities with regards to social security, bringing together a portfolio of research from a wide range of academics.

A key element under the framework of “Enhancing labour governance, inspection and working conditions in response to COVID-19  ” is building the capacities of inspectors on modern labour inspection procedures, and ways to strengthen and enforce labour regulations and procedures in Iraq.

In addition, the ILO has been working with workers, farm owners, cooperative members, union members and community leaders on the farm level to improve working condition on farms, through improved Occupational Safety and Health, gender equality, business skills, and International Labour Standards. More recently, a Code of Conduct for Fair Recruitment  was developed in consultation between the ILO and its constituents, to promote the principles of fair recruitment in accordance with Iraqi legislation, International Labour Standards, human rights principles and conventions.

Discussions also focused on the role of tripartite partners and key stakeholders in working collectively to promote decent work in the agricultural sector in Iraq, through the development of consolidated programmes and work plans to assess and address the social protection needs and gaps of the sector’s workers.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/218316-multi-stakeholder-meeting-focuses-extension-social-security-iraq%E2%80%99s-farm-workers




Date: 07 February 2023
Title: Health promotion, awareness, early detection, and adequate treatment: ingredients for lowering the burden of Cancers and saving lives
Content: 07 February 2023
Iraq, 7 February 2023 – Iraq celebrated the World Cancer Day and renewed its commitment to bridging the gap in cancer awareness, prevention, and early detection and treatment to save lives and lower the suffering from cancers across the country.
Cancers represent the second cause of death in Iraq, the Region, and the world. They have severely impacted the Iraqi society at large and the vulnerable communities in particular, especially in areas where access to equitable and sufficient health care services remains limited amid increasing social and economic risk factors.
Reflecting on the national roles and lead needs to advance cancer treatment, the World Health Organization (WHO) attended a celebration organized in Duhok by the Ministry of Health in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. The Ministry and WHO renewed commitment to effective cooperation in the fight against cancer and projected mapping urgent responses to critical issues like raising awareness, early detection, registry, and affordability of adequate treatment for different types of cancer.
WHO and the Ministry of Health of the Kurdistan region further agreed to capitalize on awareness raising and educating women on self-examination of breast cancer in addition to studying joint prospects for boosting cancer management projects that could provide the population, including the vulnerable groups of the refugees and internally displaced populations, with equal opportunities to get the earliest diagnosis and treatment possible.
Barween, a 35-year-old wife and mother of 3 children from a village in the northern Erbil governorate of the Kurdistan region, has recently lost a sister after a long fight with breast cancer. Barween’s sister Naveed aged 32 lost the battle due to late diagnosis, rudimentary access to treatment, and metastases to other organs. Barween’s realization of the severity of the consequences of the disease led her to reach out to the Cancer Hospital in Erbil to learn about self-examination and enquire about early detection programmes to help herself and her other 34-years-old sister. She wished it would be simple and effortless for all women in her community to seek early diagnoses and benefit from the best possible care.
”We are working with the Government to change cancers from being serial killers to diseases that can be prevented effectively, diagnosed early, and treated adequately,” said Dr Ahmed Zouiten WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq. “Our commitment towards the national health authorities and the civil society institutions working in this area can create and coordinate a conducive environment for the prevention and treatment of cancer. Let us promote the Day and appeal to our partners and donors to join the call for action to bridge the gap on cancer awareness, detection, and treatment for higher impact in our communities,” Dr Zouiten added.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/218202-health-promotion-awareness-early-detection-and-adequate-treatment-ingredients-lowering




Date: 05 February 2023
Title: UN in Iraq condemns the killing of Tiba al-Ali and calls on all parties to protect women and girls from violence
Content: 05 February 2023
The United Nations in Iraq condemns the abhorrent killing of Tiba al-Ali, a 22-year-old woman.
The avoidable death of Tiba is a regretful reminder of the violence and injustice that still exists against women and girls in Iraq today. So-called honour killing and other forms of gender-based violence violate human rights and cannot be tolerated. While some efforts have been taken by state institutions to combat these acts of violence against women, more needs to be done towards prevention, protection and accountability. We urge the Council of Representatives to strengthen the institutional framework, including repealing Articles 41 and Article 409 of Iraq’s penal code, and call for the enactment of a law that explicitly criminalizes gender-based violence, in accordance with international human rights standards, together with improved services for survivors and those at risk.
The United Nations calls on the Government of Iraq to support laws and policies to prevent violence against women and girls, take all necessary measures to address impunity by ensuring that all perpetrators of such crimes are brought to justice and the rights of women and girls are protected, so that they can live a life free from violence and discrimination.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/217939-un-iraq-condemns-killing-tiba-al-ali-and-calls-all-parties-protect-women-and-girls-violence




Date: 05 February 2023
Title: UNDP and Government of Iraq hold strategic planning workshop on reintegration in Iraq
Content: 05 February 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 05 February 2023 – Led by the Government of Iraq, the United Nations Development Programme Iraq (UNDP), and the Global Community Engagement and Resilience Fund, a three-day workshop has brought together experts and practitioners on reintegration in addition to representatives from government, academia, civil society, and UN agencies to discuss reintegration policy components and approaches considering international frameworks and best practices.
The three-day workshop enabled sharing of international best practices and challenges within Iraq, including experiences with reintegration support in the current context, focusing on categories of caseloads requiring a specific approach for reintegration in Iraq, including Iraqi families returning from Al-hol Camp in Syria.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative, Auke Lootsma, states, “Reintegration is a priority in Iraq, and plays a vital role in strengthening the social fabric of communities. Bringing the key players focused on reintegration into one forum is central to ensuring the advancement of sustainable and effective community reintegration, backed by a national vision to ensure no one is left behind in Iraq.”
Mr. Zidan Khalaf Obaid, Advisor to the Prime Minister of Iraq on Human Rights, highlighted the importance of developing a national plan on reintegration and coexistence, which will strengthen coordination among different partners and ensure efficient implementation of programmes on the ground. He emphasizes, “It is vital that we focus on community acceptance for reintegration, as many families remain stigmatized outside of their communities.”
Dr. Mohammed Tahir Al Tamimi, Director General on Governmental Follow-up and Coordination, Office of the National Security Advisor, states, “This was an important opportunity to bring together reintegration actors and confirm commitment to the return process, psychological rehabilitation, and sustainable reintegration, as well as to discuss priorities for coordination between partners.”
Mr. Ali Abbas Jahankir, Director General of the Branches Department, Ministry of Migration and Displaced, says, “We have discussed solutions and mechanisms toward their implementation, and the importance of involving government and society in solving problems in areas of return, including assistance with psychological and social rehabilitation.”
UNDP’s approach to stability in Iraq includes support to stabilization in liberated areas through rehabilitation of infrastructure and serves, livelihoods creation, strengthening local government capacities, and social cohesion. UNDP supports community readiness for the reintegration for thousands of Internally Displaced Iraqi families, including persons perceived as affiliated with ISIL, who are often women and children.
UNDP Iraq’s five-year Social Cohesion Programme launched in January 2020 to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/217940-undp-and-government-iraq-hold-strategic-planning-workshop-reintegration-iraq




Date: 03 February 2023
Title: Combatting Transboundary Sand and Dust Storms in Southern Iraq and Kuwait
Content: 03 February 2023
Basra, Iraq, 28 January 2023 - UN-Habitat with partners has embarked on a new project on improving cities’ resilience against the impact of sand and dust storms. The project kick-off was celebrated in form of a workshop with over 50 participants, co-hosted by the Governorate of Basra and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development.
Iraq is counted among the 10 countries most vulnerable to climate change in the World today, and the climate crisis has become a reality, already. Severe heat, droughts and the proliferation of sand and dust storms have a significant impact not only on agriculture and food production, or on Iraq’s economy, but also impacts cities and urban residents directly. Sand and dust storms have become a public health issue in Kuwait and Iraq with increases in respiratory illnesses and even people dying because of these extreme weather events.
The economic burden is equally high: Estimates say that the impact on Kuwait’s economy, alone, exceeds 190 million USD per year, with impacts across the board, including aviation, the oil industry and all types of commercial activities that must be put on hold, while the dust cloud literally takes hostage of the entire country.
The project on Improved Resilience against Transboundary Sand and Dust Storms in Kuwait and Southern Iraq follows a three-pronged approach: It improves the knowledge base and the understanding of the conditions that create sand and dust storms, as well as their impact on human health, and the needed prevention and mitigation measures. Secondly, it makes a substantial effort to restoring ecosystems in the source areas of sand and dust storms. Thirdly and most importantly, it helps to enhance the resilience and capacity of local authorities, and of the most vulnerable communities in Southern Iraq, to adapt to the impact of desertification and to contribute to mitigating the root causes of sand and dust storms.
Dr. Rawia Mahmoud, Director General of the Department of Forestry and Desertification from the Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture welcomed this timely project kick-off as “a very successful and important meeting for finding appropriate solutions and diagnosing the causes, including climate change, that is affecting Iraq and Kuwait.” She further added “We are fully prepared to cooperate in the implementation for the purpose of achieving the objectives of this pioneering and developmental project, which will reduce the risk of sand and dust storms and improve environmental conditions in both countries, Iraq and Kuwait.”
Dr. Mohammed Sadeqi from the Kuwait Fund underlined the importance of this project as the first of its kind and added: “The state of Kuwait is the main beneficiary of the projects in terms of health and economic implications caused by sand and dust storms. As this natural occurrence causes multiple health issues as well as takes a significant toll on the Kuwaiti economy due to its effect on the migration of sand dunes on roads, power plants and the oil refineries. The project is expected to significantly improve the living conditions in Kuwait and the region.”
Eng. Wa’El Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat’s Country Programme in Iraq highlighted “the severe impact of climate change on Iraq and other countries in the region, where drought and water scarcity became a huge challenge to the Government and local authority, this important initiative came as a result of the generous contribution by the Kuwait Fund.” He added “UN-Habitat aims at brining on board other Gulf countries that are affected by sandstorms to expand on the coverage of this regional initiative to combat desertification and reduce the impact of this environmental phenomenon.”
Dr. Ameera Al-Hasan, Head of UN-Habitat’s Country Programme in Kuwait, and UN-Habitat’s representative with the Gulf Cooperation Council emphasized: “The workshop aimed to introduce the project stakeholders and partners to the scope of work and introduce its objectives, as well as to define the role of each entity within the project. This comes as a results of UN Habitat’s prioritization of the harmonization and alignment of efforts to ensure the synergy in implementation, as this project is considered the first of its kind in the Middle East. The project’s collaboration between multiple partners, all who believe in the importance of its proper implementation, ensures to optimize its results in the future, with regards to combatting the effects of climate change globally, as it impacts the inhabitants of urban and coastal cities alike with regards to economic and health implications.”
The project on Improved Resilience against Transboundary Sand and Dust Storms in Kuwait and Southern Iraq will be implemented over the next four years, and is fully funded by the Kuwait Fund with a total budget of 4 million Kuwaiti Dinar.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/217778-combatting-transboundary-sand-and-dust-storms-southern-iraq-and-kuwait




Date: 03 February 2023
Title: More than 150,000 people in Duhok now have access to safe drinking water through a new UNICEF project funded by Germany
Content: 03 February 2023
The UNICEF project has served to resolve the issues related to the high turbidity in the river in the Amedi area in Duhok by providing water treatment infrastructure to ensure clean and safe water for the communities in the area.
Baghdad, 1 February 2023 – UNICEF handed over a water project funded by Germany, to the Governorate of Duhok today. The handover was attended by Dr. Ali Tatar, Governor of Duhok; Mr. Sasan Awani, Minister of Municipalities and Tourism; Mr. Klaus Streicher, Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany; Dr. Anna Janke, Country Director of the KfW Development Bank and Mr. Mads Oyen, Chief Field Operations, UNICEF in Iraq. This project will secure safe and clean drinking water for more than 150,000 people in the Amedi area, on north of Dohuk, serving communities, households, schools and healthcare facilities.
This project, financed by the German Government through the KfW Development Bank, was implemented as a result of high turbidity in the river. High rates of turbidity in the river and lack of treatment of the unclean water resulted in limited availability of, and accessibility to safe drinking water, putting the lives of children and their families at great risk of water-borne diseases.
The project built a control valve chamber, extended the main water line and upgraded the intake structure of the treatment plant. As a result, up to 2,400 m3of clean and safe drinking water is pumped on an hourly basis - equaling the amount of water in an Olympic size swimming pool.
“It is impressive to see the achievement of this project. Water is life! We are relieved that so many people can now benefit from access to clean water,” said Mr. Klaus Streicher, Consul General of Germany, adding “If partners stand together, we can face the impact of climate change.”
“Ensuring access to safe and clean water is one of our priorities to mitigate the impact of climate change,” said Dr. Anna Janke, Country Director, KfW Development Bank. “KfW Development Bank is proud to see that this project has materialized where children and their families are benefitting from clean and safe drinking water.”
Vulnerable children and families are more exposed to climate-related challenges. Without action now, inequalities that children and young people are facing will be further exacerbated by climate change.
“Mitigating the impact of climate change is one of our priorities. With thanks to the support of Germany, through the KfW Development Bank, this water project ensures that water infrastructure and services are safe, sustainable and resilient to climate-related risks securing safe and clean drinking for children and their families,” said Mr. Mads Oyen, Chief Field Operations, UNICEF in Iraq.  “This rehabilitated water system not only reaps a myriad of health benefits for children and their families, but also helps build community resilience to the impacts of climate change.”
UNICEF is committed to support the Government of Iraq and its people to address the challenges of environmental sustainability and will continue the work with youth advocates and other young people to enable them to be agents of change, on the value of water and water conservation.

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF in Iraq on our website,  Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/217779-more-150000-people-duhok-now-have-access-safe-drinking-water-through-new-unicef-project




Date: 03 February 2023
Title: FAO conducts awareness workshop for veterinarians on FMD in Ninawa Governorate
Content: 03 February 2023
2 February 2023 - The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), conducted a workshop in Ninawa Governorate to support and renew the capacity of veterinarians to identify, early diagnose, timely report the disease events to the veterinary hospital, manage the risks of this disease and monitor it, as well as the prevention and control strategy for Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) in this province.
The opening session was attended by the FAO Representative in Iraq, the Technical Deputy of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and the Director of the Veterinary Hospital in Nineveh. Fifty specialists from veterinary dispensaries affiliated to the Nineveh Governorate veterinary hospital attended the workshop.
Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative, said “this workshop is timely needed. It will scale up capacities to control diseases outbreaks, including FMD,  affecting the national economy and  breeders’ income .
The Technical Deputy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Mithaq Abdul-Hussein, highlighted the importance to enhance the scientific and technical capacities of veterinarians and farmers/breeders to control epidemic diseases affecting livestock and preventing their spread.
The Director of the Nineveh Veterinary Hospital confirmed ongoing control measures taken by the veterinary hospital and its affiliated veterinary clinics.
During the workshop, FAO technical team discussed with the participants theFMD transmission, epidemiology and pathogenesis, clinical signs and differential diagnosis, laboratory diagnosis, symptomatic treatment and control measures.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/217781-fao-conducts-awareness-workshop-veterinarians-fmd-ninawa-governorate




Date: 03 February 2023
Title: According to a new report, the Ministry of Justice of the KRI takes important steps towards establishing a child-friendly court system
Content: 03 February 2023
The Ministry of Justice of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and UNICEF presented a new report, a “Mapping and Assessment of the Child Justice System in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq”.
BAGHDAD, 2 February 2023 – The Ministry of Justice in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI)and UNICEF launched today a new report, mapping and assessment of the child justice system in the KRI. Financed by the German Government through the KfW Development Bank, the report identified policy, legislation, and institutional and capacity gaps in delivering child-friendly services for children who are in contact with the law.
This report, which was technically supported and generated by Child Frontiers International, covered the entire Kurdistan Region of Iraq. While the report highlights key KRG achievements in protecting and promoting child rights, yet some gaps remain: the minimum age of criminal responsibility is low at 11 years of age; the juvenile justice system relies on deprivation of liberty rather than the use of diversion/alternative to detentions and limited social reintegration services.
“UNICEF is committed to supporting the Kurdistan Region of Iraq to protect and promote the rights of every child, including children who are in contact with the law,” said Ms. Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. “This mapping and assessment is the first step to realizing the rights of the most vulnerable children.”
The Child Justice System study aims to identify ways to meet the rights and needs of children who are in contact with the law and to create opportunities for their reintegration. It ensures that every child is treated in accordance with the principles of juvenile justice, and in line with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC), which Iraq ratified in 1994.
“There is no justice without judicial justice. By making sure that children know about their rights, and ensuring access to the judicial system, we protect the most vulnerable in society. This strengthens every democratic society,”, said Mr. Klaus Streicher, Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany.
“We consider it a very relevant task that we were able to finance this important study on behalf of the German Government,” said Dr. Anna Janke, Country Director, KfW Office Iraq. “This study reveals that there are several challenges and that the Juvenile Justice System for Children requires improvements concerning adequate prevention, response and social reintegration as well as diversionary justice.”
Deprivation of liberty is one of the most harmful violations of children’s fundamental human rights.  We need to reimagine the justice system where every child knows and can claim her rights; can access free legal aid and representation in the courts; and is protected from detention.  We also need to ensure the use of diversion and easy access to alternative dispute resolution mechanisms and child-friendly courts.
The study proposes a set of recommendations for children who come in contact with the justice system. These recommendations aim to ensure that every child who is in contact with the law will face a well-functioning Juvenile Justice System that integrates customary and formal actions, where children’s rights are protected at all stages, and their needs are adequately met.

ABOUT UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to@ build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF Iraq on our website,  Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/217780-according-new-report-ministry-justice-kri-takes-important-steps-towards-establishing-child




Date: 01 February 2023
Title: FAO training on Conservation Agriculture and Land Management Practices
Content: 01 February 2023
Basra, Iraq, 01 February 2023 – The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), in coordination with the Ministry of Environment (MoE), Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) and Ministry of Water Resources (MoWR), launched on 30 January 2023 the training on Conservation Agriculture and Land Management Practices through Farmer Field Schools approach, a milestone of the “Sustainable Land Management for Improved Livelihoods in Degraded areas of Iraq” project funded by Global Environment Facility (GEF).
Thirty-one government extensions officers from Thi Qar Governorate attended the training and will cascade the gained knowledge to Lead Farmers who will spearhead a farmer-to-farmer extension service delivery on Conservation Agriculture for Sustainable Land Management across the project locations.
The training sessions include but not limited the following thematic subjects: roles and responsibilities of farmers field school trainers, criteria for selection and management of farming demonstration sites, principles of conservation agriculture, diagnosis and combating land degradation, climate smart agriculture, design and implementation of an action plan on rural participatory farmer- to-farmer extension service delivery.
During the workshop, Dr Salah ElHajjHassan, FAO Representative underlined the importance of the FFS model developed by FAO in building extension officers and farmers skills to improve sustainable production while adapting to climate change impacts. He said, “the project will build upon and expand this model for the purposes of building local community capacity to engage in and support agro-ecological and conservation practices at the landscape level”.
FAO Technical team composed of national and international experts will continue delivering during the next 7 days theoretical and field sessions for capacity building of the extension officers on conservation agriculture pillars, mechanisms, techniques, as well as planning and management skills.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/217415-fao-training-conservation-agriculture-and-land-management-practices




Date: 01 February 2023
Title: Almost 12,000 children participate in the first-ever Grade 4 National Mathematics and Science Assessment Report in Federal Iraq
Content: 01 February 2023
The assessment report, launched today by the Ministry of Education of the Federal Government of Iraq and UNICEF, and funded by Germany, covered the 15 Governorates in Federal Iraq.

BAGHDAD, 1 February 2023. – Today, UNICEF and the Ministry of Education (MoE) of the Federal Government of Iraq launched the first-ever Grade 4 National Mathematics and Science Assessment Report. Financed by the German Government through the KfW Development Bank, the report aimed at assessing the quality of education in Grade 4, providing disaggregated data for improved evidence-based planning and budgeting for the education sector.
This assessment was conducted by MoE with technical support from UNICEF and Cambridge Education – Mott Mac Donald.
The sample covered 11,966 Grade 4 students, including 6,138 girls in 320 schools, across the 15 governorates of Federal Iraq. To better understand the effects of learning and teaching, the assessment also included a set of questionnaires provided to Grade 4 mathematics and science teachers, their supervisors and school principals of the 320 targeted schools. The assessment report highlighted key achievements in education, yet some gaps still remain.
“UNICEF commends the Ministry of Education for prioritizing this assessment to better inform the education sector decision-making and planning,” said Ms. Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. “This assessment is the first step to ensuring quality education for every child in Iraq, which UNICEF is committed to supporting the Government to achieve.”
In Iraq, an estimated 2 million children are out of school. Decades of conflict, poverty, and under-investment have undermined what used to be one of the most robust education systems in the Middle East.
Key findings of the assessment showed that out of the 5,959 students who participated in the mathematics assessment, only 39.5 per cent of students passed, with girls scoring slightly higher than boys, 17.5 per cent and 17 per cent respectively, while 5 per cent did not state their gender. As for the science test, a total of 6,007 students participated, and only 34.1 per cent of students passed. Boys scored higher than girls, 17.4 and 16.7 per cent respectively. Students in both subjects who were taught by teachers aged 50 years and above, scored highest. Findings also showed that students’ reading skills and application of math and science concepts need strengthening.
The math and science tests consisted of two models each, where one-quarter of the questions were based on an international assessment tool - The Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS). The ministry has committed to participating in the Grade 4 – TIMSS 2023 global assessment.
The assessment proposes a set of recommendations for students, including improving the quality of teaching and learning through the use of modern teaching aids and enhancing the reading and comprehension skills of students. The MoE will systematically assess students’ learning outcomes by conducting national assessments of other grades.

Multimedia

ABOUT UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF Iraq on our website,  Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/217428-almost-12000-children-participate-first-ever-grade-4-national-mathematics-and-science




Date: 01 February 2023
Title: Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to begin assessing Iraqi internally displaced persons and returnees in need of social protection assistance with UN support
Content: 01 February 2023
Baghdad, February 1, 2023 - The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs announced on Wednesday (February 1), it will begin a far-reaching verification process to assess the eligibility of internally displaced persons (IDPs) and IDP returnees to the Social Safety Net (SSN) programme - a poverty targeted social assistance programme implemented by the Ministry and measured by different criteria including income, assets, number of household members, age, and others.
Starting in February, the Ministry will conduct household visits to IDPs living both inside and outside camps, including in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Those identified as eligible will be enrolled in the social assistance system that includes monthly cash payments for covering their basic needs.
“The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is collaborating with the Ministry of Migration and Displaced and United Nations agencies working to provide support to internally displaced persons (…) To-date, the Ministry has included 42,000 internally displaced families in the social protection cash assistance, with another 10,000 families who have registered through the digital platform. We will begin in the coming weeks to visit these camps to include them in the social safety nets,” said Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Ahmad Al-Asadi.
Iraq currently hosts 1,173,812 IDPs, as well as 4,978,674 IDP returnees. Until recently, the majority of this population was unable to access the national social protection system given their displacement situation, relying instead on assistance from humanitarian agencies to meet their basic needs.
The new development will ensure that most vulnerable IDPs and returnees who fit the SSN criteria will be included into the national social assistance system at par with the rest of the Iraqi population.
It comes following months of collaboration between the Ministry - which implements several of the social assistance programmes in Iraq - and United Nations agencies, including UNHCR, ILO, UNICEF and WFP, to support Government efforts through advocacy, awareness and research to ensure the effective inclusion of such households in Government support.
UNHCR and the Ministry worked together to analyse data of the recipient households of their respective support and identify gaps and overlaps. Through this process, they identified that 67,487 IDP and returnee households in the UNHCR database were already in the Ministry’s own database, with 44,455 already receiving SSN, while 13,256 were considered ineligible and 9,776 were awaiting verification from the Ministry.
The verification process which will be launched in February will further support efforts to assess households for SSN inclusion.
The decision of the Minister to include IDPs and returnees is in line with the UN vision to transition its support to Iraq from humanitarian interventions to development in support to the national authorities. It allows extremely vulnerable IDPs to transition from cash assistance provided by humanitarian partners to sustainable support from the Iraqi authorities, thus helping them to find dignified solution to their displacement.
“The inclusion of IDPs and IDP returnees in the national social protection system at par with the rest of the Iraqi population is an essential move by the Government to take responsibility for its own citizens and is in line with the UN’s objective of transitioning from humanitarian interventions to durable solution. I commend the Minister for his leadership in making sure that all Iraqi citizens, including the most vulnerable who have been directly affected by Da’esh, are supported and eventually lifted out of poverty which will have an impact on promoting social cohesion in Iraq,” said Ghulam Isaczai Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq.
A joint UN position paper was published last year on the adoption of a Social Protection Floor in Iraq. The paper outlines a framework and recommendations for the establishment of a coherent, impactful and inclusive social protection system. The vision puts forward includes shock-responsive social protection system that would support in facilitating access, inclusion and coverage of vulnerable persons, including forcibly displaced populations.
Moving forward, the Ministry will prioritise the integration of graduation strategies for SSN recipient households, to support those who are willing and able to work to lift themselves out of poverty through decent employment in collaboration with ILO.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/217429-ministry-labour-and-social-affairs-begin-assessing-iraqi-internally-displaced-persons-and




Date: 29 January 2023
Title: UNESCO and Government of Japan sign agreement to support Technical Vocational Education and Training, and Prevention of Violent Extremism through Education for youth in Mosul, Ninewa
Content: 29 January 2023
UNESCO and Government of Japan signed an agreement in support of the project “Enhancing youth Employability and Resilience for Peace in Ninewa”.
Futoshi Matsumoto, Japan’s Ambassador to Iraq and Paolo Fontani, UNESCO Representative to Iraq, signed the document in the presence of Dr. Alaa Atiyah, the Advisor of Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MoHESR).
The project lays the ground for participatory and innovative design principles in the assistance for social stabilization (education for preventing extremism, employment promotion through vocational training mainly for the youth recovery of infrastructures and return of IDPs and refugees). Overall, it will build on the foundation of the ongoing UNESCO supported projects to expand provision of inclusive quality Technical, Vocational Education and Training (TVET) and train the technical and construction workers on Prevention of Violent Extremism through Education (PVE-E), thereby improving their employability opportunities, promote peace and strengthen resilience.
The project is part of the UNESCO’s ongoing ‘Revive the Spirit of Mosul’ initiative, launched in February 2018 to coordinate international effort to rebuild the heritage and revitalize the educational and cultural institutions of Mosul, in close cooperation with the Government and people of Iraq. This project will build on the achievements of UNESCO’s multi-year programmes focused on youth investment through technical and vocational skills development and prevention of violent extremism through education.
“The future of the youth in Iraq, and mainly in Mosul depends on what we do today, their access to quality and inclusive education is the milestone for the reconstruction and promoting sustainable peace of Iraq” said Paolo Fontani, UNESCO Representative to Iraq.
On behalf of the Minister of MoHESR, Dr. Alaa Atiyah, the Advisor of MoHESR expressed his gratitude towards the Government of Japan and UNESCO for their intervention and continuous support to the Education sector in Iraq.
Mr. Futoshi Matsumoto, Japan’s Ambassador to Iraq, emphasized in his speech the great success of all previous projects between UNESCO and the Government of Japan and said "We would like to commend the tireless efforts made by the Iraqi professionals and leaders in education sector that led to the reconstruction of Mosul. We look forward to the brighter future for the youth of Mosul so that they can build their own future. We continue to stand by them.”
In February 2018, UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay launched the flagship initiative “Revive the Spirit of Mosul” as the Organization's response to the recovery of one of Iraq's iconic cities. Reviving Mosul is not only about rebuilding heritage sites, but also about empowering the population as agents of change involved in the process of rebuilding their city through culture and education.
Japan has long been a valued partner of UNESCO globally and in Iraq. In 2021 the Government of Japan supported the project “Mitigating the impact of COVID-19 on Education through distance learning in Iraq”. Similarly in 2020 the project “Job creation for youth in Mosul - a centre of vocational excellence in construction skills supporting labour market outcomes”, and in 2019, the project "Voices of the children of Old Mosul: the rehabilitation and management of primary schools in historic urban context emerging from conflict" were supported by the Government of Japan.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/217006-unesco-and-government-japan-sign-agreement-support-technical-vocational-education-and




Date: 26 January 2023
Title: Germany renews commitment to stabilization with new EUR 10 million contribution
Content: 26 January 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 25 January 2023 – The Federal Republic of Germany has renewed its commitment to stabilizing Iraq with an additional EUR 10 million (approximately US$10.5 million) contribution. The critical support will be channeled through UNDP's flagship programme, the Funding Facility for Stabilization. The generous contribution was formalized at a signing ceremony today during the Minister of State at the Federal Foreign Office Tobias Lindner’s visit to Iraq.
The German Federal Foreign Office has generously provided over US$130 million since the Facility was established in 2015, bringing the total of German contributions to UNDP’s stabilization efforts to US$575.4 million. The funding will allow for UNDP to continue with its integrated stabilization support through rehabilitating public infrastructure and services damaged during the ISIL conflict, providing municipalities capacity support to deliver effective public services and strengthening social cohesion and community-based reintegration.
“Working alongside the Government of Iraq, UNDP has completed over 3,400 critical stabilization projects including restoring essential services, supporting livelihoods building municipal capacity and strengthened community-based reintegration. Our efforts in 2023 will further focus on addressing the critical needs, priority locations and sectors, to safeguard the hard-won stabilization gains made since 2015 to ensure a sustainable transition,” says Auke Lootsma, Resident Representative, UNDP Iraq.
“We are grateful to our long-standing partner Germany for their timely contribution towards stabilization in Iraq. Through this support, Germany has prioritized the wellbeing and prosperity of Iraqi communities and I applaud them for their continued leadership,” adds Auke Lootsma.
Germany’s Minister of State, Dr. Tobias Lindner, comments, “When it was set up, few had foreseen what success the Funding Facility for Stabilization would become. Over the past seven years, the Facility has proven instrumental in safeguarding the gains made against ISIL through civilian means. It was such a success that its model has been emulated in other conflict settings across the Middle East and Africa. With this contribution, Germany underscores its commitment to the stability of Iraq, who will now need take over responsibility for much of the work which has so far been conducted through UNDP’s Facility.”
In mid-2015, UNDP established the Funding Facility for Stabilization to assist the Government in rebuilding Iraq after the ISIL conflict. The Facility works with the Government of Iraq and local actors to ensure safe, dignified and voluntary returns and to lay the foundation for reintegrating displaced populations into the community.
With the generous support of international partners, the Facility has mobilized over
US$ 1.55 billion from 29 donors and the Government of Iraq. This collective effort demonstrates the international community's solidarity with Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/216728-germany-renews-commitment-stabilization-new-eur-10-million-contribution




Date: 26 January 2023
Title: UNICEF and WHO supported the national multi-antigen campaign for more than 400,000 children
Content: 26 January 2023
BAGHDAD, 26 January 2023 – UNICEF and WHO supported the Ministry of Health of Iraq (MoH) in conducting a nationwide multi-antigen vaccination campaign. The campaign reached more than 400,000 of the most vulnerable children with over one million doses of different vaccines, to protect them against vaccine-preventable diseases.
The locations covered by the ten-day campaign, which concluded at the end of 2022 were based on a risk assessment carried out by the MoH, also supported by UNICEF and WHO. The campaign aimed at reaching the hardest-to-reach children previously missed by routine immunization services.
To ensure the success of the campaign, more than 3,000 vaccinators were trained across 124 districts within 19 health directorates and national awareness-raising campaigns were conducted on the importance of vaccines. These reached millions of parents and children in most Iraqi governorates. Campaign logistics and field implementation were also supported through transport of vaccination teams and a digital dashboard, established to compile the results of the campaign and evaluate its progress on daily basis.
“As the largest vaccine buyer in the world, UNICEF remains committed to supporting the national immunization programme in Iraq, so that no child is left behind,” said Ms. Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq.  “Immunization is proven to be one of the most effective public health interventions, both preventing community outbreaks and giving every child the opportunity to survive and thrive.”
Prior to the campaign, intensified integrated immunization outreach services in Iraq have reached 90% of children aged under 5 with the third dose of diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus (DTP) and the first dose of measles vaccines, the highest coverage in two decades. This multi-antigen campaign aimed at reaching those children who had still missed out on these and other vaccines, with the hope of minimizing the resurgence of vaccine-preventable diseases and advancing coverage to 95%.
"Having a healthy start in life is a human right for all newborns. However, during COVID-19, some children missed their immunization, which increased their vulnerability to childhood diseases. This campaign is another safety net that ensures that all children in Iraq are immunized, protected and healthy," said Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative in Iraq. “The campaign was a great success in ensuring that no child is left behind.”
The campaign, mostly funded by a US donor, is a critical step towards protecting children from deadly and disabling diseases. For over two centuries, vaccines have safely reduced the scourge of diseases like polio, measles and smallpox, helping children grow healthy and happy. UNICEF and WHO remain committed to supporting the MoH of Iraq to ensure that every child in this country has access to the care and vaccines they need to attain their full potential.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/216751-unicef-and-who-supported-national-multi-antigen-campaign-more-400000-children




Date: 26 January 2023
Title: Transitioning from Humanitarian to Development: UNFPA Rebrands Women Community Centres
Content: 26 January 2023
25 January 2023, Baghdad, Iraq - UNFPA unveiled a new logo and branding for 37 Women Community Centres and mobile teams established with support from Canada, Norway and Sweden. The Women Community Centres have served vulnerable women and girls, including Internally Displaced Persons and refugees since 2014, providing them with a survivor-centered approach medical, counseling and psychosocial support, security, legal and life skills training related to women’s empowerment, gender equality along with recreational activities. Today, women's community centres are well-known among women, official and community leaders, social workers and young people.
To reflect a new phase for women's community centres that are transitioning from the humanitarian to development context, UNFPA supported a design of a common logo that would be recognisable across the country and reflective of the services.
The unifying brand of Women Community Centres (WCC) will contribute to raising awareness about the Centres and the services provided there. It will also encourage women and girls to come to these safe spaces and use the available services.
UNFPA engaged women and girls in the rebranding of the Centres from the beginning. Their experiences and memories of the Centres were vital to reflect the purpose of the centres and women’s hopes for the future. Women and girls believed that the Centres build hope, and provide safety and room for growth.

UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe, and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
For more information or media inquiries, please contact Sana Jalal, Communications Consultant, karwan@unfpa.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/216729-transitioning-humanitarian-development-unfpa-rebrands-women-community-centres




Date: 19 January 2023
Title: UNHCR and Ministry of Interior hold conference in Baghdad to discuss the way forward to end statelessness in Iraq
Content: 19 January 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 18 January 2023 - Thanks to its legal framework to reduce and prevent statelessness, thousands of stateless persons or those at risk of statelessness in Iraq have acquired Iraqi nationality over the years. However, some individuals are still suffering from the impact of not having the nationality of any country - which means they are stateless. While the number of stateless people in the country has been reduced due to efforts made by the Government of Iraq, those without a nationality continue to face significant challenges in accessing their most basic rights, including going to school, seeking professional medical care, getting a job, or registering their marriages or new-borns. Moreover, others remain at risk of being stateless across the country due to, for example, administrative and socio-economic barriers in accessing civil documentation.
To address these remaining barriers, the Ministry of Interior of Iraq and UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, held a conference in Baghdad on 18 January to explore solutions for ending statelessness, and preventing future instances of statelessness, not least by scaling up nationwide efforts to facilitate access to civil documentation.
In line with UNHCR’s Global Action Plan to End Statelessness 2014-2024 and the #IBelong Campaign, UNHCR Iraq is accelerating efforts to support the Government in ensuring that all eligible individuals can acquire Iraqi nationality and to improve access to civil documents across the country.
In an attempt to better understand the remaining barriers faced by some, including those related to securing Iraqi nationality and documents, UNHCR and its partner, Legal Clinics Network (LCN), conducted a detailed study in 2021 on Faili Kurds and Bidoons, two of the main population groups affected by statelessness, for which the Government has made considerable progress in resolving their stateless status. In fact, Iraq achieved the world’s largest reduction of statelessness in a single year (over 100,000 persons) in 2010. The study provides an overview of the remaining obstacles for those eligible to acquire Iraqi nationality and secure relevant civil documents. Furthermore, it informs measures that will be taken to end statelessness amongst known stateless groups able to access Iraqi nationality by the end of 2023. Another study is ongoing to look at other groups that may be stateless or at risk of statelessness, with further actions to be informed by the results of the study.
“Stateless people are often invisible to the communities in which they live. They have difficulties accessing basic public services, such as enrolling their children in schools or receiving medical care. The remaining barriers to their recognition as Iraqi citizens can be easily addressed,” said Jean-Nicolas Beuze, Representative of UNHCR in Iraq. “Iraq is on the right track towards ending statelessness by the end of 2023 amongst known stateless populations able to access Iraqi nationality. We are fully committed to making it a reality by supporting the authorities’ efforts to ensure that every Iraqi citizen is recognized as a member of the Iraqi community.”
End
For more information contact
Shaza Shekfeh, Associate Communication Officer
Erbil | +964 770 494 6384 | shekfehs@unhcr.org
Rasheed Hussein Rasheed, Senior Communications Associate
Duhok | + 964 750 713 0014 | rasheedr@unhcr.org
Karlo Jeelo, Communications Associate
Baghdad | +964 770 926 0385 | jeelo@unhcr.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/215720-unhcr-and-ministry-interior-hold-conference-baghdad-discuss-way-forward-end-statelessness




Date: 18 January 2023
Title: The Government of Denmark continues its support to explosive hazards management activities in Iraq
Content: 18 January 2023
Baghdad, 18 January 2023 – The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) in Iraq welcomes an additional contribution of DKK 14,000,000 (over USD 2,000,000) from the Government of Denmark, which will assist the Government of Iraq in reducing the threat of explosive ordnance impacting civilians and support the development of a sustainable, well-coordinated national mine action sector.
Following decades of war and conflict, Iraq is one of the world’s most explosive ordnance-contaminated countries. As of December 2022, there were approximately 2,236  square kilometers of contaminated areas across Iraq. Since 2014, millions of Iraqis have been displaced, and nearly 1.2 million of them remain internally displaced.
The generous contribution from the Government of Denmark will advance UNMAS efforts to facilitate the safe, dignified, and voluntary return of displaced communities and enable rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts to proceed through the ongoing clearance of explosive ordnance in contaminated areas.
Furthermore, this contribution will be used to enhance a nationally led and implemented mine action response. UNMAS delivers and initiates capacity enhancement, such as training and technical advice, as well as gender mainstreaming initiatives, for national authorities to further increase the Iraqi national clearance capacity in line with national and international mine action standards. This contribution also supports the strengthening of governmental mine action coordination mechanisms and improved decision-making.
The national capacity enhancement is supported through a partnership model that brings together international mine action NGOs with local NGOs, which work to build the sustainable mine action response in Iraq.
On the occasion of Danish’s contribution, Mr. Christian Thorning, the Danish Ambassador to Iraq, explained: “I am very pleased that Denmark once again has contributed to the important work of UNMAS.  Mine action is vital for protection of civilians, as well as being critical in releasing land for productive use and enable returnees to gain a livelihood. For Denmark, contributing to peace and stability in Iraq remains a high priority.”
“Denmark has been an indispensable contributor to the UNMAS Iraq programme since it was first deployed. This new contribution will assist the Government of Iraq in protecting vulnerable communities from the menace posed by explosive ordnance and will support safe and dignified returns of IDPs. In furtherance, it will allow UNMAS to continue its capacity enhancement efforts in support of national actors and aimed at developing the national capacity,” said Pehr Lodhammar, UNMAS Chief Mine Action Programme.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/215666-government-denmark-continues-its-support-explosive-hazards-management-activities-iraq




Date: 17 January 2023
Title: FAO supplied veterinary centers in Erbil, Duhok, and Nineveh Governorates with IT equipment
Content: 17 January 2023
Erbil-Duhok-Nineveh, Iraq, 16 January 2023 – The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in Iraq (FAO) on 12 January handed over IT equipment to veterinary services in Erbil, Dohuk and Ninewa governorates. This support package is an integral part of national capacity building project on improving the delivery of animal health services and disease surveillance in Iraq.
The FAO Representative in Iraq Dr Salah ElHajjHassan handed over PCs, Map Printer, and mobile phones, to be used for EMA-i application and disease reporting, to the General Directorate of Animal Wealth and Veterinary in Erbil, Veterinary Directorate in Duhok and Veterinary Hospital in Ninewa.
These equipment are intended to support Iraq’s ability to detect, diagnose, and report high‐threat veterinary and/or zoonotic diseases in the targeted provinces.
During the visit to Dohuk, Dr Salah ElHajjHassan met the Deputy Governor, Dr Sham’un Tilaya, and the Deputy Head of Duhok Veterinary Directorate, Dr Suleiman Tamer and discussed FAO Iraq activities in the region, the implementations of DTRA funded project and potential future collaboration.
Dr Salah ElHajjHassan also had a brief meeting in Duhok with the newly graduated vets and shared insights about FAO and orientation to the importance of enhancing their skills through trainings to increase their employment opportunities.
In Ninewa, the FAO Representative met the Director of the Veterinary Hospital, Dr Oday Shihab Ahmed who expressed his appreciate for FAO support and together visited the newly established facilities.
The four-year project is financially supported by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency of the United States (DTRA) aimed at reducing the risk of the international movement of animal diseases, which introduction and spread could threaten livestock production, food security and nutrition, food safety and public health and the environment of Iraq. To achieve the above, the project implements activities to strengthen the capacity of veterinary services to detect, diagnose and report highly pathogenic animal diseases and improve communication between central/local levels and herding communities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/215433-fao-supplied-veterinary-centers-erbil-duhok-and-nineveh-governorates-it-equipment




Date: 17 January 2023
Title: Germany supports UNDP in strengthening criminal justice services in Iraq
Content: 17 January 2023
Baghdad, Iraq, 16 January 2023 – Germany and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) signed a EUR 826,250 donor agreement on strengthening Iraq’s criminal justice services and improving their capacities to conduct effective interviews in line with international human rights commitments.
The project promotes the application of the new regulations on unified Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for Criminal Investigations, and the Local Police Service Road Map. Seeking to enhance criminal justice services in Iraq, the project offers capacity building for criminal investigation police officers, investigative judges, and relevant directorates, and extends the implementation of the Model Police Station Pilot Initiative from Baghdad and Basra to all over Iraq.
“We are grateful to our longstanding partner, the Government of Germany. We, together, put public safety and security at the heart of Iraq’s transition to long-term stability and development. This project enables the Iraqi police to continuously strengthen its investigative capacities and human rights compliance in criminal proceedings", says Auke Lootsma, UNDP Iraq Resident Representative.
“Strengthening law enforcement and criminal justice capacities must go hand in hand with human rights protection in order contribute to, and build public trust in, a sovereign, stable, and democratic Iraqi State. This is why Germany continues to support these efforts, implemented by UNDP, enabling Iraqi Police investigators to conduct interrogations more effectively and without recourse to coercive methods.” says Chargé d’Affaires a. i. Philip Holzapfel.
UNDP Iraq’s Security Sector Reform (SSR) Programme provides advice and technical assistance to the Government of Iraq's security sector through partnerships with the Office of the National Security Advisor, the Ministry of Interior’s Police Affairs Agency and local police, the Supreme Judicial Council, and Iraqi civil society organizations. This contribution brings Germany’s total support for the SSR Programme to EUR 1,836,250.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/215434-germany-supports-undp-strengthening-criminal-justice-services-iraq




Date: 09 January 2023
Title: FAO Training on Quarantine and Border Inspection Procedures
Content: 09 January 2023
Baghdad, 8 January 2023 - The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) and Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MoAWR)-KRG hosted the Quarantine and Border Inspection Procedures Workshop, as part of the United States Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) funded project, Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq. The workshop aimed at strengthening the knowledge and skills of quarantine and border inspection staff to implement the quarantine procedures.
Thirty specialists from the veterinary services in Baghdad, Erbil, Duhok, Nineveh, Anbar, Wasit, Muthanna and Basra and two from the Ministry of Health (MoH) participated to the training. The opening session was attended by the FAO Representative in Iraq and officials from relevant ministries.
Maintaining the health and safety of animal wealth; developing the livestock sector and upgrading its production, also as a food security tool; preserving the safety of products of animal origin and preventing the incoming and outgoing of animal diseases through strong border inspection is important to protect human health and safety of agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry, fishery and environment said the FAO Representative, Dr Salah ElHajj Hassan.
During the workshop, the national and international experts discussed the legal framework in Iraq on quarantine inspection and borders control of live animals and animals’ products; the international standards including the World Organisation for Animal Health (founded OIE), the FAO-WHO Codex Alimentarius for food safety, and the International Plant Protection Convention (IPPC) for plant health; Animal Health Hazards Identification for the Trade of Animals and Animal Products.
The training focused on qualitative, semi-quantitative and quantitative risk assessments, the key tools for countries quarantine protection measures identifications and risk mitigations of introduction of pathogenic agents from other countries.
The workshop also covered the principles and process of veterinary certifications and border inspection systems. Overall, the five days training should contribute to strengthen the Quarantine Departments capacities to monitor importations’ requirements for live animals and animal’s products through improved, risk evaluation and mitigation.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/214619-fao-training-quarantine-and-border-inspection-procedures




Date: 04 January 2023
Title: Joint statement by Iraq’s Prime Minister and the UN on the decision to grant Yazidis ownership of their lands in Sinjar after 47 years of denial
Content: 04 January 2023
Thousands of Yazidi families in the Sinjar district of Ninewa Governate have been deprived of owning their residential lands since 1975, due to discriminative policies.
On 27 December, the Council of Ministers approved a decree that contributes to a comprehensive solution for Yazidis with regards to land ownership. The decree grants ownership of residential lands and houses to the occupants of the 11 residential collective townships: Khanasur (Al-Tamim), Dogri (Hattin), Burek (Yarmouk), Kohbel (Andalus) in Shimal sub-district/Sinjar district, Tal-Qasab (Al-Baath) in Qairouan sub-district/Sinjar district, and Tal-Uzair (Al-Qahtaniya), Siba Sheikheder (Al-Jazeera complex) and Karzarak (Al-Adnaniya) Al-Qahtaniya sub-district/Al-Baaj district, (Zorava) Al-Orouba and Dohola (Al-Qadisiya) in Shimal sub-district/Sinjar district, and Tal-Banat (Al-Walid) in Qairouan sub-district/Sinjar district.
The Iraqi Prime Minister, Mr. Mohammed S. Al-Sudani, said: "The Iraqi government's decision to grant Yazidi Iraqis ownership of their houses in Sinjar, which they have been deprived of for more than 47 years due to the unjust exclusionary policies by the former dictatorial regime, comes in the context of the Iraqi government's clear and explicit endeavour, to protect the rights of the Iraqi components, especially the beloved Yazidi community in Sinjar and the Ninewa," stressing that this decision "was one of the firm convictions of the Iraqi state, and it was reviewed and presented in partnership with UN-Habitat."
The Iraqi Prime Minister affirmed, "this determination was clear and was demonstrated in the government program and the ministerial agenda that we presented and which the Iraqi parliament approved." He stressed that "the decree, along with other decisions that will be taken later within the Prime Minister's agenda, all aim at protecting the rights of the sons of these honorable Iraqi components, embracing them, and ensuring their rights within the principle of full citizenship, justice and equality."
The Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq and Head of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq, Ms. Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert welcomed “the critical step taken by the Council of Ministers, which finally brings the security of tenure to thousands of Yazidis in relation to their housing, land, and property rights”. She added: “The decree constitutes an official recognition of the ownership of their lands and houses, ends decades of discrimination, and will hopefully ease and encourage the return of Yazidis to Ninewa”.
The Executive Director of UN-Habitat, Maimunah Mohd Sharif, commended the endorsement by the Council of Ministers of the long-awaited decree. “This step by the Government is promising and encouraging as it promotes access to land rights for vulnerable populations in Iraq and creates great momentum for residents in Sinjar townships to have land rights for the first time. UN-Habitat will continue to support the government of Iraq and different institutions to facilitate the registration of land rights and to formalize the occupancy certificates issued by UN-Habitat into full land ownership titles”.
Since 2018, UN-Habitat has been addressing the land and property rights of Yazidi minorities in Sinjar by registering more than 14,500 claims and issuing land occupancy certificates to prove the occupancy rights of displaced persons.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/214088-joint-statement-iraq%E2%80%99s-prime-minister-and-un-decision-grant-yazidis-ownership-their-lands




Date: 29 December 2022
Title: UNITAD Discusses with Partners Blueprint  for Psychosocial Support to Survivors of ISIL Crimes
Content: 29 December 2022
Baghdad, 29 December 2022 – With a conference titled “Blueprint for Psychosocial Support of ISIL Crimes Survivors-Trauma Informed and Capacity Building Practices” UNITAD brought together a number of national and international partners to set national strategies for best practices and trauma-informed approaches for all victims of ISIL crimes in Iraq.
The conference which took place in Erbil earlier this month, with the support of the Netherlands and Finland, aimed to increase awareness of the importance of psychosocial needs for survivors of such international crimes in justice processes, underline needs and related gaps for the provision of mental health and psychosocial support within Iraqi justice processes for survivors of ISIL crimes in line with UNITAD’s trauma-informed and victim centered approaches. It also aimed to build collaborative partnerships, and widen the network of psychosocial service providers in Iraq.
Addressing attendees, Dr. Nenna Ndukwe, UNITAD’s Lead Psychologist, H.E. Mr. Matti Lassila, Ambassador of Finland to Iraq, and H.E. Jaco Beerends, Consul General of the Netherlands consulate in Erbil presented opening remarks, while UNITAD’s Witness Protection and Support Unit provided an overview of the evolution of international standards in witness protection programs and the trend in adopting trauma informed practice within investigations. Additionally, Dr. Daryn Reicherter, Clinical Professor and Director of the Human Rights and Trauma Mental Health Program, Stanford University, Mr. Tomi Jansson, Senior Strategic Adviser on Organized Crime, the EU Advisory Mission in Iraq (EUAMI) and Ms. Delkhwaz Haciy, Legal Advocacy Officer, Yazda Organization gave keynote remarks.
During the conference, participants from multiple governmental agencies and civil society organizations from Baghdad, Erbil, Dohuk, Nineveh, and Kirkuk engaged in discussions of case studies on the role of mental health providers in international investigations. The case studies discussed providing support to witnesses, and emphasized the value of documenting the psychological harm inflicted on survivors to be considered in justice process. Participants also conversed on the national needs and capacities in the area of providing psychosocial support and employing trauma-informed approaches in their programming with survivors and victims of ISIL, as well as in justice processes.
The conference came as a milestone in UNITAD’s promotion of the Team’s pioneering model of victim-centered and trauma-informed approaches among civil society and governmental entities, each working towards enhancing best practices in Iraq for supporting victims of ISIL from all affected communities.
To learn more about the activities of UNITAD’s Witness Protection and Support Unit Psychologists, you may read this article on the Team’s website.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/213635-unitad-discusses-partners-blueprint-psychosocial-support-survivors-isil-crimes




Date: 28 December 2022
Title: Germany helps WFP support Iraqis affected by conflict and climate crisis through resilience-building activities
Content: 28 December 2022
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) welcomed a generous contribution of EURO 22.5 million (US$23.9) from Germany to support capacity-building activities in coordination with the Iraqi Government, as well as empowering youth through vocational training and assisting vulnerable communities in Iraq to rebuild their livelihoods.
This contribution will support WFP’s ongoing efforts to support youth from food insecure households to find pathways towards food security through dignified livelihoods and improving the economic situation of vulnerable communities. To restore farming in agricultural areas affected by conflict, WFP has been providing assistance to local vulnerable farmers through the rehabilitation of irrigation canals and water stations.
“Germany commends the important work of WFP to improve living conditions of vulnerable communities in Iraq. We continue to work with WFP to improve resilience, rebuild livelihoods and strengthen capacities to adapt to the consequences of drought, heat and desalination,” said the German Ambassador to Iraq, Martin Jäger.
In 2021, WFP managed to rehabilitate and restore more than 30,000 hectares of arable land and more than 3,000 kilometers of irrigation and water drainage canals in Iraq benefitting more than 104,000 people.
“Germany has always been one of WFP’s most committed supporters and has dedicated extensive efforts and funds towards supporting Iraq and its people throughout the years,” said WFP Iraq’s Representative, Mr. Ally Raza Qureshi.
WFP is also focusing on empowering youth through a set of carefully designed vocational trainings and digital marketing courses, enabling young women and men to create livelihoods and reach out to customers online. This approach has already been applied in the south of Iraq and has benefitted nearly 2,000 women and men.
“Iraq is one of the most affected countries by the adverse effects of climate change and we have been witnessing this in data and through our own eyes. With the commitment of Germany and other generous donors, WFP can continue working to assist the people of Iraq with longer term initiatives that ensure they are able to secure livelihoods and earn a living for themselves and their families," added Qureshi.
In 2023, WFP will continue the vocational skills trainings coupled with lessons on entrepreneurship and online marketing, prioritizing youth and women. Lessons learned from previous initiatives have shown the impact these trainings had on improving the economic situation of trained youth as well as the need to scale up such interventions in other vulnerable areas in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/213554-germany-helps-wfp-support-iraqis-affected-conflict-and-climate-crisis-through-resilience




Date: 26 December 2022
Title: New Zealand Contribution Enables UNMAS Iraq to Continue Supporting the Government and the National Mine Action Operators
Content: 26 December 2022
Baghdad, 26 December 2022 – The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) in Iraq welcomes a renewed contribution of NZD 2,490,000 (approximately USD 1,622,000) from the Government of New Zealand, increasing the total contribution from New Zealand to NZD 5,740,000 million (approximately USD 3,084,000) since 2018.
The threat from explosive ordnance contamination across Iraq, including improvised explosive devices (IEDs) in the areas liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) as well as legacy mines and other explosive remnants of war (ERW) from previous conflict over the past four decades, continues to endanger the lives of Iraqi people. Explosive ordnance also hinders the safe return of displaced communities and prevents productive use of land for housing and livelihood activities.
The additional funding from the Government of New Zealand will further reinforce UNMAS Iraq’s advisory and technical support to the national mine action authorities, namely the Directorate for Mine Action and the Iraqi Kurdistan Mine Action Agency. Through continued technical support, the ability of the national authorities to autonomously lead, manage and implement mine action responses in Iraq will expand. In addition, the funding will support Iraqi national NGOs through the UNMAS partnership grant model where international NGOs transfer knowledge and experience to national operators.
On the occasion of renewing the contribution, Mr. Sam O’Connor, Charge d'Affaires a.i., New Zealand Embassy to Iraq (Resident in Abu Dhabi) stated, "New Zealand is pleased to continue supporting UNMAS' efforts to help Iraq rid itself of unexploded mines and other ordnance, and reduce the injuries and deaths that they cause. It is very encouraging to hear that Iraqi organisations and authorities are increasingly leading this work, and and that UNMAS is on track to strengthen the national response to explosive ordnance."
"The generous three-year contribution from the Government of New Zealand, will enable UNMAS Iraq to continue the necessary support to the Government of Iraq and national operators. With continued assistance from New Zealand, UNMAS will continue to strengthen the national response to protect civilians from the legacy of explosive ordnance and will by extension enable humanitarian, stabilization and reconstruction efforts to go forward unhindered by the explosive ordnance menace”, said Mr. Pehr Lodhammar, Chief Mine Action Programme, UNMAS Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/213441-new-zealand-contribution-enables-unmas-iraq-continue-supporting-government-and-national-mine




Date: 23 December 2022
Title: Japan provides an additional $1.38 million for UN-Habitat to support returnees in Iraq to strengthen socio-economic stabilization
Content: 23 December 2022
The United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) welcomes an additional contribution of USD 1.38 million from the Government of Japan to contribute to social stabilization and food security in Iraq through (a) rehabilitation or reconstruction of housing units damaged or destroyed by the conflict, (b) improving access to public infrastructure such as water, sanitation, and hygiene facilities (WASH sector), basic services including schools (education sector), community health centers (health sector) in environmentally friendly approaches, (c) improving access for returnees to marketplaces and capacity development and awareness-raising on food security and resource efficiency in particular. The project will be implemented in Sinjar/Western Ninewa, Ninewa Governorate.
After the invasion of Sinjar district in the Ninewa Governorate by the so-called Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in 2014, more than 250,000 people were displaced from Sinjar district. Many of the internally displaced persons (IDPs) who are originally from Sinjar are still caught in protracted displacement seven years after the official declaration of the ‘end of war against ISIL’ by the Government of Iraq, and they still face barriers to return, mainly due to severe damage to housing, lack of access to basic services, and lack of livelihood and employment opportunities.
In addition, while Iraq’s economic conditions have been gradually recovering from COVID‑19 as well as the oil price shocks of 2020, the recovery is being fraught by the impact and significant economic risks posed by the impact of the war in Ukraine.
When Wael Al-Ashhab, Head of Country Programme of UN-Habitat Iraq, visited His Excellency Mr. Futoshi Matsumoto, Ambassador of Japan to Iraq, on 8 December 2022, he emphasized the importance of the activities implemented by UN-Habitat towards returnees in order to ensure to create the entire environment for people to lead humanly lives, including constructing and rehabilitating decent homes, providing essential supply such as water and sanitation, and also providing vocational training and creating employment opportunities. With the generous funding from the Government of Japan, UN-Habitat constructed and rehabilitated more than 1,100 houses accompanied with basic infrastructure for approximately 10,000 returnees in Ninewa Governorate since 2018.
Wael Al-Ashhab expressed his sincere gratitude to the people and the Government of Japan, stating “this project builds on UN-Habitat’s comprehensive urban recovery approach, which simultaneously addresses multiple challenges faced by vulnerable returnees. UN-Habitat is committed to promote adequate housing, access to basic services and decent job opportunities for conflict-affected persons in urban settings.”
With a contribution of more than USD 56 million since Japanese Fiscal Year 2014, the Government of Japan has been a vital partner to UN-Habitat’s Iraq Programme.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/213142-japan-provides-additional-138-million-un-habitat-support-returnees-iraq-strengthen-socio




Date: 22 December 2022
Title: WFP and The Iraqi Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research launch the “Jousour” youth initiative for digital skills
Content: 22 December 2022
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and the Iraqi Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research today launched the  “Jousour” (Bridges) initiative to provide youth with marketable digital and English language skills to boost their employability and enable them to build better livelihoods.
Jousour is a bridge that can connect Iraqi youth with jobs through the pathway of digital skills. It is an extension of WFP’s award-winning EMPACT (Empowerment in Action) programme that is already being successfully implemented, since 2016, in Iraq and other countries such as Lebanon, Palestine, Turkey, Colombia, Kenya and Zimbabwe.
The programme was designed by WFP Innovation Accelerator based in Munich focusing on the development of transversal, entrepreneurial and technology skills required to succeed in the digital market. WFP is increasingly leveraging the digital economy to build the resilience of urban, displaced, and vulnerable households. With an internet connection, a device, and sufficient IT skills, young refugees and food-insecure youth can change their lives. EMPACT equips students with in-demand tech skills and matches their newly found talent with IT vacancies in private sector companies and online job marketplaces.
“We’re very excited about our collaboration with the Government of Iraq in scaling up one of our successful projects. The Jousour initiative will help Iraq’s youth with marketable  skills that build bridges (Jousour) towards a better life,” said WFP Iraq’s Country Representative, Mr. Ally Raza Qureshi. “Seeing our partners in the government, the development community, the NGOs and private sector and the media in this ceremony today is a testament to the keen interest of all parties in helping young Iraqi women and men to achieve their dreams and pursue their livelihoods.”
As a result of WFP’s ongoing collaboration with the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, Jousour initiative will be adopted and implemented by the Government of Iraq on a wider scale in universities and tailored to the Iraq context, with an emphasis on developing a future workforce that is equipped with enhanced digital skills that are in demand. This initiative aims to create solutions that enhance opportunities and contribute towards tackling the challenge of youth unemployment.
Through this initiative, Iraqi youth can prepare for emerging careers, contributing significantly to solving the unemployment challenges. It’s a win-win
outcome: young people at risk of hunger find stable jobs and generate life-saving income, and employers can hire qualified staff to meet their tech needs. Both contribute to a more productive economy and sustainable development.
Generous funding from WFP’s donors, such as Germany, enabled the launch of this initiative that will tackle unemployment in Iraq, one of the country’s serious economic issues facing about 27% of Iraqi youth.
Since its inception in Iraq, EMPACT (Jousour’s predecessor) programme has helped over 9,000 young women and men with digital skills and English language lessons. Many of these graduates were able to utilize the skills they learned in creating and finding work opportunities that helped to change their lives.

#                    #                       #

The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Iraq @wfp_mena @wfpgovts

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/213059-wfp-and-iraqi-ministry-higher-education-and-scientific-research-launch-%E2%80%9Cjousour%E2%80%9D-youth




Date: 21 December 2022
Title: Security Council Press Statement on Recent Terrorist Attacks in Iraq
Content: 21 December 2022
20 December 2022
The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the cowardly terrorist attacks near Kirkuk and Albu Bali, Iraq on Sunday, 18 December 2022.  The attacks, which were claimed by Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL/Da’esh), resulted in at least nine deaths of Iraqi policemen and eight civilians.
The members of the Security Council expressed their deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims and to the Government of Iraq, and they wished a speedy and full recovery to those who were injured.
The members of the Security Council reiterated their support for the independence, sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity, democratic process and prosperity of Iraq.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security.
The members of the Security Council underlined the need to hold perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism accountable and bring them to justice, and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Government of Iraq and all other relevant authorities in this regard.
The members of the Security Council reiterated that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed.  They reaffirmed the need for all States to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and other obligations under international law, including international human rights law, international refugee law and international humanitarian law, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed their support for Iraq’s security and the continued fight against terrorism, including against ISIL/Da’esh.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/212734-security-council-press-statement-recent-terrorist-attacks-iraq




Date: 19 December 2022
Title: Statement by Special Adviser Christian Ritscher  after Meeting with His Eminence Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani
Content: 19 December 2022
Najaf, 19 December 2022 – It is a great honor and a true pleasure for myself and my team to be present here and to visit His Eminence Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani. Not only have we been warmly welcomed to the holy city of Najaf, but also were generously received by His Eminence; the man whose legacy is unmatched, and who has always exerted all effort to serve Iraq and the Iraqi people.
Since the establishment of this Team, until today here, we have constantly counted on His Eminence's wisdom and support to our cause in serving justice, and to our work in the pursuit of accountability for all victims of ISIL international crimes in Iraq. His messages of peace and his calls for justice as a way of healing from the wounds inflicted by ISIL on the Iraqi people, and as a way forward for cohesion and unity in Iraq remain at the heart of our work.
We are humbled by His Eminence’s heed to the grievances of all victim communities in Iraq, regardless of their religious or ethnic affiliation. My Team dedicates itself to this same principle in implementing our mandate; that all ISIL victims matter equally, with no hierarchy. We do hope that by doing our work, we can contribute to the same path of his Eminence, in seeking the truth, serving justice and healing for all affected communities who suffered from the international crimes committed by ISIL, which are war crimes, crimes against humanity, and in some cases genocide.
I had the honor to discuss with His Eminence my Team's investigative work and our pursuit for justice in Iraq and elsewhere in the world. We can never forget the plight of all affected communities, those who endured so much pain and suffering during ISIL's dark ruling, a group that His Eminence stood, and still stands so strongly and honorably against.
I, and my team at UNITAD remain firmly committed to continue our investigative work to ensure that ISIL members are held accountable for the crimes that they committed against all affected communities in Iraq, including the Yazidi community, the Shia, the Sunni, the Christian, the Ka’kai, the Shabak and the Shia-Turkmen. ISIL international crimes aimed to destroy the diverse social fabric of Iraq, as well as its rich cultural heritage. Such crimes should be investigated, their legal characterization established, and their perpetrators held accountable before courts of law. That is the heart of our mission in UNITAD.
I am truly thankful for this opportunity to meet with His Eminence Grand Ayatollah Ali Al-Sistani, and was extremely encouraged after listening to his wise words and invaluable advice. And I reiterate my Team’s unwavering dedication to the pursuit of truth, of justice and of accountability for ISIL’s heinous international crimes in Iraq. I am reassured today, by the blessings of His Eminence, that our pursuits will continue to move forward steadily in partnership with Iraq, and to serve justice for victims and survivors of all communities in Iraq.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/212559-statement-special-adviser-christian-ritscher-after-meeting-his-eminence-grand-ayatollah-ali




Date: 19 December 2022
Title: Roundtable discussion on the integration of a public works programme in Iraq’s social protection landscape
Content: 19 December 2022
A roundtable discussion organised by the Ministry of Planning and ILO focused on a new paper that outlines factors and challenges that need to be considered in designing and integrating a public works programme within the social protection landscape in Iraq, in line with the Government of Iraq’s objectives and informed by international best practices.
Baghdad, Iraq (ILO News) The Ministry of Planning and the International Labour Organization held a roundtable discussion in Baghdad on Monday (December 19) to discuss how a public works programme may fit within the social protection landscape in Iraq.
The discussion was based on a newly developed paper by the ILO and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, that examines how relevant such a programme is to the Government’s objectives of addressing high levels of unemployment particularly among youth and women, while supporting working age adults in receipt of social assistance to transition out of poverty and into decent employment with effective access to social security coverage.
The event brought together policymakers, researchers, local development thought leaders and practitioners to exchange ideas, knowledge, and experiences on the relevance of and potential for establishing a public employment programme in Iraq.
It forms part of a series of inclusive roundtable discussions to support the Government of Iraq in reforming its social protection system, through policy debates on key issues related to the future of social protection in Iraq, with the support of the European Union.
In Iraq, the creation of a public works programmes is considered a key priority for both economic reform and sustainable development, as outlined in the White Paper on Economic Reform adopted by the Government of Iraq in 2020, as well as the Iraq Vision for Sustainable Development 2030, as drafted in 2019 by the Ministry of Planning.
Public works programmes have the potential to reduce unemployment and underemployment, by directly creating employment opportunities and promote social protection by providing income support in the form of the wage. Work conducted under such programmes also aim to contribute to the public good, including by delivering infrastructure, providing social services, and promoting climate resilience. And the engagement of the private-sector as contractors and suppliers can also contribute to private-sector growth and formalisation where complementary support is provided.
The paper aims to highlight key factors to consider in the design and implementation of such a programme, including how it relates to existing social protection and employment programmes; the importance of embedding decent work principles and skills training to support participants into decent work; and factors to consider when identifying projects to be implemented as part of the programme.
The paper highlights key international good practices from multiple countries such as Austria, Greece, Argentina, Mexico, South Africa and Jordan. It outlines key steps to be taken by various actors in Iraq in the development of such a programme, where the “Government of Iraq will be in the driving seat in designing and implementing the programme, and in leading the coordination with external actors involved in relevant sectors therein.” Key partners include the private sector, civil society actors and community based organisations, the donor community, and humanitarian and development partners, including UN agencies.
Key priority areas include initiating evidence generation, assessments and analyses to inform programme design and implementation; identifying sustainable sources of financing for the scheme; adopting key policies, and SOPs; and strengthening the capacities at national and sub-national levels to effectively implement the programme.
The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs said that based on the joint paper, which was developed in collaboration with the ILO, the ministry has prepared a preliminary study on the creation of 100,000 job opportunities through a public works programme, which will be implemented jointly with concerned ministries and partners. It will soon begin consultation with the ILO to put this scheme into practice.
The paper complements a UN position paper, led by the ILO, titled “Building Iraq’s Social Protection Floor Framework and Recommendations” to respond to opportunities to consolidate Iraq’s fragmented system of social assistance into a coherent Social Protection Floor.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/212580-roundtable-discussion-integration-public-works-programme-iraq%E2%80%99s-social-protection-landscape




Date: 18 December 2022
Title: WHO gives fresh momentum to secondary health care services in Kurdistan Iraq.
Content: 18 December 2022
Erbil, 18 December 2022 – The World Health Organization (WHO) in Iraq, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health of the Kurdistan region of Iraq, has just completed the renovation and expansion of a neonatal intensive care unit in the maternity teaching hospital in Erbil.
The unit can now deliver advanced lifesaving services for newborns of refugees, internally displaced populations (IDPs), and the Erbil hosting community of approximately 1.6 million people. The unit has been established on an additional space of 377 square metres to accommodate 92 newborns in fully equipped incubators with an up-to-date monitoring system installed according to international standards. Medical air and oxygen, a new 3-bed isolation room, a laboratory and milk preparation areas have also been provided.
“The best gift we could give to our children is a healthy new start in life, and this is what we are doing in this unit, to provide intensive neonatal care to premature needy newborns,” said Dr Ahmed Zouiten WHO Representative in Iraq. “Our vision for a solid and compatible health care system in Iraq starts here in maternity and neonatal health care facilities in which sustainable health projects are recognized as the ultimate solutions to the growing health needs of the Iraqi people and a step towards achieving universal health coverage,” he added.
The facility receives an average number of 300 to 400 cases a day, the majority are pregnant women from middle- to low-income families who cannot afford private health care costs.
“The inauguration of this project today showcases the remarkable impact of donor contributions to improving the health sector in Iraq. It will certainly boost the quality and quantity of primary and secondary health care services in these facilities and serve as the model that WHO and health authorities at both central and Kurdistan regional levels are considering to replicate in many other parts of the country,” Dr Ahmed Zouiten explained.
WHO in Iraq would like to thank the United States Bureau for Population, Refugees, and Migrants for their generous support which has enabled WHO to fund sustainable projects and provide access to affordable essential and specialized health care services targeting all in need with a focus on the most vulnerable population of refugees and IDPs across Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/212558-who-gives-fresh-momentum-secondary-health-care-services-kurdistan-iraq




Date: 18 December 2022
Title: Spotlighting Climate Migration on International Migrants Day
Content: 18 December 2022
By Giorgi Gigauri, IOM Iraq Chief of Mission
BAGHDAD/IRAQ, 18 December 2022
Today, on International Migrants Day, IOM reaffirms its commitment to upholding the human rights of migrants at every stage of their journey. IOM has assisted millions of migrants since it was established in 1951 and continues to lead the way in promoting the orderly and humane management of migration.
Every year, we see people around the world leaving their homes due to conflict, disease, disaster and – increasingly – climate change. Climate migration is already a reality in Iraq, where IOM has been tracking climate-induced displacement across the central and southern regions since June 2018. As of 15 September 2022, 10,464 families (62,784 individuals) have been displaced because of drought conditions across ten governorates. As environmental changes intensify, the rate of displacement is likely to increase exponentially.
Drought, land degradation and increased salinity in important rivers and tributaries continue to place a strain on the agricultural sector. With many families unable to guarantee sufficient and sustainable livelihoods in rural areas, we see their arrival in urban centres in search of livelihood opportunities.  But these urban centres already struggle with economic security and governance and are not prepared to accommodate them.
A 2021 IOM study found that over half of migrant households in Basra reported that they could not afford enough food or basic items, and 53 per cent did not have access to a financial safety net. Migrants also reported higher levels of exclusion from access to public services and other rights, which includes employment support, policing, formal dispute resolution and guarantees on property rights.
Iraq is still recovering from years of conflict that have devastated its population and caused massive displacement – and now with soaring temperatures, water scarcity and diminishing quality of the water that remains, the gains made through the collective efforts of the Government of Iraq, IOM and partners are at risk.
In line with IOM’s Global Migration Environment and Climate Change (MECC) Strategy and the UN Network for Migration’s prioritization of MECC-related programming, IOM Iraq will coordinate and collaborate with partners to enhance disaster risk reduction strategies and address challenges related to displacement or irregular migration flows stemming from environmental degradation and water scarcity in particular. This includes strategies to address tensions over dwindling resources and support to Government entities to adjust or develop new policies to strengthen access to livelihoods and services in the agricultural field.
Through the Global Compact for Migration, under which Iraq is a leading member of the Champions Country Initiative, IOM will continue to support the Government of Iraq in responding to the growing challenges faced by migrants and their host communities more broadly – challenges including social exclusion; barriers to accessing essential health services; labour exploitation; trafficking; and more.
As Chief of Mission, I am proud to lead a team where respect for the rights, dignity and well-being of migrants is central to everything we do. At IOM, we firmly believe that everyone benefits when migrants are provided with access to the support services they need.
On behalf of the entire team at IOM Iraq, today we reiterate our commitment to promoting safe, orderly and humane migration management – in Iraq and across the world.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/212651-spotlighting-climate-migration-international-migrants-day




Date: 18 December 2022
Title: FAO launches the SIDA funded project, Enhanced Climate Resilience of vulnerable agriculture households in Southern Iraq
Content: 18 December 2022
Najaf, 15 December 2022 - Under the patronage of the Minister of Agriculture, H.E Abbas JabrAl-Aliawi, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq launched in Najaf the project “Enhanced Climate Resilience of vulnerable agriculture households in Southern Iraq” funded by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida).
The ceremony chaired by the FAO Representative, Dr Salah ELHajjHassan, was attended by Najaf Governor, high officials from Najaf, Missan, Muthanna and ThiQar, Representatives from the farmers union, academia, private sector and other relevant stakeholders.
H.E Minister of Agriculture thanked the Government of Sweden and FAO for the support provided to improve the wellbeing and livelihoods of women and men in rural communities in Southern Iraq; he also highlighted the importance of improving agriculture practices from traditional to new and more sustainable technologies, in line with the government policy, to mitigate the impact of climate change and water scarcity on vulnerable families.
Governor of Najaf, Dr Majid Al-Waeli said “the project is a great opportunity for Najaf and Southern Iraq, as the country is facing serious environmental challenges including a threat of water shortages”. “I expect the project to optimize water use in agriculture value chains, as well as strengthening coordination between public and private extension services to increase the adoption of advanced production technologies and practices”.
FAO Representative, Dr Salah ELHajj Hassan thanked the Governments of Sweden, the Government of Iraq and underlined the strong cooperation with the line Ministries, local government and relevant stakeholders.  “FAO has a high level of technical knowledge and experience in agriculture, food security and nutrition, especially the international standards and best practices for livelihood recovery and resilience, agricultural and rural development and climate change adaptation”. “FAO activities will continue empowering rural women as agents of change for climate adaptation, said FAO Representative.
The project is designed to respond to the constraints faced by the agriculture sector in terms of water availability due to global climatic change and aim to enhance the climate resilience of farming communities by increasing and stabilizing water availability at the farm gate; optimizing agriculture and water productivity; and reducing the adaptation deficit of farming communities via specific and tailored trainings and capacity development processes. The activities aim further to strengthen water management institutions and the water distribution regime and to enhance the strategic framework and stakeholder engagement for a climate resilient agricultural development.
The project will be implemented in coordination with the Ministries of Agriculture, Environment and Water Resources and other national and local stakeholders, will also tackle existing challenges in the development of major value chains by promoting climate smart agricultural methodology to ensure gender and social inclusion, ecosystem health and biodiversity and reduced soil, water and air pollution.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/212473-fao-launches-sida-funded-project-enhanced-climate-resilience-vulnerable-agriculture




Date: 14 December 2022
Title: UNAMI conference on youth engagement highlights the youth’s important role in Iraq’s future
Content: 14 December 2022
Baghdad, 14 December 2022 - A project to showcase the ideas and creativity of Iraqi youth and how they can contribute to their country’s future concluded in Baghdad on 13 December in a national conference that brought together more than 35 young women and men from across Iraq, officials from government and parliament as well as the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI).
The conference, organized by UNAMI, is the final milestone of activities during the period June-December 2022 that involved more than 220 youths from various governorates, half of them women. Activities with the youth included capacity-building workshops, technical and mentorship support on issues related to leadership, decision-making, communication and action on climate change. The youths had the opportunity to identify priorities and formulate concrete policy. They presented initiatives and recommendations to share with policymakers at provincial and national levels in order to inform government programmes and policies, including to help mitigate the impact of climate change in their communities and the country.
Present at the closing conference were Deputy Speaker of the Council of Representatives Shakhwan Abdullah, Minister of Youth and Sports Ahmed al-Mubarqaa, the Prime Minister’s Adviser for Youth, Qasim al-Zalimi, Members of Parliament, in addition to Claudio Cordone, Deputy Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Political Affairs and Electoral Assistance.
The Deputy Speaker said that empowering the youth should be a priority for State institutions, adding that the youth of Iraq have the capacity and expertise that can benefit the progress and prosperity of the country.
The Minister of Youth and Sports commended the role of the youth and their initiatives, underlining his ministry’s readiness to support young women and men in their endeavours with their communities or at the national level. He also stressed the need to move forward on climate change, commending youth initiatives in this regard.
DSRSG Cordone stressed in his address the importance for the Iraqi youth to express themselves and participate fully in the country’s social, cultural and political life. With youth comprising 60 percent of the Iraqi population, Cordone added that the ideas and energy of the youth should not be underestimated. “We need you as partners and future leaders. We need you to play your role in full to build a peaceful and sustainable future for Iraq, which will meet the aspirations of all its people.”
After the opening addresses, the officials engaged with the youth who presented their projects and explained their ideas. The youth also used alternative ways such as art and music to express their views and convey their messages to the political leaders.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/211439-unami-conference-youth-engagement-highlights-youth%E2%80%99s-important-role-iraq%E2%80%99s-future




Date: 12 December 2022
Title: Federal Ministry of Environment, Kurdistan Board of Environment, CSO & KRSO With technical support from UNFPA Organise a Consultative Workshop on the Impact of Climate Change on Women and Girls
Content: 12 December 2022
12 December 2022; Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq - The Federal Ministry of Environment, the Kurdistan Region’s Board of Environment, Central Statistical Organisation (CSO), Kurdistan Region Statistical Office (KRSO), and UNFPA organised a workshop on 11-12 December in Erbil on the impacts of climate change on women and girls and how to design durable solutions to enable people and communities to adapt.
In 2021, UNFPA, in collaboration with the Ministry of Planning, Central Statistical Office, and Kurdistan Region’s Statistic Office, launched the results of the Iraqi Women Integrated Social and Health Survey II, which offered integrated data showing the change in women's economic and social status in Iraq since 2011. Following the I-WISH-II Survey, UNFPA, with the Federal Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Planning, will conduct a rapid study on the impacts of climate change on the lives of women and girls in Iraq.
To prepare for this study, UNFPA organised a consultative workshop attended by relevant stakeholders in both governments, the private sector, civil society organisations, and youth activists to brainstorm on designing the structure of a study. The objective is to ensure that national climate policies incorporate novel solutions and opinions from different groups of people and include sexual and reproductive health and rights issues.
Speaking at the event, Dr Dhiyaa Khadim Awad, the chairman of CSO at the Federal Government, stated and reiterated the importance of people-centric policies and said that: “we hope that this workshop will come up with a raw outline for the upcoming thematic study, which is anticipated to be conducted in 2023 and will be based on qualitative research aimed at various sectors with a particular focus on choices of empowering women and girls to deal with climate change.”
For her part, Ms Lamees Muneef, Head of the Gender Unit at the Ministry of Environment, highlighted the role played by the Ministry of Environment in reducing the adverse effects of climate change on people in general, women, and children, and said that: “we are pleased to present our work and role at this workshop, particularly in light of the COP27 conference that took place in Egypt. We amplify our commitment to empowering women and are prepared to collaborate on this study with the Ministry of Planning and UNFPA.”
The Kurdistan Region Statistic Office representative also emphasized the significance of this study and noted that the data and findings from it must serve as a significant foundation for developing national plans and strategies.
Mr Garik Hayrapetyan, UNFPA Deputy Representative to Iraq, during the workshop reiterated that the workshop supports a multi-sectoral approach to accelerate climate actions and said that “developing a national strategy to identify the potential opportunities and existing gaps is urgently needed to avoid massive displacement and wasting natural resources.”
The government representatives, the private sector, CSOs, and youth activists contributed to the discussion over the upcoming study. They expressed interest in being part of the study and advocating for improving legislation, policies, and programmes around climate change.
The impacts of climate change affect us all. The time to act is now. Let’s work together to find long-lasting solutions to help people and communities adapt to climate change and ensure that livelihoods are protected.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/211199-federal-ministry-environment-kurdistan-board-environment-cso-krso-technical-support-unfpa




Date: 12 December 2022
Title: UNICEF donates personal protective equipment worth over $2.5 million to the Ministry of Health of the KRI
Content: 12 December 2022
The supplies include coveralls, face shields and goggles, among others, and will be distributed by the Ministry of Health of the KRI as part of UNICEF's commitment to support the COVID-19 pandemic response in Iraq.

ERBIL, 12 December 2022 – UNICEF today handed over personal protective equipment (PPE) worth $2.5 million to the Ministry of Health. The ceremony was held in the presence of the Minister of Health of the Kurdistan Region Government, Dr. Saman H. Barzangy, and the UNICEF Representative in Iraq, Sheema Sen Gupta.
The supplies include coveralls, face shields and goggles for use in the Kurdistan Region response to the COVID-19 pandemic. This donation adds to PPE previously supplied this year, worth $1.23 million, to support safe practices during the COVID-19 vaccination campaign in all governorates.
“COVID-19 is still among us, and we need to continue working together to avoid new transmission of the virus, putting public health at risk and hampering children’s rights who suffer the secondary impact of the pandemic. These supplies attest to UNICEF’s continued support for Iraq’s response to the pandemic, including through protecting health workers at the front line of COVID-19 prevention and treatment” said Sheema Sen Gupta, UNICEF Representative to Iraq.
"I would like to highlight UNICEF’s support in the previous years, including immunization programs, maternal and infant care, and nutrition programs, as well as COVID-19 response. These PPE requirements will enhance the Ministry of Health of the KRI's ability to respond to the current outbreak of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases", Dr. Saman H. Barzangy Minister of Health of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
The PPE supplies are part of UNICEF’s broader support for the pandemic response, and for routine immunization efforts in Iraq. These efforts are funded by donors including Germany, the United States and the European Union and includes outreach immunization that has contributed to around 20% of the total COVID-19 vaccination nationwide.
UNICEF has also supported the registration of recipients and reporting of COVID-19 vaccination in over 1,400 facilities through the provision of Wi-Fi devices, internet subscriptions, laptops and through building the capacity for data managers. Since the COVAX rollout began, UNICEF has provided over 12 million vaccination cards and trained 7,600 health care workers on vaccine management, administration, and adverse events management.
As part of the work to strengthen the cold chain system, only this year, UNICEF provided 653 refrigerators, 8 cold rooms,  over 2,400 vaccine carriers, 1,200 cold boxes, 10,000 thermometers and installed 93 remote temp monitoring system in all province and district vaccine store,. From a technical perspective, UNICEF supported Ministry´s work to improve planning capacity and introduced real-time stock management system in 21 districts during 2022.
All this work contributed to increase immunization coverage for under 5 children, with Diphtheria tetanus toxoid and pertussis (DTP3) and Measles vaccination rates at over 90%, the highest level in 2 decades.
To boost up immunization efforts, by the end of the year, UNICEF and WHO will be supporting a multi-Antigen Campaign for 10 working days - 1,053 teams will be deployed to deliver more than one million doses to children in remote and inaccessible communities.
End of year efforts will be complemented by a nation-wide campaign with COVID-19 vaccination messages and prevention messages, that will be launched through TV ads and billboards.

#####
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF in Iraq on our website,  Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/211164-unicef-donates-personal-protective-equipment-worth-over-25-million-ministry-health-kri




Date: 11 December 2022
Title: IOM, Finland to support local economic recovery for women and conflict-affected populations in Iraq
Content: 11 December 2022
Baghdad – In the face of Iraq’s deepening financial crisis, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Iraq and the Government of Finland launched a EUR 2,000,000 project to support displacement-affected individuals whose businesses were destroyed or severely damaged by the conflict with the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Among internally displaced persons (IDPs), returnees and host communities across the country, the project will pay particular attention to women and other marginalized groups that face disproportionate barriers accessing the labour market.
Already a significant concern in conflict- and displacement-affected areas struggling to bounce back from the ISIL conflict, livelihoods have emerged as a main factor impeding the return of IDPs to their areas of origin due to the combined effects of a recent drop in oil revenues and the lingering impact of COVID-19 restrictions. In Iraq’s south, agricultural livelihoods are increasingly devastated by water scarcity, contributing to a rise in displacement from rural to urban areas.
“Supporting businesses and livelihood opportunities is of critical importance to responding to the needs of IDPs, returnees and host community members,” said Chief of Mission for IOM in Iraq, Mr. Giorgi Gigauri. “With the generous support of the Government of Finland, IOM will work to help mitigate this key barrier to return in order to foster conditions that enable durable solutions for displacement-affected persons – particularly women and other economically-vulnerable groups.”
“Private sector plays an important role in promoting women’s economic empowerment and creating jobs,” stated Finnish Ambassador to Iraq, Mr. Matti Lassila. “One key goal of Finland’s development policy is to improve the access of women entrepreneurs to finance. Through the IOM’s EDF-Women approach, women-led businesses will have access to grants as well as customized support services needed to run successful businesses.”
Indeed, the project will support economic recovery and women’s empowerment in the labour force by targeting women business owners and businesses where the majority of the workforce is made up of women to enable business recovery and job creation. Grants will be provided to start-ups and early-stage businesses, and owners of small and medium-sized enterprises will have access to capacity-building and business development services and trainings in areas such as bookkeeping, marketing and savings management. This approach is informed by continued evaluations and research on women’s participation in Iraq’s workforce and key economic sectors.
IOM Iraq will implement this project in Basra, Dohuk, Erbil, Ninewa, Sulaymaniyah and Thi Qar governorates, working closely with local authorities and community members throughout every stage of the project implementation, from needs identification to final hand-over.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/211010-iom-finland-support-local-economic-recovery-women-and-conflict-affected-populations-iraq




Date: 08 December 2022
Title: Roundtable discussions in the KRI on the revision of the National Food Security Strategy and Action Plan
Content: 08 December 2022
Erbil, 8 December 2022 - The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MoAWR) of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI) conducted a roundtable discussion on the review and revision of National Food Security Strategy of Iraq (NFSS) and an Action Plan to it.
This initiative is part of ongoing discussions at the national and regional levels facilitated by FAO Iraq and its international experts from headquarters and Regional Office for Near East and North Africa to review and amend existing NFSS considering current challenges as well as developing Action Plan to enforce NFSS.
The KRI MoAWR Minister’s Advisor Dr. Rizkar Muhammad Khader and FAO Iraq Representative Dr. Salah ElHajjHassan opened the meeting with welcoming speeches and highlighted a fruitful collaboration between two institutions in supporting farmers and agriculture sector of the country.
Over two days, FAO national and international experts, KRI MoAWR, Council of Ministries, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Planning, Board of Investment, Board of Environment, Chamber of Commerce, Farmers Unions, Agriculture Syndicate and academia had discussed issues affecting agriculture production and food security in the country and KRI, proposed solutions and actions to be included in the updated NFSS and its Action Plan. In addition, participants discussed the potential support of FAO in developing an Investment Map for KRI agriculture sector.
On the sidelines of the workshop, FAO Iraq Representative Dr. Salah ElHajjHassan met the KRI Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources HE Begard Talabani. In the course of this meeting, FAO Iraq ongoing initiatives in KRI, NFSS and its Action Plan, as well as future potential collaboration between FAO Iraq and the KRI MoAWR in the agriculture sector have been discussed.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/210692-roundtable-discussions-kri-revision-national-food-security-strategy-and-action-plan




Date: 08 December 2022
Title: UNODC supports the Iraqi Ministry of Interior’s forensic services to identify illicit drugs
Content: 08 December 2022
Baghdad, Iraq - 8 December 2022 :The increase of transnational drug trafficking is posing a significant task for law enforcement services, within the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, including in Iraq. The Government of Iraq considers combatting drug trafficking as a priority. Tackling drug trafficking brings to the forefront the invaluable role of forensic services within law enforcement. Forensic services are facing an increasingly difficult task of responding to the threat of drug trafficking, due to the challenges of identifying the drugs seized and having skilled forensic specialists to do so as well as the large number of samples seized.
In response to the needs of the Iraqi forensic services, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) is delivering a 5-day workshop, within the facilities of the Criminal Evidence Investigation Directorate (CID), Ministry of Interior, in Baghdad between the 5th and 10th of December 2022. The event is part of UNODC’s project on “Strengthening the Capacities of Iraqi Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigation Services (2019-2023),” funded by the U.S. Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL).
During the opening of the training, Major General Firas Thamer Alallam, head of the CID, highlighted the role played by Iraqi forensic experts in supporting law enforcement services through their work to help tackle the challenges of drug identification.
The workshop targeted specialized technical forensic experts from within the Ministry of Interior and was provided by international expertise on the Gas Chromatography–Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS) techniques, an efficient method of choice in routine laboratory drug identification. Participants will be exposed to the fundamentals of operation and maintenance of the GC-MS equipment and interpretation of results, through theoretical and practical work. The training will ensure the development of sustainable and efficient forensic expertise within the Iraqi law-enforcement services. Such effective forensic bodies achieve better results and hence help restore confidence in law enforcement institutions while ensuring full respect for human rights and the rule of law.
Mr. Ali Elbereir, Senior Programme Coordinator and Head of the UNODC Iraq Office, expressed that “Forensic services provide the main method for acquiring evidence to be used in court within the criminal justice process, ultimately leading to bringing justice to the victims and holding criminal networks and individuals accountable for their crimes. For this reason, supporting Iraqi forensic teams to carry out the responsibilities under their command has been one of the priorities at UNODC.”
The efficient use of GC-MS systems in law enforcement forensic laboratories enables a sustainable process to identify drugs and extends to the disciplines of explosives investigations, fire investigations, and counterfeit-drug detection. GC-MS techniques are utilized by the forensic services of the Ministry of Interior in Iraq, thereby provision of training for the GC-MS devices operation and maintenance is of critical importance.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/210694-unodc-supports-iraqi-ministry-interior%E2%80%99s-forensic-services-identify-illicit-drugs




Date: 08 December 2022
Title: New study supports Iraqi private sector development
Content: 08 December 2022
Erbil, 08 December, 2022  - The Ministry of Planning of the Kurdistan Regional Government of Iraq, in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and with funding from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has today launched a study on Micro, Small, and Medium-Enterprises (MSMEs) in Iraq. The study provides an evidence base to inform policies and strategies aimed at creating sustainable livelihoods in Iraq, including through MSME development.
Funded by USAID, the Micro, Small, and Medium-sized Enterprises Survey covered the four governorates of Erbil, Sulaymaniyah, Halabja and Duhok and expands on an initial survey covering Baghdad, Basra and Ninewa governorates. The survey is designed to build a comprehensive analysis on MSME structures, trends, business dynamics, challenges and opportunities through up-to-date, reliable, relevant market information and analysis. Key findings of the KRI survey highlight low participation of females in MSME ownership (13%), financing issues, and weak marketing structures.
“MSMEs in Iraq face significant challenges. As we continue to grapple with the social and economic impacts of COVID-19 in Iraq, this study once again highlights the importance of the private sector in Iraq to create much needed economic diversification and sustainable employment opportunities, especially for vulnerable groups. This critical work could not have been possible without our strong partnership with the Ministry of Planning, and generous support from our longstanding partner USAID,” says Auke Lootsma, UNDP Iraq Resident Representative.
The KRG Minister of Planning, Dr. Dara Rashid, emphasized his support for the initiative. He expressed his appreciation for the important support provided by UNDP Iraq and USAID in designing and implementing the timely study, and noted the importance of continued support to develop an action plan to implement its recommendations.
USAID Director Elise Jensen added that, “MSMEs are a vital part of a healthy economy. They offer opportunities for youth, women, and vulnerable populations to actively contribute to the country's economic growth and long-term stability. We are proud to partner with Kurdistan Regional Government counterparts and the private sector to enact critical initiatives and reform projects that empower MSME growth and elevate their role in developing the economy.”
The survey is part of UNDP Iraq’s Funding Facility for Economic Reform programme – implemented by UNDP Iraq to promote sustainable poverty-centered economic reform in the country, with generous support of the American people through USAID.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/210693-new-study-supports-iraqi-private-sector-development




Date: 08 December 2022
Title: UNITAD at a Rapid Pace in Assisting Justice Opportunities in Many Countries-Special Adviser Ritscher Tells UNSC
Content: 08 December 2022
Baghdad, 08 December 2022 – Special Adviser Christian Ritscher briefed the UN Security Council earlier this week on the ninth report of the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD).
Special Adviser Ritscher highlighted the continuous engagement of the Team with Iraqi counterparts during the reporting period, emphasizing also that: “consideration and concerns of all communities impacted by ISIL crimes in Iraq remain at the forefront of the Teams’ investigative work.”
Continued partnership with Iraq as explained by Special Adviser Ritscher involved several areas, including advanced support to capacity building for Iraqi judges, as well as supporting  the excavation of several ISIL-related mass graves in Iraq according to the annual road map agreed to with the Government of Iraq and international partners; and the preservation of evidence on ISIL-related crimes where the Team: “so far converted 5.5 million physical pages of documentary evidence into usable digital formats, and currently supports digitization activities at six different sites in Iraq with a throughput of approximately 100,000 pages per week,” as Special Adviser Ritscher specified.
The Special Adviser, further, described key progress in the Team’s investigations over the past 6 months encompassing UNITAD’s relentless efforts towards global accountability for Da’esh/ISIL crimes committed in Iraq, mainly concerning the completion of the case assessment focused on crimes committed against the Christian community in Iraq, which substantiated preliminary findings of acts constituting crimes against humanity and war crimes; and the development and use of chemical and biological weapons by Da’esh/ISIL focusing on the attack on Taza Khurmatu on 08 March 2016, which has generated significant volumes of battlefield evidence.
He also stated that UNITAD started to advance with its investigations into ISIL’s destruction of cultural heritage in Iraq. These investigations represent a breakthrough in the landscape of core international crimes investigations. So far, the evidence obtained shows that religious and cultural sites were either intentionally destroyed by ISIL, or taken over and occupied, sometimes for military purposes, adding that “this work will provide the basis for a case assessment report, giving a detailed picture of this aspect of ISIL‘s heinous crimes; crimes that targeted the history and culture of Iraq, and that of humanity at large.”
Highlighting a “pivotal stage” of UNITAD’s mandate, Special Adviser Ritscher indicated that the Team has: “now reached the next level on the path of holding ISIL perpetrators accountable for the core international crimes they committed.”, explaining that: “while maintaining the same dedication to our investigative lines and capacity-enhancement activities, UNITAD will also shift towards a stronger and systematic support of individual accountability proceedings of alleged members of ISIL for international crimes before competent courts.”
He stressed the need for Iraq to adopt domestic legislation: “on core international crimes, such as war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide,” encouraging the Iraqi Council of Representatives to consider this matter, and mentioning that UNITAD remains hopeful that after the formation of the new government in Iraq there will be progress in this regard.
He further explained that “sharing information with the Iraqi judiciary to support investigative work and ongoing judicial proceedings means a lot more than just handing over a huge box of evidentiary material that is comparable to thousands, even millions of puzzle pieces. To promote accountability for international crimes committed by ISIL in Iraq means to deliver tailored assistance in accordance with the needs of the respective investigative judge or court. This could pertain to the sharing of information, but can also imply specific trainings and the sharing of experience and best practice in terms of handling the huge volume of evidence already in possession of the Iraqi judiciary.”
Concluding, Special Adviser Ritscher reminded that UNITAD was established by the Security Council to ensure that the perpetrators of the most heinous crimes committed by ISIL in Iraq are held responsible in courts of law and that justice will be served, stressing that the Team: “is now moving at an even more rapid pace to assist justice opportunities for alleged ISIL members, if and when they present themselves, and regardless where the perpetrators may reside. UNITAD will not stop to ensure that justice is delivered for the thousands of victims and survivors who have been impatiently waiting to see their day in court.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/210695-unitad-rapid-pace-assisting-justice-opportunities-many-countries-special-adviser-ritscher




Date: 07 December 2022
Title: On the Meeting of the High Representative for the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations and the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq with His Eminence Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani
Content: 07 December 2022
Najaf, Iraq
7 December 2022
High Representative for the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC) Miguel Moratinos, accompanied by Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, was extremely honored to have been granted an audience with His Eminence Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani on 7 December 2022 in Najaf.
High Representative Moratinos lauded His Eminence’s wisdom and compassion. He expressed how deeply moved he was by His Eminence’s moderate approach and consistent appeals for mutual respect and unity to prevail in support of diversity and peaceful co-existence.
Recalling the meeting between His Holiness Pope Francis and His Eminence on 6 March 2021, the High Representative and His Eminence exchanged views on the importance of inter- and intra-religious dialogue, which lie at the core of the UNAOC mandate.
High Representative Moratinos also presented the “United Nations Plan of Action to Safeguard Religious Sites: In Unity and Solidarity for Safe and Peaceful Worship”, developed in 2019 in the aftermath of the Christchurch attacks in New Zealand. In Iraq also, worshippers and holy sites have suffered tremendously.
The Plan of Action is a global call to rally around the most basic tenets of humanity, compassion and tolerance, to ensure that people are allowed to practice their faith and observe their rituals in peace. To this end, it is imperative that religious sites and places of worship and contemplation are true safe havens.
Launching the Plan in 2019, the High Representative presented the Plan of Action to His Holiness Pope Francis and to His Eminence Grand Imam of Al-Azhar Sheikh Ahmed Al-Tayeb. With today’s meeting, Moratinos said, three major religious leaders represented through the Vatican, Cairo, and Najaf, have been engaged. The High Representative extended his full collaboration and support to any effort that contributes to building a peaceful, just and cohesive society based on mutual respect and human dignity.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/210445-meeting-high-representative-united-nations-alliance-civilizations-and-special-representative




Date: 06 December 2022
Title: UNITE! Activism to end violence against women  16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence 2022
Content: 06 December 2022
Renewed Calls for Accountability to Counter Criminal Violence Against Women
Baghdad, 6 December 2022 - Academics, lawyers, women’s rights defenders, and civil society members, together with UNAMI’s Human Rights Office, renewed the call for the Government of Iraq to rigorously pursue accountability for gender-based crimes, including domestic violence.
This latest call came during an expert panel discussing institutional and legal reform needed to strengthen the protection of women and girls from gender-based violence. Experts highlighted that the absence of a legislative framework criminalizing domestic violence is a key factor accounting for its high prevalence throughout Iraq.
They emphasized that impunity for domestic violence often results from the application of provisions included in the Iraqi legal framework, such as Article 409 of Iraq’s penal code which provides mitigating factors for so-called “honour killings”. Equally problematic is the common practice of referring domestic violence cases for reconciliation, as enabled by Article 41 of the Penal Code which provides the legal right to husbands to “discipline” their wives.
On due diligence, speakers noted that obstacles such as insufficient numbers of female police officers, conservative mindsets of authorities, slow investigation and lack of follow-up structures impede the effective investigation, prosecution and punishment of gender-based crimes.
Concerning the issue of protection, experts recommended that increasing the number of Ministry of Interior Family Protection Units, shelters, and domestic violence courts as well as their adequate staffing with personnel (including women) well-trained on women’s rights would contribute to the better protection of survivors and those at risk.
UNAMI recognizes the efforts by authorities to counter violence against women, encourages concerted steps towards prevention, protection and accountability and urges the Council of Representatives to repeal Articles 41 and Article 409 of the Penal Code.
UNAMI further calls for the enactment of a law that explicitly criminalizes gender-based violence, in accordance with international human rights standards, together with improved services for survivors and those at risk.
The UN family in Iraq will continue to support the Government of Iraq in these efforts.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/210397-unite-activism-end-violence-against-women-16-days-activism-against-gender-based-violence




Date: 05 December 2022
Title: The Ministry of Youth and Sports and UNICEF jointly announce the forthcoming online National Youth Volunteering Platform, marking the International Volunteer Day.
Content: 05 December 2022
Under the slogan Solidarity through Volunteering, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and UNICEF, also will mark International Volunteer Day with activities encouraging meaningful youth participation in the streets of Baghdad.
BAGHDAD, 5 December 2022. – The forthcoming online National Youth Volunteering Platform was announced today by the Ministry of Youth and Sports (MoYS) and UNICEF and will be operational in coming weeks. The announcement came as part of the events marking International Volunteer Day, under the theme Solidarity through Volunteering. The online platform will follow the offline structure launched by MoYS and UNICEF in 2021.
The online platform, to be operational at Federal level, will be ready in coming weeks and is part of the overall engagement of UNICEF with MoYS to ensure a meaningful volunteering programme is available in Iraq.
Over 350 young volunteers, out of the almost 5,000 young volunteers engaged country-wide as part of the offline National Youth Volunteering Platform since its launch last year, carried out various activities in Abu Nauwas Street in central Baghdad, with the presence of the Minister of Youth and Sports, HE Ahmed Mohammad Al Mubarqa´a, and the UNICEF Deputy Representative, Ken Legins. The activities, ranging from cleaning the streets to greening the environment, highlighted the power of young people’s collective action to drive positive change through volunteerism.
“We are committed to supporting the National Volunteering Programme to encourage unity and urgent action and promote volunteerism among young people, but also to acknowledge the inavluable contributions of young volunteers in Iraq,” said HE Ahmed Mohammad Al Mubarqa’a, Minister of Youth and Sports.
“Young volunteers are the most effective changemakers. They have a unique power to galvanize their peers around issues they are passionate about,” said Ken Legins, UNICEF Deputy Representative in Iraq. “UNICEF remains committed to supporting and promoting the development and participation, including volunteering of young people, because they are making a difference for every child.”
“Since I joined the National Volunteering Programme, I am actively and systematically contributing to my community, but also building my self-esteem,” said Aya Al-Saidy, 23, a young volunteer.
The International Volunteer Day is about togetherness to act now. It aims at galvanizing the power of young people to work together to advance the rights of children and young people, especially the most impoverished.  It is a means to raise the voices of young volunteers to the attention of decision makers, and showcase volunteers in action, and the contributions they make in the society.
UNICEF works with the Ministry of Youth and Sports of the Government of Iraq, as well as with the Ministry of Culture and Youth of the Kurdistan Regional Government, non-governmental organizations and the private sector to promote young people’s civic engagement, especially the most impoverished. This is carried out through empowering young people aged 10-24, to design and lead civic engagement initiatives in their own communities on a voluntary basis.
###
END
About International Volunteer Day
The International Volunteer Day is an international observance mandated by the UN General Assembly in 1985. It provides an opportunity for volunteer-involving organizations and individual volunteers to promote volunteerism, encourage governments to support volunteer efforts and acknowledge volunteer contributions to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at local, national, and international levels.

UNICEF promotes the rights and wellbeing of every child, in everything we do. Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit www.unicef.org.
Follow UNICEF Iraq on our website,  Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/210249-ministry-youth-and-sports-and-unicef-jointly-announce-forthcoming-online-national-youth




Date: 03 December 2022
Title: On International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the UN calls for strengthened efforts to ensure an inclusive society in Iraq
Content: 03 December 2022
3 December 2022; Baghdad – The United Nations (UN) joins the Government of Iraq and the international community in observing 3 December, recognized globally as the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. This day aims to promote an understanding of disability issues of people affected by natural disabilities and those induced by the war against terrorism, and mobilize support for the dignity, rights and well-being for those in need, in accordance with Iraq’s national and international commitments.
Iraq has one of the largest populations of persons with disabilities in the world, disproportionately impacted by decades of war and economic hardship. Their challenges could be exacerbated by stigma and discrimination.
In June 2019, the United Nations Secretary General launched the UN Disability Strategy. The Strategy provides the foundation for sustainable and transformative progress on disability inclusion through all pillars of the UN’s work. Through the Strategy, the United Nations system reaffirms that the full and complete realization of the human rights of all persons with disabilities is an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of all human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The UN is committed to support the Iraqi Government in upholding the dignity, rights and well-being of people with disabilities, including children living with disabilities.
In Iraq, the UN system also has a role to play in promoting a rights-based approach in the delivery of humanitarian and development assistance through its work, including, but not limited to:
The approaches must be inclusive and follow the “Nothing About Us, Without Us” motto; persons with disabilities must be consulted about the needs and challenges they face to better inform humanitarian and development programming.
“On 3 December, as every day, we must remember that the rights and well-being of persons with disabilities must be promoted within all spheres of society,” said UN Resident Coordinator Ghulam Isaczai. “The UN in Iraq will continue to uphold this commitment and advocate for realizing the rights of persons with disabilities as part of an investment in a common future.”
We must all continue to be guided by persons with disabilities and OPDs as they express their needs across every aspect of political, social, economic and cultural life, and also join them in celebrating their successes.
The United Nations in Iraq remains committed to support the Government of Iraq to strengthen efforts for the implementation of its obligations under the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/210012-international-day-persons-disabilities-un-calls-strengthened-efforts-ensure-inclusive




Date: 02 December 2022
Title: Ahead of anti-corruption day, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq launches a new hotline
Content: 02 December 2022
Erbil, Iraq, 1 December 2022 – The Kurdistan Regional Government have officially launched a special hotline to receive complaints about corruption and wrongdoings committed by national and state institutions and officials. It is being led by the Kurdistan Region of Iraq's Commission of Integrity, an independent government body responsible for fighting corruption.
The hotline was launched at an event in Erbil today ahead of International Anti-Corruption Day, commemorated on 9 December every year. The hotline encourages individuals to report corruption incidents anonymously by calling the toll-free number 1015. The complaints will be recorded, assessed and depending on their nature either investigated, referred to other agencies or archived. The Commission will further report annually to the Parliament and the public on the hotline’s performance.
The hotline was established with support from UNDP and the European Union. The support included developing the reporting and complaint tracking system, training designated staff and public communications about the hotline. This further ties into a longstanding partnership between the Kurdistan Region of Iraq's (KRI) Commission of Integrity and UNDP to strengthen legislative and strategic anti-corruption frameworks and to improve its investigative capacity in line with international principles and standards.
"The launch of this hotline is a sign of the continued commitment of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq's Commission of Integrity to deliver on Iraq's own regional and international commitments and respond to the clear expectations of Iraqi citizens. We thank UNDP for its support and cooperation in strengthening our anti-corruption frameworks and improving our capacities," says Dr Ahmed Anwar, the Chairman of the KRI Commission of Integrity.
"Corruption undermines building strong, accountable, and effective institutions, and most importantly, affects public trust. Therefore, involving Iraqi citizens can help hold accountable those responsible for corruption crimes and enhance the responsiveness of public institutions. The hotline is a bold step towards improving citizen reporting by creating a climate of support for anti-corruption reforms, fostering public trust in state institutions and increasing public accountability," says Auke Lootsma, Resident Representative, UNDP Iraq.
"We are incredibly grateful to our longstanding partner, the EU, for its enduring commitment to supporting one of the most complex and challenging undertakings in Iraq, and to our partners across the Iraqi and Kurdish Region state institutions for entrusting UNDP to lead this effort," he adds.
In addition, the event also included an art competition and cultural performance by young people, showcasing their creativity and desire for an Iraq and Kurdistan Region free of corruption. It included a stunning exhibition of art expressing young people's perspective on the impact of corruption on Iraq's development and recovery from years of instability and conflict.
Background:
The Anti-Corruption and Arbitration in Iraq project is European Union-funded and builds on Iraq's national efforts to improve transparency and accountability across state institutions and supports Iraq in delivering to its national and international commitments regarding the fight against corruption, to support the Iraqi institutions in the revision of anti-corruption laws, promote their alignment with international standards, and provide specialized on-demand training and mentorship opportunities for corruption investigators and integrity judges.
About International Anti-Corruption Day:
On 31 October 2003, the U.N. General Assembly adopted the Convention against Corruption and designated 9 December as International Anti-Corruption Day to raise awareness of corruption and the Convention's role in combating and preventing it.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/210015-ahead-anti-corruption-day-kurdistan-region-iraq-launches-new-hotline




Date: 01 December 2022
Title: First Iraq National Trade Forum connects small businesses to growth opportunities
Content: 01 December 2022
Baghdad, 1 December 2022 — As the country works to recover from an economic crisis, Iraq’s agriculture and agri-food sectors have the potential to contribute to much-needed economic growth and diversification, job creation and enhanced sustainability and resilience – under the right conditions. This was the message from public and private-sector leaders at the opening of the first Iraq National Trade Forum on 28 November 2022.
Held in Baghdad, the two-day forum provided an opportunity for Iraqi small and medium-sized businesses in farming and food processing, packaging and logistics to connect with international suppliers and investors.
‘It is key to build the capacities of Iraqi farmers and involve them in the entire agriculture value chain so they can benefit. Many producers suffer because their agriculture products are not in line with buyer requirements. We believe meaningful partnerships drive the success for sector development.’
H.E. Abbas Al Alayawi, Minister of Agriculture, Iraq
SAAVI is implemented under the leadership of the Government of Iraq through the Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Trade.
The project forms part of the overall European Union Special measure for supporting employment creation and improving economic governance in Iraq. As such, SAAVI is fully aligned with the activities of FAO, IOM, ILO, UNESCO and GIZ in the domain of private sector engagement and agricultural development.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/209653-first-iraq-national-trade-forum-connects-small-businesses-growth-opportunities




Date: 30 November 2022
Title: Government of Iraq, Kurdistan Regional Government, UN, and Humanitarian Partners Launch the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence at Let’s Talk Conference
Content: 30 November 2022
UNITE! Activism to end violence against women and girls
28 November 2022; Erbil, Iraq – The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)’s annual “Let’s Talk” conference this year brought together the UN, NGOs, policymakers, civil society, activists, academia, donors, and the private sector from across Iraq to unite and commit to ending Gender-based Violence (GBV).
The one-day conference was jointly hosted by UNFPA, UN Women, the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), and SEED Foundation, in coordination with the General Secretariate of the Council of Ministers of the Iraqi Government and the Kurdistan Regional Government together with Humanitarian and Governmental partners. The conference took place with the generous support of international donors: the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, Finland, and KOICA.
Marking the occasion of the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-based Violence (GBV), the co-hosts sent a strong message of collective action to end all forms of GBV and advocate for women’s empowerment and freedom to exercise their rights– ensuring that “No One is Left Behind.”
The event featured three high-level panels exploring the role of youth, activists, government, international partners, and, importantly, men in achieving gender equality and ending violence against women and girls in Iraq.
The event opened with video remarks from Ghulam Mohammad Isaczai, Deputy Special Representative, Resident Coordinator, and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, who reminded us of the core intention of the 16 Days of Activism Against GBV initiative. “The eradication of GBV is a collective responsibility. We call on everyone to respond to the alarm raised by women and girls and take firm actions to end the violence. Prevention of violence is the responsibility of each one of us,” said Mr. Isaczai.
The first panel, moderated by SEED Foundation President, Sherri Kraham Talabany, featured panelists Kwestan Mohammed Abdulla, the Kurdistan Regional Government Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Hanaa Edwar, a women’s rights activist, co-founder of Iraqi Al-Amal Association, and Alina L. Romanowski, Ambassador of the United States of America to Iraq to discuss the role of critical actors in driving forward gender equality in Iraq. “Thank you to all the men in the room today; we couldn’t end GBV without your support,” highlighted Ambassador Romanowski. “We also urge leadership in Baghdad and Erbil to make progress on reforms to promote the role of women and combat GBV. Gender equality drives prosperity and leads to good outcomes for all,” US Ambassador added.
On behalf of the Kurdistan Regional Government, his excellency Ano Abdoka stated: “The Kurdistan Regional Government has always worked to eliminate violence against women and any form of gender-based discrimination, and on this day, we emphasize the same unwavering position of the government.”
The conference was followed by UNHCR’s Deputy Representative in Iraq, Nicol Epting, presenting the Middle East North Africa NANSEN Award for Refugees to Dr Nagham Hasan for her remarkable work on Yazidi women survivors.  She was awarded the prize for physically and mentally helping Yazidi survivors and former ISIS captives for over six years. Dr Nagham Hasan, a gynecologist and founder of Hope Makers for Women Organization, retreated the importance of supporting gender-based violence victims and the displaced in Iraq, including Yazidi displaced persons, in her acceptance speech.
The second and third panels, focusing on community mobilization – particularly engaging men and boys and youth activism - featured a vibrant selection of civil society and NGO community panelists.
At the conclusion of the event, the private sector community – Korek Telecom, talabat, Careem, Al-Marmouka, and Click Iraq - pledged their commitment to empowering women and girls from across Iraq and the Kurdistan Region and supporting efforts to end GBV.
Let us come together and talk about ending gender-based violence to ensure a brighter future for all women in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/209553-government-iraq-kurdistan-regional-government-un-and-humanitarian-partners-launch-16-days




Date: 30 November 2022
Title: ILO, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of KRI partner to develop vocational training for youth in Dohuk
Content: 30 November 2022
Working directly with the Vocational Training Centre in Dohuk, the initiative will support young women and men in their transition to decent employment.
Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq, 30 November 2022 - The ILO and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Kurdistan Regional Government have signed an implementation agreement on Wednesday (November 30), to develop market-relevant vocational training programmes for young host community members, internally displaced persons and refugees in the Governorate of Dohuk.
The programmes will equip young women and men with the needed technical and professional competencies, and life skills to improve their employability and facilitate their transition to decent jobs.
Under the agreement, the ILO will be working directly with the ministry’s Vocational Training Centre in Dohuk to design and implement a competency-based training and curricula for vocational training programmes, in selected market-relevant occupations. It will provide capacity-building to the curriculum developers and vocational instructors across the different phases of the training programmes, together with Training of Trainers (ToT) on emerging market technologies targeting vocational instructors in all vocational training centres in KRI.
The initiative is part of efforts under the PROSPECTS Partnership,  funded by the Government of the Netherlands. Under PROSPECTS, the ILO is supporting thousands of forcibly displaced persons and host community members to access more and better livelihoods and decent job opportunities through different interventions.
“The support for the Vocational Training Centre in Duhok will offer new market-relevant vocational training courses such as those in photography, manual sewing, and computerised diagnostic of vehicles, that will equip young people with the skills needed for employment or starting their own businesses,” said Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Zakia Syed Saleh.
“Vocational trainings are key in improving young people’s employability and income, while ensuring they are well equipped to meet the needs of the labour market,” said ILO Country Coordinator for Iraq Maha Kattaa. “Our collaboration with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is a positive step in further empowering young women and men from refugee, internally displaced and host communities, through technical and professional competencies, helping them transition to decent employment” added Kattaa, during the signing ceremony, which was attended by a number of senior officials, including Special Advisor to the Deputy Director General-Policy at ILO, Tine Staermose.
Eight market-relevant occupations were identified by the Vocational Training Centre in Dohuk in the sectors of agriculture, construction, handicraft, service, craft, and related trades. Twenty-three vocational training courses related to these occupations will be implemented, targeting 345 women and men jobseekers, including persons with disabilities, and older siblings of children at risk of child labour from the different communities.
In addition to technical training, trainees will engage in sessions on life skills, Occupational Safety and Heath, the Labour Law and Social Security. Those interested in starting their own business will be referred to ILO’s Start and Improve Your Business (SIYB), designed to support small-scale entrepreneurs to start or grow their businesses. The ILO will also support establishing a number of booths in Sarsink sub-district in the Duhok Governorate that enable graduates from the vocational training courses to sell their products.
Moreover, the ILO will rehabilitate existing vocational training centre facilities in Duhok city and Sarsink through the use of its Employment Intensive Approaches. The centres’ rehabilitation will increase training capacity in both locations, and improve the inclusiveness of those workshops, by making them accessible for persons with disabilities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/209605-ilo-ministry-labour-and-social-affairs-kri-partner-develop-vocational-training-youth-dohuk




Date: 29 November 2022
Title: Introducing International Expertise towards Prosecuting ISIL’s International Crimes: Intensive Training Program for Iraqi Judges at the Nuremberg Academy
Content: 29 November 2022
Nuremberg, Germany, 29 November 2022 – The International Nuremberg Principles Academy (Nuremberg Academy), in partnership with the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD), organised an advanced training course on international humanitarian law (IHL) and international criminal law (ICL) for 19 members of the Iraqi Judiciary in Nuremberg, Germany, from 21 to 25 November 2022.
The “Training Course on International Humanitarian Law and International Criminal Law” aimed to enhance the practical investigative and prosecutorial skills of the participants, and was tailored to meet the needs of the Iraqi judges who work on ISIL international crimes in Iraq, with the aim of introducing the necessary in-depth knowledge towards prosecuting such crimes in Iraq in the future.
During the training, the judges were able to study and analyse relevant cases from international courts as well as national cases that adopt the universal jurisdiction in prosecuting international crimes. Such knowledge will help enable Iraqi judges to initiate and conduct proceedings before Iraqi courts, with the highest level of professionalism, and in conformity with international standards and due process. The training covered the substantive areas of IHL and ICL, as well as procedural elements, including modalities of international cooperation in criminal matters, which are sometimes necessary to undertake and fulfil criminal investigation and indictment of international crimes cases. The trainers for this course were a wide range of renowned international academics, legal experts and practitioners bringing a wealth of experience and knowledge to the course.
In his remarks at the opening session, Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Mr Christian Ritscher said that he is “particularly pleased that this training is convening at one of the most renowned specialised institutions in this field; the International Nuremberg Principles Academy.” He further thanked the Judiciary in Iraq for their continued support and cooperation, mentioning: “the purpose of our joint work is to hold members of ISIL, those who committed such heinous international crimes, accountable through evidence-based trials before competent courts. UNITAD will continue to work in partnership with Iraq to ensure that we are headed towards achieving this aim.”
Representing the Nuremberg Academy, Mr Klaus Rackwitz and Ms Anabela Alves, also presented opening remarks, while Ambassador of Iraq to Germany, H.E. Luqman Abdul Rahim Al-Faili, greeted the participants in a live remote address.
The capacity-building programme of the Nuremberg Academy aims at equipping practitioners and institutions with the relevant knowledge and skills to investigate and prosecute core international crimes. UNITAD provides capacity building for Iraqi judges given the nature of Da’esh crimes in Iraq, and in light of the prospect that there will soon be an appropriate legal framework that allows for dealing with ISIL crimes as international crimes in Iraq.
UNITAD is very grateful to the International Nuremberg Principles Academy for the partnership and efforts in making this program possible. This training comes as a part of UNITAD’s close cooperation with the Judiciary in Iraq in promoting accountability for ISIL’s international crimes. In 2021, the team organised basic and advanced online training courses in international criminal law and international humanitarian law, which were uniquely conducted in Arabic language, by experts from the region.

Contacts:
International Nuremberg Principles Academy
Ms Evelyn Müller
Phone: +49 (0)911 14 89 77 28
Email: press@nurembergacademy.org
www.nurembergacademy.org

UNITAD
Ms Maha Thaher
Email: unitad-pio@un.org
https://www.unitad.un.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/209305-introducing-international-expertise-towards-prosecuting-isil%E2%80%99s-international-crimes




Date: 28 November 2022
Title: Under the patronage of the Prime Minister UNWomen, UNFPA and WFP collaborated with the Department for Women’s Empowerment to launch the 16 days of activism campaign to combat violence against women and girls
Content: 28 November 2022
27 November 2022, Baghdad, Iraq A conference was held to launch the campaign for the 16 days of activism to end violence against women, under the patronage of the Prime Minister Mr. Mohamed Shiaa Al-Sudani, and in collaboration with the Department for Women’s Empowerment at the Council of Ministers, and in partnership with the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UNWomen), the World Food Programme (WFP) and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).

The conference highlighted the decisive role of Iraqi women in public life, through government positions, civil society, and human rights movements in preventing and eliminating violence against women and girls (VAWG). It advocated for the ratification of relevant laws, namely the Anti-Domestic Violence Law (ADVL). It was attended by members of Parliament, government, and civil society, including members of the parliamentary women’s committee, the High Judicial Council, ministries of Labour, Interior, Social Affairs, and Health, as well as former members of Parliament, experts and academics. In addition, representatives of the international community attended including the Swedish and French Ambassadors, and the Finnish Deputy Ambassador.
The conference was initiated by Dr. Hamid Naeem Al-Ghazi, the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers, who stated in his speech that combating violence against women (VAWG) is among the main priorities for the government. He affirmed that the development of the Second National Strategy for Iraqi Women (2023-2030) is an important step to providing legal and social protection to women, in line with the Iraqi constitution and governmental plans.
Mr. Mohamed Shiaa Al-Sudani, the Iraqi Prime Minister, expressed his government’s commitment to further promoting gender equality, and ending violence against women, referencing the importance of the National Iraqi Strategy to Combat Violence against Women (2018-2030). He cited the unprecedented appointment of a female minister to a key ministry in his government; Tayf Sami as Finance Minister, as an important step to empowering Iraqi women, but emphasized that more needs to be done. He said that economic reforms cannot be successful without the inclusion of women, and combating corruption can only be possible with women’s support and contribution.
Mrs. Evan Faik, Minister of Displacement and Migration, elaborated on the efforts made by the Ministry to support and protect internally displaced women and girls, highlighting how they face greater risks of violence committed against them.
Dr. Yusra Karim Mohsen, Director General of the Department for Women’s Empowerment, stated that protecting women from VAWG is essential to promoting gender equality in Iraqi society, which is enshrined in Iraq’s constitution, and is in line with the Sustainable Development Goals. She highlighted some of the achievements that the Department has made in this regard including the ongoing implementation of the Second National Plan for the Implementation of the United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR1325). She also outlined one of the key pillars of the Second National Strategy for Iraqi women, currently being developed, which focuses on the protection of women and girls. She added that this can only be achieved through empowering women and girls themselves, and through ratifying and modifying laws and legislations to protect women and girls, and by providing the necessary infrastructure to support survivors.
Mrs. Jessica Svärdström, Swedish Ambassador, stressed that promoting gender equality and combating gender-based violence is one of Sweden’s main objectives in Iraq, in line with Sweden’s Development Cooperation Framework with Iraq. Similarly, Mr. Eric Chevalier, French Ambassador, expressed his solidarity and support to Iraqi partners in combatting VAWG, and encouraged Iraq to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence Against Women and Domestic Violence, known as the Istanbul Convention. Mrs. Anna Malinen, Finnish Deputy Ambassador, highlighted Finland’s priority to combat online violence, which is increasingly being used to harm women and girls, thus affecting many aspects of their public and private lives.
Dr. Ammar Abdulqahar, Head of Programmes at UNWomen Iraq, highlighted the UN’s support to its Iraqi partners to combat all forms of violence against women and girls. He said that the UN is supporting a number of strategic preventative and responsive measures, including the development and implementation of key national strategies. He elaborated on the partnerships UNWomen Iraq has in particular with WFP and UNFPA to strengthen Iraqi women’s resilience and improve the access, protection and wellbeing of women and girl survivors of gender-based violence. He also expressed gratitude to the support provided by the Swedish, Finnish and French governments, which has enabled action to be taken on this very important issue.
The speeches were followed by discussions between government, academics and civil society, which focused on the importance of ratifying laws, namely ADVL in order to prevent VAWG, and guarantee the protection of women survivors.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/209187-under-patronage-prime-minister-unwomen-unfpa-and-wfp-collaborated-department-women%E2%80%99s




Date: 28 November 2022
Title: UNODC enhances the role of media in countering terrorism and supporting the rights of victims of terrorism
Content: 28 November 2022
Baghdad, Iraq – 28 November 2022 - Globalization and technological advancement have provided an opportunity to create and disseminate messages to large audiences at a wide speed. Terrorists have used this opportunity in their favor to spread their tailored narratives through social media, the internet, magazines or publications to achieve different aims such as entice fear in the hearts of populations, spread false realities to recruit fighters, or for mere propaganda. It has become evident that coordination is needed between the relevant actors in societies to offer alternative narratives to empower communities to face terrorist projections; countering such terrorist narratives post their issuance is not enough.
One of such key relevant actors in society is the media. The media speak to national and international audiences on the most urgent topics and have the power to fill information vacuums with credible and coherent knowledge; vacuums that otherwise could be used by terrorist groups. Media also showcase the stories of victims of terrorism and hence have an obligation to protect the rights of victims and avoid secondary victimization. Therefore, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) is delivering a workshop on "The role of Iraqi media in combatting terrorism and supporting the rights of victims of terrorism in line with human rights" from 28 – 30 November 2022 in Baghdad, Iraq. The event is part of the project on "Strengthening the criminal justice response to terrorism in Iraq through supporting victims of terrorism to participate in criminal proceedings," funded by the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
During the opening of the workshop, Ms. Cristina Albertin, Regional Representative of the UNODC Regional Office in the Middle East and North Africa, highlighted that “the role of media outlets and professionals in communicating cases of terrorism cannot be understated, especially in our highly connected world…To counter and prevent terrorist narratives effectively, media outlets have a responsibility to disseminate accurate and comprehensive information on terrorism-related threats, and to avoid sensationalist or baseless media reporting causing public fear and terror.”
From his side, Dr. Essam Al-Saadi, Deputy National Security Advisor, affirmed that “dealing with large numbers of victims requires having legal systems that take victims’ rights into account, in parallel with justice and fairness… victims’ rights are not only financial but also psychological and emotional. Facilitating access to justice is also very important. This all requires a solid international and national legal framework to protect victims’ rights.”
This workshop is bringing together actors from main media outlets, the Ministry of Culture, the National Security Advisory, the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, the Media and Communications Commission, the Iraqi Media Network, the Martyrs Foundation, and Civil Society Organizations.
For the coming days, the workshop will focus on enhancing the participants knowledge of (i) the importance of the rights of victims in receiving accurate information, (ii) the interest and coverage of mainstream media and social media networks following terrorist attacks, (iii) the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for media in regards to identities of victims and their families and possible secondary victimization, and (iv) promoting and implementing a more victim-sensitive approach by the media.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/209283-unodc-enhances-role-media-countering-terrorism-and-supporting-rights-victims-terrorism




Date: 27 November 2022
Title: UNICEF, funded by Germany, ensures access to safe drinking water to more than 250,000 people in Al Najaf Governorate
Content: 27 November 2022
Baghdad, 27 November 2022 – UNICEF and the German Embassy handed over a water project funded by Germany, to the Governorate of Al Najaf today.  This project will secure safe and clean drinking water benefitting more than 250,000 people in south Al Najaf and Al Kufa.
The project, financed through KfW Development Bank, was initiated to ensure access to safe water for a community suffering from highly contaminated water.  Implemented in two phases, where piles were installed inside the Euphrates river basin enabling water intake to be extended by 15 meters, followed by pipe extensions and submersible pumps and electrical fixations the project was completed by the end of July this year. As a result, 6,000 m3 of clean water is pumped per hour securing safe and clean drinking water for these communities.
Ensuring access to safe water is key in the fight against climate change. With rising temperatures, children and young people are at higher risk of more frequent, more severe climate hazards than ever before. They are most vulnerable physically and psychologically, putting them at increased risks of morbidity and mortality.  Almost every child is already exposed to water scarcity, heat waves, and vector-borne diseases.
“Supporting the water sector in all aspects, including access to clean and safe drinking water, will be key in mitigating the effects of climate change,” said Philip Holzapfel, German Chargé d’affaires a.i. in Iraq.  “This is why Germany supports the efforts of the Iraqi Government and the Governorate of Al-Najaf to provide basic water services to the local population. In particular, I am delighted that this project will be setting a strong priority on strengthening the access to WASH services for children and young people. It is their future that is at stake.”
In Iraq, only 59.7 percent of the total population has access to safely managed drinking water, dropping to 47.6 percent in rural areas2. Extreme weather conditions, drought, and changes in water recharge patterns are making it more difficult to access safe drinking water, especially for the most vulnerable children.
“The climate crisis is a child rights crisis.  Children are the least responsible for climate change, yet they will bear the greatest burden of its impact,” said Sheema SenGupta, Representative, UNICEF in Iraq.  “Thanks to the generous support of Germany, through this project we can reap the immediate and long-term benefits of safe drinking water, including protection of Al Najaf children from water-borne diseases, enhancing higher school attendance, and young people’s greater productivity at work.”
Vulnerable families are more exposed to climate-related challenges. Without action now, inequalities that children and young people are facing will be further exacerbated by climate change.  UNICEF will continue to support the Government of Iraq, in coordination with other UN agencies and partners, to collectively address the challenges of environmental sustainability, and work with children and young people as agents of change, on the value of water and water conservation.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/209043-unicef-funded-germany-ensures-access-safe-drinking-water-more-250000-people-al-najaf




Date: 25 November 2022
Title: 16 Days of Activism: UN calls for action now to end gender-based violence against women and girls in all its forms
Content: 25 November 2022
25 November 2022; Baghdad & Erbil / Iraq – To mark the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, the United Nations (UN) in Iraq launches the 16 days of Activism campaign for 2022, and renews its commitment to UNiTe with our national Iraqi partners in addressing violence against women and girls.
Violence has a disproportionate and lasting impact on the lives and wellbeing of women and girls. We are also reminded that over 30% of women and girls worldwide have been subjected to either physical and or sexual violence in their lifetime. Women and girls with disabilities can face even greater risk of violence, as they experience discrimination, exclusion and isolation that heighten barriers to their rights. The Covid-19 pandemic has further exacerbated gender inequality and widened gender gaps in employment, affecting women and girls’ roles in society, leaving them more vulnerable to all forms of violence.
“Violence against women is a destructive pandemic that not only limits social and economic progress and undermines development, but also harms children, families, communities, and the whole nation. The chilling effect of violence is stopping women from taking an active role and participating in public and political life,” said Resident Coordinator Ghulam Isaczai.
He added, “Far too often, this violence or fear of it prevents women and girls from living their lives freely and to their full potential.” “Effective policy actions and legislation as well as their strong enforcements are needed to eliminate violence against women in all its forms and change the attitude regarding these crimes. All women and girls deserve to feel safe, secure, and empowered.”
Ongoing conflict in many countries around the world reveals how women and girls remain systematically targeted by sexual violence. In Iraq, it is estimated that 26% of married, separated, divorced or partnered women aged 15 - 49 face violence in their lifetimes.
The UN works with its national and local Iraqi partners to combat all forms of violence against women and girls through strategic preventative and responsive measures. They support implementation of the National Iraqi Strategy to Combat Violence against Women (2018-2030) and the Second National Plan for the Implementation of the United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR)1325, which advocates for women’s political participation and their protection from Gender-Based Violence (GBV).
As women and girls make up half the urban population, do more than half the work, do the majority of care work, and are often subjected to sexual and GBV, cities ought to be designed and built with women’s and girls’ participation and interests in mind. There is room for great improvement of municipal governance, spatial organization, infrastructure, and services to better serve women and girls. Designing and managing cities with and for women will also improve cities for all.
Alongside the Iraqi Women leading the charge and the local organisations doing important work at the community level, the UN in Iraq continues to advocate for the ratification of relevant laws, such as the Anti-Domestic Violence Law, and the full and effective implementation of the Yazidi Survivors Law. They also support the provision of essential legal and healthcare services to survivors to help manage the adverse psychological and physical consequences of violence, which may affect them at all stages of their life.
Countering impunity, silence, stigma and shame surrounding GBV is an important step towards supporting women and girls to lead more prosperous societies and engage of men and boys. This must be accompanied by improved social and economic opportunities so that women and girls can fulfil their educational and professional goals, achieve economic independence through better access to decent work opportunities and social protection coverage, as well as to decision-making spaces and meaningful participation therein.
GBV exacerbates hunger and malnutrition, and having food security can help break the cycle. The 16 Days campaign is an opportunity to show commitment to ending gender inequality, child marriage and GBV, and the belief that every human being has the right to adequate food and a life without violence.

Let’s UNiTe in action toward a world in which women and girls are free from GBV once and for all!
Ghulam Isaczai, UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq
Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative, Iraq
Dina Zorba, UN Women Representative, Iraq and Yemen
Zena Ali-Ahmad, UNDP Iraq Resident Representative
Danielle Bell, OHCHR Representative, Iraq
Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative, Iraq
Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative, Iraq
Sheema Sen-Gupta, UNICEF Representative, Iraq
Wael Al Ashhab, Head of UN Habitat Iraq
Ally-Raza Qureshi, WFP Representative, Iraq
Jean-Nicolas Beuze, UNHCR Representative, Iraq
Giorgi Gigauri, IOM Chief of Mission, Iraq
Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator, Iraq
Paolo Fontani, UNESCO Representative to Iraq
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/208833-16-days-activism-un-calls-action-now-end-gender-based-violence-against-women-and-girls-all




Date: 23 November 2022
Title: Through EU funded project, FAO establishing stakeholder’s partnerships for Improving Date Palm and Tomato value chains in south Iraq
Content: 23 November 2022
Basra, 22 November 2022 - The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in Iraq (FAO), held a large consultative meeting in Al-Zubair district / Basra Governorate, with the Agriculture Directorate, Farmers Associations, Al-Zubair Tomato Producers Association, tomato and date palm farmers, with the participation of women farmers from the Office of Rural Women’s Affairs and representatives from the private sector.
FAO Representative in Iraq Dr Salah ElHajj Hassan, confirmed that the project “Restoration and enhance the resilience of agricultural food systems in southern Iraq funded by the European Union and implemented by FAO in partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture in Iraq focuses on developing tomato and Date palm sectors, in addition to the buffalo sector, as the main value chains in southern Iraq, pointing to the importance of introducing Farmers Field School FFS programs for implementing a participatory approach in analyzing technical challenges as well identifying and implementing solutions, which will have a profound impact in strengthening the capacities of  both extension staff and farmers.
FAO Representative  and FAO team further highlighted that Technical support will be accompanied by marketing interventions that will be based on a partnership including farmers association, MOA and other stakeholders with project initial support.
The interventions and remarks of  participants were noted, as well directions and comments  of the local authorities, as the Director of Agriculture and the Head of Farmers Associations in Basra confirmed their commitments in dedicating needed efforts and resources to ensure  success for this innovative vision for  supporting the marketing of both Tomato and date crops.
The Director of the Rural Women's Affairs Office confirmed that women have a fundamental role within the Tomato Producers Association as they have an active contribution to the sector and are already engaged in important initiative.
European Union gateway (europa.eu)
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/208380-through-eu-funded-project-fao-establishing-stakeholder%E2%80%99s-partnerships-improving-date-palm




Date: 23 November 2022
Title: The Government of Italy continues its support to explosive hazards management activities in Iraq
Content: 23 November 2022
Baghdad, 23 November 2022 - The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) welcomes an additional contribution of EUR 1,000,000 (approximately USD 999,500) from the Government of Italy, which will support life-saving mine action activities in Iraq. Activities will include delivering sustainable and efficient explosive hazard management and providing technical and advisory support to national mine action authorities.
Iraq suffers from various types of contamination due to decades of war and conflicts that is now threatening the lives and safety of Iraqi communities. The financial contribution from the Government of Italy will support the clearance of explosive ordnance in the areas liberated from ISIL and in southern Iraq. It will further support explosive ordnance risk education efforts to protect the most at-risk populations, notably the returnees and IDPs, as well as delivering explosive ordnance risk education/sessions for at-risk workers who undertake high-risk activities.
The generous contribution will support a nationally led and implemented mine action response. UNMAS provides training and technical advice to national authorities to further enhance the Iraqi national clearance capacity in line with national and international mine action standards. Furthermore, it supports the Government of Iraq in strengthening coordination between government entities and supports mine action decision-making across the country.
Through this contribution, national capacity enhancement will also be supported through a partnership model that brings together international mine action NGOs with local NGOs to pave the way for localization and a sustainable mine action response in Iraq.
On the occasion, H.E. Maurizio Greganti, Ambassador of Italy, stated “We commend the work of UNMAS in Iraq, as demining is a key factor to facilitate the return of IDPs to their communities of origin as a safe and stable environment. Italy has long been a friend of the Iraqi people and supporter of the stabilization of the Country, and we are proud to contribute also through mine action response and explosive hazard management.”
Mr. Cabasino - Director of the Amman Office of the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS) confirmed that “the Italian Cooperation has been contributing to UNMAS activities in Iraq since 2016, which is a testimony to Italy’s full commitment to supporting mine actions in context characterized by humanitarian needs and protracted crises, thus protecting civilians, enabling humanitarian action, socio-economic development, and peacebuilding.”.
“The generous contribution from the government of Italy will support the government of Iraq in protecting vulnerable civilians from the threat posed by explosive ordnance and will also enable safe and dignified returns of IDPs, provide safe spaces for children to play in safety, and support affected communities to use their farmlands freely,” said Mr. Pehr Lodhammar, Chief Mine Action Programme, UNMAS Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/208379-government-italy-continues-its-support-explosive-hazards-management-activities-iraq




Date: 21 November 2022
Title: The Ministries of Labour and Social Affairs of Federal Iraq and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, the ILO and the European Union launch policies on labour inspection and Occupational Safety and Health
Content: 21 November 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 20 November 2022 - New policies on labour inspection and Occupational Safety and Health were launched in Baghdad on Sunday (November 20) by the Ministries of Labour and Social Affairs of the Federal Government and the Kurdistan Regional Government, the European Union (EU) and the International Labour Organization (ILO). The policies will contribute to modernizing the labour inspection system and improve working conditions for workers and their employers, in line with International Labour Standards.
A signing ceremony of the policies took place in the presence of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Ahmad Al-Asadi, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq Kwestan Mohammed, ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq Maha Kattaa, and EU Delegation to Iraq Chargé d'Affaires a.i. Agne Gleveckaite.
The policies were developed under the framework of the ILO project “Enhancing labour governance, inspection and working conditions in response to COVID-19 ”,  supported by the EU. One of the project’s key objectives is to strengthen the labour inspection system and improve Occupational Safety and Health through policy development and capacity building. The project is building the capacities of government staff and social partners on these issues and on fundamental principles and rights at work, to promote compliance with national labour legislations and International Labour Standards.
“The policies focus on labour inspection, working conditions and Occupational Safety and Health in Iraq. They are documents that set the basis for effective implementation, including gaps and shortcomings and ways to address them, for policy makers, officials, employers and workers and those working in the fields of inspection and Occupational and Safety and Health,” said Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Ahmad Al-Asadi. “I would like to extend my appreciation to the International Labour Organization for its effective efforts and to the European Union for its funding and support for our Ministry’s programmes.”
"The ILO project on enhancing labour governance, inspection and working conditions in response to COVID-19, which is funded by the European Union, has given us the opportunity to discuss the gaps in the labour inspection system, follow up on working conditions through an Occupational Safety and Health committee, and the development of policies on Occupational Safety and Health and labour inspection. This has increased our adherence to implement these policies developed in close consultation between the ILO and the government, employers and workers in efforts to reach the desired goals, which is to enhance the inspection system, improve working conditions and work towards increasing the number of inspectors and enhancing their capacities,” said Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Kwestan Mohammed.
The policy on labour inspection provides guidance on the tasks and key principles related to labour inspection. These include legal frameworks related to inspection visits, modern labour inspection systems, reporting, collaboration between stakeholders, and capacity building, among others.
A national profile for Occupational Safety and Health was developed, setting the basis for the application of a solid Occupational Safety and Health management system. It assesses the status of Occupational Safety and Health at the national level, including gaps and shortcomings, and provides recommendations for policymakers, government officials, employers, workers and Occupational Safety and Health practitioners. It describes the legislative framework, enforcement and implementation mechanisms and infrastructure in both Federal Iraq and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
“These policies were developed through close consultation with the government, employers’ and workers’ organizations,” said ILO Country Coordinator Maha Kattaa. “They are paramount in enhancing the labour inspection system, protecting workers and promoting their safety at work. We will continue to work closely with our constituents to ensure the proper and effective application of these policies.”
“The new policies on Occupational Safety and Health and on labour inspection are a further step towards improving conditions for workers and their employers in Iraq, in line with International Labour Standards. It is very reassuring to have policies in place, which will contribute to modernizing the labour inspection system and provide guarantees for protection of the workers. It is an important element for the socio-economic development of Iraq,” said EU Delegation to Iraq Chargé d'Affaires a.i. Agne Gleveckaite.
The EU-supported project contributes to the socio-economic development of Iraq through enhancing the application of International Labour Standards and national labour legislation and promoting social dialogue, social justice, and decent work.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/208231-ministries-labour-and-social-affairs-federal-iraq-and-kurdistan-region-iraq-ilo-and-european




Date: 21 November 2022
Title: Strengthening judicial integrity in Iraq: New Judicial Code of Conduct launched today
Content: 21 November 2022
Baghdad, 21 November 2022 – The Higher Judicial Council (HJC) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in partnership with the European Union Delegation in Iraq has today launched a Code of Conduct for judges and prosecutors across Iraq.
Recently adopted by the Higher Judicial Council, the Code of Conduct strengthens judicial integrity, impartiality, and independence, preventing undue influence and ensuring that decisions are made impartially. It calls for conflicts of interest to be duly declared and managed appropriately, supports the mandatory declaration of assets while also guaranteeing freedom of expression of opinion and association for judges and prosecutors.
The Code further enhances adherence to Human Rights standards and the Rule of Law by complying with the principles and rights stipulated by the International Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Moreover, one of the Code's chapters assures the commitment of all judges and members of the public prosecution to these principles.
Judge Dr. Faiq Zaidan, President of the Supreme Judicial Council, thanked the European Union and the United Nations Development Programme for their contribution to developing the capabilities of Iraqi judges. He also expressed his appreciation towards the   international community's support in preserving the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law, as it is two main pillars of the state.
The Ambassador of the European Union to Iraq, H.E. Ville Varjola, affirms: “The Code of Conduct is an important tool in setting the desired standards of conduct expected from judges and members of the Public Prosecution Office. It enables the translation of the core values of judicial integrity, independence, and impartiality in terms of behaviour. It clarifies the ethical behaviour expected from judges and prosecutors.”
“The Code of Conduct is a bold step forward in promoting a culture of integrity and transparency within the Iraqi judiciary, while preserving its prestige and dignity,” says UNDP Resident Representative in Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“This is one of many initiatives supported by UNDP to fight corruption. A large component of our work is focused on strengthening the judiciary as the essential driver of change in the campaign against corruption in Iraq. With the support of the EU, we will continue to help the judiciary to promote the Code and enforce its strict adherence,” she adds.
EU and UNDP will continue supporting the judiciary in developing and delivering training on the Code of Conduct for judges and prosecutors. Moreover, EU and UNDP will further support the development of Codes of Conduct for other categories of justice professionals and public officials with a key role in fighting corruption.
Background:
The Anti-Corruption and Arbitration in Iraq project is EU-funded and builds on Iraq's national efforts to improve transparency and accountability across state institutions and supports Iraq in delivering to its national and international commitments regarding the fight against corruption, to support the Iraqi institutions in the revision of anti-corruption laws, promote their alignment with international standards, and provide specialised on-demand training and mentorship opportunities for corruption investigators and integrity judges.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/208214-strengthening-judicial-integrity-iraq-new-judicial-code-conduct-launched-today




Date: 20 November 2022
Title: Iraq actively participates in COP27, UN Climate Change Conference
Content: 20 November 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 20 November 2022 – Iraq is ranked as the fifth most vulnerable country to climate change, with extreme weather events across the country demonstrating the immediate impact on Iraqi communities, making Iraq’s participation in COP27, the 27th annual United Nations Conference on Climate Change, more vital than ever. Organized by the United Nations in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt, the 06-18 November conference has now closed.
The Iraqi delegation to COP27, composed of over 100 government representatives, civil society representatives, and youth and women representatives, participated in the conference with high visibility. This year was the first time Iraq had a youth delegation, with three youth representatives. Over half of the Iraqi delegation were women, and over 60% of the negotiating team were women as well.
The summit closed early Sunday with a historic agreement to set up a “loss and damage” fund for developing countries, an issue that the Iraqi negotiators have heavily pushed for, along with the G77 Group and the Arab Group. The Iraqi negotiators were also active in negotiating articles of the Paris Agreement regarding Carbon Markets and Technology Transfer.
The delegation participated in meetings with UNDP’s Regional Bureau for Arab States, UNFCCC, UN Regional Collaboration Centers, the Adaptation Fund, NDC Partnership, Green Climate Fun, Global Environment Facility, UNEP and UN Habitat. The delegation was successful in bringing in more technical and financial support to Iraq from the international climate funds.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad states, “Iraq’s active participation in COP27 this year echoes the vital impact of climate change on this country. The environment is a current focus for UNDP in Iraq, including the detrimental impact of climate change on Iraq’s most vulnerable populations. UNDP will continue to support Iraq to prevent further impacts and mitigate the effects of climate change on development during Iraq’s fragile recovery period.”
The Iraqi Deputy Minister of Environment, Dr. Jasim Abdulazeez Humadi says, “This conference is of a particular importance given the serious challenges that climate change imposes on the region and the world. We are suffering from the imminent danger of drought and land degradation in addition to a big decline in our water resources, and this, of course, is one of the essential issues that we are working on with a promising government programme.”
UNDP Iraq’s Environment, Energy, and Climate Change Programme implements projects that aim to promote environmental sustainability and community resilience through mapping and addressing the risks associated with environmental degradation, climate change and disasters, in addition to working closely with the Iraqi government through the Ministry of Environment to support the implementation of its Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC).
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/208179-iraq-actively-participates-cop27-un-climate-change-conference




Date: 20 November 2022
Title: Sweden contributes USD 10.2 M to Iraq's agriculture sector in Southern Iraq to mitigate climate changes
Content: 20 November 2022
Baghdad, 17 November 2022 - The Government of Sweden through the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida) and represented by the Swedish Embassy to Iraq and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq have signed a four-year, SEK 112 million* (US$ 10.2 million) agreement to enhance climate resilience of vulnerable agriculture households in Missan, Al-Muthanna, Najaf and Thi-Qar Governorates.
Activities under the agreement include providing technical assistance; strengthening water management institutions and the water distribution system and enhancing the strategic framework and stakeholder engagement for a climate resilient agricultural development.
Implementing this project, in cooperation with Ministries of Agriculture, environment, water resources and other national and local stakeholders, will also tackle existing challenges in the development of major value chains by promoting climate smart agricultural practices to mitigate the impact of climate changes and enhance household and community resilience .
Ambassador of Sweden to Iraq, H.E. Jessica Svärdström says “Sweden maintains its commitment to improving the wellbeing and livelihoods of women and men in rural communities in southern Iraq with enhanced climate smart agriculture practices and management of natural resources, backed by policy support.”
FAO RNE ADG Dr Abdulhakim ElWaer: “its historical moment as Iraq is carrying the burden of climate change implications on Agriculture, water, environment and welfare of Iraqi people. This generous support will address these issues and I wish to thank the Governments of Sweden and Iraq".  “This partnership between SIDA and FAO Iraq came in timely manner given the water scarcity issues that Iraq’s agriculture is facing which are expected to be worse over time”. “We are extremely grateful for this contribution which will be instrumental in tackling these challenges and enhancing the climate resilience of local communities,” said FAO representative Dr Salah el hajj Hassan.
Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Dr Mithaq Al Khafaji, said: “This is very important project to mitigate the impact of climate change and water scarcity challenges on the vulnerable families especially in the south of Iraq. I want to address my sincere appreciation to the government of Sweden represented by H.E the Ambassador on this generous contribution, and thanks to SIDA and FAO for making this achievement”.
Iraq Deputy Minister of Environment. H.E. Dr Jassim Alfalahi: “It’s a great opportunity to implement this important project aimed at minimizing the impact of climate change not only for current, but also future generations. Thank you, the Government of Sweden and FAO, for supporting Iraqi people”.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/208161-sweden-contributes-usd-102-m-iraqs-agriculture-sector-southern-iraq-mitigate-climate-changes




Date: 20 November 2022
Title: Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) Engagement in Iraq
Content: 20 November 2022
Baghdad, 16 November 2022 - FAO organized a consultative meeting with CSOs Directorate- General Secretariat for the Council of Ministers (GSCM), and Al Aghsan Foundation for Agriculture and Environmental Development to discuss the Roadmap of CSOs Engagement in Iraq. The meeting chaired by FAOR Dr Salah Elhajj Hassan, Programme Division Manager of NGO Directorate GSCM Dr Abbas Gazy, CEO of Alaghsan Foundation Dr Khalid Naji AlAsal .
CSOs play key role in maintaining food security and reducing poverty and have increasingly demonstrated their capabilities and potential in designing and implementing programs and projects at regional, national and local levels. FAO aims for coordinating and opening the dialogue areas more broadly with community organizations.
The meeting comes after a series of consultation sessions and workshops between all involved stakeholders including CSOs all over Iraq. FAO in collaboration with the Iraqi government and Al-Aghsan Foundation aim to facilitate the coordination mechanisms and engagement approach of CSOs on country level in programs related to Agriculture, Water, and Environment sectors, focusing on three areas: Natural Resource, Disaster Risk Management, and Climate Change Resilience.
FAOR highlighted the importance of maximizing the collective coordination between all relevant stakeholders is essential in engaging Local CSOs, through capacity building and establishing a dialogue platform.
Jaff Kayan, Senior Policy Expert at FAO Regional Office, participated virtually and confirmed the commitment of this initiative and expressed willingness to support the next actions for ssupporting the prospects of joint cooperation. FAO Country Office in Iraq will assess complementarities and synergies with other development actors' work in priority areas of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) and the potential of forming multi-stakeholders partnerships between CSOs, United Nations agencies and other development actors.
The work continuous, Roadmap for CSOs Engagement in Iraq at its final stages, and FAO looking forward to set further broader meetings having all relevant partners. FAO will continue on facilitating the coordination, and coming actions will give the opportunity to all stakeholders to be engaged.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/208162-civil-society-organisations-csos-engagement-iraq




Date: 20 November 2022
Title: First Special Event in the Arab Region for UNITAD Discusses ISIL’s Leadership Structure and the Role of Foreign Fighters
Content: 20 November 2022
17 November 2022- Cairo: Co-hosted by the Permanent Mission of Iraq to the League of Arab States, and the General Secretariat of the League of Arab States, UNITAD organized a special event at the Headquarters of the League in Cairo; the first of its kind held in the Arab region.
The special event, titled “Towards Prosecuting Core International Crimes Committed by Members of Da’esh/ISIL in Iraq: Command Responsibility, Identifying Leaders and the Role of ISIL Foreign Fighters” aimed to show how leadership cases for senior ISIL leaders and middle leaders can be built. UNITAD experts provided concrete examples, explaining ISIL’s leadership structure, and the responsibility of commanders, including responsibility for failing to prevent or punish the commission of international crimes. Moreover, a case study was presented on the so-called “foreign fighters” who joined ISIL from countries outside of Iraq.
In his opening remarks, Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Mr. Christian Ritscher stressed the importance of this special event as the first being held in the region, and at the headquarters of the League of Arab States nonetheless. “This special event marks a milestone in UNITAD’s cooperation with states of the region in promoting accountability for ISIL’s international crimes. This is of great significance to the countries of the region which suffered from the criminality of ISIL, both in terms of perpetrators and victims,” said Special Adviser Ritscher. He further added that this special event comes in the context of the ongoing cooperation between UNITAD and the Iraqi Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to shed light on the ongoing work that the team is undertaking in partnership with the Iraqi judiciary in pursuit of accountability for ISIL’s international crimes.
The event brought together a large number of representatives of Arab states as well as embassies of several other countries in Cairo, who listened to a presentation by Judge Yassin Ahmed Fathi, Investigative Judge at the Nineveh Court, and Judge Nabil Karim Hassoun Judge of the Rusafa Central Investigative Court, giving an overview of their work on ISIL crimes in cooperation with UNITAD.
The event also included opening remarks by the two co-hosts represented by H.E. Ambassador Dr. Mohammed Lemine Guig, Under-Secretary General for Legal Affairs, as well as H.E. Ambassador Ahmed Al Dalaimy, Permanent Representative of Iraq to the League of Arab States; and a speech by Dr. Issam Al Saadi, Deputy National Security Advisor of Iraq.
The event comes in the context of UNITAD’s efforts to increase cooperation with states of the region, and its commitment to promote accountability for ISIL’s international crimes, including at the regional level. Most recently, in June of this year, Special Adviser Christian Ritscher addressed a meeting of the Arab Group at United Nations Headquarters in New York to brief them on the work of UNITAD in investigating ISIL crimes in Iraq. Earlier in March of this year, he visited the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where he held official meetings in Riyadh, and also at the Organization of Islamic Cooperation in Jeddah.
You may find the full opening remarks of Special Adviser Ritscher here: https://www.unitad.un.org/sites/www.unitad.un.org/files/general/sa_remarks-cairo_special_event_2022_0.pdf
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/208157-first-special-event-arab-region-unitad-discusses-isil%E2%80%99s-leadership-structure-and-role




Date: 20 November 2022
Title: Marking World Children’s Day, UNICEF calls for active youth participation and engagement on climate change and early childhood development by appointing its first two Youth Advocates in Iraq
Content: 20 November 2022
Tuqa AlBakri and Mujtaba Alshawi have been respectively appointed as UNICEF Iraq’s Early Childhood Development and Climate Change Youth Advocates. World Children´s Day will be marked by turning blue key monuments in Iraq, along with messages of commitment from civil society and the private sector.

BAGHDAD, 20 November 2022 – On World Children’s Day, UNICEF in Iraq has appointed the country’s first two Youth Advocates, Tuqa AlBakri and Mujtaba Alshawi, as Early Childhood Development and Climate Change Youth Advocates respectively.
In the appointment ceremony, Tuqa and Mujtaba signed their appointment with Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. Both young people will advance two key UNICEF priorities, early childhood development and climate justice, by mobilizing and supporting other young people working and advocating for these issues.
“The appointment of Tuqa and Mujtaba is another step forward in raising young people’s voices on key priorities for children and young people of Iraq which require immediate action, in line with UNICEF’s commitment to promoting meaningful participation of young people in Iraq,” said SenGupta. “The latest UNICEF report on extreme heatwaves and temperatures for Iraq in coming years confirms the urgent need for climate action today. In addition, new generations need stronger early childhood programmes to develop and thrive – we must not forget, early years are the most important in the life of a child!”
“On UNICEF’s Global Day of Action for children and young people, we much appreciate the efforts of the Iraqi Government towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals,” said SenGupta.  “UNICEF remains committed to supporting the Government to realize the rights of every child in the country.”
Tuqa, 20 years old, is a medical technology student in a university in Baghdad. Actively working as a member of the UNICEF-supported Young People Advisory Group since April 2021, she is a passionate advocate for child rights, especially the rights of the youngest children.
“I am honoured to be appointed as Early Childhood Development Youth Advocate especially marking World Children’s Day,” says Tuqa. “This appointment provides me with the opportunity to advance the rights of younger children, whose voices remain unheard.”
Mujtaba, 20 years old, is a dental school student in Misan University. As a member of the Young People’s Advisory Group, he has been advocating for climate action and the environment at national and international levels. In September 2022, Mujtaba represented Iraq’s youth at the United Nations General Assembly, where he met with senior officials including UNICEF Executive Director, Catherine Russell, and Special Adviser to the United Nations Secretary-General on Climate Action and Just Transition, Selwin Hart and called for climate justice for young people in Iraq.
“Today’s appointment provides me with a greater opportunity to raise the voices of Iraqi youth around climate action and justice,” said Mujtaba. “By delivering on climate change commitments and climate adaptation, we can make communities more resilient and ensure a more advanced and sustainable future for every child and young person in Iraq.”
On World Children’s Day, UNICEF is also marking the day in Baghdad by turning blue the Al-TahrirSquare and Save the Culture Statue in Baghdad; children taking over for a day the key positions in Iraq, such as Toyota CEO, and with social media messages from key influencers, such as the captain of the national football team, Ali Adnan, to reimagine a better future for children.
World Children’s Day commemorations organized by UNICEF will conclude with an event on November 21 in Baghdad, in coordination with the Child Welfare Commission, to highlight children’s success stories and stress the importance of the Early Childhood Development Strategy.
UNICEF seizes World Children’s Day, as an opportunity, to remind the Government of Iraq of its obligations under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Iraq ratified on June 1994.

#####
Notes to editors: Biography can be found here, and multimedia materials available here

ABOUT UNICEF Youth Advocates Programme
Across the world, UNICEF works with young activists, advocates, and community organizers engaged in transforming their societies. Since 2018, each World Children’s Day, UNICEF has been highlighting the appointments of young people who have distinguished themselves as UNICEF Youth Advocates; however, our engagement with young changemakers is broader.
Young people are the most effective champions for the issues that impact them, and they have a unique power to galvanize their peers around issues they are passionate about.

ABOUT UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF in Iraq on our Website, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/208178-marking-world-children%E2%80%99s-day-unicef-calls-active-youth-participation-and-engagement-climate




Date: 16 November 2022
Title: Taking care of the youngest: Mosul’s only pediatric hospital, Ibn al-Atheer, and the University’s Kindergarten reopen
Content: 16 November 2022
Iraq, Mosul, 16 November 2022 – The newly rehabilitated Ibn al-Atheer Hospital was officially inaugurated by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Health and the Ninewa Governorate. As the only pediatric hospital in Mosul, Ibn al-Atheer will provide medical services to approximately 50,000 children annually.
Built in the late sixties, the hospital provided medical services to Mosul and surrounding areas in Ninewa, servicing a catchment population of over 500,000 children. However, the hospital was left significantly damaged during the ISIL conflict. As a result, only 135 of its original 261 beds, about 50 percent of its designed capacity, could be used. Only the most critical cases could be admitted and treated, since the hospital functioned with great difficulty due to the scale of destruction.
Through the Funding Facility for Stabilization, UNDP rehabilitated the entire building, including civil, sanitary, mechanical, and electrical works. Today, the hospital is operated and managed by the Ninewa Directorate of Health with over 400 medical and 200 administrative staff. In addition to providing improved health care services for children, the hospital will help retain hundreds of highly skilled medical personnel in Mosul.
The Kindergarten at the University of Mosul was also inaugurated today. It provides on-site childcare services for the University’s professors, researchers and students. It is staffed by 35 teachers who provide daycare services to over 180 children. This will allow employees and students to continue their work or studies, while raising a family. The kindergarten is also home to a small puppet theatre set up by one of Ninewa’s best-known puppeteers.
“The people of Mosul suffered greatly during the brutal ISIL reign. Due to its historical significance and massive destruction, UNDP prioritized rebuilding Mosul. Today’s reopening of Ibn al-Atheer hospital and Mosul University’s kindergarten is an important milestone in rebuilding this iconic city. With over 900 rehabilitation projects completed in Mosul, UNDP has worked tirelessly alongside the international community, the Ninewa Governorate and local community leaders to restore the city’s vibrant life,” says UNDP Resident Representative for Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“We would not be here today if not for the generous support from our largest and longest-standing partner, the Federal Republic of Germany. Together with Germany, we have made tremendous contributions towards stabilization in Iraq. We will continue to work together to safeguard the hard-won stabilization gains made since 2015 and to prevent ISIL resurgence,” she adds.
“Rebuilding and improving public health services such as the Ibn Al Atheer pediatric hospital remains an urgent priority in Mosul. I am proud that Germany was able to help achieve this ambitious goal by funding the hospital’s reconstruction. Overall, Germany has invested more than one billion USD in helping reconstruct Nineva Governorate,” says Annette Chammas, Head of the Middle East Division of the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ).
The rehabilitation of the Ibn al-Atheer Hospital and the University of Mosul’s kindergarten school is funded by the Federal Republic of Germany, provided through KfW Development Bank.
“We at KfW Development Bank are pleased and honored to join in celebrating the inauguration of the Ibn Al Atheer pediatric hospital and University Kindergarten. Both facilities are indeed very special as they will directly contribute to the future of Iraq. The Hospital will provide essential health services to those in need and the kindergarten will provide a safe space where children will develop their talents and both emotional and physical skills,” says Dr Christine Heimburger, Director of KfW Development Bank for Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq.
UNDP is the leading implementer of stabilization activities in Iraq. To date, UNDP has completed around 3,400 stabilization projects across the liberated areas of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa, and Salah al-Din. The programme has assisted 4.95 million internally displaced people to return home.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/207658-taking-care-youngest-mosul%E2%80%99s-only-pediatric-hospital-ibn-al-atheer-and-university%E2%80%99s




Date: 16 November 2022
Title: JICA renews commitment to boost infrastructure projects for socio-economic development in Iraq
Content: 16 November 2022
Baghdad, 15 November 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) Iraq Office have signed a renewed partnership agreement to monitor and accelerate the implementation of socio-economic infrastructure projects in Iraq. Implemented by the Government of Iraq (GoI) with loan assistance from JICA, aiming to improve economic recovery and living conditions of Iraqi communities, Japanese Official Development Assistance (ODA) loan projects are advancing infrastructure development in Iraq.
Five key components of ODA loan projects were completed in 2022 across Iraq, promoting service delivery and connecting communities to vital service sectors. Over two million residents of the city of Basra who experienced deteriorated water supply and quality for decades will soon receive access to a reliable clean source of water, as major components of the Basra Water Supply Improvement Project, locally known as the Basra Grand Water Project, are now completed. In the north, the Deralok Hydropower Plant in Duhok Governorate will soon begin to supply power, feeding 37 MW to the grid and addressing thereby Iraq’s efforts to reduce carbon emissions resulting from fuel-operated powerplants.
“For over 14 consecutive years, JICA and UNDP have partnered to support the government to improve socio-economic conditions for Iraqi communities through reliable public service delivery. We will continue to support the Government of Iraq in laying down the foundation for sustainable growth in key public sectors, with a focus on electricity infrastructure, water and sanitation, health, oil, and transportation,” says UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad.
“We have been working with the Government of Iraq to deliver basic infrastructure and Japanese knowledge to Iraqi people over a decade. Although we have faced many difficulties, including unstable security conditions and the COVID-19 pandemic, some large projects were successfully completed in 2022, which shows a notable progress of JICA projects. Our partnership with UNDP has greatly contributed to this achievement during the implementation stage” says JICA Iraq Chief Representative YONEDA Gen.
Through signing this agreement, JICA and UNDP reaffirm their commitment to improve the state of national infrastructure, public services, and private sector development, advancing Iraq closer to achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.

Video: https://bit.ly/3AhxKAY
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/207628-jica-renews-commitment-boost-infrastructure-projects-socio-economic-development-iraq




Date: 16 November 2022
Title: Tikrit’s Vocational Training Centre reopens, after destruction by ISIL
Content: 16 November 2022
Baghdad/Tikrit, 16 November 2022 – Vocational training centre in Tikrit was officially opened by the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, Salah al-Din Governorate, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Federal Republic of Germany today.
Initially built in 2009, the facility in Tikrit was an important centre for vocational skilling in Iraq as it reached over 2,500 people every year. The facility consists of the main building containing eight workshops for training courses and an administrative office. During the liberation from ISIL, most of the workshops were left severely damaged.
Through the Funding Facility for Stabilization, UNDP rehabilitated the entire building, including civil, sanitary, mechanical, and electrical works. Today, the facility can run over eight training programmes at any time. UNDP will further supply furniture and workshop equipment for the centre in the coming months.
The facility will serve people seeking employment who are officially registered with the Salah al-Din Directorate of Labor and Social. It includes courses in repairing household appliances, hairdressing, plumbing and sanitary works, sewing, mobile phone maintenance, carpentry, repair and maintenance of air conditioning, working with aluminum, electronics and electrical works, and car mechanics.
“As new forms of instability arise due to the lack of livelihood opportunities in Iraq, this centre will be instrumental in providing technical and vocational courses to those most vulnerable or unable to access higher education. We hope that the centre will equip people with the practical and required skills to enter the job market or start their businesses,” says UNDP’s Resident Representative in Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“We are extremely grateful to our longest-standing partner, the Federal Republic of Germany, for generously funding this project. We are proud to support critical areas, such as security sector and livelihoods in Iraq. We look forward to continuing our work together to build a stable and prosperous Iraq,” she adds.
The Almazra’a police station in Baiji, Salah al-Din, was also inaugurated today. The spacious and purpose-built facility has the capacity to serve around 35,000 citizens. Both the facilities were rehabilitated through the Funding Facility for Stabilization with support from the Federal Republic of Germany. While the furniture and equipment for the vocational training centre is funded by generous contributions from Norway.
Chargé d’Affaires a.i. Philip Holzapfel, German Embassy Baghdad says, “We are pleased to see that two central places of community life in Salah al-Din Governorate have been rebuilt thanks to German contributions. Speaking to people here we understand how much it means to them that the rehabilitated vocational training center in Tikrit will encourage people to acquire knowledge and skills. This will contribute to the development of a much-needed private sector and thus to empower Iraqis to build the future of their communities here in Salah al-Din.”
“We also admire the reconstruction of the Almazra’a police station in Baiji – a place that represents the rule of law and makes it tangible for citizens, where trust in good governance can be being built day by day. We encourage the Salah al-Din Governorate to make the most of these facilities so that they can be of long-lasting benefit to the people of Salah al-Din,” he adds.
Since 2015, through the Funding Facility for Stabilization, UNDP has completed around 3,400 stabilization projects across the liberated areas of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa, and Salah Al-Din. The programme has supported the safe and dignified return of more than 4.9 million displaced people to their place of origin.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/207691-tikrit%E2%80%99s-vocational-training-centre-reopens-after-destruction-isil




Date: 16 November 2022
Title: Belgium increases its support to stabilization in Iraq with new EUR 1.5 million contribution
Content: 16 November 2022
Baghdad, 16 November 2022 – The Government of Belgium has contributed an additional EUR 1.5 million (approximately US$ 1.49 million) to the Funding Facility for Stabilization. The critical funding will support stabilization efforts implemented by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) across Iraq’s five governorates: Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa and Salah al-Din.
This is the Kingdom of Belgium’s eighth contribution to the Facility, bringing the country’s total contribution to over US$15 million. With this additional funding, UNDP will be able to support the rehabilitation of critical infrastructure in the most vulnerable communities in the Liberated Areas.
“We are grateful to Belgium for this timely contribution to the Facility. With the Facility transitioning in 2023, UNDP’s focus is now on completing the last mile – namely and where possible, the dignified return of Iraq’s remaining 1 million internally displaced people, including the hardest-to-return population groups and most vulnerable returnees,” says UNDP Resident Representative Zena Ali Ahmad.
“This generous contribution comes at a critical juncture for Iraq, as we look to safeguard the hard-won stabilization gains and prevent secondary displacement. We believe that continued support is critical to secure Iraq’s still-fragile stability,” she adds.
“Belgium is proud to support the Funding Facility for Stabilization, which is entering its last phase after having ensured the safe, durable and dignified return of millions of Iraqis affected by the ISIL conflict.  The stability of Iraq remains a priority for Belgium. I am hopeful that in the coming transition phase, the Government of Iraq will be able to take further responsibility to ensure the sustainability of and build on the impressive results achieved so far by the Facility for the safety and well-being of the Iraqi people in the liberated areas. While the transition’s primary efforts shall go to the remaining million internally displaced Iraqis, Belgium encourages a continued attention to the most vulnerable amongst them, especially the \minorities, women, children and disabled people,” says Hadja Lahbib Minister of Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade.
At the request of the Government of Iraq, UNDP in partnership with the International Community established the Facility in 2015 to facilitate the return of displaced Iraqis, lay the groundwork for reconstruction and recovery, provide capacity support and safeguard against the resurgence of violence and extremism.
The Facility has supported the safe, dignified and voluntary return of almost 5 million internally displaced people by restoring essential services, supporting civilian livelihoods, building municipal capacity and fostering social cohesion. To date, the Government of Iraq has taken full ownership of over 3,400 projects completed under the Facility.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/207654-belgium-increases-its-support-stabilization-iraq-new-eur-15-million-contribution




Date: 15 November 2022
Title: Belgium Provides an Additional EUR 1,000,000 for UNMAS Activities in Iraq
Content: 15 November 2022
Baghdad, 15 November 2022 – The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) in Iraq welcomes an additional contribution of EUR 1,000,000 (approximately USD 980K) from the Government of Belgium, which will support the Government of Iraq in protecting civilians impacted by the threat of explosive ordnance and enabling humanitarian action, peacebuilding and socio-economic development.
Thirty-seven years of conflicts, with the most recent conflict perpetrated by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), makes Iraq one of the world’s most contaminated countries in the world , with approximately 2,879 square kilometers of land affected. Since 2014, millions of Iraqis have been displaced and nearly 1.2 million remain internally displaced.
This generous contribution from the Government of Belgium supports clearance and explosive ordnance risk education work. It will help to enable the safe and dignified return of internally displaced people, as well as reconstruction efforts, and will support the clearance of explosive ordnance in areas liberated from ISIL as well as the clearance of legacy contamination in southern Iraq.
UNMAS adopted a strategy to ensure continuous and optimal support to the Government of Iraq by increasing the national mine action capacity through a partnership model whereby international mine action organizations collaborate with national NGOs, leading the way for localization and sustained mine action responses in Iraq.
Mr. Serge Dickschen, Belgium’s Ambassador to Iraq, stated: “Belgium is pleased to continue its long-standing and fruitful partnership with UNMAS in Iraq. Despite the significant progress made in recent years, contamination by explosive ordnance remains a major obstacle for the return of Iraqis affected by the successive conflicts and a hindrance to social and economic development. Belgium particularly welcomes the increased emphasis placed by UNMAS on strengthening the capacities of national demining actors.”
Mr. Pehr Lodhammar, Chief of UNMAS Programme in Iraq, added: “The generous contribution from the Government of Belgium will enable UNMAS to continue providing sustainable solutions to address explosive contamination by increasing, strengthening and sustaining the national operating capacity. The Belgian Government has been a steadfast and important partner to the United Nations in this area.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/207396-belgium-provides-additional-eur-1000000-unmas-activities-iraq




Date: 15 November 2022
Title: France Renews its Commitment to Protecting Civilians impacted by Explosive Ordnance in Iraq
Content: 15 November 2022
Baghdad, 15 November 2022 – The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) welcomes the contribution of EUR 500,000 (approximately USD 495,370) from the Government of France, which will support the Government of Iraq in its efforts to protect civilians impacted by the threat of explosive ordnance and enable humanitarian action, peacebuilding and socio-economic development.
Legacy landmine contamination and other explosive remnants of war left from four decades of war and conflict, continue to threaten the lives of the Iraqi communities and to cause significant numbers of civilian casualties in southern Iraq, particularly in the Basra Governorate.
This contribution will support the ongoing clearance of explosive ordnance in the Shatt Al-Arab region near the city of Basra. This clearance will enable infrastructure-enhancing socio-economic development in this region
The project will support the Government of Iraq to meet its obligations under the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention (APMBC), in addition to directly supporting the Iraqi Directorate for Mine Action to clear areas, to provide safe spaces for returnees, and to protect the population from explosive threats. The project will also provide explosive-ordnance risk-education and deliver lifesaving messages in the area of Shatt Al-Arab, enabling pilgrims and local community members to transit through the area safely.
In response to the extensive legacy contamination in Iraq, UNMAS will continue its clearance operations that began in 2021, and has resulted in the clearance of 995,794 m2 of contaminated areas and the removal of 6,344 items.
Eric Chevallier, the Ambassador of France to Iraq stated that, “this latest substantial financial commitment by France to UNMAS demonstrates once more our steadfast support to all of the Iraqi people in helping rebuild and render safe their country. In this case, France is proud to support reconstruction and development efforts in southern Iraq.”
Mr. Pehr Lodhammar, Chief of the UNMAS Programme in Iraq, explained: “France is, and has been over the years, an important partner to UNMAS and the Government of Iraq. For five years they have generously support our activities. This commitment positively impacts the local community and enhances Shatt Al Arab’s and Basra's economic development making land available for agricultural production and economic development”.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/207397-france-renews-its-commitment-protecting-civilians-impacted-explosive-ordnance-iraq




Date: 14 November 2022
Title: New French Support for UNITAD to Advance Accountability for ISIL’s Core International Crimes
Content: 14 November 2022
Baghdad, 14 November 2022 – With a new funding of €530.000, France reiterates its support for the work of the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD), on core international crimes committed by members of ISIL in Iraq.
In particular, this support will promote UNITAD’s lines of investigation into core international crimes committed against members of the Christian community in Iraq, ISIL’s destruction of cultural heritage, and ISIL’s development and use of chemical and biological weapons.
This support will also contribute to the ongoing capacity-building which UNITAD organizes for Iraqi judges to improve their work in documenting and investigating those lines of inquiry regarding ISIL’s international crimes.
Special Adviser Christian Ritscher commended France for its support to the Team mentioning that: “with this new funding, UNITAD will dedicate the necessary resources to investigating these three important pillars, uncovering the magnitude of ISIL core international crimes against Iraqi people and their cultural heritage.”
His Excellency, Dr. Eric Chevallier, Ambassador of France to Iraq, remarked that “the horrendous crimes committed by ISIL in Iraq against the Iraqi people, often targeting the most vulnerable members of the society, and in particular minorities and women and children, must never be left unpunished nor forgotten. In this light, UNITAD’s work is crucial to ensure that ISIL perpetrators be irrefutably brought to justice wherever they may currently be – this latest French financial contribution will help UNITAD fulfill its mandate.”
This new funding comes in line with France’s long standing support of UNITAD and its mandate, and the pursuit of accountability for ISIL international crimes in Iraq. It opens further channels for more cooperation towards the ultimate goal of achieving justice for victims and survivors of ISIL’s crimes against them, their communities, and Iraq as a whole.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/207350-new-french-support-unitad-advance-accountability-isil%E2%80%99s-core-international-crimes




Date: 14 November 2022
Title: New study on mainstreaming Anthropocene considerations in Iraq
Content: 14 November 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 14 November 2022 – Iraq remains one of the most fragile countries globally. Strengthening resilience and reducing vulnerabilities remains important to ensure the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals and strengthening state-society trust.  The United Nations Development Programme in Iraq (UNDP) today launches a study on mainstreaming Anthropocene considerations in fragile countries, and specifically the case of Iraq.
Building on the recently launched 2021-2022 UNDP Human Development Report, this study provides a summary of the evolution of the human security approach, presenting a set of policy recommendations for mainstreaming important Anthropocene considerations into local and national development and social cohesion policies, especially in fragile contexts, with special consideration for the case of Iraq.
Mainstreaming Anthropocene Considerations in Local and National Policy Recommendations – The Case of Iraq recognizes that development is a political challenge that must be addressed through sustainable processes that include building coalitions for change to build Agency and promote Solidarity.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad states, “We are excited to launch this study today that adopts an innovative approach to mainstreaming Anthropocene considerations in local and national policies and provides recommendations for consideration in Fragile Countries such as Iraq. We hope that the findings in this report will shed light on new thinking related to fragility in Iraq and other fragile countries.”
“With the release of this study, we hope to ignite conversation and thought work surrounding the effects of human activity on the planet, and how development in fragile countries, such as Iraq, must be approached,” adds Ms. Ali-Ahmad.
“The reality of the Anthropocene is not an abstraction but, as this report shows, a very concrete reality that is shaping opportunities to expand human development across Iraq. The report shows how even in settings where fragility and recovery from violent conflict have heightened importance, the relevance of the new context of the Anthropocene is not diminished,” says Mr. Pedro Conceicao, Director of the UNDP Human Development Report Office.
“The Anthropocene is ushering in new and complex development challenges, and we are currently witnessing immediate effects across the Arab states. This study is a timely follow-up on the implications for human development, specifically in Iraq, including how we can work together towards innovative joint solutions in fragile crisis and post-conflict settings,” emphasizes Dr. Khalida Bouzar, Assistant Secretary-General and Director of the United Nations Development Programme Regional Bureau for Arab States.
UNDP’s Human Development Report 2021-2022 was released in September 2022.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/207348-new-study-mainstreaming-anthropocene-considerations-iraq




Date: 14 November 2022
Title: Two months into the implementation of the Refugee Education Integration Policy, UNHCR meets with refugee children, their parents and teachers to discuss its positive impact
Content: 14 November 2022
Erbil, Iraq, 14 November 2022 - Today, a delegation from UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency visited Raber Primary School in Kasnazan town, Erbil Governorate, where students from refugee and local communities attend school together.
With the start of the 2022/2023 academic school year, the Ministry of Education (MoE) of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI) introduced the Refugee Education Integration Policy (REIP) to support refugee children to access quality, inclusive and sustainable education through the public education system.
The policy aims at strengthening the inclusion and participation of refugees in community life in the KRI; and will be implemented gradually, starting with the first to fourth grades in the current academic year. The Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) has set an example with its landmark decision to welcome refugees into the public education system.
In addition, the MoE recruited more than 400 qualified refugee teachers to help public schools in coping with these additional students. This provides opportunities for these qualified teachers to contribute to the society that welcomed them.
The delegation, led by Mr Jean-Nicolas Beuze, the Representative of the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) in Iraq, visited the school to observe the achievements of this much-welcomed policy.
During his visit, Mr Beuze, along with the UNHCR education team, met with the students as well as with refugees and local parents and qualified refugee teachers. The discussions provided UNHCR with valuable insights that will help continued support to the MoE as well as refugee parents with a view, in the years to come, to ensure quality education for all refugee children in KRI.
“It is heartening to see refugee students studying and interacting naturally with fellow students from the community hosting them. This positive step towards inclusion paves the way for refugee students to pursue higher education and work opportunities. It will help them lead prosperous lives and contribute to the communities in KRI which welcomed them,” said Jean-Nicolas Beuze, the Representative of UNHCR in Iraq. “We thank the people and the Government in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, especially the Minister of Education, who decided to implement this new policy: this completes the remarkable support given to refugees in KRI.”
Around 270,000 refugees and asylum-seekers reside in KRI. The first implementation phase of the REIP is targeting grades one to four in the academic year 2022/23, which represent some 30,100 children. From data available to UNHCR’s partners in mid-October 2022, the school enrolment rate of refugee children in KRI in grades one to four has seen an increase up to 9%.
UNHCR is working closely with the MoE and education partners to empower students, teachers and parents from refugee communities and facilitate access to quality education for all. UNHCR, in coordination with education partners and the Directorates of Education, provides Kurdish language classes to parents, teachers and students in grades 1 to 4; and invests in school infrastructures.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/207349-two-months-implementation-refugee-education-integration-policy-unhcr-meets-refugee-children




Date: 13 November 2022
Title: Alarm is sounding about the worrying situation of occupational safety and health in Iraq, particularly in the oil and gas sector
Content: 13 November 2022
Basrah, 12 November 2022 - The participants in the workers unions workshop on occupational safety and health in the oil and gas sector, organized by the IndustriALL Global Union, and with the participation of a number of workers unions, the International Labour Organization in Iraq, and the National Center of Health and Safety-Basra Branch, are sounding the alarm about the worrying situation of occupational safety and health in Iraq, particularly in the oil and gas sector.
The participants called for addressing this issue with an integrated vision that takes into account the climate change resulting from global warming and environmental pollution. The emission of gases from extraction operations and oil industries is considered one of the main reasons behind the aggravation of this issue in the southern governorates in general and Basra in particular.
The participants pointed to the phenomenon of diseases outbreaks directly related to the activities of certain occupations due to the poor compliance of employers with occupational safety and health measures.
This bleak picture requires all government, business owners, workers unions, civil society organizations, international organizations, and development partners to take serious steps to improve work environment, the most important of which is the development of the legislative framework, and in particular speedy enactment of the Occupational Safety and Health Law in line with International Labour Organization Convention 155 on Occupational Safety and Health.
The participants also referred to the adoption by the International Labour Conference this year of the right to a safe and healthy work environment as one of the fundamental principles and rights at work.
The participants also called for the establishment of national policies and mechanisms to effectively monitor the compliance of companies operating in the oil and gas sector, taking into account the steps recently taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs through its close cooperation with the International Labour Organization in Iraq, including the preparation of a national policy, profile and programme for occupational safety and health, emphasizing the continuation of technical cooperation during the coming years in the field of occupational safety and health in relation to the implementation of the provisions of this policy, activating the notification and recording system of accidents and work injuries for workers as well as occupational diseases developed by the International Labour Organization in Iraq, and periodically building the capacities of the Ministry in the area of ​​strategic compliance planning for occupational safety and health inspections.
In conclusion, the participants agreed that promoting high levels of health and safety at work is the responsibility of the entire community, and the culture of occupational safety and health must be instilled and maintained at the national level, and for all spectrums of Iraqi society, in addition to the media to actively contribute to achieving this goal by giving priority for health and safety in national strategies.
The participants appealed to all parties to develop plans and programs for a just transition to an environment that uses clean energy and technology and that places the protection of workers’ health and safety at the top of its priorities since workers are the basic nucleus for building advanced and modern societies.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/207198-alarm-sounding-about-worrying-situation-occupational-safety-and-health-iraq-particularly-oil




Date: 11 November 2022
Title: UN Habitat and Ministry of Planning Iraq meet to discuss fruitful collaborations for improving Iraqi lives
Content: 11 November 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 10 November 2022. Today, His Excellency the Minister of Planning of Iraq, Dr Muhammed Ali Tamim received the Head of UN-Habitat Iraq Country Programme, Mr Wael Al-Ashhab and his team.
Mr Al-Ashhab congratulated Dr Tamim on the new assignment and had a great pleasure to inform the Minister on the current programme of UN-Habitat in Iraq and discuss the continuation of the collaboration between the Ministry of Planning and UN-Habitat Iraq Programme.
They also discussed the joint efforts to improve living conditions of all Iraqis, particularly the vulnerable population and the underserved communities who are suffering from lack of provision of basic services.
Further, the Minister was briefed on the Urban Observatories to be established at the governorates to collect data and reporting on the SDGs forum managed by Ministry of Planning and supported by UN-Habitat.
In addition, the close coordination and the way forward concerning the informal settlements issue and how to accelerate the process to include them in planning and the budgeting of the government.  Lastly, both agreed to continue collaboration and explore opportunities through bilateral meetings in the near future.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/207199-un-habitat-and-ministry-planning-iraq-meet-discuss-fruitful-collaborations-improving-iraqi




Date: 10 November 2022
Title: UN-Habitat and ILO work together to improve access to employment opportunities for vulnerable women and men living in Basra’s underserviced settlements
Content: 10 November 2022
The collaboration will focus on equipping young people with business skills, improving their access to employment services, and introducing labour-intensive approaches.
Baghdad, Iraq, 9 November 2022 – UN-Habitat and the ILO in Iraq are collaborating to increase access to employment opportunities for young women and men living in underserviced settlements in Basra, where the unemployment rate is high and living condition is poor.
The collaboration is part of UN-Habitat’s broader project, “Increasing Access to Employment Opportunities for Vulnerable Urban Population in Basra City in Response to the COVID-19 Crisis,” funded by the European Union. The project targets around 21,000 people living in three underserviced neighbourhoods of Al-Ahrar, Al-Kubiyah, and Jurf Al-Melah, by providing basic services such as water, waste management and access roads in urban and informal settlements, creating job opportunities, and enhancing the skills and capacities of vulnerable urban populations and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Basra City.
Under the new collaboration, Un-Habitat and ILO will work closely with local partners, namely the Directorate of Labour and Social Affairs, to enhance employment services for job-seekers by establishing an employment service centre linked to a digital employment platform.  In addition, the Directorate staff will receive capacity-strengthening training to deliver these services, which include skills development, career and job search guidance, and job placement.
Another key aspect of the programme will be to equip young men and women with the necessary knowledge and skills in the construction sector and business development. This programme will include introducing ILO’s “Start and Improve Your Business” (SIYB) training programme, designed to support small-scale entrepreneurs to start or grow their businesses. After the completion of the skill-improvement training, entrepreneurs will be referred to the employment service centre, which will help them connect with organizations offering a wide range of support to grow and sustain their small businesses.
“This collaboration will help mainstream decent work into project interventions, and ensure that young people are equipped with market-relevant skills that will help improve their access to employment opportunities,” said Dr Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq.
Mr Wael Al Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq said: “I am glad to see the formalization of the cooperation between UN-Habitat and ILO in Iraq, which will magnify the impact of our interventions on the economic and social conditions of the targeted people in Basra, particularly unemployed young men and women.”
This collaboration will utilize Employment Intensive Investment Programmes (EIIP) to improve access to services and create decent job opportunities. EIIP methods link infrastructure development with decent job creation and promote local resources such as labour and equipment. The programme will build the capacities of local contractors and young engineers on these methodologies and ensure the application of Decent Work principles through the developing different tools.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/206852-un-habitat-and-ilo-work-together-improve-access-employment-opportunities-vulnerable-women




Date: 09 November 2022
Title: With the support of WHO’s core contributors, the Burn and Reconstructive Surgery Hospital in Sulaymaniyah completes the 2nd phase of its renovation and expansion project
Content: 09 November 2022
Sulaymaniyah, KR-I, 9 November 2022: The World Health Organization (WHO), in coordination with the Sulaymaniyah Directorate of Health, inaugurated the Burn and Reconstructive Surgery Hospital in the city of Sulaymaniyah in KR-I after the completion of the 2nd phase of the renovation and expansion project of the hospital.
The three-phase project which started in July 2020 with a total cost of US$1,250,000 will enable the 65-bed facility to provide advanced healthcare services to burn cases including explosion and war casualties, all types of skin cancers, and children with congenital anomalies.
The project also came in line with WHO quest to transition its support from pure humanitarian to developmental investments in the health sector in Iraq to ensure long-run responses to the growing health needs of approximately 33,000 Syrian Refugees and over 150,000 internally displaced population (IDPs) that are still hosted by Sulaymaniyah community of about 1.5 million people.
“This project is a demonstration of the strategic shift in the active partnership with the national health authorities, donors, and implementing partners,” said Dr. Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq.
“Such major lifesaving investments are the cornerstones for WHO transition from pure humanitarian responses to wider developmental programs focusing on building resilient health care system in Kurdistan Region and Iraq at large,” he added.
The facility is now functioning with a new well-equipped structure and better-prepared medical staff to undertake lifesaving interventions of the highest standards. As of November 2022, more than 1133 major, 178 burn, and 1208 plastic surgeries were conducted.
“The support of our generous donors and national counterparts has enabled WHO to embark on more sustainable healthcare projects that will lead to a smooth transition from good to best in all health areas in the country,” Dr. Ahmed concluded.
The renovation and expansion of Sulaymaniyah Burn and Reconstructive Surgery Hospital to better respond to the health needs of all vulnerable segments of the Iraqi society, especially refugees and IDPs, would not have been possible without the generous contribution by the US Department of State Bureau for Population, Refugees and Migration (BPRM).
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/206508-support-who%E2%80%99s-core-contributors-burn-and-reconstructive-surgery-hospital-sulaymaniyah




Date: 09 November 2022
Title: Italy renews its commitment to stabilization with a new EUR 2 million contribution
Content: 09 November 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 09 November 2022 – The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Italy, through the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS), has renewed its commitment to stabilizing Iraq with an additional EUR 2 million (approximately US$1.9 million) contribution. The generous contribution will be channeled through UNDP's flagship programme, the Funding Facility for Stabilization.
Italy has generously provided over US$20 million since the Facility was set up in 2015. The funding will be used to focus on rehabilitating public infrastructure and providing essential services to vulnerable communities living in areas affected by the ISIL conflict.
"The impact of our stabilization efforts with continuous support from the international partners such as Italy are visible across Iraq. Hospitals are reopening, clean water is reaching people's homes, and universities are welcoming students back. With this additional funding, UNDP will be able to continue to support the rehabilitation of critical infrastructure in sectors such as electricity, water, education and health," says UNDP Resident Representative Zena Ali Ahmad.
"We are immensely grateful for Italy's continuous support to stabilization in Iraq. This new contribution will position the Facility to better meet the expectations and needs of the people of Iraq and contribute to improving conditions in the Liberated Areas paving the way for displaced Iraqis to return to their communities of origin safely and with dignity," adds Ms Ali Ahmad.
“Iraq is a priority country for Italy, both as a pivot of stability in the region and as a partner in development cooperation. Reconstruction and rehabilitation of facilities and infrastructure is critical to our common goal of ensuring a safe and stable environment for returnees to start rebuilding their lives. Italy has never left Iraq, through thick and thin. We, together with UNDP, stand by Iraqis and are eager to build a peaceful, prosperous and safe future for Iraq,” states H.E. Maurizio Greganti, Ambassador of Italy to Iraq.
The Director of the Amman office of the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS), Dr. Emilio Cabasino, also highlights, “Through constant commitment in development cooperation, big achievements are possible. With this spirit, AICS collaboration in supporting the Funding Facility for Stabilization over the years has allowed reconstruction and returns. With this renewed contribution, it also supports the transition towards handover and new programming for development.”
In mid-2015, UNDP established the Funding Facility for Stabilization to assist the Government in rebuilding Iraq after the ISIL conflict. The Facility works with the Government of Iraq and local actors to ensure safe, dignified and voluntary returns and to lay the foundation for reintegrating displaced populations into the community.
With the generous support of international partners, the Facility has mobilized over
US$ 1.55 billion from 29 donors and the Government of Iraq. This collective effort demonstrates the international community's solidarity with Iraq.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/206513-italy-renews-its-commitment-stabilization-new-eur-2-million-contribution




Date: 06 November 2022
Title: Iraq stands up for the environment at COP 27, UN climate change conference
Content: 06 November 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 05 November 2022 – More than 200 Iraqis representing government, youth and civil society are participating in COP27, the 27th annual United Nations Conference on Climate Change, organized by the United Nations in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt.
Climate change is a reality in Iraq, and a priority for the UN family in the country. It has devastating impacts on the lives of all Iraqi citizens, especially the poorest and most vulnerable, and the urgency for action crosses all political, ethnic, social and geographic lines.
The Iraqi delegation to the 6-18 November 2022 COP 27 includes representatives from the government, youth, civil society and private sector.
“Iraq is at the frontlines of the climate crisis and one of the countries in the world most vulnerable to climate change, while its citizens suffer from the devastating impacts of heat waves, sand and dust storms, flash floods, droughts, land degradation, inundation due to sea level rise and water scarcity,” said Resident Coordinator Ghulam Isaczai, adding, “UN Iraq will continue working every day to show that climate commitment is about action, coordinated solutions and engagement at all levels.”
The work of UN entities in Iraq takes into consideration the environmental impact of climate change, with a focus on ensuring that actions and projects are environmentally friendly and prioritize the most vulnerable communities, including women, children, young people, and persons with disabilities.
On the ground, in Kirkuk, the UN initiated a tree-planting campaign to raise awareness about climate action and expand the 'Green Belt' to mitigate dust storms. UN-Habitat Iraq created nearly 12 hectares of public green spaces so far and planted over 5,000 trees to reduce the impact of sandstorms.
UNDP supported the Government of Iraq to develop and ratify climate change policy through the Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) that addresses both mitigation of greenhouse gasses and adaptation towards climate change, with a focus on gender and the private sector, and continues to provide capacity development and piloting of projects to support the implementation of the NDCs.
FAO continues to enhance climate resilience of vulnerable agriculture households in Iraq’s rural areas in partnership with the relevant governmental institutions and renews its commitment to continue supporting the local communities, including buffalo producers in the Marshes. FAO is also promoting climate-smart agricultural practices to address water scarcity, heat and drought under projected climate change scenarios, preventing food loss and waste, and addresses the degradation of valuable natural resources such as soil and water, in addition to supporting with near real time remote sensing data to monitor land and water productivity.
In the past two years, over 1.5 million Iraqi people gained access to safely managed water services, and a half million gained access to safely managed sanitation services through UNICEF’s work with the national authorities. UNICEF is asking national stakeholders to take rapid action to protect every child and young person by providing critical services, prepare them by building their capacity, and prioritize children and young people in climate funding and resources.
UNWomen will use COP 27 to underline how gender equality can strengthen climate action and mitigate impacts as well as highlight women’s voices and leadership as a key driver of climate change successes. It will leverage strengthened global commitment to increasing and ensuring a more gender-equal approach towards climate, environment, and disaster risk reduction. Additionally, the UNFPA Iraq Country Office is working jointly with the Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Planning to develop a study on the impact of climate change on women/girls as well as vulnerable groups in Iraq.
WFP has supported smallholder farmers with adaptation measures and the Ministry of Water Resources with pilot projects for modern irrigation systems. WFP is also funding climate change mitigation and adaptation actions for reforestation, mangrove planting and marshland conservation. WFP is also working with the government to develop early-warning systems to trigger action before extreme weather events impact vulnerable families, allowing them to take preventive action.
At COP 27, IOM draws on its extensive research to highlight water scarcity in Iraq, which destroys agricultural livelihoods and drives internal displacement from rural to urban areas – areas that already struggle to provide basic services to residents and where social tensions continue to rise. This growing displacement will have a disproportionate impact on persons with disabilities, who already face social marginalization, difficulty finding employment and higher barriers to accessing services. Informal settlements (where climate migrants typically end up living) and poor quality roads create significant barriers for their freedom of movement, independence and quality of life.
Let’s all work together towards building a sustainable Iraq and end the environmental crisis!

Ghulam Mohammad Isaczai, Deputy Special Representative, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq
Dr. Salah ElHajjHassan, FAO Representative in Iraq
Giorgi Gigauri, IOM Iraq Chief of Mission
Zena Ali-Ahmad, UNDP Representative in Iraq
Dr. Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative in Iraq
Wael Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq
Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq
Dina Zorba, UNWomen Representative to Iraq & Yemen
Ally Raza Qureshi, WFP Representative to Iraq
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/206284-iraq-stands-environment-cop-27-un-climate-change-conference




Date: 06 November 2022
Title: Korea reaffirms its commitment to stabilization in Iraq with a new contribution
Content: 06 November 2022
Baghdad, 6 November 2022: The Republic of Korea has made a new contribution of US$450,000 to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Iraq's Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS), which supports stabilization, durable solutions, and the safe return of internally displaced Iraqis in the five governorates liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
This brings Korea's total support to the Facility to over US$26.9 million. Korea's previous contributions have supported the implementation of 91 critical projects in the liberated areas, benefiting more than 1.14 million people.
“We are grateful to Korea for this timely contribution. With the Facility transitioning in 2023, the remaining stabilization needs are estimated at around US$200 million across the five governorates of Anbar, Diyala, Ninewa, Kirkuk, and Salah al-Din. We believe that continued support is critical to secure Iraq's still-fragile stability," says UNDP Resident Representative for Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad
"We are thankful for the continuous support Korea and the international community has shown in UNDP's ability to deliver at the highest quality and speed. The Facility has mobilized over US$1.5 billion from 30 donors and the Government of Iraq to date. This collective effort demonstrates the international community's solidarity with its Iraqi counterparts," adds Ms. Ali Ahmad.
“Korea and Iraq share many similar historical trajectories such as civil war, dictatorship, and under-development. Therefore, the Korean government and the Korean people have always been making the best efforts to share their development experience with Iraq. UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization has been a vehicle of critical importance in the past post-ISIL rehabilitation phase, and the Korean government has been proud of being a part of such global solidarity. We will continue to engage with all relevant partners, most importantly the Government of Iraq, to further the cause,” says H.E. Sungsoo CHOI, the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to the Republic of Iraq.
In mid-2015, UNDP established the Funding Facility for Stabilization to assist the government in rebuilding Iraq after the ISIL conflict. The Facility works with the Government of Iraq and local actors to ensure safe, dignified, and voluntary returns and to lay the foundation for successfully reintegrating displaced populations into the community in areas liberated from ISIL.
To date, the Facility has completed 3,278 projects across the five liberated governorates of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa, and Salah al-Din. This critical stabilization support has facilitated the return of 4.9 million displaced Iraqis to their areas of origin.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/206289-korea-reaffirms-its-commitment-stabilization-iraq-new-contribution




Date: 05 November 2022
Title: 20 media and veterinary services extension officers trained on effective communication in Iraq
Content: 05 November 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 4 November 2022 – 20 Media and veterinary services extension officers from 8 Governorates across Iraq attended a four-day technical workshop on effective communication. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq organized the workshop in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture within the framework of the programme “Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq” financed under the United States Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA).
The objective of the workshop is to strengthen communication skills of the veterinary services with key stakeholders and concerned public by working with opinion leaders and influencers.
The Representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Mithaq Abdul-Hussein Obaid stressed that, “It is important to work with FAO in Iraq to enhance the capacities of the veterinary services to respond to emergencies related to animal health, how to convey information to citizens and to raise awareness regarding the protection of animal health, including those diseases common to humans by applying the one health approach”.
FAO Iraq representative Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan added that, “Communication plays a vital role in conveying awareness messages about protecting animal health and welfare and promoting veterinary services. The veterinary extension staff monitor, detect, notify and respond rapidly to animal diseases and develop and implement protective animal health and welfare measures. We are happy to have media and veterinary services extension officers with us for the four-day training. Providing accurate information is essential to engage and empower Iraqis on their animal health issues that affect human health".
Facilitated by the FAO international expert Oby Obyerodhyambo, the workshop adopted a blended format of instructional sessions and experiential learning aimed at improving access to information about basic communication tools, methods and channels. The workshop will enable the participants to develop communication strategies tailored to their interventions and to communicate about the animal health and welfare.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/206144-20-media-and-veterinary-services-extension-officers-trained-effective-communication-iraq




Date: 02 November 2022
Title: IRAQ - International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists, 2 November
Content: 02 November 2022
The 2nd of November is designated as the International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists, and this year marks the 10th anniversary of the UN Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists. Today, and every day, the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) Human Rights Office (HRO) renews its commitment to promote and protect a healthy space where individuals and media workers are able to freely express themselves.
Let us pay tribute to the incredible courage and determination of journalists all around the world. Let us remember that independent and ethical journalists are essential to countering disinformation, ensuring fact-based dialogue and decision making and holding those in power accountable. They are vital to the protection and promotion of our fundamental rights and to the functioning of society. Let us commit to make the safety and protection of journalists a priority, not just in words but in action.
– UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Volker Türk, 2 November 2022
Working closely with journalists, bloggers, tech organizations, press freedom NGOs and other civil society activists and human rights defenders in Iraq, UNAMI HRO has provided trainings to enhance their capacity, advancing advocacy to highlight their concerns, and monitoring and reporting violations that target them.
In Iraq and worldwide, journalists, activists and others who exercise their profession and right to freedom of expression should be able to do so safely and without fear of criminalization, attack, or retaliation. Impunity for crimes against journalists, and the instrumentalization of the justice system to bring criminal charges against journalists for criticizing public figures contributes to a chilling effect and limits space for healthy dialogue and dissent.
Shrinking space for freedom of expression
Space for free expression in Iraq is shrinking. In the 2022 Reporters Without Borders’ World Press Freedom Index, Iraq slid in the ranking from 163 to 172 out of 180 countries. This reduction in ranking comes in the aftermath of the serious repression against demonstrators, activists, human rights defenders and journalists beginning with the October 2019 Tishreen demonstrations. The HRO released seven reports on rights violations committed during the protests. The office recorded 487 deaths, 7,715 injuries, 48 attempted or executed targeted killings, 32 abductions, and the continued disappearance of at least 20 activists, perpetrated by security forces and armed actors. See: Update on Accountability in Iraq | Limited progress towards justice for human rights violations and abuses by ‘Unidentified Armed Elements’
The office has constructively engaged with the government to encourage accountability for these crimes. Though the office has commended the progress made in compensating victims’ families, it also notes that despite the government registering over 8,000 criminal acts, the HRO has documented convictions in less than ten cases. This persistent impunity emboldens the perpetrators of the crimes and at the same time has a chilling effect on society, including journalists themselves.
In October 2022, Iraq’s High Judicial Council released the encouraging information that zero killings of journalists had been reported in the year to-date and that a specialized unit had been established to specifically examine cases related to journalists and other members of the press.[1]
Nonetheless, the HRO notes that in the past year Iraq’s restrictive defamation laws have also been used against journalists and activists who have publicly criticized public figures, contrary to the freedom of expression enshrined in Iraq’s constitution. Media outlets in both Federal Iraq and the Kurdistan Region (KR) have had programs suspended following broadcasts perceived to be critical of authorities. Reporters across the country have been harassed or obstructed by security forces while covering demonstrations or other events, and in some cases beaten and detained. Journalists have been threatened or intimidated by non-state actors and several media outlets have been subjected to politically instigated attacks.
In over 70 interviews held with journalists around the country since July, the HRO documented a nearly unanimous tendency to self-censor due to fear of retaliation or attack. The result of this chilling effect is a shrinking space for public dialogue, critical opinion, and healthy dissent.
UNAMI HRO Actions to Protect Journalists and Freedom of Expression in Iraq
In order to counter threats to journalists’ safety, and to encourage an enabling environment and network among journalists, bloggers, activists, and human rights defenders, the UNAMI HRO engages in proactive freedom of expression programming. In 2022:

Background
The United Nations General Assembly proclaimed 2 November as the ‘International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists’ in General Assembly Resolution A/RES/68/163. The Resolution urged Member States to implement definite measures countering the present culture of impunity. The date was chosen in commemoration of the assassination of two French journalists in Mali on 2 November 2013.
This landmark resolution condemns all attacks and violence against journalists and media workers. It also urges Member States to do their utmost to prevent violence against journalists and media workers, to ensure accountability, bring to justice perpetrators of crimes against journalists and media workers, and ensure that victims have access to appropriate remedies. It further calls upon States to promote a safe and enabling environment for journalists to perform their work independently and without undue interference.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/205748-iraq-international-day-end-impunity-crimes-against-journalists-2-november




Date: 01 November 2022
Title: Iraqi Government Officials and UN-Habitat Iraq celebrate the opening of a totally renovated Al Yarmouk Park in Mosul funded by the European Union
Content: 01 November 2022
Mosul – In occasion of World Cities Day falling on 31st October, Mr Abdul Sattar, Head of Mosul Municipality, along with Mr. Hassan Al Allaf, Ninewa Deputy Governor, Mr. Ali Omar Gabo, Ninewa Deputy Assistant for Organisations and IDPs, Dr. Raad Jasim Al Abasi, Ninewa Deputy assistant for Planning and Follow-Up Ninewa Governorate, Ms. Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation at the European Union Delegation to Iraq, and Dr. Erfan Ali, UN-Habitat’s Regional Representative for Arab States, and Mr. Wael Al Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq County Programme, unveiled the ceremonial stone to inaugurate the newly rehabilitated Al Yarmouk Park in west Mosul – an iconic public space project made possible through the generous support from the European Union.
This project comes at a time when green areas and public spaces in Iraqi cities are increasingly valued by citizens, especially in cities with a low ratio of green space per capita such as Mosul. Creating leisure and meeting spaces in urban areas constitutes a significant improvement in the quality of the environment and people’s living conditions. Not only they encourage different sectors of the population to mix and integrate, but they have proved to be catalysts for physical improvements and economic activities in the nearby areas, both directly and indirectly.
An important element that supports the success of the seven parks that UN-Habitat has rehabilitated in conflict-affected cities through the programme “Supporting Recovery and Stability in Iraq through Local Development” funded by European Union, has been the integration of sports and leisure facilities.  Sports have always been popular with the Iraqi people and Al Yarmouk Park offers today a football pitch, two multipurpose courts, along with an open air gym, a running track, a cycling route and an active playground for children.
After the ribbon cutting ceremony, several dignitaries spoke, including Mr. Hassan Al Allaf who emphasized the importance of environmentally friendly solutions to preserve a healthy environment and adapt to climate change.
Mr Abdul Sattar stated his satisfaction for the results and the close cooperation that was established between UN-Habitat and his team since the inception of the project. He said “This park will contribute to create social and economic values and contribute to improving the quality of life in Mosul. It is also an opportunity to promote social integration, cohesion and peace-building as it includes sports facilities and playground for people with special needs.
Just before handing over to Mr Sattar a symbolic key to the park, Ms. Egger lauded in her speech the extraordinary transformation of the park that now offers a range of activities that will bring the community together again, contributing to make this a truly transformative project. She emphasized the role of the government in replicating such initiatives in the future to promote a healthier environment in cities. The European Union has been a major contributor to UN-Habitat’s post-conflict urban recovery programme in Iraq, ensuring that vulnerable households can rely on improved living conditions, better public services and livelihood opportunities in their home towns.
While speaking at the inaugural ceremony, Dr. Erfan Ali expressed his gratitude to the European Union for their generous support and emphasized the role of such projects in tackling the impact of climate change – a consideration that is particularly relevant to the UN Climate Change Conference (COP27) that will be taking place in Egypt in five days from now. He assured that UN-Habitat remains steadfast in its commitment to strengthen further the long-standing partnership with the Government of Iraq to achieve its goals for improving the lives of Iraqi citizens.
In a media interview, Mr. Wael Al-Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq, remarked: “The recovery of this park was made possible through our staff’s dedication, commitment, and hard work, but also of that of partners, such EADE, contractors, local communities and the thousands of workers – women and men – who have accompanied us in this journey.” He also stated that “This project would not have been possible without the trust and collaboration of our partner UNDP who partnered with UN-Habitat to contribute to the recovery, peace-building and socio-economic stability of the country. Such partnerships have strengthened UN-Habitat’s efforts and impact throughout its 25-year existence in Iraq, which we are proud to be celebrating this year.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/205398-iraqi-government-officials-and-un-habitat-iraq-celebrate-opening-totally-renovated-al




Date: 01 November 2022
Title: FAO Iraq Representative met the Agriculture and Water Resources Minister of the Kurdistan Region
Content: 01 November 2022
01 November 2022, Erbil, Iraq– FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, met the Agriculture and Water Resources Minister of the Kurdistan Region, Ms. Begard Talabani and discussed FAO activities and programmes being implemented in Iraq.
Discussions were mainly on food security, animal health, agricultural production and food chains, and supporting and developing the production of agricultural crop seeds that adapt to the climatic conditions of the Kurdistan Region. Likewise, the two sides touched on the process of marketing and promoting local products for farmers, with the provision of training opportunities to strengthen the skills of the Ministry’s extension staff and the local farmers.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/205509-fao-iraq-representative-met-agriculture-and-water-resources-minister-kurdistan-region




Date: 31 October 2022
Title: FAO Iraq supports livestock breeders and farmers with forage seeds in Nineveh
Content: 31 October 2022
31 October 2022, Nineveh, Iraq– The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq held a ceremony in Bashiqa district in Nineveh to continue supporting livestock farmers with forage seeds to more than 160 farmers and livestock breeders. The cultivation of fodder in the past two years has contributed to increase in milk productivity in quantity and quality, as part of the European Union’s funded project “Support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh Governorate”, and in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture.
FAO Representative in Iraq Dr. Salah ElHajj Hassan stated, “farmers in Nineveh have adopted the production of fodder crops cultivation which helped them to mitigate the impact of drought and high feed prices” and he thanked the European Union (EU) for the generous support .It is worth mentioning that many farmers have taken the initiative to purchase their own seeds from the local markets. They were eager to spread the cultivation of forage seeds to reach self-sufficiency.
At the end of the ceremony, a number of farmers and livestock breeders highlighted the important role of FAO in developing their work through the introduction of new techniques that will upscale the agricultural sector and increase job opportunities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/205352-fao-iraq-supports-livestock-breeders-and-farmers-forage-seeds-nineveh




Date: 31 October 2022
Title: On the anniversary of UN Security Council resolution 1325, UNAMI urges Iraqi women parliamentarians to unite to bolster their political influence
Content: 31 October 2022
Baghdad, 31 October 2022 – Despite an unprecedented showing in the current parliament, for women to win the leverage they seek in Iraq’s male-dominated political system it is essential that they set aside partisan interests and unite in pursuit of better representation and stronger influence across the spectrum.
Today marks the 22nd anniversary of United Nations Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), a landmark resolution which calls for women’s participation and representation in political processes and conflict resolution; protection of women and girls from gender-based violence; and strengthening women’s rights under national laws, among other key elements.
This anniversary comes at a critical time for the women of Iraq. A government was formed last week which includes three women among its 21 members. Iraqi women hold 96 seats in the Council of Representatives (CoR), close to an impressive one-third of the legislature and above the 25 percent bottom line quota.
The Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq, Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, said that the increased representation of women, while very much welcome and encouraged, is not enough. Irrespective of their political affiliation, women parliamentarians need to unite on issues that matter most to women, and their representation in senior government positions, political parties and other positions of influence must be bolstered. Furthermore, the new Iraqi government can benefit from women’s strength in parliament to advance its programme of reform and development, and this in turn accords women further political leverage.
The SRSG urged parliamentarians – women and men - to fully address women’s concerns and interests in future legislation to positively impact the lives of ordinary Iraqi women and girls. This should include the passing by the CoR of the Anti-Domestic Violence Bill which has been pending for a number of years.
Ms. Hennis-Plasschaert further stated: “We renew our commitment to advancing the tenets of Security Council resolution 1325, including by ensuring that the voices of Iraqi women are heard and by promoting the creation of an enabling environment for their full, equal and meaningful participation and representation in all areas of society. The new government can aid this progress by advancing the implementation of the second National Action Plan on 1325. Everyone will benefit from a stronger representation of women in society.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/205366-anniversary-un-security-council-resolution-1325-unami-urges-iraqi-women-parliamentarians




Date: 31 October 2022
Title: UNDP & UNWomen reaffirm their commitment toward increasing women's political participation in Iraq
Content: 31 October 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 31 October 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and Women Empowerment (UNWomen) in Iraq partnered to support women's political participation and representation in Iraq. Today, the two UN agencies sign a US$1 million partnership agreement in Baghdad.
The joint project focuses on addressing the constraints on women's political voice, strengthening women's decision-making and leadership in elected spaces and increasing leadership in civic spaces. Concretely, the partnership will aim to:
“For long-term development to be inclusive and effective, we need women’s representation that reflects all women and girls in all their diversity and abilities, and across all cultural, social, economic, and political situations. We need to expedite progress. We need bold, intensified, decisive action across Iraq to bring women into the heart of the decision-making spaces in large numbers and as full equal partners. There’s no doubt this can and should be done. It should be done now,” said Resident Coordinator Ghulam Isaczai, adding “The UN is committed to empower women leaders, support greater representation of women in politics, achieve gender equality and root out gender-based violence.”
"When there are more women leaders in political and public life, everyone benefits, especially in fragile contexts like Iraq. Therefore, we need more female leaders in Iraq, women that come from diverse backgrounds and experiences. For this reason, UNDP is excited to join efforts with UN Women to promote women's equal participation and representation in politics at all levels," says UNDP Resident Representative Ms. Zena Ali-Ahmad.
"Empowering women is at the heart of what we do and one of our main priorities is to ensure that women have the ability to meaningfully participate and lead in decision-making processes and be represented on the political front. We hope that through this partnership with UNDP, we will drive forward women’s and youth leadership in Iraq and strengthen institutions and systems to provide inclusive gender-responsive services,” added Dina Zorba, UNWomen Representative Iraq & Yemen.
This partnership builds on UNDP and UN Women's long-standing ongoing efforts related to elections, legislative reform, and women's leadership. The project will be implemented and built on the continuing work of the two organizations on gender mainstreaming across Iraqi institutions, access to justice, and public sector reform.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/205339-undp-unwomen-reaffirm-their-commitment-toward-increasing-womens-political-participation-iraq




Date: 31 October 2022
Title: UNWomen commemorates the 22nd Anniversary of UNSCR 1325 and launches the ministerial and localized sectoral plans for the Iraq National Action Plan (INAP) in partnership with the Department of Women Empowerment
Content: 31 October 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 30 October 2022 – The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and Women Empowerment (UNWomen) in Iraq celebrated the 22nd anniversary of United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) 1325 and launched the ministerial and localized sectoral plans in partnership with the Iraqi Department of Women Empowerment at the General Secretariat at the Council of Ministers.
The event was initiated by opening remarks from Dr Yusra Mohsen, Director General of the Iraqi Women Empowerment Department, where she expressed her gratitude towards the long-standing partnership with UNWomen and the achievements that have been made with regard to INAP implementation and the development of the sectoral and localized plans. She also highlighted the importance of the NAP concerning supporting the implementation of the Iraqi women strategy.
MP. Ebtisam Al-Hilali, Head of the Women committee in parliament, stressed the importance of advancing women’s political participation and the WPS agenda in Iraq through the active and meaningful participation and involvement of women. She also added that there are more women members in the parliament and that the presence of women committee is essential and beneficial to ensure that women’s and girls’ rights are always maintained as the highest priority.
Dr Khanzad Ahmad, Secretary general of the High Council of Women and Development in Kurdistan, highlighted the tremendous work that has been done on the NAP in Kurdistan and added that civil society engagement and the involvement of all stakeholders and the international community is crucial for the successful implementation of the NAP.
Dina Zorba, UNWomen Representative to Iraq and Yemen, highlighted that this success could not have been possible without the commitment, ongoing partnerships, and continuous and active engagement of all stakeholders in formulating the National Action Plan (NAP). She expressed gratitude towards the strong partnership with the DWE and the Swedish and Finland Government for their continuous support and trust in UNWomen. She added that we need to strengthen further our collaborations and join efforts to build on this success.
Mr. Matti Lassila, Ambassador to Finland, congratulated the government of Iraq and UNWomen for this achievement and highlighted that Finland has made UNSCR1325 its priority to promote inclusive and equal gender societies. He also elaborated more on the importance of sustainable economic growth and to ensure that women are involved in all developmental aspects.
Civil society representatives from around the country also participated in the event and highlighted their vital role in monitoring and implementing the National Action plan and their plans to further support the WPS agenda. Speakers included: Dr Nebras Al Mamory (Head of Iraqi Women Journalist Forum), Dr. Nada Al Jbouri (Head of Iraqi Women and Future), Wailet Georges (Head of Iraqi Minorities Council), Eman Abdulrahman (Head of Women Leadership Institute) and Mr. Haider Al Awadi (Member of the 135 Network).

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/205369-unwomen-commemorates-22nd-anniversary-unscr-1325-and-launches-ministerial-and-localized




Date: 31 October 2022
Title: UNAMI Human Rights and INSM for Digital Rights in Iraq launch user guide on digital security for Iraqi human rights defenders
Content: 31 October 2022
Baghdad, 31 October 2022 - The Human Rights Office of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI HRO), in partnership with INSM for Digital Rights in Iraq, launched today the “Online Protection and Digital Security: User Guide for Human Rights Defenders”. This user-friendly guidance, available in Arabic, English and Kurdish, provides critical knowledge about concrete tools and strategies for human rights defenders and other activists as well as journalists to increase their safety and privacy online.
The launch coincides with Cybersecurity Awareness Month, themed “Protect your Digital Life”, and supports the Secretary-General’s 2020 Call to Action on the vision linking digital technologies to a new frontier for human rights.
In Iraq, human rights defenders increasingly rely on digital technology to monitor and advocate for human rights or to share their opinions, promote debate and mobilise. Nonetheless, malicious actors have also used these online platforms to threaten, intimidate and harass activists.
“This guidance provides individual users of digital technology in Iraq, in particular human rights defenders, with practical information on how to mitigate online risks, protect their privacy and data, and preserve their rights and freedoms online”, stated Danielle Bell, the UNAMI Human Rights Chief and Representative of the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in Iraq. “With this effort, we aim to reach as many users as possible to provide them with the knowledge and tools necessary for them to be able to safely and freely conduct their work”.
Hayder Hamzoz, Founder of INSM for Digital Rights in Iraq, reiterated that “the ability of Iraqis to safely navigate the digital space is a top priority for INSM and this guidance serves as a critical step to achieve this objective”.
Since 2021, UNAMI HRO and INSM have provided hands-on digital security training to over 230 human rights defenders, journalists and activists. In addition, dozens of civil society organizations have received tailor-made assessments to improve their digital security profiles.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/205342-unami-human-rights-and-insm-digital-rights-iraq-launch-user-guide-digital-security-iraqi




Date: 30 October 2022
Title: UNDP, with local and national authorities and community leaders, celebrates successful community reintegration in Habbaniyah, Anbar
Content: 30 October 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 30 October 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme Iraq (UNDP) celebrated with local and national authorities and community leaders in Habbaniyah, Anbar the successful reintegration of Internally Displaced Iraqi families in the district.
UNDP’s approach to stability in Iraq includes support to stabilization in liberated areas through rehabilitation of infrastructure and services, livelihoods creation, strengthening local government capacities, and social cohesion. UNDP supports community readiness for the reintegration for thousands of Internally Displaced Iraqi families, including persons perceived as affiliated with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), who are often women and children, to ensure durable solutions for displacement. Between the first local peace agreement reached, which enabled 500 families perceived as affiliated with ISIL to return, and the celebration on 29 October 2022, all internally displaced familied have returned to Habbaniyah, Anbar.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad states, “Our approach to the return and reintegration of IDPs is innovative and multi-faceted. Following stabilization activities, our programming related to community reintegration includes shelter rehabilitation and psychosocial and livelihood support, with emphasis on community ownership. Following success in Habbaniyah, UNDP Iraq is expanding this programme to additional areas throughout the liberated governorates.”
During his speech, the Governor of Anbar, Mr. Ali Farhan, highlighted how achievements related to rehabilitation of infrastructure after liberation from ISIL in partnership with UNDP have created the enabling environment for the return of IDPs, in addition to the efforts of the local peace committees in Anbar to support social cohesion in communities and enhance reintegration, including for families perceived as affiliated with ISIL.
Saaed Al Jayashi, Strategic Advisor, Office of the National Security Advisory, emphasizes, “We are grateful for the efforts of UNDP in coordination with Anbar Governorate and the National Security Advisory, which has helped us to return displaced families from Habbaniyah to their place of origin. Today we celebrate a new stage for Iraq, turning the page on displacement, toward stability.”
Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration is anchored on the UN Iraq Joint Approach for Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration of persons perceived to be affiliated with ISIL in Iraq. It is part of UNDP Iraq’s five-year Social Cohesion Programme launched in January 2020 to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/205227-undp-local-and-national-authorities-and-community-leaders-celebrates-successful-community




Date: 30 October 2022
Title: UN SRSG meets women activists in Erbil, praises their role, reiterates support for Iraqi sovereignty
Content: 30 October 2022
Erbil, 30 October 2022 - The Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq, Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, met in Erbil today with a group of women from various political parties and civil society organizations in the Kurdistan Region. The group raised its concerns over repeated violations of Iraqi sovereignty and sought stronger UNAMI support in addressing the issue.
The Special Representative welcomed the women’s political engagement, commending their activism and sincere commitment to their country’s sovereignty and the wellbeing of its people. She welcomed their role as agents of change and emphasized the importance of continuous advocacy for human rights in all fields.
The SRSG further explained UNAMI’s mandate, the Mission’s good offices and advisory role in support of the Government and people of Iraq on a wide range of issues, including promoting regional peace, human rights and the protection of civilians. Ms. Hennis-Plasschaert reiterated her support for Iraqi sovereignty, which she said must be respected at all times. She also noted that ‘messaging by rockets’ is not the way to tackle disputes, rather actual diplomacy and dialogue are key to achieving peaceful and good neighborly relations.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/205236-un-srsg-meets-women-activists-erbil-praises-their-role-reiterates-support-iraqi-sovereignty




Date: 29 October 2022
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General – on Iraq
Content: 29 October 2022
The Secretary-General welcomes the formation of a new Government in Iraq, led by Prime Minister Mohammed S. Al-Sudani. He takes note of the appointment of women to three of the 21 ministerial positions filled on 27 October. The Secretary-General hopes the remaining two cabinet positions will be filled swiftly.
The Secretary-General urges the new Government to deliver on the long-standing demands of the people of Iraq for reform, accountability and a better future.
The Secretary-General reaffirms that the United Nations remains fully committed to supporting the Government and people of Iraq.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 28 October 2022
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/205205-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-iraq




Date: 28 October 2022
Title: UNDP, UNFPA, and Government of Iraq empower youth to achieve Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 28 October 2022
Erbil, Iraq, 27 October 2022 – Today, the United Nations Development Programme Iraq (UNDP) and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) have signed an agreement to jointly support the Government of Iraq in assessing the status of youth development in Iraq toward strengthening youth-focused policies, programmes, and budgets.
The Joint Cooperation Framework (JCF) will be implemented in cooperation with the Iraqi Ministry of Planning to ensure national ownership, effective partnership, and coordination, including cooperation with other relevant Iraqi government ministries. The project will begin in January 2023 and end in December 2024.
With a focus on adapting youth development index methodology to the Iraqi context, the project includes an in-depth analysis to identify the opportunities and challenges at each dimension of youth development in Iraq, which will form a basis to tailor policies and programmes to progress or regression of youth development as needed in various areas.
According to the Central Statistical Organization of Iraq, around 33% of the population in Iraq is between 10 and 24 years old, and the number of young people in Iraq is expected to reach 17.3 million by 2031. Ensuring accurate data on youth development at the governorate level will facilitate policy dialogue on youth engagement in reaching the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals in Iraq.
“Addressing the needs of youth is an absolute priority for stability, prosperity, and the long-term future of Iraq. The UN is working with the government to empower youth as they are our best hope to build a more peaceful future,” said Resident Coordinator Ghulam Isaczai, adding “We simply will not be able to end poverty, ensure gender equality, reverse climate change, and achieve the SDGs by 2030 if we fail to empower young people in all their yearning to create a better life for Iraq.”
“Monitoring the progress of development factors related to Iraq’s growing youth population is vital to implement actions that will benefit both the burgeoning youth population, and Iraq’s progress to achieving the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. This agreement is beneficial for all parties involved, towards inclusive progress in Iraq,” emphasized UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad.
"The young people of Iraq are a valuable resource for the country's sustainable development. However, they require all stakeholders' support to fulfil their aspirations. UNFPA is proud to partner with UNDP to assist the ministry of planning and the governorates in building a reliable database on youth development to ensure better policies and programmes for youth empowerment,” Dr. Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative stated.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/204989-undp-unfpa-and-government-iraq-empower-youth-achieve-sustainable-development-goals




Date: 27 October 2022
Title: UNAMI welcomes confirmation of Iraqi government, reaffirms readiness to support
Content: 27 October 2022
Baghdad, 27 October 2022 - The United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) welcomes the confirmation of Prime Minister Mohammed S. Al-Sudani’s government by the Council of Representatives. The swift completion of his cabinet is now an essential next step.
The new government faces many serious challenges that require decisive action. These will include addressing Iraq’s systematic corruption; implementing desperately needed reforms and delivering adequate services to all citizens; diversifying the economy; encouraging the meaningful participation of women and youth; tackling the effects of climate change; ending impunity and making perpetrators accountable; and reining in non-state armed actors while asserting the State’s authority.
A strong resolve, across the spectrum, to provide concrete solutions will prove vital. The United Nations reaffirms its steadfast commitment to supporting the government and people of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/204971-unami-welcomes-confirmation-iraqi-government-reaffirms-readiness-support




Date: 26 October 2022
Title: UNDP holds Community Reintegration Discussion Forum and launches studies on gender perspective of reintegration and Preventing Violent Extremism
Content: 26 October 2022
Erbil, Iraq, 26 October 2022 – Today UNDP Iraq has concluded a two-day discussion forum on reintegration in Iraq, bringing together over fifty key government representatives, non-governmental organizations, partners, and stakeholders from across Iraq to discuss the importance of reintegration in strengthening the social fabric of Iraq’s communities, especially those witnessing returns of families perceived as affiliated with ISIL, with focus on the caseload repatriated from Al-hol camp in north-east Syria.
The discussion forum, Community Reintegration in Iraq: Progress, Lessons Learned, and the Way Forwardincluded an inclusive discussion on reintegration efforts and lessons learned in Iraq and globally. Today, a key focus of discussion included the gender aspect of reintegration, including key findings from new UNDP studies on reintegration and the Prevention of Violent Extremism (PVE) from a gender-sensitive lens.
Launched today and available online, Between perpetration and prevention of violent extremism: Accounting for gender and Affiliated with ISIS: Challenges for the return and reintegration of women and children provide an overview of reintegration and violent extremism challenges which often disproportionately affect women and children. The studies and discussion are intended to contribute to advancing peace and stability in Iraq.
According to UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad, “It has been five years since ISIL has been defeated in Iraq, and attention must now be paid to target the remaining displaced Iraqis, including through the return and reintegration of the families with perceived affiliation to ISIL who are stigmatized, marginalized and hardest to return. UNDP, with our multitude of partners, is prioritizing community reintegration and rehabilitation efforts in Iraq, including a concentrated focus on women.”
Saaed Al Jayashi, Strategic Advisor, Office of the National Security Advisory, emphasizes, “Iraq will adopt the first complete national strategy for reintegration to be developed with support from UNDP, including an international exchange of experiences. The government of Iraq will build on the results of this discussion forum, to be reflected in the reintegration policies and plans of action.”
UNDP Iraq’s five-year Social Cohesion Programme launched in January 2020 to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/204771-undp-holds-community-reintegration-discussion-forum-and-launches-studies-gender-perspective




Date: 26 October 2022
Title: UNICEF Report – By 2050, every child in Iraq will be exposed to high heatwave frequency
Content: 26 October 2022
UNICEF warns urgent action is needed to increase funding for adaptation to protect children, and vulnerable communities from worsening heatwaves and other climate shocks.
BAGHDAD, 26 October 2022 – 559 million children are currently exposed to high heatwave frequency* globally, according to new research from UNICEF. Further, 624 million children are exposed to one of three other high heat measures - high heatwave duration, high heatwave severity or extreme high temperatures, with Iraq being among the countries currently with the highest child exposure to extreme high temperatures and most concerning forecasts for 2050.
The report The Coldest Year Of The Rest Of Their Lives: Protecting Children From The Escalating Impacts Of Heatwaves highlights the already extensive impact of heatwaves on children and reveals that, even at lower levels of global heating, in just three decades, more regular heatwaves are unavoidable for children everywhere.
The report estimates that by 2050, all of the world’s 2.02 billion children are expected to be exposed to high heatwave frequency, regardless of whether the world achieves a ‘low greenhouse gas emission scenario’ with an estimated 1.7 degrees of warming in 2050 or a ‘very high greenhouse gas emission scenario’ with an estimated 2.4 degrees of warming in 2050.
Forecast for Iraq is especially worrisome. While in 2020, only 6% of Iraqi children are exposed to high heatwave frequency, both scenarios for 2050 project not only that every single girl and boy in Iraq will be exposed to high heatwave frequency by that year, but they will also be exposed to high heatwave duration and extreme high temperatures.
Millions more children will be exposed to high heatwave severity and extreme high temperatures depending on the degree of global heating reached. Currently 23 countries fall into the highest category for child exposure to extreme high temperatures. This will rise to 33 countries by 2050 under the low emissions scenario and 36 countries under the very high emissions scenario. Iraq is among the countries in the highest category in both scenarios.
“As UNICEF Executive Director has stated, the mercury is rising and so are the impacts on children,” said Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. “Already, 9 out of 10 children in Iraq are exposed to extreme high temperatures, and it is only going to get worse. More children and young people will be impacted in Iraq by longer, hotter and more frequent heatwaves over the next thirty years, threatening their health and wellbeing, and likely worsening mental health conditions and impacting most vulnerable children, especially girls.” And she finished, “The two scenarios from the report demonstrate the need to take measures now. How devastating these changes will be depends on the actions we take now. Quoting our Executive Director, this is the only way to save children’s lives and futures – and the future of the planet.”
Young people in Iraq are taking action to respond to the impact of heatwaves. Mujtaba Jafar Abdulazeez Alshawi is a 20-year-old climate change activist, quoted in the UNICEF global report, “I got involved in climate change advocacy because climate change has a huge impact on Iraq, especially in my city, Misan. During the summer months the temperatures can reach as high as 50°C. The air conditioning is not available in all public places or at stops on the road, making it challenging to move around and deal with the heat.” Mujtaba is clear about the way forward, “We need to take action now. We need to implement and take previous climate agreements more seriously, like the Paris Agreement, as well as move to sustainability and not rely on materials that increase pollution.”
Produced in collaboration with The Data Collaborative for Children and launched in partnership with UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador Vanessa Nakate and Africa-based Rise Up Movement, these findings underscore the urgent need to adapt the services children rely on as unavoidable impacts of global heating unfold. It also makes a case for continued mitigation, to prevent the worst impacts of the other high heat measures, including longer and hotter heatwaves and higher extreme temperatures.
The report found high heatwave duration currently impacts 538 million, or 23 per cent of, children, including adolescents, globally. This will rise to 1.6 billion children in 2050 at 1.7 degrees warming, and 1.9 billion children at 2.4 degrees warming, emphasising the importance of urgent and dramatic emissions mitigation and adaptation measures to contain global heating and protect lives.
Heatwaves are especially damaging to children, as they are less able to regulate their body temperature compared to adults. The more heatwaves children are exposed to, the greater the chance of health problems including chronic respiratory conditions, asthma, and cardiovascular diseases. Babies and young children are at the greatest risk of heat-related mortality. Heatwaves can also affect children’s environments, their safety, nutrition and access to water, and their education and future livelihood.
UNICEF is calling on governments globally to:

#####
Notes to editors:
Download The Coldest Year Of The Rest Of Their Lives: Protecting Children From The Escalating Impacts Of Heatwaves’ report.
The report follows UNICEF’s publication of The Children’s Climate Risk Index in 2021. Read the CCRI here.
Download multimedia content here.

*Definitions
Heatwaves – any period of 3-days or more when the maximum temperature each day is in the top 10% of the local 15-day average.
High heatwave frequency - where there are on average 4.5 or more heatwaves per year.
High heatwave duration - where the average heatwave event lasted 4.7 days or longer.
High heatwave severity - where the average heatwave event is 2°C or more above the local 15-day average.
Extreme high temperatures - where, on average, 83.54 or more days a year exceed 35°C.
2050 scenario one - a ‘low greenhouse gas emission scenario’ with an estimated 1.7 degrees of warming by 2050. This is an established scenario used in climate modelling and defined by the IPCC as “SSP1”.
2050 scenario two - a ‘very high greenhouse gas emission scenario’ with an estimated 2.4 degrees of warming by 2050. This is an established scenario used in climate modelling and defined by the IPCC as “SSP5”.

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF in Iraq on our website,  Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/204733-unicef-report-%E2%80%93-2050-every-child-iraq-will-be-exposed-high-heatwave-frequency




Date: 25 October 2022
Title: Second Training of Agriculture extension staff on the implementation of Farmer Field Schools (FFS) in Basra
Content: 25 October 2022
Basra, Iraq, 25 October 2022
The Food and Agriculture Organization of The United Nations (FAO) in Iraq launched a second training for agriculture extension staff for 5 days to facilitate the implementation of “Farmer Field Schools” (FFS) in Basra, Thi-Qar and Missan Governorates. A total of 25 people participated, including 6 women.
The training is part of the “Restoration and Strengthening the Resilience of Agri-Food Systems Project in Southern Iraq” project, funded by the European Union (EU) and implemented by FAO Iraq in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture. The FFS approach is the methodology to work closely with farmers to jointly analyze production system, identify problems, test solutions, and adopt practices that are most appropriate for their farming systems in the field.
FAO Iraq representative Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan stated that, “FAO Iraq is working to strengthen the agricultural sector in Iraq and to create job opportunities to the rural families thanks to the EU’s financial support.”
Mr. Imad Nahal, International expert in FFS explained that “the FFS training approach is a practical learning process to enhance the ability of farmers that will in turn improve their income.
This project is part of a larger EU-funded “Agri-food Business Development Program that is implemented along other international partners and focuses on job creation in the agricultural sector.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/204700-second-training-agriculture-extension-staff-implementation-farmer-field-schools-ffs-basra




Date: 24 October 2022
Title: ILO and the Erbil Polytechnic University partner to develop local skills in Employment Intensive methods
Content: 24 October 2022
Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq - October 24, 2022 - The International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Erbil Polytechnic University (EPU) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to develop the skills of technicians and workers in cultural heritage development
The collaboration is part of the on-going project “Support to livelihoods through cultural heritage development” being implemented by ILO and UNESCO, to create decent job opportunities for internally displaced persons, Syrian refugees and host community members. The work focuses on applying Employment Intensive methods to restore and safeguard cultural heritage, with the support of the European Union.
Employment Intensive methods link infrastructure development with employment creation, poverty reduction and local economic and social development. They promote local resource-based approaches, that optimise the use of local resources such as labour, materials, tools and equipment. In addition, these approaches aim to upgrade available skills to improve the employability of workers in cultural heritage to implement conservation activities.
“Developing the skills and capacities of individuals employed in the local construction industry is an important and integrated element in ensuring the sustainability and impact of employment intensive approaches” said Maha Kattaa ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq. “We are pleased to partner with the Erbil Polytechnic University in this important initiative to ensure that more women and men acquire market relevant skills that have the potential to provide long-term and decent employment.”
The new partnership will include the development of technical manuals and guidelines to implement a certification programme that supports the recognition of acquired skills for future assignments in the cultural heritage sector. The ILO will build the capacities of trainers from EPU to implement the skills training programmes, and monitor their training activities.
The trainers will go on to implement the training programme with skilled workers and technicians working in historical site conservations in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. The trained labourers and skilled technicians will constitute a new and unique resource which could be utilized by governmental offices in charge of cultural heritage to rehabilitate the multitude of sites currently registered in the targeted locations.
“There are many construction projects in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and these construction projects will be risen and increased dramatically in the future. Thus, the Kurdistan market needs employees with skills in the field of urban development and construction,” said Dr. Edrees Muhammad Harki, President of EPU.
The training will focus on stone paving, clay bricks building, as well as skills related to tour guides. It will be implemented in coordination with UNESCO, the General Board of Tourism and the General Directorate of Antiquities in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
The ILO-UNESCO collaboration integrates employment-intensive approaches into the Conservation of Cultural Heritage Programme in Iraq, implemented by UNESCO under the “Support to Livelihoods Through Cultural Heritage Development” project, which is supported by the European Union (EU) Regional Trust Fundin response to the Syria crisis.
For more information, see Creating decent job opportunities through applying Employment Intensive Approaches at Cultural Heritage Conservation activities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/204487-ilo-and-erbil-polytechnic-university-partner-develop-local-skills-employment-intensive




Date: 24 October 2022
Title: Baharka Hospital officially opens in Erbil
Content: 24 October 2022
Erbil, Iraq, 24 October 2022 – The Baharka Hospital was inaugurated today by the Kurdistan Regional Government in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Federal Republic of Germany. It is a speciality hospital that is purpose-built to treat patients with airborne infections and respiratory illnesses.
The Kurdistan Regional Government’s Department of Health constructed the main hospital building, while UNDP undertook the electrical and mechanical works. In addition, UNDP provided life-saving medical equipment required to establish isolation rooms, medical furniture, and ventilators. The electrical and mechanical works, and medical equipment were funded by the Federal Republic of Germany through KfW Development Bank. While the Kurdistan Regional Government funded the civil works through various sources.
The hospital in Erbil has 38 beds and 30 isolation wards with the ability to provide specialised medical treatment and services to patients with respiratory illnesses. Currently, it is being operated and managed by Erbil’s Department of Health. It will serve a catchment population of over 1 million residents.
On the importance of the hospital, Director-General of Health Dr. Dlovan Fati says, "Baharka hospital will allow us to treat patients with airborne infections and respiratory illnesses. The opening of this hospital represents the passion, determination and hard work of the health department to improve access to health care services in Erbil. We thank UNDP and Germany for their generous support with making this a reality. We will continue to work hard and ensure high-quality health care services are provided.”
“The new hospital is critical for Erbil to provide isolation facilities and speciality care for patients with airborne infectious diseases, such as COVID-19, chickenpox, and tuberculosis. This well-equipped facility will also help reduce the pressure on nearby health centres during an infectious outbreak, providing timely patient care and a purpose-built environment for healthcare workers,” says UNDP Resident Representative for Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“This hospital would not have been established without the generous support from one of our longest-standing partners, the Federal Republic of Germany. Together with Germany, we have made tremendous contributions towards reviving the health sector in Iraq after years of instability and conflict,” she adds.
“Our support to the Barhaka hospital and UNDP stands in line with the significant contributions of Germany to the Iraqi and Kurdish health sector with more than US$410 million since 2014. Germany underlines its commitment to working jointly with our Iraqi and Kurdish partners in rebuilding the country. In the future, Iraqi and Kurdish ownership will be important at all levels in order to ensure the sustainability of our engagement,” says Klaus Streicher, Consul General of Germany.
“We at KfW Development Bank are pleased and honoured to join in celebrating the inauguration of Baharka hospital which is indeed very special as it presents a direct cooperation and collaboration between the Kurdistan Regional Government and UNDP. We particularly look forward to seeing Baharka hospital utilized at the earliest, serving the public and assisting those in need of medical services,” says Dr. Christine Heimburger, Director Department Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, KfW Development Bank.
Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, UNDP has supported the Government of Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government in strengthening its response to airborne infectious disease outbreaks. This facility is one of the nineteen speciality health centres established across the country by UNDP.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/204441-baharka-hospital-officially-opens-erbil




Date: 24 October 2022
Title: Explosive ordnance incident at Shatt al-Arab near Basra kills 2, injures 1
Content: 24 October 2022
Basra, 24 October 2022 – Two Iraqi members of a team working for a United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) implementing partner were killed and a third was injured in an incident at an explosive ordnance clearance site at Shatt al-Arab near Basra in southern Iraq today.
The incident occurred in the early morning at the site managed by Al Khebra Al Fania (AKAF), which is one of UNMAS Iraq’s implementing partners. The injured person was reported to be in stable condition in hospital.
UNMAS Iraq and the entire UN family in Iraq convey their deepest condolences to the families of the deceased and wish the injured person a speedy recovery.
UNMAS is working closely with the Iraqi Directorate for Mine Action to investigate and review the incident to understand if any conditions can be addressed and precautions implemented to reduce the risk of such incidents in the future.
AKAF has been a partner of UNMAS for the last two years and cleared hundreds of items of explosive ordnance in the Shatt al-Arab area. The clearance operations are essential for the safety of impacted communities and safe access to land for agricultural activities and development.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/204489-explosive-ordnance-incident-shatt-al-arab-near-basra-kills-2-injures-1




Date: 21 October 2022
Title: Task Force of Kurdistan Region of Iraq: A step to review and refine the current classification systems in KRG-I
Content: 21 October 2022
Erbil, Iraq : The criminal justice system in Iraq including the Kurdistan region has been weakened through years of conflict and. Most recently, the rise and fall of ISIL has placed significant strain on already challenged reformatory and detention facilities. The UNODC mandate includes a Criminal Justice Reform strategy encompassing police reform, prosecution service, judiciary, access to legal defense and legal aid, restorative justice, prison reform and alternatives to imprisonment.
Within the framework of the Returning Foreign Terrorist Fighter Detention Program, (FTF), funded by the U.S. government and under UNODC Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa, UNODC-Iraq  with the collaboration of Directorate of Reformatory – Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MOLSA) / Kurdistan Regional Government - Iraq (KRG-I) conducted the inaugural meeting of KRI Task Force to review the recommendations of the Assessment of reformatories  and Children’s Detention Facilities conducted in Kurdistan Region of Iraq in June 2020 and to agree on the required actions to respond to these recommendation. The Task Force meeting also focused on the need to review and reform the current classification system to which inmates are subjected, with due consideration given to relevant legislative provisions.
The meeting was conducted on 20 October 2022 with 20 representatives from Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Education, MOLSA, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Health, Human Right Department.
During the meeting, the UNODC presented a series of recommendations from the aforementioned assessment. These recommendations seek to present core thematic areas of concern and provide guidance on how to address them.
In line with the recommendations, the UNODC discussed the classifications of inmates with members of the Task Force. The UNODC emphasized that a well-designed and managed classification process is the cornerstone of an effective reformatory system and fundamental to the protection of human rights. The UNODC explained that classification has a direct impact on the effectiveness of interventions aimed at deradicalizing inmates and their disengagement from violence; and well as assisting in general management, and the safety and security of inmates, reformatory staff and the general public; the humane custody of inmates; and the ability to individualize case and sentence planning in addition to increasing the cost-effectiveness of operating a reformatory system.
In this line, the General Director of the Reformatory Directorate, Mr. Ihasan Abdulrahman said ”There are multiple challenges, and the Directorate of Reformatory is working hard to address them. Nevertheless, cooperation with other governmental authorities and the support of UNODC are vital keys to overcome these challenges and achieve future development in reformatory facilities. We will draw on the international expertise provided by UNODC to enhance the reformatory system in KRG-I and strengthen the capacity of the reformatory staff”.
The meeting concluded with agreements on the next steps. Alined with SDG 17 and through its continued partnerships with local authorities, the UNODC aims to strengthen Iraq’s institutional capacity to develop and integrate the relevant classifications tools into practice, enabling reformatory staff to perform their tasks in an effective, professional manner to manage and mitigate the threats posed by terrorists and FTF inmates. International best practices will be examined and adapted to the local context.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/204258-task-force-kurdistan-region-iraq-step-review-and-refine-current-classification-systems-krg-i




Date: 20 October 2022
Title: FAO strengthens Iraq’s animal disease surveillance and reporting system capacity through the Event Mobile Application (E MA-i)
Content: 20 October 2022
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture conducted a training workshop on the Event Mobile Application (EMA-i) in Baghdad from 17 to 19 October 2022.
Good quality disease information and reporting is needed in order to understand the disease situation, support decision-making, prevent potential disease incursion and respond quickly. Thus, it is crucial to apply a system at national level to enhance veterinary services’ capacities in disease reporting from the field to decision-makers and information sharing among stakeholders. For this reason, FAO has developed EMA-i for data collection and to facilitate real-time disease reporting to support veterinary services’ capacities in disease surveillance implemented in the field.
Using smartphones, animal disease information is collected with the EMA-i application from the field. These data, which are geo-referenced, are entered into the app and safely stored in the FAO Emergency Prevention System (EMPRES) Global Animal Disease Information System (EMPRES-i). Through the financial support of the United States Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), the training targeted 32 participants from the veterinary departments of six governorates; Al-Anbar, Al-Muthanna, Basrah, Dohuk, Ninewa and Wasit in addition to Baghdad and Erbil, and representatives from the Ministry of Health as part of the One Health approach. The training aimed to improve animal disease data collection and real-time reporting of animal disease outbreaks from the field to the national level by using the EMA-i application.
Dr.Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, underlined the importance of this joint collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (KRG) to improve animal health and strengthen health and livelihoods in the region. He added: “This training of trainers on the Event Mobile Application (EMA-i) aims at enhancing early warning systems and will ultimately contribute to the reduction of the food and health security threats posed by emerging, transboundary and endemic pathogens.”
Veronica Quattrola, FAO Deputy Representative in Iraq stated that: “The use of the EMA-i app in other countries has demonstrated major improvements in animal disease reporting and communication between districts and central level. This training on the use of EMA-i technology in Iraq is timely and will strengthen the overall capacity of the livestock and veterinary services in animal diseases, reporting, early warning and surveillance.”
Using this technology will improve the quantity and quality of reports allowing for effective and immediate action during the occurrence of a disease outbreak – in terms of detection, reporting and response.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/204012-fao-strengthens-iraq%E2%80%99s-animal-disease-surveillance-and-reporting-system-capacity-through




Date: 19 October 2022
Title: Sustainable Agriculture forum held in Babylon to celebrate World Food Day
Content: 19 October 2022
18 October 2022, Babylon- Under the patronage of the Ministry of Agriculture, the World Food Day was celebrated jointly with FAO Iraq at Al-Mustaqbal University College in Babel Governorate as part of  the Future Forum for Sustainable Agriculture event with the slogan “Sustainable Rural Agricultural Development, the Way to Achieving Food and Eradicating Poverty” with the presence of the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Prof. Dr. Mahdi Sahar Al-Jubouri, the Dean of the Faculty of Al-Mustaqbal University, Dr. Hassan Shaker Magdy and FAO Iraq Representative, Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan.
A number of agricultural producing companies, farmers, the local community, representatives from academia and government attended the event and discussed the food security situation in Iraq and the world and visited the exhibition of locally produced agricultural products in Iraq and within the University College
Dr. Salah Elhajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq highlighted the importance of the World Food Day and the greatest challenges to overcome food insecurity for all. “From 2008 to 2018, globally, agriculture, including crops, livestock, forestry, fisheries and aquaculture, absorbed 26% of the overall impact caused by medium-to-large scale disasters and Iraq is one of the country most affected. He added that “High salinity and drought are a serious threat to Iraq ecosystem in the south, especially the marshes. The ancient Mesopotamia, the cradle of human civilization where farmers depended for thousands of years on fishing and raising buffaloes in the fertile aquatic marshes, is under the threat of water scarcity and the deterioration of its quality; we need to act jointly to address these challenges.”
The Deputy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mahdi Sahar Al-Jubouri indicated that there is a significant decline in the cultivated areas due to a shortage water revenue. Therefore, he stressed the continuation of work and negotiations to reach a joint agreement that guarantees equitable water releases for Iraq and adopt efficient agricultural strategies to ensure food security by supporting farmers.
The Dean, Prof. Dr. Hassan Shaker Magdy stressed the need to organize capacity building trainings to support the important academic role in developing the means of production and strengthening areas of collaboration with FAO. He also acknowledged FAO efforts in supporting country’s agriculture sector, enhancing food security and improving rural livelihoods.
FAO is able to deliver its interventions thanks to the continuous commitment and support of its partners in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/203941-sustainable-agriculture-forum-held-babylon-celebrate-world-food-day




Date: 18 October 2022
Title: FAO Iraq workshop on vegetable nursery and production of seedlings in Nineveh
Content: 18 October 2022
18 October 2022, Erbil, Iraq– The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq concluded recently a three-day workshop in cooperation with Iraq Horticulture Development Program “IHD” and ECO Consult funded by the Ministry of foreign affairs of Netherland, focusing on the nursery management for the production of vegetable seedlings to increase farmers’ Skills and Knowledge development in vegetable seedlings production.
15 farmers and extension staff from Nineveh governorate joined. The training course covered vegetable nursery, nursery Location, seeds treatment, vegetable seedlings production techniques including seed planting, irrigation, seedlings care, misting and hardening of seedlings, fertilization, prevention of fungal and insect infestation and pest control.

FAO Iraq is working to develop the vegetable production chain and introduce seedling production technology in Nineveh Governorate through groups of farmers through the project "support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh Governorate, Iraq" funded by the European Union and in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, within which 10 greenhouses with accessories were constructed and installed in Zumar and Hamam Al-Alil districts. This technology is expected to improve the production of vegetable crops in quantity and quality, and increase the returns of vegetable farmers, and thus improve farmers' income and improve the quality of local agricultural products.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/203714-fao-iraq-workshop-vegetable-nursery-and-production-seedlings-nineveh




Date: 17 October 2022
Title: Joint Statement by FAO & WFP in Iraq on World Food Day
Content: 17 October 2022
17   October 2022 - The world is at risk of yet another year of record hunger as the global food crisis continues to drive yet more people into worsening levels of acute food insecurity, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) warn. On World Food Day (16 October), the two agencies call for urgent action to address the root causes of today’s crisis as the world continues to face challenges without borders, including Iraq.
Iraq, known commonly as the “Land of Two Rivers” has been experiencing increased drought for the past two years, brought about by the rising temperatures, reduced rainfall which is the lowest in 40 years in addition to reduced water flows in Tigris and the Euphrates rivers. This led to degradation of arable land, increased water, and soil salinity, which all contribute to serious loss of livelihoods and an increased pressure on the state national budget, which imports cereals to ensure enough food, is available to the population.
“Iraq remains one of the most affected countries globally by the adverse effects of climate change. Unless mitigation and adaptation are implemented, the future may not be promising for the small holder farmers and vulnerable groups in Iraq,” said WFP Iraq Representative, Mr. Ally Raza Qureshi. “We at WFP believe that food is the path towards peace and as such, serious action must be taken immediately by the Government of Iraq and the International community to adopt climate smart food systems and long-term resilience building in order to ensure that Iraq and its people are able to navigate these testing times.”
“This year slogan for the World Food Day Leave no one behind. Better production, better nutrition, a better environment, and a better life, underlines the need for concerted action to ensure that everyone has access to adequate, healthy, and affordable food while maximizing environmental sustainability in particular in Iraq where climate change is disproportionally affecting the rural poor, their agricultural yields and productivity” said FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr Salah ElHajjHassan. “Each of us has a role to play in transforming food systems for the benefit of people and the planet; FAO is committed to empower the most vulnerable in Iraq, including women and youth, through the transformation to more efficient, inclusive, sustainable, and resilient agrifood systems. We need to act in global solidarity to ensure that no one is left behind and become climate advocates by wasting less, eating nutritious food, in particular seasonal and locally produced foods and caring for natural resources like soil and water”.
In 2021, Iraq developed a plan to increase the efficiency, inclusiveness, resilience, and inclusivity of its agri-food systems as part of the Food Systems Summit. This was done to ensure that everyone everywhere has access to enough affordable, safe, and nutritious food to lead active and healthy lives.
Twenty percent of the Iraq’s workforce are engaged in the agricultural sector, which is the second largest contributor to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP) after the oil sector, accounting for 5 percent of the total GDP. Thus, agriculture development is critical to allow Iraq to achieve their vision of a more diversified economy, in addition to generating employment and boosting private sector engagement. In this regard, urgent work must be undertaken on the levels of investing in research and development in an effort to make farming more technologically advanced and capable of handling adverse climate conditions and financially viable in the country, in addition to Agri-business and value chain development to increase profit margins and encourage farmers not to abandon their lands, which is not merely a detriment to their incomes, but also drives up local food costs and shortages, affecting entire communities. It is also paramount to discuss the issue of food waste, which decreases the availability of food intended for human consumption. This has consequences for the environment, natural resources, and the overall economy.
FAO and WFP together with the Government, private sector, academia, civil society will continue working together to prioritize food security, to increase local food production and to strengthen the resilience of the most vulnerable households. Immediate joint action is key to ensuring sustainable food and nutrition security while leaving no one behind.

Dr. Salah ElHajjHassan, FAO Representative, Iraq
Ally Raza Qureshi, WFP Representative, Iraq
#                   #                   #
About FAO
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) is a specialized agency that leads international efforts to defeat hunger. It aims at transforming agri-food systems, making them more efficient, inclusive, resilient, and sustainable for better production, better nutrition, better environment, and better life, leaving no-one behind. FAO’s goal is to achieve food security for all and make sure that people have regular access to enough high-quality food to lead active, healthy lives. With over 194 Members, FAO works in over 130 countries worldwide.
About WFP
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Iraq @WFP_Mena
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/203643-joint-statement-fao-wfp-iraq-world-food-day




Date: 12 October 2022
Title: Training of Agriculture extension staff on the implementation of Farmer Field Schools (FFS) In Basra Governorate
Content: 12 October 2022
Basra, Iraq, 10 October 2022 - The Food and Agriculture Organization of The United Nations (FAO) in Iraq launched a 5-day training for agriculture extension staff to facilitate the implementation of “Farmer Field Schools” (FFS) in Basra, ThiQar and Missan Governorates. In total, 25 people participated, including 6 women.
The training is part of the “Restoration and Strengthening the Resilience of Agri-Food Systems Project in Southern Iraq” project, funded by the European Union and implemented by FAO-Iraq in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture in Iraq. The FFS approach is the methodology to work closely with farmers to jointly analyse their production system, identify problems, test solutions, and adopt practices that are most appropriate for their farming systems in the field.
FAO Iraq representative Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan said “The FFS training approach is a hands-on learning process to promote modern, sustainable and good agricultural practices of farmers that will improve their income. FAO Iraq is working to strengthen the agricultural sector in Iraq and to create job opportunities to the rural families thanks to the European Union financial support. This project is part of a larger EU-funded “Agri-food Business Development Program” that is implemented together with other international partners and focuses fully on job creation in the agricultural sector.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/202914-training-agriculture-extension-staff-implementation-farmer-field-schools-ffs-basra




Date: 11 October 2022
Title: IOM, MOLSA Sign Cooperation Agreement to Support Implementation of Yezidi Survivors
Content: 11 October 2022
11 October 2022 - Baghdad — On 10 October, the General Directorate for Survivors Affairs under the Iraqi Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs (MOLSA) signed a Cooperation Agreement with the International Organization for Migration (IOM), aimed at supporting the implementation of the landmark Yezidi Survivors Law (YSL), adopted in 2021.
The YSL established a framework for providing financial support and other forms of redress to survivors of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant’s (ISIL) atrocities against Iraq’s Yezidi, Shabak, Christian and Turkmen communities. Though progress has been made on this front by the Government of Iraq, Iraqi civil society and international organizations, survivors continue to live in immense need.
The Directorate is mandated with implementing the YSL through the provision of individual reparations and the coordination of other transitional justice measures to address the legacy of ISIL’s genocide and crimes against humanity.
 
Under this Agreement, IOM Iraq will support the implementation of activities to strengthen the Directorate’s capacity to fulfill its mandate, including through capacity building, technical guidance, material assistance and outreach among survivors, affected communities and the general public. Signatories also commit to exchanging expertise and best practices in the field of reparations and transitional justice.
 
The signing of this Agreement is in line with an already-established close partnership between the Directorate and IOM Iraq in the preparation of the application process for reparations under the YSL.
 
“IOM Iraq remains committed to working with MOLSA and the Directorate to support a trauma-informed, survivor-centred process that helps reparations reach survivors in a timely and efficient fashion,” said Mr. Giorgi Gigauri, Chief of Mission for IOM in Iraq. “Many survivors remain in protracted displacement, and those who have returned home are not significantly better off. By building capacity at the national and local levels, we can together contribute to durable solutions for these displacement-affected survivors.”
 
Director General Sarab Alias Barakat said: “Today, we – the General Directorate for Survivors’ Affairs of the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs – are happy to cooperate with IOM Iraq. Since the YSL was enacted, IOM has supported the Directorate by providing technical expertise, training and material and logistical support. If had it not been for IOM’s support, the Directorate would not have reached this progress in the implementation of the YSL. We look forward to further cooperation in the future.”
 
Survivors can apply to receive benefits under the YSL by submitting an application directly through the Directorate’s online portal, or by scheduling an in-person meeting at the Directorate’s main office in Mosul or any of its branch office locations and submitting an application during the meeting.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/202874-iom-molsa-sign-cooperation-agreement-support-implementation-yezidi-survivors




Date: 10 October 2022
Title: A year after hard-earned elections: the time to act is now
Content: 10 October 2022
Baghdad, 10 October 2022 - A year ago, Iraqis went to the polls with the hope of charting a new future for their country. It was a hard-earned election, brought about by public pressure from nationwide protests in which several hundreds of young Iraqis lost their lives and thousands were injured. Regretfully, this reaffirmation of democracy was followed by divisive politics, generating bitter public disillusion.
Today, Iraq is running out of time. The protracted crisis is breeding further instability, and recent events are a testament to that. In addition, it threatens people’s livelihoods. The adoption of a budget for 2023 before the end of the year is imperative.

Relentless efforts were undertaken in the past weeks and months for all actors to embark on a path towards political stability, but to no avail. It is now time for the political class to assume responsibility and match words with action.

All actors must engage in dialogue without preconditions. Through compromise, they must collectively agree on key outcomes that reaffirm their publicly stated objective, which is to service the needs of the Iraqi people and establish a fully empowered and effective government. The time to act is now.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/202651-year-after-hard-earned-elections-time-act-now




Date: 08 October 2022
Title: UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum Holds Its Fourth Biannual Plenary Roundtable, Convening In Person For The First Time
Content: 08 October 2022
Baghdad, 06 October 2022 – The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) held on Wednesday its Fourth Biannual Plenary Roundtable meeting of the UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum, which was the first convening of the Forum as an in-person meeting.
The biannual roundtable meeting, which has been holding its meetings virtually since December 2020, brought together 50 participants this time, from both Iraqi and international NGOs together with UNITAD team members, to share insights and engage in a lively discussion on issues pertaining to the work of UNITAD and the cooperation with the NGO community.
“I firmly believe that the UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum is an important arm of collaboration and cooperation between UNITAD and the NGO community; and the Forum goes hand in hand with the excellent cooperation at the operational level that is happening daily between various units of UNITAD and many NGO partners” said Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher in his opening remarks.
Participating NGO representatives gave an overview about their work, with many giving examples about the existing cooperation with UNITAD or offering suggestions on potential future cooperation. They also were introduced to several UNITAD investigators and heads of units who are working with their respective communities; affected by ISIL crimes.  Additionally, many speakers introduced some of the major concerns of survivor and victim communities. The Team and the NGOs’ representatives also discussed UNITAD’s investigative priorities and how NGOs can contribute with a significant role in the investigations and outreach to victims and survivors. Additionally, a speaker from the Shabak community gave remarks as part of the Forum’s commitment to dedicate a space for different voices of affected communities.
Special Adviser Ritscher also noted how engaging and constructive the events of the UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum have been, expressing his confidence that this engagement will only increase as the Forum moves to in person interactions, “which makes this platform even more engaging and conducive for deeper communication, collaboration and opening the doors for new cooperation,” as he expressed.
The UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum has been convening two types of events; the first is a series of thematic roundtable discussions in a panel-format, addressing specific thematic areas relating to UNITAD’s investigative activities. The events bring together international and local experts with UNITAD team member for an in-depth discussion on one theme for each roundtable. While the second type of events is the biannual plenary roundtable which aim to provide a broader update on the work of UNITAD, and to serve as an open platform for suggestions on how to better engage with NGOs. The plenary biannual meeting also serves as a space where survivors and community leaders can have their voices heard by both UNITAD and the NGO community.

************************************
For More Information, please contact Public Information Officer (Maha Thaher) for the
United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL,
E-mail: UNITAD-PIO@un.org

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/202528-unitad-ngo-dialogue-forum-holds-its-fourth-biannual-plenary-roundtable-convening-person




Date: 06 October 2022
Title: Marking World Teachers´ Day, 1,000 teachers finalize their training in Al- Qadisiyah on ICT-based distance learning (e-pedagogy)
Content: 06 October 2022
The e-pedagogy training, currently being finalized in 4 governorates in Iraq, will reach 4,000 teachers, equipping them with online teaching and learning methodologies, to enhance their e-skills to support children during crises.
Al- Qadisiyah, 6 October 2022 – Marking World Teachers´ Day Celebration on 5 October, the Directorate of Education (DoE) in Al- Qadisiyah Governorate finalized the training of 1,000 teachers on the ICT-based distance learning (e-pedagogy), implemented by UNICEF and UNESCO thanks to European Union funding. These 1,000 teachers are part of the roll-out of the training for 4,000 teachers who are about to finalize their training on improved e-pedagogy in four Directorates of Education (Basra, Qadissiya, Thiqar and Rasafa 3).
The program's main objective is, using interactive online teaching and learning methodologies, to enhance teachers e-skills, enabling them to implement newly acquired knowledge to support children during crises.
“This training, about to be finalized by 4,000 teachers, is a milestone in strengthening resilience of Iraq’s education system, by providing digital tools to teachers to deliver quality and inclusive education, even at the time when face-to-face learning might be challenged by natural or manmade hazards. Let World Teachers´ Day serve to reaffirm UNICEF’s commitment to support the Ministry of Education, jointly with UNESCO and funded by the European Union, in mainstreaming e-pedagogy as a strategic tool for every teacher in Iraq”, said Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq.
Recognizing the central role of Teachers in delivering quality teaching and learning, UNESCO declared 5thOctober as the World Teachers’ Day in 1994. This years’ theme is “Transformation of Education Begins with Teachers.”
“In Iraq, UNESCO is supporting the Ministry of Education to strengthen teachers’ knowledge, skills and competencies in ICT based distance teaching and learning methodologies to ensure continuity of learning during any emergency such as COVID-19, which may disrupt access to face-to-face learning. UNESCO has mobilized the support of international partners, in particular the European Union to activate online learning platforms, introduced the blended learning approaches and tools for teachers and is supporting delivery of training to 4000 teachers in partnership with UNICEF”, said Paolo Fontani, Director and UNESCO Representative to Iraq.
The e-pedagogy training, added to the Education Management Information Systems put in place, and the Governorate level Education Sector Plans, supported by UNESCO and UNICEF, are key parts of the joint work with the Ministry of Education, supported by the European Union to strengthen systems and build the capacity of the educational system in Iraq.

About UNESCO
Globally and in Iraq, UNESCO’s mission is to contribute to the building of a culture of peace, eradication of poverty, sustainable development and intercultural dialogue through education, the sciences, culture, communication and information.
For more information about UNESCO visit https://www.unesco.org/en
Follow UNESCO in Iraq on our website, Twitter and Facebook.

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. 
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF in Iraq on our website,  Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/202532-marking-world-teachers%C2%B4-day-1000-teachers-finalize-their-training-al-qadisiyah-ict-based




Date: 04 October 2022
Title: Angela Merkel to receive UNHCR Nansen Refugee Award for protecting refugees at height of Syria crisis
Content: 04 October 2022
GENEVA – UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, announced today that Dr. Angela Merkel, the former Federal Chancellor of Germany, will receive the 2022 UNHCR Nansen Refugee Award.
Each year, the award – named after the Norwegian explorer, scientist, diplomat and humanitarian Fridtjof Nansen – is given to an individual, group or organization who has gone above and beyond the call of duty to protect refugees, internally displaced or stateless people.
Under then Federal Chancellor Merkel’s leadership, Germany welcomed more than 1.2 million refugees and asylum seekers in 2015 and 2016 – at the height of the conflict in Syria and amid deadly violence in other places.
At that time, the then Chancellor said: “It was a situation which put our European values to the test as seldom before. It was no more and no less than a humanitarian imperative.” She called on her fellow Germans to reject divisive nationalism and urged them instead to be “self-assured and free, compassionate and open-minded”.
Filippo Grandi, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, praised former Federal Chancellor Merkel’s determination to protect asylum seekers and to stand up for human rights, humanitarian principles and international law. “By helping more than a million refugees to survive and rebuild, Angela Merkel displayed great moral and political courage,” Grandi said.
“It was true leadership, appealing to our common humanity, standing firm against those who preached fear and discrimination. She showed what can be achieved when politicians take the right course of action and work to find solutions to the world’s challenges rather than simply shift responsibility to others.”
The selection committee said it was recognizing former Federal Chancellor Merkel’s “leadership, courage and compassion in ensuring the protection of hundreds of thousands of desperate people” as well as her efforts to find “viable long-term solutions” for those seeking safety.
As well as protecting people forced to flee war, persecution and human rights abuses, the former Chancellor was the driving force behind Germany’s collective efforts to receive them and help them integrate into society, through education and training programmes, employment schemes and labour market integration. She was also key in expanding Germany’s resettlement programme, which helped protect tens of thousands of vulnerable refugees.
She was also instrumental in ensuring Germany’s growth as a substantive, reliable and active humanitarian partner, including in refugee operations around the world. Both her policies and her public statements were positive forces in European and global debates on issues of asylum and the management of crises of forced displacement.
The UNHCR Nansen Refugee Award selection committee has also honoured four regional winners for 2022:





The award will be presented to the former German Chancellor in Geneva on 10 October at a ceremony along with the regional winners.

With the number of forcibly displaced people around the world passing 100 million for the first time, Grandi said it was imperative that the public retain their sense of compassion towards those forced to flee their homes – and that countries continue to uphold the ancient tradition of asylum, as have most countries, including longstanding and generous hosts like Türkiye, Pakistan, Uganda and others.

This year marks a century since Fridtjof Nansen – the first High Commissioner for Refugees – was awarded the 1922 Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to repatriate prisoners of war and to protect millions of refugees displaced by conflict, revolution and the collapse of the Romanov, Ottoman and Austro-Hungarian Empires.

It is also 100 years since the creation of the Nansen passport, an identity document for refugees, many of them stateless, that also enabled its holders to move across borders in search of work.
Media page: https://www.unhcr.org/media-nansen-refugee-award-2022

Notes:

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/201978-angela-merkel-receive-unhcr-nansen-refugee-award-protecting-refugees-height-syria-crisis




Date: 30 September 2022
Title: Building health system resilience in Iraq: Investing in the management of pharmaceuticals and biomedical technologies
Content: 30 September 2022
Erbil, 29 September 2022 – The World Health Organization (WHO) in Iraq, in partnership with the Ministry of Health in the Kurdistan region, opened new WHO warehouses located within the Kurdistan Ministry of Health storage area in the Erbil governorate.
The inauguration marks the initial phase of a major transition from direct service provision to building resilience in the health sector and strengthening health systems, including the investment in the management of pharmaceuticals and biomedical technologies. Similar action is scheduled for all governorates in an endeavor to strengthen the health system in Iraq and enhance national capacities in the areas of procurement, storage, dispatch and overall management of pharmaceuticals and medical technologies across the country.
“I’m extremely pleased to oversee this significant shift in the area of medical technologies forecasting, procurement, storage and management. This represents a cornerstone in our drive toward health systems reform in Iraq,” said Dr Ahmed Zouiten WHO Representative in Iraq. “We are determined, alongside our counterparts in the Ministry of Health in the Kurdistan region and at federal levels to strengthen the medical technologies supply chain as an investment bringing us one step closer to achieving universal health coverage in Kurdistan and in all the governorates of Iraq,” Dr Zouiten added.
A warehouse area of 2000 sqm, enough to accommodate over 1000 pallets, was designated by the Ministry of Health in Kurdistan to WHO earlier this year. The new warehouses were renovated and furnished according to international standards with a digitalized inventory system. A training and mentoring programme will be undertaken by a WHO technical team with the aim of standardizing and improving the pharmaceutical and medical technologies supply chain management across the country.
“Managing medicine and medical equipment is a pillar of the health system as without good medicine and medical equipment there would be no access to health and consequently no universal health coverage,” Dr Zouiten concluded.
This programme and all the achievements made so far would not have been possible without the effective partnerships with and support from our main donors, including the European Commission of Humanitarian Aid, USAID's Bureau for Humanitarian Assistance, the States Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, State of Kuwait, and the Government of Germany.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/201477-building-health-system-resilience-iraq-investing-management-pharmaceuticals-and-biomedical




Date: 29 September 2022
Title: Joint Statement by FAO & WFP in Iraq on International Day of Awareness of Food Loss and Waste
Content: 29 September 2022
BAGHDAD – On the International Day of Awareness of Food Loss and Waste (IDAFLW), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) call for action to address food loss and adopt sustainable food waste management in Iraq.
IDAFLW aims to raise awareness about food loss, waste issues and possible solutions, to promote global efforts and collective actions toward meeting Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) target 12.3 that aims at halving per capita global food waste at retail and consumer levels and reducing food losses along production and supply chains, including post-harvest losses by 2030.
We call upon the Government of Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government to establish develop national targets and strategies in line with SDG 12.3. We also call on the government to encouraging supply chain collaboration with the aim to reduce food waste during production, processing and storage stages as well as support innovative behavioral changes to shift and reduce consumer food waste norms.
To reduce food waste in Iraq, efforts must be made to encourage improved behavioral practices among food providers and consumers, as well as increased investments in intra-regional trade and the modernization of food supply chains.
Globally, while more than 820 million people go to bed hungry each night, FAO estimates that one-third of global food production – estimated at 1.3 billion tons of food – is annually lost or wasted along the supply chain, amounting to a financial loss of about US$ 1 trillion annually. The food produced but never eaten would be enough to feed two billion people. That's more than twice the number of people on the verge of famine across the globe.
Food production has environmental and monetary costs and has become increasingly difficult in the current climatic condition with an ever-increasing population is very difficult. Food waste and food loss drains valuable resources such as water, land, energy, labour and capital especially in the region; one of the world’s most affected by water scarcity.
The impact of food waste on the environment is also massive; it is estimated that food loss contributes 6-8% of all human-caused greenhouse gas emissions, effectively helping accelerate climate change. Most of the discarded food ends up in landfills, and as it decomposes it produces methane, a greenhouse gas that has 80 times the warming power of carbon dioxide.
FAO and WFP renew their commitment to work with both governments to develop and implement “awareness campaigns” and “food banks” to mitigate food waste by collecting unserved food and channeling it to people who need it and complement Iraq’s efforts to end poverty, reduce hunger and improve human health.
#                           #                            #


About FAO
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) is a specialized agency that leads international efforts to defeat hunger. It aims at transforming agri-food systems, making them more efficient, inclusive, resilient and sustainable for better production, better nutrition, better environment and better life, leaving no-one behind. FAO’s goal is to achieve food security for all and make sure that people have regular access to enough high-quality food to lead active, healthy lives. With over 194 Members, FAO works in over 130 countries worldwide.

About WFP
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Iraq @WFP_Mena





The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/201425-joint-statement-fao-wfp-iraq-international-day-awareness-food-loss-and-waste




Date: 29 September 2022
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Iraq
Content: 29 September 2022
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General 
New York, 28 September 2022
The Secretary-General is following with concern the reported shelling of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, including in civilian areas. He calls for an immediate de-escalation and urges respect for Iraq’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and the principle of good neighborly relations.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/201405-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-iraq




Date: 29 September 2022
Title: UNICEF condemns attack on school in Koya and calls on all parties to respect the Safe Schools Declaration
Content: 29 September 2022
Statement attributable to Ms. Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq
BAGHDAD, 28 September 2022- “UNICEF abhors and condemns the attack which impacted a school today in a refugee settlement in Koya, in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
“At least two children were injured, and one pregnant woman was killed, according to initial reports. UNICEF extends its sincere condolences to the families and friends of those killed and wishes the injured children a fast and complete recovery.
“Attacks on children and their school facility are unacceptable and can be a grave violation of children’s rights. School facilities should always be a safe place for every child, where children can learn, play and grow to reach their full potential.
“UNICEF reiterates its call on all parties to protect children from all forms of violence at all times and under all circumstances, and to respect the Safe Schools Declaration.”
About UNICEF
UNICEF promotes the rights and wellbeing of every child, in everything we do. Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit www.unicef.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/201398-unicef-condemns-attack-school-koya-and-calls-all-parties-respect-safe-schools-declaration




Date: 28 September 2022
Title: UNHCR statement
Content: 28 September 2022
Erbil, Iraq, 28 September 2022
UNHCR is gravely concerned about today’s attack, which impacted the Iranian refugee settlements in Koya, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. The attack is reported to have resulted in a number of civilian casualties and injuries, including Iranian refugees – among them are women and children.
UNHCR extends our deepest condolences to all those affected.
The attack had reportedly impacted a primary school where refugee students were present.
UNHCR is in close dialogue with the authorities concerning the immediate needs of the most affected.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/201136-unhcr-statement




Date: 25 September 2022
Title: Germany Supports UNITAD with Additional €1,700,000 for Investigating ISIL Financial Structure and Economic Crimes
Content: 25 September 2022
Baghdad, 22 September 2022 –Germany has once more renewed its generous support and contributions to the work of the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD), with a new funding cycle of €1,700,000.
Through this support, UNITAD will be empowered to continue its investigations into the financial mechanisms of ISIL and uncover additional evidence about perpetrators who profited from their involvement in the war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide committed by ISIL members in Iraq.
“Tracing the financial mechanisms of ISIL means tracing the organization… and thus puts us on the path of identifying those most responsible for those international crimes.” said Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher, adding: “UNITAD is able to deliver on such investigations with strong fortitude through this crucial support from Germany.”
UNITAD has completed its initial lines of inquiry into ISIL’s different revenue streams, money service businesses’ material support to the group, and continues its structural investigation on ISIL’s central treasury (Bayt Al Mal). Additional investigations and lines of inquiries stemming from this renewed commitment by Germany are expected to shed light on the role of ISIL’s oil trade, its pillage, and the role this trade played in underwriting the crimes committed especially those committed against targeted minority groups.
H.E. Martin Jäger, German Ambassador to Iraq, emphasized the importance of UNITAD’s work: “By helping to deliver justice for the people of Iraq, UNITAD is an important actor not only in criminal justice but also in the stabilization of Iraq. We remain committed to supporting its important mandate both politically and financially”.
Special Adviser Ritscher explained that: “UNITAD’s partnership with Germany will persist to further its mandate through this support to the investigations, as well as through Germany’s commitment to holding ISIL perpetrators accountable for international crimes, on which UNITAD stands strongly to partner.”
This renewed contribution will better enable UNITAD to support domestic authorities in their legal proceedings aiming to hold ISIL members accountable for the international crimes they committed in Iraq. Cooperation with Iraqi and international partners, including law enforcement and prosecutorial entities, remains instrumental to accountability efforts and to the pursuit of justice for the victims and survivors of those crimes.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/200806-germany-supports-unitad-additional-%E2%82%AC1700000-investigating-isil-financial-structure-and




Date: 22 September 2022
Title: The European Union renews its Support to UNITAD’s Digitization of Evidence of ISIL crimes in Iraq
Content: 22 September 2022
Baghdad, 21 September 2022 – The European Union (EU) extended its long-term commitment to justice and accountability with renewed support to the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD). With this extension, the EU committed an additional €3.8 million to the digitization and archiving of evidentiary materials of ISIL crimes held by Iraqi authorities. The EU’s contribution to this project represents the largest extrabudgetary contribution received by UNITAD to date.
UNITAD’s partnership with the EU, which began in 2020, has already yielded notable achievements. A previous EU commitment of €3.5 million enabled provision of technical assistance to Iraq’s national authorities and Kurdistan Regional Government Authorities, and the identification and digitization of over 5 million paper documents, in addition to battlefield evidence, and electronically stored information.
Building on this renewed EU support, UNITAD will continue providing technical assistance and will expand its efforts to identify, preserve, and make use of evidence of ISIL crimes.
Mr. Ville Varjola, Ambassador of the European Union to Iraq said: “The EU is proud to support UNITAD activities in Iraq and reinforce its partnership with the United Nations. The preservation and organization of evidentiary material in relation to ISIS crimes will serve to deepen the evidential foundations for prosecutions. The victims, survivors, and indeed humanity, deserve no less.”
Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher indicated that: “This funding is testament to the long-term partnership between UNITAD and the EU, through which the Team has been able to provide tremendous support to Iraqi authorities, as well as advance its investigations. Such support showcases great commitment by member states to the Team’s investigative efforts, and to the pursuit of justice and accountability for ISIL atrocious crimes.” He added: “We look forward to further cooperation with the EU and member states in critical areas of support to the Team’s investigations.”
UNITAD is committed to support domestic efforts to hold ISIL members accountable by collecting, preserving, and storing documentary evidence of the international crimes which they committed in Iraq, to ensure the broadest possible use of such evidence before national courts, in line with international standards and in a way that serves victims’ rights and participation in the accountability processes.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/200289-european-union-renews-its-support-unitad%E2%80%99s-digitization-evidence-isil-crimes-iraq




Date: 21 September 2022
Title: Back to Learning Campaign is launched in the KRI to improve access to quality education for out-of-school children and welcome Syrian refugee children into the public school system
Content: 21 September 2022
Starting this year, the Refugee Education Integration Policy (REIP) was introduced to support Syrian refugee children to access quality, inclusive and sustainable education through the public system and to further their integration and participation in community life in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
Erbil, 20 September 2022 - Marking the new academic year in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI), the Ministry of Education of the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG), jointly with UNICEF, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), Save the Children and the education partners launched the “Back to Learning Campaign” to further improve access for out-of-school Iraqi children and welcome refugee children to quality education in public schools. The campaign reaffirms the commitment of UN agencies and partners to support the implementation of the Refugee Education Integration Policy (REIP) that was adopted by the KRG in late 2021. Under the slogan: “Education for All For a Better Future!”, the launch event was held at Bahari nwe school in Erbil, where some Syrian refugee children are now enrolled.

“With the support of our partners, we are committed to reach out to the most vulnerable children and help them realize their dreams of a better future,” said H.E. Alan Hama Sa'eed Salih, Minister of Education of KRG, at the event, emphasizing the importance of all children having equal access to education.

Starting this academic year, all refugee children aged six to nine can register and study in any public school in KRI. The Ministry of Education of the KRI, in cooperation with the Directorates of Education, schools and education partners will ensure access to education for all children in a welcoming learning environment. Children will receive instruction in officially recognized curriculum languages (Sorani, Badini, Assyrian, Turkmen, English and Arabic) in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.

“Every child has the right to education, formal, non-formal, on-line or in-person education, no matter what their background or situation is. UNICEF wants all children in schools and learning. This also applies to refugees and hence, the implementation of the Refugee Education Integration Policy will give a brighter future to the refugee children. UNICEF will continue to support the Ministry of Education of the KRI to implement this policy, committing to reach all children with quality education,” said Teija Vallandingham, Chief of Education of UNICEF in Iraq. “Inclusion of the refugee children in the education system is one step towards an inclusive society.”

“It is our collective responsibility to exert every effort to pave the way for a better future for displaced children. The Kurdistan Regional Government’s Ministry of Education shows great leadership by welcoming refugee children to enroll in public schools and qualified refugee teachers to participate in these education efforts. The KRI shows the region and beyond what it means to welcome refugees,” said Jean-Nicolas Beuze, UNHCR Representative in Iraq. “Many of the refugee students in KRI were born here after their parents fled their homes in North East Syria in particular ten years ago. Learning alongside their Iraqi Kurdish friends will give them further opportunities to create bonds that will keep communities together.”

“Children are the future of our country and this is our responsibility to ensure that ‘no children is left out from the right to have a potential and better future’ – which can be enabled through bringing them to the school and learning centre throughout this Back to Learning Campaign. As a leading child rights organization, Save the Children believes that education is a fundamental right of children, regardless of their ethnic, religious, migratory, ability/disability status and gender and over the years, Save the Children has supported the right to education for thousands of children including refugees, host communities and Iraqi internally displaced persons by the Da’esh violence,” said Rizgar Al-Jaff, Acting Country Director, Save the Children Iraq. “Save the Children, along with all the education partners, UN agencies, national and international NGOs, must continue their efforts to ensure that all children, without discrimination, from all corners of Iraq, have access to quality education.”

In addition to the REIP, the Back to Learning Campaign aims to address the key factors that have resulted in children being out of school. The first goal is to ensure that Iraqi out-of-school children and adolescents are identified and have access to physical or virtual learning facilities/platforms under formal or non-formal education. The campaign then further addresses other social, cultural, economic, political, behavioral or personal issues that hinder their access to education. Authorities in the education sector will be notified about the new and emerging issues that have impacted children’s access to education and have left them out of schools. To keep track of these achievements, an online system will record necessary information about these children and adolescents, reasons for being out of school, and progresses made in supporting the children until enrollment in formal or non-formal education. Around 33,000 out-of-school Iraqi children and adolescents are targeted to be reached this year during the campaign.

To fill this learning gap, UN agencies and partners will continue supporting the Ministry of Education of the KRI to provide access to education to all children including the Syrian refugee children and adolescents.
###

Notes to editors:
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF and its work, visit: www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube

For more information please contact:
Miguel Mateos Munoz, Chief of Communication & Advocacy, UNICEF Iraq,
+964 7827820238, mmateosmunoz@unicef.org

Monica Awad, Communication Specialist, UNICEF Iraq, Tel: +964 7809258545, mawad@unicef.org

About UNHCR
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, protects people forced to flee their homes because of conflict and persecution. We work in over 130 countries, protecting millions of people by responding with life-saving support, safeguarding fundamental human rights and helping them build a better future.
For more information about UNHCR, please visit: http://www.unhcr.org
For more information about education services for refugees in Iraq, please visit: https://help.unhcr.org/iraq/en/rights-and-obligations/education/
Follow UNHCR Iraq on Twitter (@UNHCRIraq), Facebook, and Instagram

For more information please contact:
Firas Al-Khateeb, Spokesman and Communication Officer, UNHCR Iraq,
khateeb@unhcr.org

Shaza Shekfeh, Associate Communication Officer, UNHCR Iraq
+964 770 494 6384 shekfehs@unhcr.org

About Save the Children
Save the Children has been working in Iraq since 1991. We are one of the largest international NGOs working in 100 + countries around the world, responding to humanitarian, recovery, and development needs of children and their families with the believe that every child deserve a future full with opportunities.
We operate integrated child-focused programs across Ninewah, Dohuk, Kirkuk, Salah- addin, Anbar, Basra, Diyala, and Baghdad
For more information about Save the Children Iraq. ( www.iraq.savethechildren.net)
For more information please contact:

Noor Mousa, Advocacy and Campaign Coordinator, SCI IRAQ.
Noor.Mousa@savethechildren.org
009647511240100
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/200161-back-learning-campaign-launched-kri-improve-access-quality-education-out-school-children-and




Date: 20 September 2022
Title: 9,500 people in Sinjar now have access to clean water thanks to USAID and UNDP partnership
Content: 20 September 2022
Sinjar, 20 September 2022 – The newly built Reverse Osmosis Water Treatment System in al-Qayrawan, Sinjar, has officially been opened with support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Ninewa Governorate.
The newly built water treatment system will provide uninterrupted access to clean drinking water to over 9,500 people living in central al-Qayrawan, Sinjar. The purpose-built facility can treat over 100 litres of water per person daily.
Before this, people living in al-Qayrawan did not have regular access to clean water. They would purchase water in tankers from private companies. The expense and uncertainty of transporting water by road resulted in increased prices and a lack of quality control. In addition, during the ISIL conflict, water supply from the tankers was regularly interrupted, leaving people without clean drinking water.
The Reverse Osmosis Water Treatment system is self-sustainable and built to purify and desalinate groundwater. The project included building three water treatment stations strategically distributed across central al-Qayrawan to reach all households. Each station has a well, reverse osmosis plant, dispensing tanks and spigots to produce over 20,000 litres of water every hour.
The project was implemented through USAID and UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization programme. Since 2015, USAID has contributed over US $400 million to the Facility, including over $10 million in Sinjar, making it the Facility's leading partner. To date, USAID has supported around 900 rehabilitation projects through the Facility, including ensuring services such as water, education, electricity and health are restored.
"The reopening of this water treatment system is an important milestone in the journey to rebuild Sinjar and recover from years of instability. Finding local and sustainable solutions such as this system is key to creating a safe and dignified environment for families choosing to return to Sinjar," says UNDP Resident Representative in Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
"We would not be here today without the support of one of our founding partners, USAID. Together with USAID, we have made tremendous contributions to stabilization in Iraq. I would also like to recognize the strong partnership UNDP has with the federal government and local authorities, which enables us to implement such projects and ensure their sustainability," she adds.
UNDP is the leading implementer of stabilization activities in Iraq. To date, UNDP has completed over 3,300 stabilization projects across the liberated areas of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa, and Salah al-Din. The programme has assisted 4.95 million internally displaced people to return home.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/200027-9500-people-sinjar-now-have-access-clean-water-thanks-usaid-and-undp-partnership




Date: 19 September 2022
Title: FAO Iraq completed a 3-day training for the Farmer Field Schools Facilitators in Erbil
Content: 19 September 2022
19 September 2022, Erbil, Iraq– The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq concluded recently a three-day training of facilitators for the Farmers Field Schools (FFS), and continues the training programme for extension staff from the Ministry of Agriculture in Nineveh. 26 participants including 8 women – completed the course successfully.
This training is within the activities of the “Support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh Governorate” project funded by the European Union and implemented by FAO in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture in Iraq. The FFS approach is a methodology to work closely with farmers to jointly analyze their production systems, identify problems, test solutions, and adopt practices that are most appropriate for their farming systems in the field.
FAO Iraq Representative Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan said, “The FFSs is an innovative process to develop the agricultural practices of farmers and improve their income. FAO Iraq is working to strengthen the agricultural sector in Iraq and to create job opportunities for the rural families thanks to the European Union’s financial support.”
The extension staff practiced their skills as group facilitator data collection in the field, preparation of crop calendars, agro-ecosystems analysis, disease triangle and preparation of a curriculum design. The training included also the application of good agricultural practices.
The participants visited a farm in Qushtapa district to apply agricultural- environmental analysis in the field. This training will enable the extension officers to establish and facilitate FFSs with a selected group of farmers throughout the agricultural calendar for selected crops. The trained facilitators are expected in turn to support about 375 farmers in Nineveh.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/199913-fao-iraq-completed-3-day-training-farmer-field-schools-facilitators-erbil




Date: 19 September 2022
Title: The Ministry of Youth and Sports and the ILO partner to advance financial education among youth in Iraq
Content: 19 September 2022
The new partnership focuses on training a pool of national trainers from the Ministry in 10 governorates on the ILO’s Global Financial Education Programme, who will in turn train some 1,000 youth.
19 September 2022, Baghdad, Iraq - The International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Ministry of Youth and Sports (MOYS) in Iraq have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to strengthen their cooperation in advancing financial education among youth in Iraq.
The new partnership focuses on training a pool of national trainers from the Ministry in various governorates on ILO’s Global Financial Education Programme, designed to teach financial knowledge and management skills to vulnerable groups, particularly young women and men.
The trainers will in return train around 1,000 young women and men on the tool, with a focus on those who are looking to start or improve their businesses in various sectors. The selected youth will include forcibly displaced persons, returnees and host community members, with a focus on Ninewa.
The initiative is being carried out by the ILO under the PROSPECTS partnership which is supported by the Government of the Netherlands.
“The Ministry has undertaken an important approach related to raising financial awareness and education, which emphasises the need for young people wishing to engage in the labour market to become well-informed of the main principles governing financial management through planning for personal budgets or business budgets and ways to deal with their finances…The most recent of which is the agreement with the International Labour Organization to set up a financial education programme in which a group of youth from ten governorates are trained with the aim that they launch their own training initiatives targeting around one thousand young people,” said Minister of Youth and Sports of Iraq, H.E. Adnan Dirjal.
The ILO Global Programme on Financial Education is a comprehensive programme that addresses limited levels of financial literacy around the world, through national policy dialogue and capacity building at all levels and has been implemented for more than ten years in multiple countries.
The ILO has adapted the programme to address the needs of the Iraqi context and has begun to roll out the programme at the national level.
“The Labour Force Survey of Iraq shows that more than one-third of the youth population in Iraq was not in education, nor in employment or training. In addition, the youth unemployment rate was more than three times that of the adult unemployment rate. These figures highlight the urgent need to attract more youth towards the private sector and entrepreneurship,” said Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq. “Our collaboration with the Ministry of Youth and Sports is a step in the right direction as it will enhance the capacities of young people in managing their finances, while supporting them to build sound relationships with financial institutions, which will help their businesses to grow.”
PROSPECTS is a strategic four-year global partnership, that supports host communities and displaced populations in eight countries across East and North Africa and the Arab States and which also includes UNICEF, UNHCR, IFC, and the World Bank.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/199942-ministry-youth-and-sports-and-ilo-partner-advance-financial-education-among-youth-iraq




Date: 14 September 2022
Title: Members of Parliament, Government officials and ILO intensify efforts to strengthen social protection and labour rights in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Content: 14 September 2022
With the support of the European Union, officials held a consultation on the draft Labour Law and the draft Social Security Law, followed by a training on social security governance aimed at strengthening capacities of relevant authorities in the field of social security.
Dohuk, Kurdistan Region of Iraq, 14 September 2022 - The ILO held a series of activities this week in Dohuk with senior Members of Parliament and government representatives as part of on-going efforts to strengthen social protection and labour rights for workers in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
A two-day consultative workshop took place to discuss the draft Labour Law and Social Security Law of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and the importance of their enactment in promoting a decent work environment in the region.
The event was attended by senior representatives, including the Speaker of the Kurdistan Region Parliament Dr. Rewaz Faeq, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Ms. Zakia Sayed Salih, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary General, UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, and ILO Country Coordinator for Iraq, Dr. Maha Kattaa.
“The Labour Law is extremely significant as it covers a large segment of society, and regulates workers’ rights and that of their employers,” said Deputy Minister Ms. Salih. “The ILO is conducting this workshop between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and Members of Parliament to discuss this law ahead of the first discussion in Parliament.”
Ms. Vojáčková-Sollorano stressed the importance of endorsing the Labour and Social Security Laws, saying “they are the backbone of the social structure that will help improve labour rights for more and better decent work.”
With the support of the European Union, the ILO has been working with its tripartite constituents - government, employer, and worker representatives – as well as parliamentarians, to review the draft retirement and social security law, currently in parliament. Key improvements under the draft law include extending coverage to workers in the informal sector, self-employed, and business owners. It also introduces new benefits to all workers in the private sector, both formal and informal, such as those related to maternity and unemployment.
The Labour Law regulates the employment relationships, contracts, working conditions and entitlements of workers in the private sector. The ILO is providing technical support in the review of the Labour Law to ensure the law meets international standards and best practices.
“Strengthening social protection and labour governance are key priorities of the Decent Work Country Programme which was signed by ILO and its constituents and which is the ILO’s main vehicle in implementing its decent work agenda,” said ILO Country Coordinator Dr. Kattaa. “This week’s workshops have been paramount in moving forward with efforts to extend legal protection and guarantees for workers and to improve the business environment in KRI”.
In parallel to legislative reform, the ILO is working with partners to build the capacities of relevant authorities in the implementation of these laws and allow for a more efficient delivery of employment-related services, namely those related to social security.
The two-day consultative workshop was followed by a technical training for KRI Members of Parliament and government representatives on social security governance.
“The sessions on social security governance are timely as they will help us identify some of the administrative issues related to the implementation of the new Social Security Law,” said Mr. Bijar Khalid, the Legal Committee Chairman of the Kurdistan Regional Parliament. “We welcome this very timely initiative by the ILO during this important stage.”
Conducted in collaboration with ILO’s International Training Centre (ITC-ILO), the two-day training covered a range of topics. These included concepts and principles related to social protection; financing of social protection; governance of social protection institutions; actuarial valuation; strategic planning, risk management and service standards; and technology and human capital.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/199055-members-parliament-government-officials-and-ilo-intensify-efforts-strengthen-social




Date: 14 September 2022
Title: New paediatric unit opens its doors for newborns and children in Akre Paediatric and Maternity Hospital in Duhok Governorate
Content: 14 September 2022
Duhok, 14 September 2022 - The World Health Organization (WHO), in collaboration with the Directorate of Health in Duhok Governorate in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, today inaugurated a new paediatric department in Akre Hospital.
With the opening of this department, the hospital becomes the only facility in the city to offer specialized services to children and newborns.
The new unit will provide the population of Akre with support to address the increasing need for neonatal and paediatric health care services in Akre and surrounding districts, including Bardarash, which is home to 3500 Syrian refugees.
“The establishment of this department will not only provide services to newborns and children among the population of Akre and refugees but will also provide a model for the transition from humanitarian response to the development, through building resilience, of the health system," said Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq.
The new department comprises 28 beds equipped with emergency care supplies and medical equipment, enabling the hospital to provide intensive care treatment to newborns and children. To further improve the quality of care in the department, advanced training sessions to enhance the technical capacity of the health staff working in it are being carried out as a  collaboration between WHO, the Directorate of Health in Duhok Governorate and the Italian Association for Solidarity Among People (AISPO).
The establishment of the department was made possible through partnership with the US Department of State’s Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM) and in technical collaboration with AISPO.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/199070-new-paediatric-unit-opens-its-doors-newborns-and-children-akre-paediatric-and-maternity




Date: 12 September 2022
Title: UNDP, USAID and KRG support digitization of the Public Pension Management Information System in Kurdistan
Content: 12 September 2022
Erbil, Iraq, 12 September 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq and Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) of Iraq, with support from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) today launch a new Public Pension Management Information System (PPMIS) in Kurdistan. The system will help to digitize and simplify business processes, reduce processing time for retirement applications, and prepare reports for decision makers.
UNDP has worked closely with the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MoF) and the Ministry of Planning (MoP) of the KRG to implement the PPMIS, a customized web-based application that connects twelve pension directorates with the General Directorate of Pension, and replaces a manual paperwork process, meaning easier and more seamless coordination and access to information. UNDP has conducted five training sessions, training a total of 62 pension departmental staff, and has supported the General Directorate of Pension with the establishment of an administrative unit to implement and manage the system. This new system, which officially became active on 01 August 2022, has seen close to 600 new retirement applications submitted already.
According to Dr. Dara Rashid Mahmud, Minister of Planning, Kurdistan Regional Government, “The Public Pension Management system is one of the Kurdistan Regional Government's accomplishments, and it is implemented in all governorates across Kurdistan.”
"The new Public Pension Management Information System will support the digitization of pensioners affairs, link all pension directorates in the Kurdistan Region together, and speed up the processing time for pension applications in the future. Also, pensioners can follow the progress of their applications online,” states Mr. Hazen Ismail Ramazan, Director General of Pension, Ministry of Finance and Economy, Kurdistan Regional Government.
"Ensuring timely and seamless access to pension information is a positive development that promotes the use of transparent and sustainable digital technology in Iraq. The U.S. Mission in Iraq is proud of its contribution to bolster the pension management system in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq," says U.S. Consul General Irvin Hicks, Jr.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative, Zena Ali-Ahmad, states, “UNDP is grateful for the generous support from USAID alongside integral efforts from the Kurdistan Regional Government for their dedication toward upgrading the pension management information system in Kurdistan, ensuring residents are able to better access public services as they exit the workforce.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/198879-undp-usaid-and-krg-support-digitization-public-pension-management-information-system




Date: 12 September 2022
Title: REPUBLIC OF KOREA PROVIDES US$1 MILLION TO WFP’S RESILIENCE-BUILDING EFFORTS IN IRAQ
Content: 12 September 2022
BAGHDAD / 12 September 2022 – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) welcomed a contribution of US$1 million from the Government of the Republic of Korea, which will support the implementation of resilience-building activities aiming at improving sustainable agricultural production in areas affected by salinity in southern Iraq.
This grant will support in restoring the agricultural-based livelihoods of nearly 4,000 smallholder farmers and their families through measures that help communities adapt to water and soil salinity in addition to focusing on climate-smart agricultural practices such as solar-powered water pumps and hydroponics, to withstand the adverse effects of climate change and build their food security.
“The government of the Republic of Korea has been committed to supporting Iraq and its people over the past decades,” said Mr. Sung-soo Choi, the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to Iraq. “It is my great pleasure to partner with WFP, which has the expertise to provide well-targeted assistance to the southern parts of Iraq, where our companies are also contributing to the community by building key infrastructures."
Iraq is the world’s fifth most affected country by climate change. Water availability has plummeted due to the worst rainfall season in over 40 years and increasing water evaporation has led to the degradation of large swathes of fertile lands in the southern governorates of the country due to salinity.
A decrease in water flow, particularly in the southern governates where the rural population depends on agriculture to make a living, means the agricultural sector is unable to guarantee sufficient and sustainable livelihood opportunities in rural areas.
In addition, Iraq is currently a net importer of food and has been heavily impacted by the current crisis in Ukraine. “We need to take action now and introduce innovative solutions to the old agricultural practices that are just not sustainable in today’s climate, “said WFP Iraq representative Ally Raza Qureshi. “WFP is grateful for the Republic of Korea’s support to help us tackle these serious issues and promote improved agriculture and food security in the land of two rivers.”

With the support of partners such as the Republic of Korea, WFP can expand its resilience-building and livelihood interventions which have currently benefitted up to 51,000 food insecure smallholder farmers, returnees, and vulnerable communities across Iraq in 2022.

#                     #                         #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Iraq @wfp_mena @wfpgovts











The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/198850-republic-korea-provides-us1-million-wfp%E2%80%99s-resilience-building-efforts-iraq




Date: 08 September 2022
Title: Through EU-funded project in the south, FAO Iraq is reviving the date palm value chain development
Content: 08 September 2022
08 September 2022, Baghdad
Iraq–The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq held a follow-up technical meeting at the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) on the development of the date palm value chain in Iraq in Basrah, Missan and Thi-Qar governorates. The discussions are part of activities of a European Union funded project “Restoration and Strengthening the Resilience of Agri-food systems in Southern Iraq.”
The meeting was chaired by MoA deputy minister for technical affairs, Dr. Mithaq AlKhafaji and attended by FAO Iraq Representative Dr. Salah al-Hajj Hassan, MoA's advisor, Dr. Mahdi Al-Qaisi, and a large number of experts including FAO date palm expert, Dr.Abdul Basit Ibrahim. The discussion focused on the current and future challenges facing this important agricultural and economic sector and project activities in supporting date palm farmers, MoA and private sector.
This meeting is within a series of upcoming activities in which the partnership between FAO Iraq and MoA under EU funded project will expand within the project work plan, where its outlines were clarified.
FAO Iraq Representative, Dr. Salah al-Hajj Hassan confirmed FAO Iraq’s commitment to support the date palm sector in Iraq by introducing modern technologies adopted globally to cope with the challenges of water scarcity and climate change. The introduction of climate smart agricultural practices successful modern practices, to develop value chain for dates, as well as developing a long-term strategic plan that modernizes the sector, introduces sustainable and innovative practices and techniques.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/198333-through-eu-funded-project-south-fao-iraq-reviving-date-palm-value-chain-development




Date: 02 September 2022
Title: Security Council Press Statement on Iraq Unrest
Content: 02 September 2022
The members of the Security Council condemned the violence throughout Iraq on August 29 and 30 and expressed deep concern over reported deaths and injuries.  They took note of the Iraqi government’s efforts to restore order.
The members of the Security Council appealed for calm and restraint and welcomed statements by parties calling for all to refrain from further violence.  They urged all parties to peacefully resolve their political differences, to respect the rule of law, the right of peaceful assembly, and Iraqi institutions, and to avoid violence.
The members of the Security Council strongly urged all parties and actors to engage, without further delay, in a peaceful and constructive dialogue to advance reforms and chart a constructive way forward.
1 September 2022
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/197544-security-council-press-statement-iraq-unrest




Date: 29 August 2022
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Iraq
Content: 29 August 2022
The Secretary-General has been following with concern the ongoing protests in Iraq today, during which demonstrators entered government buildings. He is particularly concerned about reports of casualties. He appeals for calm and restraint, and urges all relevant actors to take immediate steps to de-escalate the situation and avoid any violence.
The Secretary-General strongly urges all parties and actors to rise above their differences and to engage, without further delay, in a peaceful and inclusive dialogue on a constructive way forward.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 29 August 2022
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/196965-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-iraq




Date: 29 August 2022
Title: UNAMI calls on all protesters to leave the IZ and vacate governmental buildings, urges maximum restraint
Content: 29 August 2022
Baghdad, 29 August 2022 – The United Nations Assistance Mission in Iraq (UNAMI) calls on all protesters to immediately leave Baghdad’s International Zone, to vacate all governmental buildings and to allow the government to continue its responsibilities of running the State in service of the Iraqi people.
Today’s developments are an extremely dangerous escalation. State institutions must operate unimpeded in service of the Iraqi people, under all circumstances and at all times. Respect for constitutional order will now prove vital.
UNAMI urges all to remain peaceful, cooperate with security forces and refrain from acts that could lead to an unstoppable chain of events. UNAMI also calls on all (political) actors to work towards de-escalating tensions and resort to dialogue as the only means to resolve differences. Iraqis cannot be held hostage to an unpredictable and untenable situation. The very survival of the State is at stake.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/196949-unami-calls-all-protesters-leave-iz-and-vacate-governmental-buildings-urges-maximum




Date: 29 August 2022
Title: The Minister of Agriculture and FAO Iraq Representative meet with Archbishop Bashar Matti Warda: Achievements of FAO's interventions and its impact on the socio-economic levels in the liberated areas in Ninawa
Content: 29 August 2022
Erbil, 28 August 2022
His Excellency the Minister of Agriculture, Engineer Muhammad Karim Al-Khafaji, and Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El-hajj Hassan, the Director of  Ninawa Agriculture, Dr. Rabie Youssef and the Senior FAO Livestock Expert, Dr. Chedly Kayouli visited his Eminence Bashar Matti Warda the Archbishop of Chaldean Catholic Church in Erbil as a follow-up to the field visit made to the partners under the EU-funded project: “support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh Governorate”, and implemented by FAO in close cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture.
The discussion focused on the activities of FAO in Ninawa and ways  to help the returnees who were supported by the project to improve the marketing of their dairy products and possibilities to facilitate the transportation of their improved processed dairy products to Erbil with distribution to hotels and restaurants in Ankawa taken the high demand for such local traditional  and special quality products.
H.E The Minister stressed the importance and success of the project’s interventions, which helped  the displaced families that were affected by ISIL conflict to return home, and praised the expertise and support provided by the project team, which contributed to increasing the efficiency and quality of local products, which became world-class standards highlighting the importance of helping families to sell  their products in Erbil. The Minister added that he strongly supports agricultural interventions in these liberated areas to support rural women.
His Eminence Bashar Matti Warda praised the efforts of His Excellency the Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture, and the outstanding achievements that resulted from the interventions of the project. He stressed that what FAO has achieved in these liberated areas in creating job opportunities and increasing income helped the displaced and returnee families to settle in their home areas. The Archbishop indicated his entire support to these women groups to access new markets in Erbil or even for export abroad where there are a high number of Iraqi immigrants.
Finally, FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El-hajj Hassan thanked and appreciated the Archbishop's efforts in supporting the families involved in the project and indicated that these results would not have been possible without the support of His Excellency the Minister, the ministry's work team, and the European Union funding. He stressed that FAO Iraq efforts will continue to support farmers and women groups. He added that there are other interventions with regard to crop component especially the cultivation, harvesting and processing of olives. He concluded with FAO commitment to make all possible efforts to support Iraqi farmers.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/196927-minister-agriculture-and-fao-iraq-representative-meet-archbishop-bashar-matti-warda




Date: 27 August 2022
Title: H.E Minister of Agriculture together with High-Levels Officials from Department of Women Empowerment (General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers) and Ministry of Planning Praise and Appreciate Strategic interventions of FAO-EU Funded Project in Ninaw
Content: 27 August 2022
26 August 2022, Ninawa, Iraq
Over three days, officials from Department of Rural Women Empowerment (Ministry of Agriculture, General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers and Ministry of Planning visited interventions with women partners of Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) through the project: “support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh Governorate”, funded by the European Union and implemented in close cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture.
These visits concluded with ceremony organized by FAO on Thursday, August 25- 2022 in Bashiqa in the presence of His Excellency the Minister of Agriculture, Eng. Muhammad Karim Al-Khafaji, FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr Salah El-hajj Hassan attended by the Director of Nineveh Agriculture, directors of all agricultural departments in Nineveh, local officials, and the head of the farmers Union h, as well as 300 farmers including 200 women from Ninawa project sites.
The Minister of Agriculture, Eng. Muhammad Karim Al-Khafaji, during his speech, praised the efforts of FAO through its project to support the livelihoods of returnees, especially with regard to women's groups where impacts are visible. As FAO is taking care of small dairy producers and provided them with equipment for the collection and processing of milk, as well as promoting of green fodder cultivation. Moreover, the FAO organization emphasized on introduction of modern technologies for farmers. H. E. the Minister added that the Ministry of Agriculture is strongly supporting this initiative to encourage increasing local production.
The Minister concluded that all these interventions and outputs introduced by FAO came to enhance the work of rural women by improving their work and increasing their income and stability in their areas after a long-suffering that exhausted them because of the terrorists.
FAO Iraq Representative Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan highlighted, “Thanks to the EU’s financial support and the real commitment and support from the H.E. Minister of Agriculture Mr. Muhammad Karim Al- Khafaji,  we were able to implement this important project by scaling up the skills and capacities of women and advancing the agriculture sector, both its animal and plant components.” While reflecting the practical implementation in achieving t better: production, nutrition, environment and life.
“This project is an example of sustaining introduced expertise through the true partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture where practices were also shared with other extension staff from the Ministry in southern Governorates. The goal now is to redo this successful experience elsewhere to support the local farmers and rural women,” Dr. El-Hajj Hassan added.
Dr. Intithar Fahd from the Department of Women Empowerment in the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers pointed out during her speech that our attendance today is in line with implementation of the outcomes of the meeting of the Higher Committee for the Empowerment of Rural Women, which was formed under the Diwani Order (93) for the year 2021, and directives His Excellency Prime Minister to visit the successful implemented activities in Nineveh FAO-EU Project, and the possibility of transferring the experience to the rest of the Governorates. She added during the past two days, we had a field tour to follow up on the success stories of the project, and we found that it went beyond the issue of livelihoods and went with other outputs, larger spaces, and aspirations beyond achieving some indicators of the sustainable development goals.
The Senior FAO Livestock Expert, Dr. Chedly Kayouli said that the project  has given absolute priority to support women’s groups due to their contribution to the development of their livelihoods, he added that to date, over 10,000 women were trained on advanced livestock feeding techniques, milk production and marketing aimed at empowering rural women where 4,000 rural women have now better livelihood through enhanced skills in dairy products and technical expertise in feed production, milk collection. Likewise, these women were supported with hygienic stainless steel and food grade equipment including rehabilitation of village dairy centers for milk testing, processing and marketing to support their local businesses.
Finally, Minister of Agriculture and Officials valued and praised the interventions of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), especially after listening to the impressive success stories of rural women in Nineveh. The delegation emphasized that the results of inputs and outputs of the project would be submitted to the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers to adopt the transfer of this successful experience to other Governorates with support of FAO technical experiences.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/196717-he-minister-agriculture-together-high-levels-officials-department-women-empowerment-general




Date: 22 August 2022
Title: Enhancing the prisons staff skills on the Risks and Need Assessment Protocols and Sentence Planning to Develop Policies and Protocols for the Implementation and Operationalization of These Targeted RNA Protocols in Prison
Content: 22 August 2022
Sulaymaniyah, Iraq – 20 August 2022 - Within the framework of the Returning Foreign Terrorist Fighter Detention Program, (FTF), funded by the U.S. Government and under UNODC Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa, UNODC-Iraq and Vienna-HQ, launched the two training workshops on the ’Risks and Needs Assessment (RNA) Protocols in Prisons and the Related Sentence Planning’ and ‘Developing policies and protocols for the implementation and operation of a specified RNA for terrorist and FTF prisoners to mitigate the threats posed by terrorist and FTF prisoners within the broader prison context’ for the managers and staff of prisons and reform centres under the jurisdiction of the Iraq Federal Government.
The workshops, conducted through UNODC coordination with the Ministry of Justice underlined the need for well selected, trained, motivated staff, and reiterated the importance interventions for prisoners. The workshops took place from 14-20 August 2022 with 61 participants including prison managers, social workers, and prison officers along with a participant from MoFA, and with the support and participation of high-profile international experts from Bulgaria, Germany, Tajikistan and Canada. The training achieved two major objectives; gaining in-depth knowledge and understanding of the challenges, needs and priorities of the penitentiary systems in Iraq, and supporting Prison administrations to increase their capacity to classify terrorist and FTF prisoners effectively by applying individualized RNA and to follow-up on classification findings in terms of allocation, categorization and rehabilitation/disengagement programs.
In her session, Mrs. Nadya Radkovska, Head of the Department of International cooperation and training of staff, General Directorate ‘Execution of Sentences’, Bulgaria, highlighted that rehabilitation and reintegration of FTFs and Violent and Extremist Offenders (VEOs) needs to be understood as the responsibility of a diverse group of professions working in cooperation, rather than only prison staff. The reformation of VEOs does not end behind prison walls, but continues after release. Consequently, without strong multiagency co-ordination, co-operation and community support, the risk of relapse is high. This emphasizes the need to understand that whilst prisons may facilitate radicalization, they can also be places for reformation, and hope. The creation of services responsible for the supervision and the social inclusion of released inmates will reinforce rehabilitation efforts made in prison, enhancing community safety.
Ms. Meriem Rebbani, Guest Researcher at the Van Vollenhoven Institute for Law, Governance and Society (VVI), Leiden University, The Netherlands, explained that “It is crucial to recognize the important distinctions between male and female FTFs. Furthermore, appreciation of the needs of women in detention should also include consideration of their children. As female FTFs have been a particularly challenging issue for the Iraqi reformatory system the UNODC considers it a privilege that Ms. Rebbani shared the work accomplished across the globe, and in particular Canada on this important subject.
Ms. Katja Liebmann, Psychologist, Head of Social Therapy of the Juvenile Prison in Hameln, Germany, emphasized that internal differentiation within a prison creates an organizational structure which works most effectively with the different levels of risks, needs and security of the inmates as well as with staff resources. Working with violent offenders requires well-educated staff with competences and skills in dealing with radicalized prisoners. A well-founded diagnosis is required for structured sentence planning which identifies the individual risks and needs of an inmate led to radicalization. This information gives the professionals the opportunity to offer appropriate treatment required for the offender to develop prosocial attitudes and values.
The training concluded with several recommendations and suggestions including the need for dynamic security training and the formation of a Task force of qualified representatives from relevant bodies to work on the development of policies and protocols for RNA in the prison system. Additionally, the participants highlighted the desire for an in-depth study of female FTFs in their facilities. This would assist in the establishment of a context-specific intervention and rehabilitation program.
Through continued partnerships with local authorities, the UNODC aims to strengthen Iraq’s institutional capacity to develop and integrate the relevant RNA instruments into practice, enabling prison staff to perform their tasks in and effective, professional manner to manage and mitigate the threats posed by terrorists and FTF prisoners. International best practices will be examined and adapted to the local context, including classification and case management, contraband control, access control between cells and prison buildings, and development of intake processes.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/195974-enhancing-prisons-staff-skills-risks-and-need-assessment-protocols-and-sentence-planning




Date: 19 August 2022
Title: Commemorating 19th anniversary of attack on its HQ in Baghdad, UNAMI reaffirms commitment to the people of Iraq
Content: 19 August 2022
Baghdad, 19 August 2022 - The 19th of August is a day that is deeply etched in the collective memory of UNAMI and the United Nations as a whole. On this day in 2003, a bombing targeted the headquarters of the UN mission in Baghdad, killing 22 of our colleagues, including Special Representative Sérgio Vieira de Mello, and injuring about 150 others.
The victims were UN staff working to support the country’s post-conflict recovery. Since 2009, the day has been designated World Humanitarian Day, which is marked annually to recognize the essential work of humanitarians worldwide.
As we in the UN Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) remember the souls lost, the injured and the families who continue to carry the scars of that tragedy, we also recall the goal behind their ultimate sacrifice, the same goal we reaffirm today: support to the people of Iraq.
Iraq has experienced countless difficulties in recent years, with the ongoing political crisis only the most recent protracted challenge. However, none of the current disagreements are impossible to resolve, nor can be considered more important than the national interest.
The many sacrifices made to restore Iraq’s standing should not go in vain: all efforts should be mobilized towards dialogue and solutions for the greater good of the people.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/195592-commemorating-19th-anniversary-attack-its-hq-baghdad-unami-reaffirms-commitment-people-iraq




Date: 18 August 2022
Title: Statement by Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano on World Humanitarian Day
Content: 18 August 2022
Baghdad, 18 August 2022 - On World Humanitarian Day, we recognize with appreciation and gratitude the efforts and contributions made by humanitarian workers in Iraq who have supported millions of Internally Displaced People in recent years.
With humanitarian needs decreasing, humanitarian partners in Iraq are working jointly with the Government of Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government to ensure a smooth transition from humanitarian assistance towards durable solutions efforts within the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) to which the Government of Iraq and the UN Country Team are committed to.
World Humanitarian Day pays tribute to the world’s humanitarian workers who tirelessly provide life-saving assistance to people in need. It is marked annually to memorialize the 22 colleagues who lost their lives in the attack on UN headquarters in Baghdad on 19 August 2003.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/195526-statement-humanitarian-coordinator-iraq-irena-voj%C3%A1%C4%8Dkov%C3%A1-sollorano-world-humanitarian-day




Date: 18 August 2022
Title: Over 100 media professionals trained on covering health emergencies and outbreaks in Iraq
Content: 18 August 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 18 August 2022 – The World Health Organization (WHO), in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the Commission of Media and Communications (CMC), concluded today in Baghdad a training workshop on media coverage for outbreaks and emergencies in Iraq.
The workshop aimed to equip more than 100 journalists and communication professionals from different Iraqi media outlets and relevant ministries with skills and techniques to accurately cover health issues related to outbreaks affecting Iraq, including COVID-19, cholera, and Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever (CCHF).
The workshop is an integral part of WHO’s approach to establishing an effective partnership between the media/ health sectors in Iraq to ensure that Iraqi women and men are provided with accurate and evidence-based information on health hazards.
“The role of the media people is pivotal in promoting health, educating communities and addressing rumours related to outbreaks. It is paramount to build an effective partnership between media and health sectors to ensure we raise awareness of Iraqi people on matters related to their health and based on scientific facts and evidence-based advice during emergencies and outbreaks,” said Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative in Iraq. “The role of media specialists in reducing the impact of outbreaks and saving lives is just as important as that of health specialists."
“The partnership with media professionals and journalists is very critical in ensuring accurate coverage of disease outbreaks in Iraq, conveying the right message and raising awareness among the population,” explained Dr Salah El-Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq.
The workshop included technical and practical sessions delivered by experts from WHO and FAO on ongoing outbreaks in Iraq and the methods for analyzing outbreak data to improve the media content and direct it towards raising awareness of the population. The participants were also equipped with tips on ‘’One Health” approach to control the diseases transmitted from animals to humans, notably CCHF.
Practical sessions were also conducted to allow participants to apply lessons learned in producing real-time, quality products for TV, radio and social media.
WHO, along with partners, will continue to build the capacity of media people, communication specialists and social media influencers to build their capacity on covering outbreaks and health concerns in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/195559-over-100-media-professionals-trained-covering-health-emergencies-and-outbreaks-iraq




Date: 17 August 2022
Title: UNESCO and UNICEF commend Iraq’s commitment to transform national education by engaging in the Transforming Education Summit
Content: 17 August 2022
Iraq submitted the National Statement of Commitment for the upcoming Transforming Education Summit (New York, 16-19 September) The Statement shows Iraq´s commitment to focus on reforms associated with the education sector, in terms of equity and inclusion, quality and relevance.
Baghdad, 17 August 2022 – UNICEF and UNESCO have commended today Iraq for the submission of the National Statement of Commitment for the upcoming Transforming Education Summit (TES), that will take place in New York from 16 to 19 September. This Commitment outlines a bold vision and concrete actions for the transformation of education to drive progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals and better prepare learners for the future.
The Statement was presented by the Prime Minister´s Advisory Commission (the national coordinator of the Summit), after holding a series of national consultations among the relevant ministries, higher education institutions, civil society organizations and development partners in Iraq, including the European Union as co-chair of the Education Sector Coordination Group, as well as UNESCO, UNICEF, the International Labour Organization International, and the World Food Programme.
In this regard, the submission of Iraq´s National Statement of Commitment is a major step forward in Iraq’s efforts to respond to a global crisis in education, capturing national commitments and consensus on priority actions, building on existing plans, programmes, and initiatives.
“UNESCO congratulates Iraq for the National Statement of Commitment which reiterates the vision, strategic directions, policies and programmes for education detailed in the draft Iraq National Education Strategy 2022 - 2031 (INES), which UNESCO supported to develop,” said Paolo Fontani, Director and UNESCO Representative in Iraq. UNESCO is committed to support the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research and the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs in enhancing the institutional and technical capacities to ensure effective implementation and monitoring of the INES and National Statement of Commitment.
“UNICEF welcomes Iraq´s focus on the policy, planning and budgetary changes needed to recover learning losses, get the Sustainable Development Goal 4 on track and reimagine education into the future,” said Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. “UNICEF will continue to support the Government of Iraq, with a special focus on the Ministry of Education, to implement all the reforms reflected in the National Statement of Commitment.”
The TES is organized at a critical moment, in which the COVID-19 pandemic has aggravated the digital divide, as the global lockdown increased the risk of children being left out of school. The Summit will focus in addressing issues related to educational exclusion, safety and health (especially mental health), transforming the teaching profession, renewing curricula and pedagogies and steering the digital transformation for just and equitable learning and ensuring availability of financing.
UNESCO and UNICEF have provided technical support to the Government of Iraq throughout the process leading to the TES, including the participation in the Pre-Summit in Paris on 29-30 June 2022 at UNESCO Headquarters in Paris, which served to capture the evolving discussions and generate greater momentum in the lead up to the Summit in September.
What is the Transforming Education Summit (TES)?
The Transforming Education Summit is a key initiative of Our Common Agenda launched by UN Secretary-General (SG), Antonio Guterres. TES brings together global, national and local education stakeholders and actors, it offers an opportunity for inclusive, networked and effective global dialogue on the types of coordinated actions needed to reverse the slide on progress towards SDG4, to ensure that lessons are learned from pandemic responses for resilience, social prosperity and environmental sustainability in the post-COVID world, and to think big on how we imagine education systems of the future.
Taking place during the 77th session of the UN General Assembly on 16-19 September 2022, the Summit is an SG-convened event with a view to elevating education to the top of the global political agenda and to maximizing public awareness and engagement. It expects to fully mobilize the support of all UN Member States, development partners, civil society and youth organizations, and all other partners and stakeholders in education and beyond.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/195228-unesco-and-unicef-commend-iraq%E2%80%99s-commitment-transform-national-education-engaging




Date: 17 August 2022
Title: Building Iraq’s Social Protection Floor: Joint UN paper proposes recommendations to strengthen the adequacy, coverage and equity of the social protection system in Iraq
Content: 17 August 2022
Baghdad, Iraq – August 17, 2022 - A new working paper has been developed by the United Nations in Iraq, which proposes a set of key recommendations that would contribute to strengthening the adequacy, coverage and equity of the social protection system and enhancing its effectiveness in reaching the most vulnerable groups of society – including children, youth, women, elderly, informal workers, persons with disabilities and Internally Displaced Persons.
The paper, “Building Iraq’s Social Protection Floor – Framework and recommendations,” looks at some of the gaps and challenges in Iraq’s social protection system and identifies operational, country specific, costed interventions that “should be considered to achieve an inclusive social assistance system in Iraq that ultimately leaves no one behind.”
Developed by the ILO, in partnership with UNICEF, WFP, IOM and UNHCR and the European Union, in close coordination with the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary General, UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, the paper is part of efforts to facilitate the transition and reform of the social protection system in the country.
The paper highlights Iraq’s commitment to social protection, as “demonstrated clearly in the 2018-2022 Poverty Reduction Strategy, in which the establishment of an effective social protection system was recognized as a strategic priority.” Yet, implementation is undermined by high fragmentation in the current system and complexity and ineffectiveness of current targeting approaches, among other challenges.
The paper focuses on non-contributory social assistance, which according to the ILO, includes “schemes that normally require no direct contribution from beneficiaries or their employers as a condition of entitlement to receive relevant benefits.”
The recommendations include shifting from charity-based social assistance to a rights-based, developmental approach; consolidating all fragmented social assistance programmes into a life-cycle social protection floor (SPF); and using the SPF as the basis for a shock-responsive cash transfer programme. Recommendations also focus on equipping the working-age population with modern economy skills-sets and integrating them in the contributory social insurance; establishing a shared service centre (SSC) for unified service delivery (one-stop shop) for all social protection benefits; and strengthening nutrition, health and education by providing healthy school meals.
Social Protection programmes are aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), specifically, the elimination of extreme poverty in the world; full and productive employment and decent work for all; and the reduction of inequalities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/195233-building-iraq%E2%80%99s-social-protection-floor-joint-un-paper-proposes-recommendations-strengthen




Date: 16 August 2022
Title: With EU support, FAO Iraq meets with the local authorities to discuss the challenges in the Marshes
Content: 16 August 2022
Al Chibayish, Iraq, 16 August 2022 – The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq held a one-day meeting entitled ”Our Marshes, Our lives” recently in Al Chibayish in Thi Qar with representatives from the local authorities from Basra, Thi-Qar and Missan Governorates and official representatives of Agriculture, Water Resources, Environment and Health ministries and from farmers union to discuss the water crisis in the Iraqi Marshes and ways forward to assist farmers and buffalo breeds.
Through the European Union (EU)’s support, FAO is working closely with the local authorities to support the most affected people in the southern region of Iraq from water scarcity and the impact of climate change threatening their lives and livelihoods. The discussions focused on the impact of water scarcity on buffalo breeders, fishermen and overall biodiversity in the Iraqi Marshes and came up with short, medium and long term plans to deal with these challenges. This meeting was possible thanks to the support from the European Union.
FAO Iraq Representative Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan says, “FAO is following the excruciating situation in southern Iraq notably in the Marshes. We have already called for action to help buffalo producers overcome climate change and water shortage in July and we continue to collaborate with the local authorities, Ministries of Agriculture and Environment to tackle these challenges with the generous support from the EU.”
During the meeting, Dr Chedly Kayouli, FAO Iraq Senior International Livestock Value Chain Expert, presented findings of an assessment conducted under the EU funded project on challenges faced by livestock owners and buffalo breeders in the given context.
In addition to recommendations and solutions proposed by participants during discussions, the meeting concluded with a call to participants to provide their suggestions and recommendations in written within seven days to be further compiled, reviewed and finalized for sharing with relevant public institutions and international organizations to initiate discussions for support.

Read FAO Iraq’s published call for action here.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/195111-eu-support-fao-iraq-meets-local-authorities-discuss-challenges-marshes




Date: 14 August 2022
Title: On International Youth Day, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and UNICEF officially launch the ‘Learning Passport’ digital platform to benefit 100,000 young people in Iraq
Content: 14 August 2022
The platform builds on the ongoing work developed by the Prospects partnership, funded by the Netherlands, and implemented by UNICEF and ILO, to help refugees and IDPs to build a new life and to be better integrated by supporting host communities
Mosul, 13 August 2022 – Marking the International Youth Day, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, jointly with UNICEF, officially launched at Mosul University the ‘Learning Passport’, an online education platform, to respond to the learning crisis and bridge the digital divide in Iraq.
Under the theme, "The youth generations are the national treasure in recovery and reconstruction”, the launch event included an opening speech by H.E. Mr. Adnan Darjal, Minister of Youth and Sports, followed by remarks by Mr. Najem Al-Juboori, Ninawah Governor, and Ms. Paula Bulancea, UNICEF Deputy Representative in Iraq. Speeches were accompanied by a youth-led Learning Passport presentation, and an art show organized by youth groups.
“I am speaking to youth, don´t give up, your country needs you! Youth has struggled over last years to get freedom and make their voices heard and for their needs to matter, including their educational needs. So many countries are suffering from such shortage, and here we are trying to push ourselves for youth to have the life they deserve and fulfill the SDGs,” said the Minister of Youth and Sports, Adnan Darjal. “It is our responsibility in the coming years to continue reforms needed for youth to ensure their engagement in social life and to fill the budget gap to cover their needs in education, health and prevention, and for youth to develop their skills, especially those needed in the labor market.”
The Learning Passport is part of UNICEF’s broader efforts to accelerate and improve access to quality education and learning for every child and young people. The platform supports the blended learning and skill-building opportunities for youth and adolescents from most vulnerable groups, including forcibly displaced and host communities.
“We must ensure that learning happens along multiple flexible pathways – with a vision of transitioning to jobs. When young people are provided with the support and resources they need, they will be the innovative problem-solvers able to design, lead and implement projects and services that can help their entire communities.” said Ms. Paula Bulancea, UNICEF Deputy Representative in Iraq, during her speech at Mosul University.
So far, the Learning Passport has reached 4,647 young people (40 per cent young girls) in Iraq from Anbar, Baghdad, Dohuk and Salahaddin with a wide range of learning and skilling resources, including Life Skills and Active Citizenship, the Adolescent Kit for Expression and Innovation, Gender Equality, and many others. After the national launch with the Ministry, the platform is expected to benefit 100,000 young people by 2024 in Iraq.
For International Youth Day, a survey was organized via U-Report Iraq. The poll on Learning Passport showed that 24% of the respondents have heard of Learning Passport and 27% have taken at least one course on the platform. The poll results also showed that the youth are interested in taking digital courses to improve their English, soft and hard skills, and advocacy courses on various topics including education, health, and nutrition.
The Learning Passport is a digital innovation developed by UNICEF in partnership with Microsoft and Cambridge University to enable access to quality and inclusive learning and skills development. The Learning Passport equips young people and children with necessary tools to support their learning whether in schools, homes or in hard-to-reach areas. The Learning Passport was deployed in Iraq in September 2020 and is currently available on web and mobile app for children and young people, soon also offline, to have continuous access to learning materials. It is constantly updated with the latest versions of contextualized content and features engaging and interactive tools developed by UNICEF to make learning fun and engaging.
Along with the Learning Passport, UNICEF has been working closely with donors, partners, and other UN agencies towards an inclusive future with active adolescent and youth participation and civic engagement. Funded by the Government of the Netherlands, UNICEF and International Labour Organization (ILO) have been collaboratively supporting vulnerable youth in Iraq under the Prospects partnership, to develop skills and transition from training to decent employment and economic opportunities. Through this programme, vulnerable youth, girls, and boys, are taught life, digital and entrepreneurship skills that are in demand in today’s employment market.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/194899-international-youth-day-ministry-youth-and-sports-and-unicef-officially-launch-%E2%80%98learning




Date: 14 August 2022
Title: Diverse religious leaders from Kirkuk Governorate unite to support social cohesion in Iraq
Content: 14 August 2022
Erbil, Iraq, 14 August 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme in Iraq (UNDP) under the auspices of the Council of Ministers Secretariat (COMSEC), the Iraqi Ministry of Migration and Displaced (MOMD), and the Governor of Kirkuk, has today concluded an interfaith conference for over fifty religious leaders from Kirkuk Governorate.
The two-day conference is the fifth in a series targeting governorates liberated following the defeat of ISIL. Key religious sects from Kirkuk were represented in their diversity, including Sunni and Shia Muslims, Christians, Sabean Mandaeism, Kakai, and Baha'i. The religious leaders agreed to support community readiness for reintegration of displaced families and to work together to prevent violent extremism in Kirkuk Governorate, forming a collaborative network.
Conferences for religious leaders across the governorates of Anbar, Diyala, Ninewa, and Salah al-Din were held in 2021 and 2022, within the UNDP religious leaders programme, supported by Denmark and Germany, ultimately contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal of Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions (Goal 16).
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative, Zena Ali-Ahmad, states, “This conference celebrates diversity and encourages a sense of unity across Kirkuk Governorate. UNDP’s partnership with the Iraqi government to enhance social cohesion and prevent violent extremism across these governorates and among key community figures is vital to ensuring a favourable environment for co-existence and sustainable reintegration.”
According to Dr. Abdul Karim Kazem Ajil, representative of the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, “Today’s conference is to highlight the major role of the clergy in restoring societal peace, spreading tolerance, and rejecting violence in Kirkuk governorate. With the support of their moderate voices, many of the displaced have been able to return.”
Mr. Ali Abbas Jahankir, Director General of the Branches Department, Ministry of Migration and Displaced, emphasizes, “Iraqi society is represented by many different sects, which is why it is necessary for us to meet with religious leaders and scholars and discuss their role to support stability and address the problems that have occurred as a result of displacement of a large number of families.”
Mr. Ali Hammadi Abed, Technical Assistant to the Governor of Kirkuk, states, “We need to focus on strengthening the social fabric to enhance the spirit of coexistence, especially among the diverse community in the governorate of Kirkuk. We expect that this coordination will encourage societal cohesion.”
In 2020, UNDP Iraq launched a dedicated five-year Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/194907-diverse-religious-leaders-kirkuk-governorate-unite-support-social-cohesion-iraq




Date: 11 August 2022
Title: New agreement between Ministry of Water Resources and FAO introduces innovative tools to monitor water productivity in Iraq
Content: 11 August 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 11 August 2022 – The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq and the Ministry of Water Resources launched yesterday the project Monitoring Water Productivity using Remote Sensing, as part of a global programme, WaPOR phase II, funded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands.
WaPOR, the FAO portal, to monitor Water Productivity through Open access of Remotely sensed derived data, aims to assist partner countries in developing their capacity to monitor and improve water and land productivity in agriculture, both rainfedand irrigated, responding therefore to the challenges that are posed by the dwindling of freshwater resources and the need to sustain agricultural production to ensure food security in the face of a changing climate.
In Iraq, FAO and the Ministry of Water Resources will be monitoring water productivity with data derived from open-access remote-sensing data and open source algorithms in the area of West Al-Gharraf irrigation project scheme in Wasit and Thi-Qar Governorates and in the Kurdistan Region for rainfedand irrigated areas. Trainings of relevant stakeholders to enable the WaPOR database’s use for practical field applications are also being held.
The Director General of the of Planning and Follow-up Office in the Ministry of Water Resources, Mr. Zaid Hamoudi says, “We are pleased that Iraq is involved in this project to monitor the land and water productivity in agriculture using remote sensing techniques. This intends to respond to the challenges posed by dwindling water resources and the need to sustain agricultural production to ensure food security in the face of climate change”.

We call for further cooperation to enhance coordination between FAO and other stakeholders to meet the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to ensure the effective integration of water and food security into sustainable development strategies,” Mr.Hamoudi adds.
FAO Iraq Representative Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan emphasizes, “This partnership between the Ministry of Water Resources and FAO Iraq will ensure that tangible solutions are being assessed and implemented by using innovative techniques to tackle the serious challenges faced by Iraq such as the excruciatingly increase of temperature, lack of rainfall and the country’s life-threatening water crisis”.
“It will support the country in monitoring water productivity, identifying water productivity gaps while suggesting solutions to reduce these issues and contributing to a sustainable increase of agricultural production. This will lessen water stress while taking into account ecosystems and the equitable use of water resources”, Dr. El-Hajj Hassan adds.
Following the signing ceremony, FAO Iraq Representative Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan met with his Excellency Minister of Water Resources Dr. Mahdi Rashid Al-Hamdani to discuss the current water crisis in Iraq and ways forward to address effectively these challenges. The discussion focused on the strategic approach needed in response to water scarcity prioritizing affected areas notably the Marshes in the south.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/194385-new-agreement-between-ministry-water-resources-and-fao-introduces-innovative-tools-monitor




Date: 08 August 2022
Title: Effective measures are needed to ensure adequate Occupational Safety and Health for workers during extreme heat in Iraq
Content: 08 August 2022
ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq Maha Kattaa highlights the importance of adequate measures to mitigate some of the risks workers are exposed to due to soaring temperatures in Iraq.
Baghdad, Iraq - "With temperatures in Iraq soaring up to 50 degrees Celsius in recent weeks, the ILO in Iraq is calling on its tripartite partners – the government, employers’ and workers’ organizations - to ensure that appropriate measures are taken to mitigate some of the risks associated with working under extreme heat and ensure that workers are provided with adequate care at their workplace.
The extreme heat is increasing concerns in relation to the Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) conditions of workers, especially those employed in construction and agriculture - a sector which is already considered as one of the most hazardous in the world.
According to the recent Labour Force Survey, one in four workers in Iraq is employed either in construction or agriculture – an extremely significant number.
The ILO released a report in 2019 which stated that the “rise in global temperatures caused by climate change will make the phenomenon of “heat stress” more common,” adding that “the higher heat levels caused by climate change threaten progress towards decent work by leading to a deterioration of working conditions and undermining the security, health and well-being of workers.”
Workers in some parts of the country have been given time off due to the heat. Yet, for workers who cannot afford to miss a day of work, such as those in informal, temporary, seasonal or day labour, measures must be taken to ensure their protection.
On the practical level, this could include ensuring workers are provided with appropriate clothing, access to drinking water and shaded areas; and are encouraged to work during cooler hours with appropriate break times.
It also includes ensuring that legislation related to OSH are being enforced through labour inspections – especially in sectors which face most risks.
Iraq has ratified a number of ILO Conventions which focus on the needs to ensure protection for workers in different sectors, and most recently through the ratification of the Safety and Health in Agriculture Convention, 2001 (No. 184), which re-affirms the country’s commitment to decent work and International Labour Standards.
The ILO is committed to supporting its partners in the development of Occupational Safety and Health and Labour Inspection polices and systems, that will contribute to modernizing those systems and improving conditions for workers and their employers, in line with International Labour Standards.
While these efforts are not specific to heat stress at work, they will nonetheless contribute to ensuring a more and better working environment for all workers in Iraq.
The safety and health of workers is the responsibility of everyone. We all have a role to play - even if small - to ensure that working conditions are decent and safe and that our environment is protected from further degradation."
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/193964-effective-measures-are-needed-ensure-adequate-occupational-safety-and-health-workers-during




Date: 08 August 2022
Title: The Ministry of Health, WHO and UNICEF jointly close the World Breastfeeding Week in Iraq
Content: 08 August 2022
Under the theme, “Step up for breast feeding: Educate and support”, the World Breastfeeding week included outreach and awareness-raising activities across the country
Baghdad, Iraq, 08 August 2022 - The Ministry of Health, the World Health Organization (WHO) and UNICEF announced the closure of the World Breast Feeding Week, organized from 1 to 7 August, with a focus on on the importance of breastfeeding.
Under this year’s theme, “Step up for breastfeeding: educate and support,” the three organizations promoted education and the transformation of existing systems to ensure breastfeeding-friendly health care facilities, supportive communities and workplaces.
The Breast Feeding Week in Iraq included outreach and awareness-raising activities at shopping malls, hospitals, health facilities and through mass and social media platforms. A U-report poll served to discover young people’s knowledge of the importance of breastfeeding.
“The Ministry of Health continues to prioritize protection and promotion of breastfeeding to reach the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030,” said Dr. Hani Al Aqabi, Minister of Health.
In Iraq, while more than 9 out of 10 children were breastfed at some point in their young lives, only 25.8 per cent[1] of children were exclusively breastfed[2] during the first six months of life. This rate is much lower than the Middle East and North Africa regional average of 33 per cent[3].
“Breastfeeding provides children the best start in life. It is a baby’s best source of nutrition, bolstering brain development and with lifelong benefits for the mother and the baby,” said Dr. Paula Bulancea, UNICEF Deputy Representative in Iraq.  “UNICEF remains committed to supporting the Ministry of Health and others to expand breastfeeding support systems beyond pre-pandemic levels and strengthen the capacity of these systems to achieve the global nutrition targets.”
Early initiation of breastfeeding, in the first hour of birth, exclusive breastfeeding between 0-5 months, and continued breastfeeding for 6-23 months offer a powerful line of defence against infection and malnutrition.
In contrast, infants who are not fully or partially breast-fed have a higher risk of diarrhea and are more likely to die from severe malnutrition if they don’t get lifesaving treatment.
"The best gift that parents could give to their new-borns is breastfeeding. It gives the baby a good start in life, provides the right nutriments for adequate growth, and the right protection against childhood diseases. Breastfeeding also allows for a strong bond with the mother, ensuring balanced physical and emotional growth," said Dr. Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative in Iraq. "Breast milk is a miracle product that no child should be deprived of."
In order to maintain the progress achieved in promoting and supporting breastfeeding in Iraq, UNICEF and WHO call on the Government of Iraq, civil society, donors, and the private sector to step up their support to:

[1] Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey, Iraq, 2018
[1] Fed nothing but breast milk
[1] UNICEF Data, 2021.  https://data.unicef.org/resources/dataset/breastfeeding/

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF in Iraq on our website,  Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.

About WHO
Founded in 1948, WHO is the United Nations agency that connects nations, partners and people to promote health, keep the world safe and serve the vulnerable – so everyone, everywhere can attain the highest level of health.
For more information about WHO and its work, visit: www.who.int

[1] Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey, Iraq, 2018
[2] Fed nothing but breast milk
[3] UNICEF Data, 2021.  https://data.unicef.org/resources/dataset/breastfeeding/
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/194030-ministry-health-who-and-unicef-jointly-close-world-breastfeeding-week-iraq




Date: 07 August 2022
Title: UNHCR welcomes the generous contribution from the United States of America to support and strengthen critical assistance in Iraq
Content: 07 August 2022
As the largest supporter of UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, in Iraq, the United States of America (USA) recently contributed USD 27.8 million to help Syrian and other refugees and Iraq families displaced by Da’esh/ISIS (internally displaced persons/IDPs). This generous contribution demonstrates the US’s continuous commitment to help UNHCR address the most urgent humanitarian needs.
Five years after the defeat of ISIS and 11 years after the beginning of the Syria crisis, displaced populations and their host remain in need of support. Still in 2022, 1.2 million Iraqis have not been able to go back to their communities. Meanwhile, Iraq generously also hosts close to 300,000 refugees, most of whom are from Syria and live in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI).
The US’s generous support allows UNHCR to promote the integration of refugees and displaced Iraqis, including those who have now returned to their home, into local communities and public services. To do this, UNHCR is working, along with local partners and authorities on long-term support interventions such as the rehabilitation of schools, health care centres and water and electricity networks. These interventions aim to build the capacity of public institutions to deliver quality and accessible services to their own population and refugees.
UNHCR also seeks to promote community interactions and social cohesion through the creation of public spaces and community centres where mental health, especially for women and children survivors of violence, and legal services help them rebuild their lives, not least by acquiring identity documents.
In this respect, it is estimated that a quarter of IDPs lack civil documentation, as they lost them while fleeing violence and could not renew them in places controlled by ISIS. As a result, those lacking civil documentation face challenges accessing essential public services, as they cannot enrol their children in schools or access healthcare. They are also deprived of social safety nets and at risk of being arrested at checkpoints.
H.E. Alina L. Romanowski said “The United States remains committed to helping Iraq’s most vulnerable populations. This contribution will help Iraqis displaced by ISIS reintegrate into their communities while also providing valuable support for
education, health care, and other critical needs to Syrian refugees in Iraq.”
UNHCR’s Representative in Iraq, Jean Nicolas Beuze stated that “while the current situation in Iraq gradually stabilises and presents opportunities for prosperity, we need to continue working with the authorities in Baghdad and KRI to strengthen communities’ resilience and self-reliance. The generous, flexible contribution of the US allows UNHCR to prioritize those most in need and to improve key public services in Iraq.”
UNHCR is grateful for the generous and long-standing support of the United States of America to UNHCR. Since 2013, the US, through the Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration of the State Department, has provided USD 484 million to the refugee response. This support means that UNHCR can continue to offer protection and pursue durable solutions for internally displaced people and refugees in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/193878-unhcr-welcomes-generous-contribution-united-states-america-support-and-strengthen-critical




Date: 03 August 2022
Title: UN Iraq on commemoration of 2014 atrocities against Yazidis in Sinjar: peace, development, and accountability key for the community to flourish
Content: 03 August 2022
Baghdad, 3 August 2022 - Eight years after facing an atrocious onslaught by the so-called Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), the Yazidi community has still not achieved the peace and prosperity it truly deserves.
Thousands of Yazidis are yet to return to their families and loved ones. Their whereabouts remain unknown. Many continue to suffer mental anguish after years of captivity, torture, sexual violence and slavery, as well as profoundly inhumane treatment. Countless others are still struggling to come to terms with the loss of a beloved family member, if not the entire family. Meanwhile, many Yazidis remain displaced from their places of origin. Due to continuing tensions, their ancestral homeland in Sinjar is still deprived of the essential stability needed to rebuild their lives, free of fear and intimidation.
It must be clear that it is everyone’s responsibility to work relentlessly to ensure that the ongoing plight of the Yazidis ends now, and that every effort is made to provide the people of Sinjar with opportunities for a better future. The State is an umbrella for all, and its authority is the guarantor for every citizen of this country, irrespective of political affiliation, religion, or ethnic group. No Yazidi, nor any other Iraqi, should be a pawn in local or regional power competition.
This is why the Sinjar Agreement must be fully implemented, without further delay. Stable governance and security structures are vital. It will allow the displaced to finally return home, reconstruction efforts to be accelerated, and public service provision to be improved.
The United Nations will continue to promote accountability for ISIL crimes against the Yazidis to reinstate justice for all who have suffered from these heinous crimes. Freedom and justice go hand in hand with peace and development.
We salute the Yazidis’ resilience in preserving their culture and heritage despite ISIL attempts to erase them, and in spite of the countless challenges the community continues to face. We shall not forget those who were killed, injured or traumatized, nor those who remain missing: the search for them must continue until this painful chapter is closed.
As we commemorate this traumatic page of Iraqi history, we renew our commitment to peace and stability for the Yazidis and the people of Sinjar.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/193169-un-iraq-commemoration-2014-atrocities-against-yazidis-sinjar-peace-development-and




Date: 03 August 2022
Title: Increased Faith in the Path of Justice, Eight Years on ISIL Crimes against the Yazidi Community
Content: 03 August 2022
Baghdad, 03 August 2022 –As we commemorate the 8th anniversary of ISIL crimes against the Yazidi community, we stand at the beginning of a new chapter that brings faith in the path of justice for victims and survivors; as an increased momentum for the prosecution of ISIL perpetrators for their international crimes, in particular the crime of genocide against the Yazidi community.
Since last year’s commemoration, we see progress in the form of legal precedents for prosecution for the crime of genocide in German courts, the opening, and excavations of additional mass graves of Yazidi ISIL victims in Qeni and Hardan, Sinjar; the completion of the second return of remains, while the work continues to identify the remains of more victims.
This momentum which Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher has stressed is inspired most of all by the courage and resilience of the Yazidi community in Iraq and in many places around the world. The courage and perseverance of Yazidi women and girls, in particular, has been exceptional and humbling. It is their determination for justice and accountability that drives these efforts, aiming to investigate all the crimes that ISIL perpetrators committed against the Yazidi community.
Special Adviser Christian Ritscher stressed: “I had the chance to meet with brilliant Yazidi youth on my latest visit to Sinjar in May of this year. I was truly inspired by the steadfastness and the persistence of those young women and men, who have survived unimaginable horror, to come forward and speak up about the gravity of the brutalities that befell them, as well as their trust and belief in the path of accountability and justice.” he also added that “the young women and men of the Yazidi community deserve to be recognized for what they have endured and continue to endure, yet their ability to rise, develop, and take their future into their own hands is genuinely impressive.”
The momentum towards justice and accountability will continue to increase through the unanimous support of the international community that stands strong behind the pursuit of accountability for ISIL crimes. The Government of Iraq as well as numerous member states have shown unwavering support to UNITAD’s investigations throughout the past year.
The fruits of this relentless work became visible in November 2021, with the first conviction of an Iraqi ISIL member for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide by the Higher Regional Court following a 19-month trial in Frankfurt, Germany. UNITAD supported German prosecutors by engaging with witnesses in Iraq and was able to help confirm the fraudulent documentation presented by the defendant.
This collaborative effort, as it continues to grow, will bring the victims and survivors closer to the justice they deserve. “Through partnerships across national authorities, UNITAD, impacted communities and non-governmental organizations, we can overcome the many hurdles faced in delivering justice for ISIL crimes” concluded Special Adviser Ritscher.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/193167-increased-faith-path-justice-eight-years-isil-crimes-against-yazidi-community




Date: 03 August 2022
Title: UNAMI welcomes calls for national dialogue: leaders must prioritize national interest to find urgent solutions to crisis
Content: 03 August 2022
Baghdad, 3 August 2022 - In recent months and weeks, the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) has consistently called for dialogue as the most effective way out of the protracted political crisis.
Meaningful dialogue among all Iraqi parties is now more urgent than ever, as recent events have demonstrated the rapid risk of escalation in this tense political climate. While parties assert the importance of democratic basics such as constitutional compliance and respect for state institutions, these are increasingly not observed. Their failure to move forward has had a clear adverse effect on public trust.
No party or group can claim that the crisis does not involve them or affect them. The need to find solutions through an all-inclusive dialogue is evident. In its absence, the state of Iraq will continue to be dominated by competing interests, leading to further instability, with the people paying the price. Such a scenario is simply intolerable. Within this context, UNAMI welcomes recent calls for national dialogue, and commends the expressions of support from across the political spectrum. We appeal to all actors to commit, actively engage and agree on solutions without delay.
Moreover, moving from words to deeds will now prove essential. Iraq cannot afford another national dialogue to go in vain. Iraqis do not need continued power struggles or stand-offs. They need solutions, and a commitment to implementing them, to draw their country out of its political crisis.
Iraq is facing an extensive list of outstanding domestic issues: it is in desperate need of economic reform, effective public service delivery as well as a federal budget - to name a few. Hence, it is past time for political stakeholders to assume their responsibilities and act in the national interest.
The United Nations stands, as always, ready to support and assist.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/193203-unami-welcomes-calls-national-dialogue-leaders-must-prioritize-national-interest-find-urgent




Date: 28 July 2022
Title: Mosul’s recovery moves towards a circular economy
Content: 28 July 2022
Mosul, 28 July 2022 – Five years since the end of the ISIL(so-called Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant) conflict in 2017, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Iraq and the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), with funding from the Government of Japan, has established a debris recycling centre in Mosul. After its initial use, the centre has now been handed over to Mosul Municipality for its continued, sustainable operation.
“On behalf of the Iraqi Government, the Ministry of Environment expresses its gratitude to the Government of Japan for generously supporting this important project and to UNEP and IOM for enabling the sustainable management of the huge quantities of conflict debris and restabilization of the liberated areas in an environmentally sustainable manner,” said Iraq’s Minister for Environment, Dr. Jasim Abdulazeez Humadi.
The handover of the Mosul debris recycling centre marks a significant step in the sustainable management of the huge volumes of debris — an estimated 55 million tonnes — created by the ISIL conflict. It also opens the way for the recycling of routine construction and demolition waste, contributing to ‘building back better’ and an increased circularity in Iraq’s development.
UNEP West Asia Regional Director, Sami Dimassi, emphasized that “by reducing waste, stimulating innovation and creating employment, debris recycling also creates an important business opportunity.” Indeed, construction companies in Mosul have expressed interest in purchasing the recycled aggregate, thereby underscoring the longer-term sustainability of debris recycling.
“This project supports recovery and livelihoods by drawing on principles of a circular economy, wherein waste and land pollution is limited through production processes that reuse and repurpose materials for as long as possible,” explained IOM Iraq Chief of Mission, Giorgi Gigauri. “Collaboration and sustainability are key priorities in IOM’s work toward durable solutions to displacement, and we are pleased to have partnered with UNEP and the Government of Japan so that this is represented not only in the function of the plant itself, but also in its functioning, by supporting local authorities to be prepared to effectively operate the plant moving forward.”
On 28 July 2022, Mosul Municipality hosted an event to officially hand over the debris recycling centre, attended by senior government officials and academia, as well as representatives from IOM, UNEP and the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI).
Masamoto Kenichi, Charge d’Affaires, Embassy of Japan to Iraq stated: “We are glad to know that the project funded by the government and people of Japan has contributed to cleanup of debris and reconstruction of Mosul. We would like to commend UNEP, IOM and the city of Mosul for their tremendous efforts of turning the legacy of ISIL’s devastation into building blocks of reconstruction”.
Through the rubble recycling project, nearly 25,000 tonnes of debris have been recovered and sorted, of which around half was crushed into recycled aggregate. Material testing of the recycled aggregate endorsed by the National Center for Structural Tests of the Ministry of Planning confirms its compliance with the Iraqi State Commission for Roads and Bridges design standards for road foundational layers and its suitability for several low strength end-use applications such as concrete blocks and kerbstones.
The project created 240 much-needed jobs through cash-for-work schemes targeting vulnerable persons, including 40 women.
Building on this experience, IOM has set up two other debris recycling operations in Sinjar and Hamdaniya in Ninewa Governorate, and a third in Hawija in Kirkuk Governorate, where a pilot phase using a mobile crusher was implemented in al-Buwaiter Village in 2021. In addition, two other conflict-affected governorates — namely Salah al-Din and Anbar — have  also shown a high-level of interest in replicating and scaling up debris recycling in their own regions.
UNEP has been supporting Iraq in cleaning up the huge volumes of debris created by the ISIL conflict since June 2017. Initially, this included carrying out technical assessments and planning workshops with UN-Habitat, and subsequently designing and implementing debris recycling pilot projects to support returns in Mosul, Kirkuk and other conflict-affected areas in cooperation with IOM.
https://youtu.be/eCOZMenUY2k

NOTES TO EDITORS

About the United Nations Environment Programme
UNEP is the leading global voice on the environment. It provides leadership and encourages partnership in caring for the environment by inspiring, informing and enabling nations and peoples to improve their quality of life without compromising that of future generations.
About the International Organization for Migration
IOM is the leading intergovernmental organization in the field of migration and works closely with governmental, intergovernmental and non-governmental partners to support orderly and humane migration management, promote international cooperation on migration issues and respond to the humanitarian and development needs of mobile populations, including refugees and internally displaced persons.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/192283-mosul%E2%80%99s-recovery-moves-towards-circular-economy




Date: 28 July 2022
Title: Iraq on track in the preparation of its Climate Change National Adaptation Plan
Content: 28 July 2022
Beirut, 28 July 2022 – The Republic of Iraq is considered one of the most vulnerable countries in the Arab region to the impacts of climate change. Recent years have witnessed a higher frequency and intensity of extreme weather events, such as heat waves, drought, sand and dust storms, leading to rising environmental degradation and socio-economic impacts throughout the country.
With the aim to assist Iraq in its planning for climate change adaptation, the UN Environment Programme Regional Office for West Asia has concluded a 3-day capacity building workshop on climate change modelling and climate risk assessment that brought together representatives from the Iraqi government from Ministry of Environment including technical teams from the Climate Change Center and Climate Modelling Unit that was recently established to serve as hub to access to data and information and enhance and strengthen Iraq’s capacity to generate, analyse and disseminate climate information and climate research.
Held at the UN House in Beirut from 26 to 28 July, this workshop is a part of the Iraq National Adaptation Plan (NAP) Readiness project funded by Green Climate Fund (GCF), that aims to strengthen institutional capacity to support decision-makers with climatic projections, scenarios, risk assessment and data. This will further enable institutions and decision-makers to integrate medium to long-term adaptation actions into national development planning in Iraq.
“UNEP Regional Office for West Asia has been working with the government of Iraq to strengthen institutional, technical, and financial capacities and assess and bridge existing gaps in climate knowledge in Iraq”, said Mr. Sami Dimassi, UNEP Representative and Regional director for West Asia. “Our technical support intends to assist Iraq in the formulation and implementation of the NAP process that is multi-sectoral and integrate climate change into its national decision making”, he added.
The workshop introduced the methodologies used for the modelling using the downscaling technique zooming into Iraq, scenario analysis and climate risk assessments.  “The Iraq NAP project supported by UNEP has helped advancing the institutional capacity of the relevant teams engaged in the NAP process in Iraq”, said Mr. Isaa Al-Faiyadh, Director General at the Ministry of Environment. “This technical workshop will support national efforts that focus on increasing Iraq's adaptive capacity, increasing the resilience of affected sectors, increasing the awareness and preparedness of rural communities, supporting youth and women, and achieving the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals” said Sahar Hussein, NAP Technical Manager from the Ministry of Environment.

NOTES TO EDITORS

About the UN Environment Programme (UNEP):
The UN Environment Programme is the leading global voice on the environment. It provides leadership and encourages partnership in caring for the environment by inspiring, informing and enabling nations and peoples to improve their quality of life without compromising that of future generations.

About the UN Environment West Asia Office
UN Environment Programme's West Asia Office supports healthy ecosystems, clean air and water, sustainable consumption and production, and productive land for resilient and sustainable development. The Regional office serves twelve countries of the region, namely Kingdom of Bahrain, Republic of Iraq, The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, State of Kuwait, Republic of Lebanon, Sultanate of Oman, State of Palestine, State of Qatar, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Emirates, Republic of Yemen.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/192300-iraq-track-preparation-its-climate-change-national-adaptation-plan




Date: 27 July 2022
Title: New MoU supports digital transformation in Iraq
Content: 27 July 2022
Baghdad, 27 July 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is supporting the government of Iraq to strengthen its digital services and build its e-governance capabilities under a new Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed today with Iraq’s Council of Ministers Secretariat (ComSec).
The MoU focuses on harnessing and increasing the use of information and communication technology to modernize government processes and systems, improving services for citizens and boosting the digital economy.
Under the MoU, an assessment of the digital landscape in Iraq and a subsequent roadmap for the main priorities of digital transformation will be developed. Forging new partnerships with the private sector to support for future digital transformation and e-governance projects is also highlighted in the MoU.
“For the people of Iraq, this MoU means increased efficiency and engagement with both the public and private sector, resulting in greater government transparency and accountability. The advancement in digital transformation will offer reliable, optimized, and seamless access to public services and consequently decrease the need for visiting public offices in person. When automated and standardized processes are introduced, corrupt behavior will be limited,” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
The Secretary General of the Council of Ministers, His Excellency Mr. Hamid Al-Ghizi said: “This MoU is a step forward towards further digital transformation in Iraq, in line with our national strategies and goals. By enhancing e-governance processes, we are creating a more efficient, modern, and reliable civic system for all Iraqis.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/192241-new-mou-supports-digital-transformation-iraq




Date: 27 July 2022
Title: Celebrating 30 Years of Excellence of the German DAFI Scholarship Programme
Content: 27 July 2022
Erbil, 27 July 2022 - This year marks 30 years of the DAFI (Albert Einstein German Academic Refugee Initiative) scholarship programme. This program offers qualified refugee and returnee students all over the world the possibility to earn an undergraduate college degree in their country of asylum or home country. Since 1992, the programme has supported over 18,500 young refugees around the world to undertake tertiary studies.
UNHCR celebrated this anniversary with over 100 DAFI scholars and alumni in a day full of events, discussions, and exhibitions. Videos were presented at the event showing success and achievements of some of the graduates.  Awards of Recognition were handed out to 5 DAFI scholars who exceeded expectations in their work.
The event was attended by representatives of the Kurdistan Regional Government, representatives of the diplomatic missions, NGO partners and UN agencies, as well as DAFI scholars and alumni.
Higher Education makes it possible for a generation of change-makers that can take the lead in identifying solutions for refugee situations. Higher Education is a priority for UNHCR, as outlined in Education 2030: A Strategy for Refugee Education, forming an integral part of UNHCR’s protection and solutions mandate.
The DAFI 30th Anniversary seeks to celebrate DAFI students and alumni excellence and thank the Government of Iraq, the Kurdistan Regional Government, and all stakeholders who facilitate access to higher education opportunities for refugees and returnees in Iraq and contribute to UNHCR’s 15by30 vision, the roadmap for which includes the aim of achieving enrolment of 15% of young refugee women and men in higher education by the year 2030.
Since 2016, 420 refugee students (of which 239 are women) have been sponsored by DAFI to study at 19 universities in Iraq, both in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI) and in federal Iraq.
In 2021, UNHCR received 665 applications for the new DAFI program, and 249 students were sponsored and supported with scholarships. The program covers tuition fees, study materials, food, transportation, accommodation, and other expenses. To amplify academic achievement and skills development, UNHCR provides DAFI scholars additional support through close monitoring, academic preparatory and language classes, as well as mentoring and networking opportunities.
UNHCR also supports access to higher education and the job market through the identification of other complementary pathways for refugee students.
UNHCR wishes to thank the Ministry of Higher Education and the Ministry of Education to ease the access to higher education to all students in the country and in the KRI, and NGO partners and UN agencies for their support to refugee students. UNHCR appreciates the dedicated support of the government of Germany, assistance from the governments of Denmark and the Czech Republic, as well as other private donors who contribute to this programme, in the promotion of refugee self-reliance; empowerment of students to build knowledge, skills, and leadership, facilitation of peaceful coexistence with host communities during displacement and upon return; strengthening of the protective impact of education and encourage lifelong learning; and the provision of role models for refugee children and youth to demonstrate the impact of education on individuals, communities, and societies.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/192242-celebrating-30-years-excellence-german-dafi-scholarship-programme




Date: 26 July 2022
Title: UNHCR project supports electricity network in Qushtapa; stability and more hours of electricity for local population
Content: 26 July 2022
Under the patronage of HE Governor of Erbil and in the presence of the Director of the General Directorate of Electricity and the UNHCR Officer-in-Charge, a new electricity feeder-line and transformer were inaugurated in Qushtapa sub-district on 25 July.
The project, which was designed based on community needs, came to fruition as a result of collaboration among UNHCR, the Erbil Directorate of Migration and Crisis Response and the General Directorate of Electricity. The initiative included installation of a feeder-line as well as the provision of a transformer, which will prevent recurrent shutdowns due to overload on the existing feeder line. It will also result in improved stability and an increase the provision of hours of electricity provided to the local community as well as refugees and IDPs, benefiting over 30,000 individuals in the area.
The project consists of the installation of a 7 km feeder line from the Gird Mala sub-station of Qushtapa which goes in two directions, one to Kawa settlement, and the other to Dukalla village, which is the last point. Most of the line is underground following safety and environmental government guidelines. The project cost over 600,000 USD and took 106 days to complete, under the supervision of the General Directorate of Electricity of Erbil and UNHCR.
UNHCR would like to extend its sincere gratitude to all the stakeholders who participated in making this project a success.



The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/192020-unhcr-project-supports-electricity-network-qushtapa-stability-and-more-hours-electricity




Date: 24 July 2022
Title: Denmark contributes up to $7.5m to Iraq's transition to stability, security and recovery
Content: 24 July 2022
Baghdad, Copenhagen, 24 July 2022– Denmark has reconfirmed its commitment to strengthening Security Sector Reform in Iraq, providing approximately $US 1.6 million to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq. In total, Denmark plans to contribute up to $US 7.5 million until 2025.
Activities under the agreement include providing technical assistance to the Office of National Security Advisor (ONSA) to draft and implement the National Security Strategy; training of mid-ranking local police officers to strengthen the capacity of law enforcement, criminal justice and security actors; and fostering social cohesion by offering vocational training to disengaged former volunteer fighters who fought against Daesh.
Danish Ambassador Stig Paolo Piras said “Denmark maintains its commitment to supporting Iraq's transition to stability, security and recovery. The strengthening of local police is important in the transition from green to blue security.”
“From social cohesion and preventing violent extremism, to stabilization, to reforming Iraq’s security sector, Denmark has been a longstanding supporter of UNDP Iraq’s work. We are extremely grateful for this additional contribution which will be instrumental in helping to build a peaceful and more secure Iraq, strengthening the many services and institutions that the Iraqi people are increasingly relying on,” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq Ms Zena Ali Ahmad.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/191724-denmark-contributes-75m-iraqs-transition-stability-security-and-recovery




Date: 24 July 2022
Title: Iraq Pledges on Migration Governance Bear Plans, Action at National Level
Content: 24 July 2022
Baghdad — On 21 July, the UN Network for Migration, in coordination with the Ministry of Migration and Displaced (MoMD), briefed partners on Iraq’s participation at the International Migration Review Forum (IMRF) – held under the auspices of the UN General Assembly in New York from 17-21 May – and discussed future coordination on migration governance.
Opened by Deputy Minister for MoMD, Dr. Karim Al Nouri, the two-part event was convened by the Inter-Ministerial Technical Working Group on Migration (TWG), which provided a detailed overview of the key areas of progress made in migration governance since the passing of the Global Compact for Migration resolution in 2018, in addition to priorities and commitments for the future. In attendance were TWG members representing the Ministries of Migration and Displaced; Interior; Foreign Affairs; Justice; Labour and Social Affairs; and Planning, as well as representatives from the Kurdistan Regional Government.
In May, the chair of the TWG, Director General for Migration Affairs under MoMD, Mr. Ahmed Rahim, led the Iraqi delegation to the IMRF to participate in thematic roundtables, policy debates and a general debate that led to the adoption of the final progress declaration. Iraq also submitted a Voluntary National Review and committed to a set of forward-looking policy pledges.
“Following Iraq’s successful participation at the IMRF, this briefing helps us take stock at the national level of how far Iraq has come and what openings exist for continued progress and collaboration,” said Mr. Giorgi Gigauri, Chief of Mission for the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Iraq and Coordinator of the Iraq UN Network on Migration. “This is central to better understanding the evolving role of the Network in supporting the Government of Iraq toward improved migration governance.”
With support from IOM and the UN Network on Migration, the TWG has been able to make progress in implementing the National Migration Management Strategy, enabling Iraq to become a leading member of the Champions Country Initiative.
“Looking ahead to the next IMRF in 2026,” continued Mr. Gigauri, “the UN Network on Migration provides an opportunity for joint coordination over the next four years on migration-related issues in Iraq that may not have received the attention and investment they deserve.”
Representatives of donor governments attended the second part of the event for a discussion on the role of the UN Network on Migration in Iraq and opportunities for collaboration on pilot initiatives and key thematic areas such as Migration, Environment and Climate Change (MECC). Governments represented included Australia, Canada, the EU (Delegation of the European Union to Iraq and DG INTPA), Denmark, Germany, Finland, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Sweden, alongside Network members including the UN Development Programme (UNDP), the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the UN Population Fund (UNFPA).
Updates were applauded by partners, and the TWG was congratulated on the progress undertaken in the ongoing implementation of the National Migration Management Strategy.

Dr. Karim Al Nouri closed the event by thanking all those who attended: “Almost four years have passed since Iraq signed the Global Compact for Migration in 2018. With the new progress declaration of the IMRF, we fully support a joint approach and partnership between the Iraq UN Network on Migration and the TWG, and welcome other stakeholders, in effectively addressing the challenges to migration governance in Iraq.”

For more information, please contact IOM Iraq’s Public Information Unit, iraqpublicinfo@iom.int

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/191725-iraq-pledges-migration-governance-bear-plans-action-national-level




Date: 21 July 2022
Title: The use of explosive weapons in populated areas must STOP - UNICEF strongly condemns the killing of three children in Iraq
Content: 21 July 2022
Statement attributable to Ms. Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq
Baghdad, 20 July 2022- "At least three children were killed and several wounded in Zakho (Iraq), today. This is the devastating proof of the need to stop the use of explosive weapons in populated areas. UNICEF is deeply troubled by the killing of three girls, one 1-year-old, one 12-year-old and one 16-year-old, in the attack today in Dohuk Governorate in Iraq.
"UNICEF condemns all acts of violence against children and joins the families in mourning the killing of their children and wishes those wounded a fast recovery. Being a victim of, witnessing or fearing violence should never be part of any child’s experience.
"All children in Iraq deserve to live their lives without the constant threat of violence exacerbated by the use of explosive weapons. UNICEF calls on all parties to fulfil their obligations, under international law, to protect children at all times and without delay.
“The usage of explosive weapons in populated areas has been increasing in Iraq. This attack follows a recent one on 15 June in Sinjar area in Ninewa Governorate, that killed one 12-year-old boy.
“These attacks put children´s lives at stake not only today but threatening the lives of future generations. In the last five years, at least 519 children were killed or maimed by explosive ordnance.
“Once again, UNICEF appeals to all parties to ensure the safety and well-being of children and youth and calls for the upholding of children’s right to protection and to live in an environment that is free of violence at all times."
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/191320-use-explosive-weapons-populated-areas-must-stop-unicef-strongly-condemns-killing-three




Date: 21 July 2022
Title: Enhancing crime management: Training improves interviewing techniques for Iraqi investigators
Content: 21 July 2022
Baghdad, 21 July 2022 – Iraq’s security and justice sector institutions will be further strengthened under a training programme for Iraqi investigators that enables them to interview suspects and witnesses by using effective and non-coercive interviewing techniques.
The initiative is a partnership between the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Iraq’s Ministry of Interior (MoI), with funding generously provided by the German Government’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Training will be rolled out across the six model police stations of Iraq, which serve as key learning and development hubs for all police stations across Iraq. The training will emphasise the importance of maintaining human rights at every stage of suspect and witness treatment, ensuring best practice interviewing techniques are embedded into the model stations.
Participants will include local police, as well as employees from Anti-Crime directorates, the Police Affairs Agency, Training and Qualifications Directorate, MoI, and the Federal Investigation and Intelligence Agency.
“Germany joins forces with the Government of Iraq and UNDP to support security and justice sector reforms across the country. Establishing best practice interviewing techniques in line with international standards will help create efficient and transparent law enforcement and criminal justice institutions that the Iraqi people can rely on, while at the same time creating a safe and secure environment,” says German Ambassador to Iraq, H.E Martin Jaeger.”
“Effective, non-coercive interviewing will ensure respect for human rights. It will motivate police officers, instil pride in their professional skills, produce more reliable evidence, create a healthier environment in police stations, and enhance trust between the police and the population. This means more communities will support police investigations and more citizens will feel empowered to come forward as witnesses,” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq Ms Zena Ali Ahmad.
“We are extremely grateful to our longstanding partners Germany for this important contribution, which compliments many other initiatives they have funded for strengthening the security sector in Iraq, including the development of a local police reform strategy and standard operating procedures for criminal investigations, as well as the two model police stations in Baghdad and Basra,” she adds.
The initiative is part of UNDP Iraq’s Security Sector Reform and Rule of Law Programme under the Governance portfolio, which aims to restore citizens’ confidence in governance institutions and state legitimacy, by supporting accountable, transparent, efficient institutions that meet community needs.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/191332-enhancing-crime-management-training-improves-interviewing-techniques-iraqi-investigators




Date: 21 July 2022
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on deadly artillery shelling in Iraq
Content: 21 July 2022
The Secretary-General condemns the deadly artillery shelling yesterday in the Zakho district of Dohuk Governorate, Kurdistan Region of Iraq, that reportedly killed eight civilians and injured 23 others.
The Secretary-General calls for a prompt and thorough investigation into the incident to determine the circumstances surrounding the attack and to ensure accountability.
The Secretary-General expresses his deepest condolences to the families of the victims and wishes the injured a speedy recovery.
Farhan Haq, Deputy Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 21 July 2022
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/191396-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-deadly-artillery-shelling-iraq




Date: 20 July 2022
Title: Ministry of Health and UNDP partner to address medical waste management challenges under $25m agreement
Content: 20 July 2022
Baghdad, 20 July 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq has today signed a US$25 million agreement with Iraq’s Ministry of Health (MoH) to strengthen medical waste management in the country. The agreement is part of the $100 million Iraq Covid-19 Vaccination Project (ICVP), a loan financed by the World Bank to support the Government of Iraq’s rollout of the COVID-19 vaccine.
Under the agreement, UNDP will procure and install approximately 180 shredder autoclaves which convert medical waste – largely from COVID-19 vaccinations – such as syringes, ampules, dressings and personal protective equipment like masks and gloves into ordinary waste for safe disposal. These efforts support MoH’s safe deployment of the vaccine throughout Iraq.
“We confirm the ongoing partnership between the Federal Ministry of Health and all local and international supporting bodies for their technical support, and for developing infrastructure to strengthen the provision of health services across all levels of government and the Kurdistan Region. We are grateful for all the efforts supporting the Federal Ministry of Health and its departments in addressing health sector challenges.” says the Federal Minister of Health, Dr. Hani Musa Badr Al-Uqabi,
“As the development partner of choice, UNDP is proud to have been selected by the Ministry of Health and the World Bank to implement this critical project.  The established and successful mechanisms UNDP Iraq has in place ensure agility, adaptability, flexibility, and transparency in our delivery.” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq Ms Zena Ali Ahmad.
“We also welcome the new collaboration with the World Bank who has provided the funds for this much-needed support for medical waste management in the country,” she adds.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/191078-ministry-health-and-undp-partner-address-medical-waste-management-challenges-under-25m




Date: 20 July 2022
Title: UNAMI condemns attack in Duhok causing civilian casualties
Content: 20 July 2022
Baghdad, 20 July 2022 - The United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) strongly condemns the deadly artillery shelling today in the Zakho district of Dohuk Governorate, Kurdistan Region, that reportedly killed 8 civilians and injured 23 others. The Mission expresses its deepest condolences to the families of the victims and wishes the injured a speedy recovery.
Civilians are once again suffering the indiscriminate effects of explosive weapons. Under international law, attacks must not be directed at the civilian population. UNAMI therefore calls for a thorough investigation to determine the circumstances surrounding the attack, and emphasizes that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Iraq must be respected at all times.
As UN Iraq Special Representative Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert stated in her latest briefing to the UN Security Council: "What are we looking at? Shelling and missiles as the new normal for Iraq? This is a very risky way to advance interests, and one which further weakens the State of Iraq". UNAMI urges all parties to cease these violations without delay.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/191119-unami-condemns-attack-duhok-causing-civilian-casualties




Date: 19 July 2022
Title: WFP Iraq partners with the Department of Information Technology at the Kurdistan Regional Government towards improving social protection for the people
Content: 19 July 2022
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) signed a Letter of Understanding (LoU) with the Kurdistan Regional Government, Department of Information technology (KRG-DIT) to formalise their collaboration on improving and reforming the Social Protection System in the Kurdistan Region.
The LoU aims to drive efforts to ensure that vulnerable groups, including children, youth, women, the elderly, the disabled and internally displaced people inside Iraq will benefit from fair access to a comprehensive and inclusive Digital Social Protection systems that is more responsive shocks.
The partnership will include focus on supporting the digitalization of the national Public Distribution System (PDS) for food rations which, which will integrate with the National single registry; improving public awareness on the newly digitized processes; strengthening the capacity of KRG-DIT staff on e-governance; establishing data infrastructures at the KRG-DIT to improve administration  of social protection schemes and reviewing  and ensuring that social protection schemes are aligned with the government’s strategies.
“The collaboration between the World Food Programme and the Kurdistan Regional Government Department of Information Technology is an important step towards making meaningful change to improve the social protection systems in the region. Through this partnership we will jointly scale up digitalization of the social protection programmes and further support e-governance in the KRI to enable more efficient delivery of services to the most vulnerable families and improving their lives,” said WFP Iraq Representatives, Ally-Raza Qureshi.
“Data governance is one of our core strategic directions where trusted data from various sources need to be consolidated, managed and shared with the right internal and external entities empowering them to execute their functions. We are committed to make our systems and databases such as population information system and identity management system securely available to Social Protection System and are grateful to the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) for their commendable coordination and tireless efforts,” said KRG-DIT Head, Mr. Hiwa Afandi.
WFP in Iraq is committed to supporting digital transformation as a vehicle for Social Protection reform in Iraq. The cooperation with KRG-DIT will ensure that digitalization initiatives are aligned with the KRG digital transformation objectives, and that social protection systems are interoperable with other government technology platforms..

#                         #                   #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Iraq @wfp_mena @wfpgovts

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/190967-wfp-iraq-partners-department-information-technology-kurdistan-regional-government-towards




Date: 19 July 2022
Title: Secretary-General appoints Mr. Ghulam Isaczai of Afghanistan as Deputy Special Representative and Resident Coordinator for Iraq
Content: 19 July 2022
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres today announced the appointment of Ghulam Mohammad Isaczai of Afghanistan as his new Deputy Special Representative for Iraq in the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) and Resident Coordinator.  Mr. Isaczai will also serve as the United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator.
Mr. Isaczai succeeds Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano of Germany to whom the Secretary-General is grateful for her leadership and dedicated service during her tenure.
Mr. Isaczai brings to this position more than 28 years of experience in preventive diplomacy and complex humanitarian, development, recovery and peace-building settings.  He is currently serving as the ad interim Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Jordan since January 2022.  Previously, he served as Afghanistan’s Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations in New York.  Prior to this, he served as Resident Coordinator in Azerbaijan (2016-2021) and in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (2013-2015), posts he combined with the positions of Resident Representative of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).  From 1997-2013, he served in various policy, development and humanitarian positions with the United Nations system in Germany, Nepal, Afghanistan, Syria, Yemen and Iraq, including as UNDP Deputy Resident Representative in Nepal and Chief of Programme Division with the United Nations Volunteers in Bonn.
Mr. Isaczai holds a Master of Arts degree in Law and Diplomacy from the Fletcher School, Tufts University in Boston and a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration from Midland University in Nebraska.  Mr. Isaczai speaks English, Arabic, Pashto, Persian and Urdu.
New York, 19 July 2022
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/191032-secretary-general-appoints-mr-ghulam-isaczai-afghanistan-deputy-special-representative-and




Date: 19 July 2022
Title: Around 60% of youth in Iraq lack digital skills needed for employment and social inclusion, new report says
Content: 19 July 2022
UNICEF and the Education Commission call for urgent investment to address the global learning and skills crisis
BAGHDAD, 18 July 2022 – Nearly three quarters of youth aged 15 to 24 in 92 countries with available data, including Iraq, are off-track to acquire the skills needed for employment, according to a new report published last week by the Education Commission and UNICEF ahead of World Youth Skills Day.
The report Recovering learning: Are children and youth on track in skills development? features analyses on skills development in early childhood, and among children of primary school age and youth. The data highlights low levels of skills among children and young people across all age groups, with youth in low-income countries the least likely to have the skills required to thrive, particularly in future employment opportunities, decent work, and entrepreneurship.
“An inspired, skilled generation of children and young people is critical for prosperity, progression, and the success of societies and economies. Yet, the majority of children and young people across the world have been failed by their education systems, leaving them uneducated, uninspired, and unskilled -- the perfect storm for unproductivity,” said UNICEF Director of Education Robert Jenkins. “Investment in cost-effective, proven solutions to fast-track learning and skills development for today’s generation and future generations is urgently needed to address this crisis.”
In Iraq, where youth represent the largest segment of the population, the report indicates that 59.2% of the youth aged between 15-24 lack digital skills to perform basic computer-related activities. Youth also lack opportunities to access life-skills based education, employability, and entrepreneurial skills that will enable their smooth transition into the labour market. Moreover, there are limited opportunities to equip youth with necessary skills to increase their civic engagement and enable them to become active and informed citizens and promote their participation in decision-making processes.
With high rates of out-of-school young people, low attainment of secondary-level skills, and lack of learning opportunities, countries worldwide are facing a skills crisis, with the majority of youth unprepared to take part in today’s workforce, the report notes.
Deep disparities across countries and among those from the poorest communities are increasing inequalities. In at least 1 in 3 low-income countries with available data, more than 85 percent of young people are off-track in the secondary-level, digital, and job-specific skills attainment, the report notes.
"To give young people the best chance to succeed and recover learning losses due to the pandemic, we need to support them holistically. But we can't recover what we don't measure. We need to know where children and youth are in building the range of skills they need and monitor their progress. That's why the Education Commission, UNICEF, and partners have been working to address critical data gaps, including the launch of the World Skills Clock to help track progress on and raise awareness around youth skills attainment around the world so we can target urgent action to prepare this generation to thrive in the future," said Education Commission Executive Director Liesbet Steer.
Data from 77 countries show that less than three-quarters of children aged between 3 and 5 years old are developmentally on track in at least three out of the four domains of literacy-numeracy, physical, social-emotional, and learning. At approximately 10 years old, the majority of children in low- and middle-income countries are unable to read and understand a simple text. These foundational skills are the building blocks for further learning and skills development, the report notes.
Basic literacy and numeracy; transferable skills including life skills and socioemotional skills; digital skills, which allow individuals to use and understand technology; job-specific skills, which support the transition into the workforce and promote their social inclusion as agent of change; and entrepreneurial skills are essential for children and youth to thrive. These skills are also critical for the development of societies and economies.
“It is critical to build skills of children and youth for them to achieve a deep sense of empowerment. Yet, prolonged school closures due to the COVID-19 pandemic have disrupted their skills development,” says Ms. Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. “UNICEF will continue to work with the Government of Iraq and other partners to ensure more comprehensive and inclusive skills development initiatives are in place to realize the vision where every child and youth develops the full range of skills needed for success in school, work and life.”
UNICEF and the Education Commission are urging governments to reach every child and youth with quality education and learning and break down the barriers that put them at risk of dropping out; assess children’s and young people’s learning levels and provide tailored catch-up classes and skilling opportunities to bring them up to speed; prioritize foundational skills to build a strong base for lifelong learning; and support psychosocial health and well-being by providing holistic support. The report outlines the need for more extensive data on the skills gap among children and young people across all age groups.
###
Notes to editors:
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.

For more information about UNICEF and its work, visit: www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube

About the Education Commission
The Education Commission is a global initiative dedicated to empowering a generation of young people with the skills to thrive and create a more just and sustainable world.
To help create a pathway for reform and increased investment in education, we analyze problems and potential solutions; act on the ground to test new ideas in new contexts; and amplify by building coalitions at national and global levels.

For more information about the Education Commission and its work, visit: https://educationcommission.org/
Follow the Education Commission on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and LinkedIn
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/191009-around-60-youth-iraq-lack-digital-skills-needed-employment-and-social-inclusion-new-report




Date: 14 July 2022
Title: Amid unprecedented water decrease, FAO is warning of threat to the communities in the Marshes and call for action to help buffalo producers overcome climate change and water shortage
Content: 14 July 2022
14 July 2022, Baghdad –The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq renews its commitment to support the local communities particularly buffalo producers in the Iraqi Marshes, calling for action to tackle water shortages and climate change.
During the recent FAO following up mission under the EU-FAO project activities in the marshlands in July 2022, it was witnessed the dire situation of the local rural communities, mainly buffalo producers who are in distress taken the unprecedented low water levels in the areas threatening their livelihoods and communal existence. FAO Iraq has already launched an emergency support in coordination with Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) targeting 5000 farmers with feeds provision thanks to the support from the European Union (EU).
Still, the Marshes are one of the poorest regions in Iraq and one of the most affected by the climate change and water shortage causing disastrous impact on livelihoods for more than 6000 rural families since they are losing their buffalos, their unique living asset.
More and more buffalo breeders are leaving these areas taken the hostile environmental for them and their animals to live in. Some have been migrating to close by areas and governorates such Kut, Samawah, Najaf, Karbala and Shatrah where water is available for them and their animals. A couple of buffalo producers sold their animals at low prices to buy feeds for the saved animals and others shifted to other livelihoods opportunity since they have been losing their unique livelihoods assets i.e. buffalos are increasingly dying since they are stuck in the swampy mud when they try to swim or to reach the grazing reeds. In addition to the decrease in the buffalos’ milk production, the low prices to sell them and their poor health situations due to lack of food in the Marshes.
We must step up efforts to meet these challenges. In this context, FAO Iraq calls for:
The Iraqi Marshes cannot wait!
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/190143-amid-unprecedented-water-decrease-fao-warning-threat-communities-marshes-and-call-action




Date: 11 July 2022
Title: Secretary-General appoints Mr. Claudio Cordone of Italy as Deputy Special Representative for Iraq
Content: 11 July 2022
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres today announced the appointment of Claudio Cordone of Italy as his new Deputy Special Representative for Political Affairs and Electoral Assistance of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI).

Mr. Cordone succeeds Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir of Iceland to whom the Secretary-General is grateful for her contribution to the United Nations.
Mr. Cordone brings to this position more than 35 years of experience in international relations, international human rights and humanitarian law, including as Director of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) in Lebanon, where he has been serving since 2017.  During this time, he also briefly served as the interim Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Lebanon.  Previously, he served as Director of the Human Rights, Transitional Justice and Rule of Law Division with the United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL), as well as Representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in the country (2013-2017).  He worked with the International Center for Transitional Justice (ICTJ) and spent over 25 years with Amnesty International in multiple capacities, including a six-month tenure as interim Secretary General in 2010.  From 1997 to 1998, he served as Chief of the Human Rights Office with the United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina (UNMIBH).
Mr. Cordone holds a law degree from Sapienza University of Rome and completed a Master of Arts in Arab Studies at Georgetown University, Washington, D.C. Mr. Cordone speaks English, French, Italian and Arabic.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/189757-secretary-general-appoints-mr-claudio-cordone-italy-deputy-special-representative-iraq




Date: 08 July 2022
Title: Sustainable development strategies to transform Iraq’s tomato and poultry sectors
Content: 08 July 2022
(Baghdad,7 July 2022) H. E. Mohammed Kareem Al Khafaji, Minister of Agriculture, officially launched, on behalf of the Government of Iraq, the country’s Poultry and Tomato Sustainable Development Strategies (2022-2026).
Consumer demand for Iraqi poultry and tomato products is on the rise, particularly in the domestic market. Together, these value chains hold a projected import demand of over $1.7 billion combined by 2025. Furthermore, both sectors exert significant potential for value chain development, value addition and commercialization.
Enhancing Iraq’s competitiveness in these value chains contributes to national development goals of food security, inclusive growth, and job creation, particularly for women and youth. According to the International Trade Centre (ITC), reforms in the agribusiness sector could lead to more than 170,000 additional jobs in a moderate growth scenario by 2030.
Despite this considerable potential, Iraq’s poultry and tomato value chains see a variety of impediments. All key actors along the value chains need to work together to address challenges, such as weak market connectivity and a challenging business environment, restraining the sector’s ability to compete with imported products, upgrade their offering and connect to rewarding markets.
To tackle these constraints and seize on the growing domestic market potential, the Ministry of Agriculture developed the Poultry and Tomato Sustainable Development Strategies to guide the efforts of the government, private sector, and development partners and thus, to improve the competitiveness of farmers and small and medium enterprises in these two sectors.
The launch in Baghdad marks the official implementation phase of the strategies and the culmination of a participatory approach during which over 400 Iraqi industry leaders, small business owners, farmers and public-sector representatives held consultations to reach consensus on sector competitiveness issues, strategic considerations and activities. These meetings were complemented by assessments of production sites and factory supply chains as well as bilateral interviews with industry experts and major market actors. The strategies also rely on extensive research and survey work during which hundreds of farmers and SMEs were interviewed, as well as thousands of Iraqi consumers.

Quotes
“The strategies are aligned with the government’s priorities. They complement the Ministry of Agriculture’s efforts to support the poultry and tomato value chains, develop Iraq’s agri-food industries and enhance food processing and marketing capacities in the country.”
H. E. Mohammed Kareem Al Khafaji, Minister of Agriculture, Iraq

“The European Union is taking concrete action towards the implementation of these strategies and further advancing the agriculture and agri-food sectors in Iraq for inclusive growth and job creation.”
Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation, European Union Delegation

“ITC commends the leadership of the Government of Iraq and the committed engagement of the private sector, farmers groups and development partners in the design of these strategies. It is important to move to concrete actions now. ITC stands ready to continue accompanying Iraq during the strategies’ implementation phase.”
Eric Buchot, Head of Country Programme, International Trade Centre


Background
The implementation of several critical activities is already ongoing. The implementation of the strategies is a joint and coordinated effort between several international agencies, including Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), International Organization for Migration (IOM), International Labor Organization (ILO), and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), in line with the European Union's programmatic approach and the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework.
The strategies were developed as part of the International Trade Centre’s project “Strengthening the agriculture and agri-food value chain and improving trade policy in Iraq” (SAAVI). Funded by the European Union, the €22.5 million project aims to contribute to inclusive growth and job creation for Iraqi citizens, particularly youth.

About the International Trade Centre
The International Trade Centre (ITC, www.intracen.org) is the joint agency of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the United Nations (UN), fully dedicated to supporting the development and internationalization of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). ITC's mission is to foster inclusive and sustainable growth and development through trade and international business development. ITC is a UN Resident Agency in Iraq with Headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/189404-sustainable-development-strategies-transform-iraq%E2%80%99s-tomato-and-poultry-sectors




Date: 08 July 2022
Title: UN Iraq Special Representative Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert: Eid-ul-Adha an opportunity for Iraqis to mend their differences
Content: 08 July 2022
Baghdad, 08 July 2022 – Eid-ul-Adha, the Feast of Sacrifice for Muslims, arrives this year at a sensitive time for Iraq.
Traditionally, the Eid is a time to give and forgive, to show compassion and celebrate. These virtues are more significant than ever this year, with the country engulfed in protracted political disputes, incessant dust storms, a new wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, and global tensions which impact the daily life of Iraqis, including their food security.
Eid-ul-Adha provides the opportunity for people to come together, open their hearts and to seek to heal their differences. In this spirit, I am confident that the people can overcome the challenges they are facing, and I hope that the political class will offer the necessary sacrifices for the good of their community and country, so that all Iraqis can look forward, united, to a brighter future.
Best wishes of peace and good health,
Adha Mubarak!

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/189431-un-iraq-special-representative-jeanine-hennis-plasschaert-eid-ul-adha-opportunity-iraqis




Date: 07 July 2022
Title: Through EU support, FAO Iraq concluded a training on climate-smart livestock practices in the south
Content: 07 July 2022
07 July 2022, Basra, Iraq– The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq through the European Union funded project and, in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), concluded a two-day training for 20 extension workers from Basra, Missan and Dhi Qar governorates.
This training was held under the “restoration and strengthening the resilience of agri-food systems in Southern Iraq” project to empower the small farmers and vulnerable rural families in the three targeted governorates through the development of crop and livestock value chains.
The training will enable to develop training curriculum and strengthen capacities by coaching the participants on methodologies to be applied as part of Training for Trainers (ToT) and Farmer Field Schools (FFS) to support ultimately the capacity of 6000 livestock producers in Basra, Dhi-Qar and Missan.
The training, conducted by FAO Team chaired by International Livestock Expert Dr. Chedly Kayouli, covered good techniques to improve the Buffalo feeding through using locally produced materials  such as molasses to increase the nutritional value of local feed resources such as reeds, papyrus, wheat, rice straw and corn cobs. It also focused on progress made on fodder crops (Alfalfa and Sudanese Sorghum) highlighting successful plots of saline-tolerant fodder. Likewise, the participants discussed the concrete work plan to implement this project’s activities.
FAO Iraq Representative Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan said, “We are working to strengthen the agricultural sector in Iraq and to create job opportunities for the rural families.”
“FAO has responded to the impact of drought season resulting in water decrease, increase of salinity and of feed prices in the Iraqi Marshes by purchasing 5000 tons of feeds including 1000 tons of wheat bran, 1000 tons of corn maize silage and 3000 tons of sugar molasses to support the buffalo breeders in the region. These efforts wouldn't have been possible without the generous contribution from the European Union and the close partnership with MoA”, Dr. El-Hajj Hassan added.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/189368-through-eu-support-fao-iraq-concluded-training-climate-smart-livestock-practices-south




Date: 06 July 2022
Title: UNITAD Releases a New Multimedia Video Analysis Constituting Evidence of Da’esh/ISIL Crimes against the Tikrit Air Academy Personnel
Content: 06 July 2022
Baghdad, 06 July, 2022 – UNITAD released a video narrating the accounts of the events of the Tikrit Air Academy massacre in Tikrit, Iraq. The new video analysis chronicles crimes committed by Da’esh/ISIL in June 2014, in which thousands of unarmed, predominantly Shia, military cadets and personnel of the Tikrit Air Academy (also known as Camp Speicher) were killed.
Developed in collaboration with SITU Research, a visual investigations practice, the video combines key assets from the diverse body of evidence collected by UNITAD, as well as the Iraqi authorities, to create a coherent narrative and spatial reconstruction of the sequence of events that unfolded. Satellite imagery, geospatial data, eyewitness testimony, and Da’esh/ISIL propaganda footage—filmed during the events by the perpetrators themselves—are synthesized to provide a detailed and exacting account of these grave crimes.
The publication of UNITAD’s video about the massacre comes after the release of the Team’s eighth report to the United Nations Security Council, and a Special Event on the massacre, organized at the UN Headquarters on 10 June 2022, during which the video was screened for the first time. The video is made public as part of UNITAD’s commitment to promote accountability for Da’esh crimes, and provides an opportunity for the wider public to learn about the scale and magnitude of these international crimes.
Special Adviser Christian Ritscher noted, “The Tikrit Air Academy massacre represents one of the most brutal examples of violence inflicted by ISIL on the Iraqi people”, adding that progress in investigations on the Tikrit Air Academy massacre has been built on close cooperation and engagement with Iraqi national authorities, in particular the Iraqi Judiciary.
Special Adviser Ritscher also confirmed that “by completing a case brief on this massacre, the detailed evidence provided can be used to support prosecutions of ISIL members, some of whom are most responsible for those crimes.”
Brad Samuels, Director of SITU Research said that “this video assembles a range of evidentiary material to deliver a clear and coherent account of these horrific events. While the investigative work follows the highest standards of rigor, it is important that this work does not become clinical and abstract. It is only through the convergence of witness testimony and forensic documentation into visual production that the scope and scale of this event can be understood.”
In this context, SITU Research has developed a digital evidentiary platform used to manage, analyze, and present the associated multimedia, making it available to forums of accountability in Iraq, and all over the world.
The Tikrit Air Academy Massacre video is an extension of UNITAD’s broad effort to harness advanced technology and innovative methods for the Team’s investigations into crimes committed by Da’esh/ISIL. It is also a part of an initiative to present multimedia products detailing Da’esh/ISIL’s international crimes investigated by UNITAD. In May 2021, UNITAD released a similar multimedia presentation about the genocide committed against the Yazidi community in Kojo-Sinjar.
Special Adviser Ritscher noted that “there is a collective responsibility globally to ensure that the evidence collected is put before national courts to prosecute perpetrators. Criminal accountability is achieved only if those responsible are identified, tried, and convicted, and when victims’ voices are heard”.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/189096-unitad-releases-new-multimedia-video-analysis-constituting-evidence-da%E2%80%99eshisil-crimes




Date: 06 July 2022
Title: Improvised Explosive Device struck demining team; UN calls for an investigation
Content: 06 July 2022
Baghdad, 6 July 2022 – An IED struck a vehicle carrying a demining team in northern Iraq on Tuesday 5 July 2022, slightly injuring seven personnel.
The IED exploded under a minibus that was transporting a demining team of Iraqi men and women from Global Clearance Solutions (GCS), to a work site in Tel Keif, northeast of Mosul, Ninewa Governorate. The injured were transported to hospital and reported to be in stable condition. The Iraqi authorities have been notified.
Wishing the injured a speedy recovery, the United Nations in Iraq urged the authorities to thoroughly investigate the incident and ensure adequate security for the deminers.
GCS has been a partner of the UN Mine Action Service (UNMAS) for the last three years for its clearance operations in Ninewa. These operations are essential to enable safe and dignified returns and the safety of communities. The United Nations stresses that clearance work will continue in Ninewa with added risk mitigation measures in place.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/189048-improvised-explosive-device-struck-demining-team-un-calls-investigation




Date: 06 July 2022
Title: The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with UNICEF and WHO, releases the assessment results of WASH and infection prevention control services in health facilities in Iraq
Content: 06 July 2022
Financed by the Government of Germany, the findings will inform policy and WASH programming and enhance infection prevention control measures across the country
Baghdad, 6 July 2022— The Ministry of Health in Iraq, in cooperation with the World Health Organization (WHO) and UNICEF, released today the results of the comprehensive assessment of water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and Infection Prevention Control (IPC) services in health care facilities in Iraq, with the financing from the Government of Germany.
The assessment was conducted on 3,624 health facilities in Iraq. The findings of the assessment indicated that the provision of water, sanitation, hand hygiene, environmental cleanliness, health care waste management, and IPC services in health facilities is largely hindered by a lack of financial resources, conflicts and the absence of monitoring and preservation of public property.
The progress of healthcare system rebuilding in Iraq has been hindered by many factors of conflict and instability, including the COVID-19 pandemic. The public healthcare system faces chronic impediments, with around half of the primary care facilities in the country not staffed by doctors and most of these buildings have no running water. This indicated the necessity of an assessment of the availability and status of WASH-IPC services within health facilities to inform policy and WASH programming.
The assessment aims to enhance monitoring of WASH - IPC measures in health facilities and find gaps analysis, which could lead to implementing possible mitigation or required corrective action and draw the decision-maker's attention to the WASH and IPC situation in health facilities throughout Iraq.
"This assessment is critical as it enables mapping, analysis and the formulation of recommendations that will enable all stakeholders and decision-makers to take evidence-based decisions and implement the necessary interventions to enhance infection prevention controls in order to achieve comprehensive WASH coverage in health facilities," said Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative in Iraq.
“Systematic monitoring and assessment are vital for providing safe and quality health care, and to improve our accountability to the affected population. Guided by the assessment results, UNICEF will work alongside WHO and the Government at federal and KRI level to ensure our collective contribution to provide safe water and mitigate preventable infections,” said Ms. Janet Kamau, Officer-in-charge UNICEF Representative in Iraq.
A digital online monitoring and analysis dashboard was also designed to help the Ministry of Health, WHO and UNICEF to enhance the infrastructure of WASH services and health facilities in general.
Improved WASH and IPC services in health care facilities are of significant public health importance as these are associated with reduction in the transmission of healthcare-acquired infections.
###
Photo link.

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children - across more than 190 countries and territories. We work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
Follow UNICEF on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.

About WHO
The World Health Organization contributes to a better future for people everywhere. Good health lays the foundation for vibrant and productive communities, stronger economies, safer nations, and a better world. As the lead health authority within the United Nations system, our work touches people’s lives worldwide every day. In the Middle East, WHO serves 23 Member States and works with development partners to improve the health and well-being of all people living here. The WHO Eastern Mediterranean Office is located in Cairo, Egypt. Learn more about WHO Iraq on http://www.emro.who.int/countries/irq/index.html land follow us on @WHOIraq
and https://www.facebook.com/WHOinIraq
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/189095-ministry-health-cooperation-unicef-and-who-releases-assessment-results-wash-and-infection




Date: 05 July 2022
Title: Iraq and ILO launch first national Labour Force Survey in a decade
Content: 05 July 2022
Iraq’s Ministry of Planning, the Central Statistical Organization, in collaboration with the International Labour Organization release the findings of the Labour Force Survey, which cover a sample size of 16,400 households.
Baghdad, Iraq, 5 July 2022 – Iraq’s Ministry of Planning, the Central Statistical Organization (CSO), together with the International Labour Organization (ILO) have launched a national Labour Force Survey , the first of its kind to be conducted in Iraq in the last decade. The survey presents estimates at the national, governorate, urban and rural levels and covers a broad array of indicators on the labour market and demographic characteristics of residents in Iraq.
The CSO and the Kurdistan Region Statistics Office (KRSO) conducted the Iraq Labour Force Survey in 2021, with technical and financial support by the ILO.
The main objective of the survey was to collect current data on the size and characteristics of the labour force, employment, unemployment and other labour market characteristics of the population, including working time, income from employment of employees at main jobs and informality of employment.
The survey was also designed to measure different components of labour underutilization, including time-related underemployment and potential labour force, and other forms of work, in particular, own-use production of goods and services, in line with the latest international standards adopted by the 19th International Conference of Labour Statisticians.
The findings of the survey were presented at an event in Baghdad on Tuesday (July 5), which was attended by the Minister of Planning Dr. Khaled Battal Al-Najem, and ILO Country Coordinator Maha Kattaa.
“The survey provides estimates at the national and governorate level and provides important indicators on the labour market and demographic characteristics of Iraq’s residents,” said Minister of Planning Dr. Khaled Battal Al-Najem. “The survey will pave the way for the quick identification of needs relating to the creation of employment for Iraq’s citizens. It will also provide indicators that will help develop important long-term policies that address the needs of the labour market,” Minister Al-Najem added.
“The findings show that 13 million women are in the age of the employment, yet only around one million are working. The findings also show that more than one-third of the youth population is not in education, nor in employment or training,” said ILO Country Coordinator Maha Kattaa. “There is an urgent need to create more decent job opportunities that can attract women to the labour market, and attract youth towards the private sector and entrepreneurship, as the public sector cannot absorb the growing number of youth entering the labour market each year.”
Main Findings
The Labour Force Survey, with a sample size of 16,400 households covering Iraqi and non-Iraqi households, presents estimates at the national and governorate level, covering Iraq’s 18 governorates.
The survey was conducted in line with the latest international standards adopted by the 19th International Conference of Labour Statisticians.
The survey results reveal that the national labour force participation rate (LFPR) – the percentage of people who are active in the labour market, either employed or unemployed – stood at 39.5 per cent in 2021. According to the survey results, about 30.2 per cent of the total working age population were outside the labour force in 2021. The great majority of persons outside the labour force were female.
The female labour force participation rate was particularly low standing at 10.6 per cent in comparison to 68 per cent for males.
The data further show that the LFPR of young people (aged 15 to 24 years) was 26.5 per cent, and that of adults (aged 25 years and above) was 45.8 per cent.
The employment-to-population ratio – or the percentage of the working-age population that is currently employed – is often used as an indicator of the performance of the national economy in providing employment to its population. In Iraq, it stood at 33 per cent indicating that only about one-third of the working age population (15 years old and over) were employed in Iraq in 2021 The ratio is lower among women (7.6 per cent) compared to men (58 per cent), and lower for youth (17 per cent) than for adults (40.6 per cent).
The data show that the unemployment rate stood at 16.5 per cent, indicating that for every five employed persons there was roughly one unemployed person. The female unemployment rate (28.2 per cent) was about twice the male unemployment rate (14.7 per cent) and the youth unemployment rate (35.8 per cent) was more than three times that of the adult unemployment rate (11.2 per cent).
The survey presents results by geographical distribution, disaggregated by urban and rural, and by governorate. The data show that the labour force participation rate was higher in urban areas (40.3 per cent) than in rural areas (37.3 per cent). Similarly, the unemployment rate was higher in urban areas than in rural areas, standing at 17.6 per cent and 13.3 per cent respectively.
The survey measures informal employment, which is employment that is not covered or is insufficiently covered by formal arrangements and protections, and employment in the informal sector, which is employment in establishments that are not covered or insufficiently covered by formal arrangements. The results show that around 54.8 per cent of total employment was in the informal sector and the number of persons with informal jobs represented 66.6 per cent of total employment.
The results show that most employed persons usually worked between 30 and 59 hours per week at their jobs (61.1 per cent). The number of persons usually working short hours, that is less than 30 hours per week, was relatively low (20.5 per cent), but significantly higher among women (41.8 per cent) in comparison with men (17.7 per cent). At the other extreme of the distribution, the survey results show that some 17.9 per cent of employed persons usually worked long hours – more than 60 hours per week. The rate of those working long hours was much higher among men (19.8 per cent) than among women (3.1 per cent).
The survey finds that almost one-third of Iraq’s extended labour force – the labour force and the potential labour force combined – was affected by some form of labour underutilization. The data reveals that the composite measure of labour underutilization, which combines unemployment, time-related underemployment and potential labour force, stood at 31 per cent. In general, labour underutilization affected women (49.5 per cent) much more than men (27.3 per cent), and youth (53.3 per cent) much more than adults (24 per cent).
The results show that women tend to be more concentrated in services (73.1 per cent) and agriculture (14.4 per cent) than men in the corresponding broad branches of economic activity (62.2 per cent and 7.7 per cent, respectively).
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/189013-iraq-and-ilo-launch-first-national-labour-force-survey-decade




Date: 03 July 2022
Title: AS FOOD PRICES RISE, JAPAN HELPS WFP CONTINUE SUPPORT TO VULNERABLE DISPLACED FAMILIES IN IRAQ
Content: 03 July 2022
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) received a contribution of US$ 6.4 million from the Government of Japan, which is helping WFP support up to 255,000 crisis-affected displaced Iraqis who remain unable to return home, plus emergency transition support for 12,000 vulnerable and food-insecure people. All are confronting higher food prices that are threatening the food security of families.
“It is very distressing that vulnerable displaced families are now exposed to even harsher conditions in Iraq, one of the countries most severely affected by climate change at the moment, and also by the global food security crisis,” said the Japanese Ambassador to the Republic of Iraq, His Excellency Mr. Suzuki Kotaro. “I would also like to express my respect to WFP for its rapid implementation of activities that are directly helping displaced people rebuild their lives and regain their dignity, through the full application of its experiences and knowledge.”
As prices of essential foods have risen around 12 percent in Iraq since the onset of the war in Ukraine, and humanitarian funding is stretched as needs around the world soar, Japan’s timely contribution is helping vulnerable families meet their food needs. Alongside monthly food assistance for families in camps, Japan’s contribution is helping vulnerable communities where families have been able to return home, through durable solutions projects to support restoring livelihoods, vital at this critical period of transition.
“As the country transitions from emergency response to development and resilience building, Japan is helping WFP both support families in most need of assistance until they are safely able to return home and rebuild their livelihoods, alongside emergency transition support for communities in need,” said WFP Iraq Representative Ally Raza Qureshi.” We thank the government and people of Japan for their commitment and support at this critical time.”
With the support of partners such as Japan, WFP’s role in the Iraq crisis has been critical in providing life-saving food and cash assistance to the millions displaced by conflict, leaning building on years of experience in supporting those in need. WFP continues to provide this assistance and support to the Iraqi Government, while also working to change lives through resilience-building activities and social protection reform. Towards longer-term social cohesion, peace and development, WFP is helping the Government of Iraq build people's self-reliance and food security.

#                 #                   #

The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Iraq @wfp_mena @wfpgovts
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/188783-food-prices-rise-japan-helps-wfp-continue-support-vulnerable-displaced-families-iraq




Date: 01 July 2022
Title: Multi-stakeholders committee, convened by the Government and the UN, holds its first meeting to discuss integrated social protection approach in Iraq
Content: 01 July 2022
Led by the Government of Iraq, the Social Protection Sector Coordination Committee is a new coordination mechanism to accelerate the reform of the social protection sector, with the support of the European Union.

Baghdad, 30 June 2022- The Social Protection Sector Coordination Committee (SPSCC) held its first meeting in Baghdad today to discuss coordination and alignment among government and international partners to strengthen the social protection system in Iraq.
Led by the Government of Iraq, the SPSCC brings together various partners including United Nations’ agencies, international partners, donors and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to ensure synergies between different social protection programmes and tools. It is a coordination mechanism intended to contribute to specific social protection outcomes through coordinated and collaborative planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. It serves as a consultative platform for a broad range of partners and stakeholders involved in social protection programmes, including national and sub-national authorities, and bilateral and multilateral partners, and local NGOs, civil society organizations and communities.
The SPSCC builds on a Joint Programme implemented by the International Labour Organization (ILO), United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and the UN World Food Programme (WFP) in Iraq, with the support of the European Union (EU), to accelerate the reform of social protection within the collaboration framework with the Government of Iraq.

Recognizing that the growing momentum and engagement in the reform of social protection calls for stronger coordination and alignment between government and international partners, the EU supports the SPSCC as part of the implementation of its Joint Programme. The proposal of establishing a SPSCC had been agreed with the Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and Ministry of Trade.
“The European Union is pleased to support the Government of Iraq in strengthening the social protection system which is instrumental to ensure equitable access to integrated social protection for all Iraqis. The sector coordination committee established today and jointly led by the Ministries of Planning, Labour and Social Affairs, and Trade, provides an excellent Government-led platform for coordinating the reform efforts among all stakeholders. In line with the EU-funded project for social protection reform, the Committee will promote synergies between different social protection programs and enhance the effectiveness of the social protection system, ensuring the Government of Iraq reaches those in need”, said Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation at the European Union Delegation to Iraq.

“Almost 2 out of 5 children in Iraq live in monetary poverty. The SPSCC is a cornerstone in the development of a social protection system in Iraq ensuring that no child is left behind. UNICEF will continue working with the Government of Iraq, the EU and will support a coordinating role among the UN partners to promote equitable access to an integrated social protection system that is inclusive and child sensitive”, said Ken Legins, Officer-in-Charge UNICEF Representative in Iraq.
“The ongoing global socio-economic shocks which have also impacted Iraq have served to highlight the criticality of efficient and responsive social protection systems to meet the needs of the most vulnerable people. Through the existing partnership, and engagement through the SPSCC, WFP shall continue to provide extensive support to the Government of Iraq towards social protection reforms through evidence generation, building on digitalization of social safety net programmes such as the Public Distribution System and establishing single registry with interoperable platforms,” said Ally Raza Qureshi, Representative, World Food Programme in Iraq.
“With two out of three workers in Iraq engaged in informal sector employment, addressing the decent work deficits in the informal sector is instrumental. With the support of the EU, the ILO is working with the government and social partners to close the social security coverage gap and provide protection for workers and their families against life-cycle risks, such as unemployment, maternity, old-age, work-related injuries, sickness, and disability, in line with ILO Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952 (No. 102),” said Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq.

In the first year of the implementation of EU-UN Joint Programme for the reform of social protection in Iraq, the three UN agencies - ILO, UNICEF, and WFP - have secured highest level national ownership for the Joint Programme and its implementation both at the federal and Kurdistan Region of Iraq, focusing on integrated social protection reform roadmap.
The SPSCC will ensure close linkages with the Joint Programme to reform social protection, as well as coordination between social protection and other priority sectors and ministries. It will also provide overall policy guidance on the development of social protection strategies, policies and implementation plans in accordance with the  Government of Iraq’s White Paper for economic and financial reforms launched in October 2020 and other national strategic frameworks.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/188521-multi-stakeholders-committee-convened-government-and-un-holds-its-first-meeting-discuss




Date: 30 June 2022
Title: Thirteen law enforcement facilities in Ninewa officially reopen after destruction by ISIL
Content: 30 June 2022
Ninewa, 30 June 2022 – Thirteen law enforcement facilities across Ninewa that were damaged during the ISIL conflict have been officially opened by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Ninewa Governorate.
The thirteen law enforcement facilities include ten police stations and three national security buildings across Ninewa. The spacious and purpose-built facilities have the capacity to serve around 420,000 citizens. The facilities were rehabilitated through UNDP's Funding Facility for Stabilization with generous support from the Netherlands.
In addition, through the Netherlands' support, UNDP will complete the rehabilitation of three court houses, two national security buildings, fourteen police stations and eleven police directorate offices by the end of this year, taking the total number of law enforcement facilities supported by the Netherlands in Ninewa, Kirkuk and Salah Al Din to forty-four. This also complements UNDP's ongoing security sector reform initiatives, including training for law enforcement and police officers across Iraq that focuses on improving the effectiveness of local police, basic leadership, and criminal investigation. Since 2018, around 1,160 officers (94 women officers) have been trained across fifteen governorates, of which 112 are from Ninewa.
"The reopening of these facilities is an important milestone in the journey to rebuilding Iraq after years of conflict and instability. Ensuring quality and inclusive police services and establishing trust between law enforcement and citizens is one of the foundations of a strong and resilient society. Therefore, UNDP is proud to support initiatives that strengthen the security sector and play a key role in fostering Iraq's long-term stability and development," says UNDP's Resident Representative in Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
"This would not be possible without the support from our longstanding partner, the Netherlands. We look forward to continuing our work together to build a stable and prosperous Iraq," she added.
“It is essential that Iraqi police can take up its role as the first responders for the security of Iraqi citizens. The Netherlands supports the Iraqi authorities in this, through both rebuilding the police stations, as well as investing in the Iraqi police officers. We remain committed to the Iraqi people together with our United Nations partners,” says Rochus J.P. Pronk, Deputy Ambassador, Chargé d'Affaires at the Netherlands Embassy to Iraq.
Since 2015, the Netherlands has contributed over US$ 107 million to the Funding Facility for Stabilization and US$ 8.5 million to security sector reform, making it one of UNDP's largest contributors in Iraq. The funding has focused on supporting infrastructure rehabilitation, restoring local police services, and placing a greater focus on building the ability of the Government for Iraq to better respond to the needs of citizens.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/188370-thirteen-law-enforcement-facilities-ninewa-officially-reopen-after-destruction-isil




Date: 29 June 2022
Title: UK and Canada commit to combating climate change in Iraq
Content: 29 June 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 29 June 2022 – A new project designed to accelerate climate action in Iraq has today been launched through a partnership between the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) the Ministry of Environment with funding generously provided by governments of the UK and Canada.
The three-year Catalytic Climate Action in Iraq project is designed to strengthen Iraq’s capacity to mitigate the climate change and adapt to its impacts by managing natural resources, developing renewable resources, and increasing resilience to climate-induced hazards.
Activities are targeted at gaps that can deliver systemic change within Government of Iraq and Kurdistan Region of Iraq to help deliver their climate ambitions under the Paris Agreement. Technical assistance, knowledge building and operational support will be provided to Iraq to help implement its Nationally Determined Contributions, with a strong focus on renewable energy, transboundary water resources management, and preparedness for drought and other disasters.
The Government of Iraq was proud to submit its NDC document in October 2021. This document serves as the country’s supreme policy for climate action and initiates the first steps towards a more diversified and green economy by encouraging the use of renewable energies, promoting nature-based solutions, strengthening integrated water resources management, and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the oil and gas sector. This project is crucial to supporting the Government to mainstream its NDC across all Ministries and institutions in Iraq and the Kurdistan region with a strong focus on energy, drought preparedness and effective water management. The Ministry of Environment on behalf the Iraqi Government is grateful to the UK and Canada for generously supporting this important project which is a catalyst for increasing climate ambitions in Iraq,” says Minister for Environment, Dr. Jassim Abdulazeez Humadi.
“Climate Change is the one of the most significant challenges facing Iraq, impacting the lives of millions and threatening health and wellbeing, services and the economy. The UK is committed to partnering with Iraq to urgently address these challenges. The Government of Iraq and most of the world made clear commitments at the COP26 Climate Change Conference in Glasgow last year. Turning those commitments in to actions is key. That is why the UK is proud to be part of this new initiative,” says UK Ambassador to Iraq, Mark Bryson-Richardson
“Climate change is a collective crisis that we must all tackle together. Canada made a commitment to work with countries—such as Iraq—that are harshly impacted by the effects of climate change, to better address its challenges and to adapt to its harmful consequences. Our support for this project demonstrates our commitment to co-building a better future for the people of Iraq,” says Canada’s Minister of International Development, Harjit S. Sajjan.
“Iraq is classified as the fifth most vulnerable country in the world to climate change. The country faces serious challenges like increasing temperatures, declining rainfall, salinity, and persistent dust storms that we’ve experienced recently. Now is the time to invest in effective climate action; we cannot afford to wait any longer. Thank you to the governments of UK and Canada for not only funding this critical work, but for showing strong leadership and commitment to the fight against Climate Change in Iraq,” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
For more information about the Catalytic Climate Action in Iraq project, please view our Fact Sheet.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/188311-uk-and-canada-commit-combating-climate-change-iraq




Date: 28 June 2022
Title: Kurdistan Ministry of Planning, UNFPA launch results of the second Iraq Women Integrated Social and Health survey
Content: 28 June 2022
28 June 2022; Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq - The Ministry of Planning, the Kurdistan Region Statistics Office and UNFPA launched today the results of the second Iraq Women Integrated Social and Health (IWISH) survey in the Kurdistan Region, conducted in collaboration with the Ministry of Planning of the Federal Government and Central Statistical Organisation and with funding from Sweden.
The survey covers the topics of women empowerment, violence against women, early marriage, family planning and maternal health, COVID19, education, employment and other relevant social factors influencing women’s rights in Iraq. It also offers integrated data showing the change in women's economic and social status in Iraq since 2011.
Speaking at the event, Dr Dara Rasheed, Minister of Planning of the Kurdistan Regional Government, reiterated the importance of data and statistics and stated that: “the Ministry of Planning prioritises making reliable data and new statistics available to governmental institutions to ensure that regulations and policies are developed based on evidence. We also encourage the government to utilise the data collected to develop their programmes and projects to empower women and girls in the Kurdistan Region.”
Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative to Iraq, during the launch reiterated that “availability and use of reliable data for policy and decision making is vital for the regional sustainable development, where the rights of all especially women and girls as the most vulnerable are protected and fulfilled”.
The representatives of ministries in KRI, the High Council for Women Development, CSOs and international partners expressed their interest in studying the findings of the survey and using them for improving legislation, policies and programmes in KRI.
******
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/188074-kurdistan-ministry-planning-unfpa-launch-results-second-iraq-women-integrated-social-and




Date: 27 June 2022
Title: On “Micro-, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSME) Day”, the UN calls for support to MSMEs as effective agents of change to help advance in rebuilding and recovery efforts
Content: 27 June 2022
Baghdad, 27 June 2022 - The United Nations set aside 27 June to annually celebrate the role that micro, small and medium enterprises play in the global economy, poverty reduction and the attainment of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals.
This year, UN agencies in Iraq share a statement to recognize MSMEs at the heart of any resilient recovery from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, conflicts, and climate crisis. They contribute to the structural transformation of economies through decent jobs creation and income generation, particularly for vulnerable population, hence addressing the root causes of irregular migration.
“Following the economic shocks caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and in view of the current food insecurity, MSMEs can be effective agents of change to help advance in rebuilding and recovery efforts” said UN Resident Coordinator in Iraq, Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, adding: “They also have the potential to adopt actions in their business practices to contribute to ‘building back better’, in adapting to and mitigating climate change”. MSMEs and start-ups need assistance to be the driving forces behind relevant innovations and take up new ‘environmentally-friendly’ opportunities, as well as to improve their resilience to future shocks. Empowering MSMEs can thus contribute to a transition towards environmentally sustainable economies and societies for all and to building greater stability and resilience.
In Iraq, MSMEs represent a large share of the private sector. Supporting Iraqi MSMEs is instrumental for economic diversification, women and youth empowerment and ensuring sustainable peacebuilding efforts. Furthermore, supporting MSMEs comprises assisting young people as the upcoming employers and employees, leveraging on Iraq’s demographic dividend. The White Paper for Economic Reform outlines the Government of Iraq’s goals of attracting investment, inclusive development, introducing e-governance systems and fostering local production. By building on this impetus for reform and supporting MSMEs, the United Nations can help improve the overall business environment for MSMEs, increase their capacity to compete and assist the Iraqi government in achieving the goals set out in the Iraq’s White Paper.
The UN in Iraq is working collaboratively to support MSMEs, particularly in high potential sectors for economic diversification and job creation, such as agriculture and agri-food value chains and the culture and creative industries. Improving MSMEs’ competitiveness and value chain upgrading opportunities is extremely needed nowadays in Iraq to boost the local economy and create sustainable livelihood opportunities. Well-defined strategies with mutually reinforcing interventions, fostering productive alliances, building bridges between the public and private sector and enhancing human and social capital, with a focus on young people, are crucial.
MSMEs need coordinated action and targeted support to untap their potential for sustainable and inclusive growth and decent work creation. We will continue to join our efforts to support MSMEs in Iraq to ensure they have the capacity and resources to leverage a green transition, increase their productivity and competitiveness and foster employment. The time to act is now.
Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq
Eric Buchot, Head of Country Programme, International Trade Centre
Dr. Salah ElHajjHassan, FAO Representative, Iraq
Ally Raza Qureshi, WFP Representative, Iraq
Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator, Iraq
George Gigauri, IOM Chief of Mission, Iraq
Erik Willems, Regional coordinator, UNCTAD
Zena Ali Ahmad, Resident Representative, UNDP Iraq
Paolo Fontani, Director and Representative to Iraq, UNESCO
Jean-Nicolas Beuze, UNHCR Representative, Iraq
Mads Oyen, OiC Representative, UNICEF
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/187951-%E2%80%9Cmicro-small-and-medium-sized-enterprises-msme-day%E2%80%9D-un-calls-support-msmes-effective-agents




Date: 27 June 2022
Title: UNDP, IOM, and Iraqi government agencies encourage returns and reintegration in Ninewa
Content: 27 June 2022
Erbil, Iraq, 27 June 2022 – UNDP Iraq and the International Organization for Migration (IOM), in partnership with the Office of the National Security Advisory, and with participation from the Ministry of Migration and Displacement (MOMD) and other relevant government agencies, have brought together over 45 community and tribal leaders as well as local authorities from Ninewa Governorate in a workshop aimed at fostering understanding and community readiness among local leaders to facilitate the return and reintegration of displaced Iraqis back into their communities.
UNDP and IOM are working with the Government of Iraq to support the return and reintegration of displaced Iraqi families with perceived affiliation to ISIL, including those returning from Syria, in line with the government’s efforts to end protracted displacement through proactive measures to facilitate access to durable solutions.
The workshop included participants from the areas of Baaj, Ayadia, Makhmour, Mosul, Al Qiarah and Telafar in Ninewa, and discussed the details of the return process, challenges facing families who will return, the role of community leaders and local government in facilitating the reintegration of families, and the work which UNDP and IOM are undertaking to facilitate return and reintegration. The workshop produced a unanimous consensus to enhance community acceptance of returning families.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Ms. Zena Ali-Ahmad emphasizes, “UNDP is committed to working with the Iraqi Government and IOM to ensure communities are well informed and ready to accept the return of displaced families back to their communities of origin. Our sustainable approach to community readiness includes discussions with local and national authorities surrounding livelihood opportunities, mental health services, and housing options for both returning families and community members.”
According to Mr. Giorgi Gigauri, IOM’s Chief of Mission in Iraq, “IOM’s whole-of-society approach to identifying and facilitating durable solutions for displaced Iraqis demands that the needs, concerns and awareness of all those affected are taken into account – this is a crucial component of joint efforts by IOM, UNDP and the Government of Iraq to resolve the cases of individuals facing complex barriers to return and reintegration. The good faith and commitment to social cohesion shown during this workshop are a hopeful indication of increased opportunities for concerted action moving forward.”
Dr. Saeed Al-Jiashi, Advisor, National Security Advisory, states, “This meeting is very important in clarifying accurate information to the community about returning families and the stages of rehabilitation, including defining the timetable for returns. We have addressed issues by presenting facts and listening to tribal leaders, heads of administrative and security units, and local peace committees.”
In 2020, UNDP Iraq launched a dedicated five-year Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq. The Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration Project supports the community readiness, return, and reintegration of families perceived to be affiliated with ISIL, who are often among the most marginalized and vulnerable, as well as supporting host families in areas of return.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/187989-undp-iom-and-iraqi-government-agencies-encourage-returns-and-reintegration-ninewa




Date: 26 June 2022
Title: FAO Iraq mobilizing efforts to prevent the extinction of reem gazelles in Southern Iraq
Content: 26 June 2022
Al Muthanna, Iraq, 26 June 2022 – A delegation from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United (FAO) in Iraq visited last week Sawa Nature Reserve in Al Muthanna. This came as a follow-up to the urgent and current situation where reem gazzelles are endangered due to starvation and thirst.


These gazelles have long existed in Iraq but they are nowadays threatened to extinct due to climate change and other challenges, mainly severe successive droughts, which are resulting in poor grazing areas. In the last months, 41% of Reem gazelles died where the numbers decreased from 148 to 87 heads in the reserve.
During this visit, FAO Iraq Representative Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan with a team of experts from FAO met with the local authorities in Al Muthanna Governorate along representatives from Ministries of Agriculture, Environment and University of Al Muthanna to discuss these issues. FAO urged to put an action plan for the immediate and long-term sustainable interventions.
FAO Iraq Representative, Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan says, “FAO is committed to work closely with the local authorities, Ministries of Agriculture and Environment to prevent the extinction of animals in Sawa Nature Reserve and to protect the rich biological diversity in Iraq. We will put in action short and long term sustainable plan.”
The key actions to be implemented are:
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/187751-fao-iraq-mobilizing-efforts-prevent-extinction-reem-gazelles-southern-iraq




Date: 24 June 2022
Title: Norway reaffirms its commitment to stabilization in Iraq with US$ 7.5 million contribution
Content: 24 June 2022
Baghdad, 24 June 2022: The Government of Norway has made a new contribution NOK 70 million (approximately US$ 7.5 million) to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Iraq’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS), which supports stabilization, durable solutions, and the safe return of internally displaced Iraqis in the five governorates liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
This is Norway’s fourteenth contribution to FFS since 2015, bringing its total support to over US$ 72 million. Norway’s previous contributions have supported the implementation of 131 critical projects in the liberated areas, benefitting more than 3 million people
“We are grateful to Norway for this timely additional contribution to the Facility. With the extension of the FFS mandate until 2023, the most critical remaining priority needs are estimated at approximately US$ 300 million for 2022-23 required to address the most critical remaining stabilization needs across the five governorates of Anbar, Diyala, Ninewa, Kirkuk and Salah al-Din. We believe that continued support is critical to secure Iraq’s still-fragile stability,” says UNDP Resident Representative for Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“With the generous support of donors like Norway, and in partnership with the Government of Iraq, UNDP has completed more than 3,100 critical stabilization projects across the liberated areas. Looking ahead, we are focusing on remaining critical needs in priority locations and sectors, working toward durable solutions to safeguard the hard-won stabilization gains made since 2015, and target the most vulnerable IDPs,” adds Ms. Ali Ahmad.
Norwegian Ambassador to Jordan and Iraq, Ambassador Espen Lindbæck says, “I am very impressed by the work that the UNDP is doing in Iraq and the very concrete results achieved over the years. The FFS has ensured the possibility for many Iraqis to return to their homes in a safe, sustainable, and dignified manner. Norway is proud of this partnership and happy to support FFS in its last phase. I strongly encourage the Government of Iraq to take over and build on the activities of the FFS to ensure the continuation and sustainability of the gains made, to ensure the safe return of displaced Iraqis.”
In addition to rehabilitating key infrastructure and basic services, in 2022, FFS will place greater emphasis on promoting livelihood and employment opportunities through the rehabilitation of supportive infrastructure for productive sectors, such as agriculture and small industries as well as capacity support to local government counterparts.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/187471-norway-reaffirms-its-commitment-stabilization-iraq-us-75-million-contribution




Date: 24 June 2022
Title: UN-Habitat Iraq receives generous support from Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) to promote peace and stability by facilitating sustainable returns
Content: 24 June 2022
UN-Habitat Iraq welcomes the contribution of USD 6 million from the Korean Government through the Korea International Cooperation Agency Office in Iraq.
Today, during his visit to UN-Habitat Office, Mr. Cho Hyeong Lae, Country Director, KOICA Iraq Office and Wael Al Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq Prorgamme, signed the contribution agreement which aims to support the returnees in Ninewa.
The two-year programme aims to facilitate the sustainable returns of vulnerable displaced population to Sinjar by supporting their housing, land and property rights and improvement of living conditions.
Further, the programme aims to directly support 55,800 vulnerable populations in Sinjar by improving access to dignified housing, securing land tenure and improving living conditions and access to basic services and livelihoods.
Mr. Cho Hyeong Lae, emphasized the commitment of the Korean Government and KOICA in collaboration with UN-Habitat to support Iraqi government to provide assistance to the most vulnerable population in Iraq.
Wael Al Ashhab, thanked the KOICA delegation for their generous contribution and emphasized UN-Habitat’s commitment to support Iraqi people in dire need of housing, HLP and improve the living conditions which are key issues to promote the sustainable returns. Both parties agreed that housing, WASH and HLP rights should be prioritized activities to continue supporting the rights of the most vulnerable groups in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/187453-un-habitat-iraq-receives-generous-support-korea-international-cooperation-agency-koica




Date: 21 June 2022
Title: FAO Iraq strengthening veterinary services capacities on responding to animal heath emergencies
Content: 21 June 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 20 June 2022 – The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq, in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) is hosting a four-day Training for Trainers (ToT), as part of the United States Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) funded project, Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq.
This ToT in Skills Emergency Management using the Good Emergency Practice (GEMP), aims at standardizing and improving countries’ capacities to respond efficiently, rapidly and adequately to animal health disease emergencies and to assess the level of preparedness and command structures, risk analysis, also to review their contingency plans, funding mechanisms, information system, just to name a few.
Over 30 representatives from national veterinary services and public health, who completed successfully the online training using GEMP tool, have participated in person. This training will set out clearly the elements required for veterinary services to achieve preparedness planning for any animal health disease emergencies. It will also support them to be better prepared and share the learnt knowledge with their peers.
FAO Iraq Representative Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan states, “We are committed to incorporate ‘One Health’ approach in our work to confront heath threats posed by the persistence of Transboundary Animal Diseases and their consequences to a country’s economy and livelihoods. This training aims to provide the Iraqi veterinary services with the needed knowledge and tools to achieve preparedness planning for animal disease emergency.”
“We will continue working in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture towards limiting the risk of spread of high‐threat animal diseases in the country and into neighboring countries thanks to DTRA’s generous contribution,” he adds.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/187084-fao-iraq-strengthening-veterinary-services-capacities-responding-animal-heath-emergencies




Date: 20 June 2022
Title: WHO Provides Sulaymaniyah with urgent medical supplies to prepare for and respond to the recent Cholera outbreak
Content: 20 June 2022
Sulaymaniyah, Kurdistan Region of Iraq, 20 June 2022: The World Health Organization (WHO) dispatched an urgent consignment of medicines and medical supplies to Sulaymaniyah governorate in the (KR-I) to support the Regional Ministry of Health in KR-I step up its response to the sudden cholera outbreak in the region.
The consignment comprised 4 pallets of medicines and medical supplies, including infusion sets, antibiotics, and intravenous fluid (ringer lactate) to cover the needs of a population of approximately 5000 people for a duration of 3 months.
The Minister of Health in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq Dr. Saman Hussain Barzangy attended the handover and expressed concern over the sudden increase in acute diarrhea cases in Sulaymaniyah and a few other Iraqi governorates. “13 Cholera cases were confirmed by the laboratory among which 10 are in Sulaymaniyah. We are following the situation closely and have scaled up surveillance, preparedness and response activities, and hope to be able to contain the outbreak in the coming weeks in close collaboration with WHO and other partners” Dr. Barzangy said.
The Ministry of Health in KR-I is working with the Central Public Health Laboratory (CPHL) and have requested support to test 56 additional samples taken from Sulaymaniyah. As of 20 June 2022, 13 cholera cases from Sulaymaniyah, Kirkuk, and Muthanna, were confirmed by the CPHL.
“The increase in new Cholera cases in Sulaymaniyah and other governorates is a reason for concern for WHO and the MOH, as it is coming on the backdrop of the COVID19 pandemic and other epidemic-prone outbreaks that the country is still battling. However, WHO is committed to supporting the Ministry of Health both in Baghdad and in Kurdistan, to prepare for and respond to this outbreak and lower the impact on the population, including on the vulnerable groups of women, children, and the low-income communities,” said Dr. Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq.
“We are also calling upon our funding partners, stakeholders, WASH sector, and health cluster members to enhance collaboration with the local health authorities to ensure a proactive and coordinated approach to cholera response across Iraq,” Dr. Zouiten added.
It is worth mentioning that cholera is a waterborne bacterial infection that can spread quickly through a population. The disease is primarily contracted by consuming water or food contaminated with the cholera bacteria, Vibrio cholera. It causes uncontrollable diarrhea that, if left untreated, can result in dehydration or death.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/186938-who-provides-sulaymaniyah-urgent-medical-supplies-prepare-and-respond-recent-cholera




Date: 20 June 2022
Title: On World Refugee Day: Everyone has the right to seek safety
Content: 20 June 2022
Erbil, Kurdistan region of Iraq: This year, World Refugee Day reminds us that every person has a right to seek safety – whoever they are, wherever they come from and whenever they are forced to flee conflict or persecution.

In Iraq and especially in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI), we commend the people and authorities for the welcome extended to some 300,000 Syrian, Iranian, Turkish and other refugees and asylum-seekers of which over 90 percent live in the KRI.
Today, as Iraq is recovering from years of armed violence and internal displacements due to the fight against ISIL (Da’esh), UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, stands with refugees and communities who have been hosting them as the country heads towards stability and prosperity.
UNHCR praises the authorities in Iraq, particularly in KRI, for providing healthcare and soon education to the refugees through their public systems, and for having allowed them to fend for themselves by getting jobs. Funding for humanitarian emergency responses around the world is being overstretched, as partners must address the needs of the 100 million people who have been forced to leave their homes, most recently in Ethiopia, Afghanistan, and Ukraine. Nonetheless, UNHCR remains committed to supporting the Iraqi and KRI authorities and people in their efforts to help refugees restore their lives with dignity.
“Today, on World Refugee Day, we celebrate the generosity that the authorities and people in Iraq, especially in the KRI, have demonstrated even during their own adversity: they have opened their doors and hearts to shelter and protect those displaced from neighboring countries and their own sisters and brothers who fled ISIL (Da’esh) violence. Seeing today in Erbil how so many refugees have been able to resume dignified lives is a testament to their resilience, but also to the hospitality of their hosts. UNHCR remains committed to working together with the authorities and the international community to support host communities and refugees alike. On this day, it is also important to reiterate the importance of keeping borders open to allow safe passage to those who flee violence and persecution - whoever they are, wherever they come from, and whenever they are forced to flee, we must be prepared to welcome them, like Iraq and the KRI has done in particular in relation to Syrian refugees.” said Jean-Nicolas Beuze, Representative of UNHCR in Iraq.
Durable solutions for those who were forced to flee must be sought, especially in protracted situations and until the time refugees can go home in safety and dignity. In Iraq, UNHCR is investing in existing public services to strengthen their capacity to serve both host and displaced communities through readily accessible interventions of high quality. Ultimately, it is to the benefit of all that refugees become more self-reliant and engage in the local economy so that they no longer depend on humanitarian assistance and contribute to the communities that welcomed them.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/186940-world-refugee-day-everyone-has-right-seek-safety




Date: 19 June 2022
Title: KRI’s anti-corruption agenda strengthened under new agreement with Commission of Integrity
Content: 19 June 2022
Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq, 19 June 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq’s (KRI) Commission of Integrity (CoI) have today renewed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to strengthen KRI’s legislative and strategic anti-corruption frameworks and to enhance, the investigative capacity of it in line with international principles and standards.
The three-year MoU provides a framework of cooperation between the two partners under a number of areas, including identifying legislative gaps in anti-corruption and subsequently developing legislation in line with the United Nations Convention Against Corruption, enhancing the KRI’s anti-corruption strategic framework, and strengthening the role of KRI’s CoI Investigations Department.
“We, at the Commission of Integrity of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, have multiple challenges in our day-to-day activities. Hence, having substantial contributors and supporters, who are ready to lend a hand to us – is a real value. Continuing cooperation with our long-time partner UNDP is a strengthen KRI CoI's legislative and strategic anti-corruption frameworks and improving our capacities in line with worldwide approaches.” – stated Dr Ahmed Anwar, the Chairman of KRI Commission of Integrity.
“The renewed Memorandum of Understanding is a sign of continued commitment of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq’s Commission of Integrity to deliver on Iraq’s own regional and international commitments and respond to the clear expectations of Iraqi citizens. I welcome this step and look forward to a continued partnership under the EU-funded project, to the benefit of Iraq and its people” – stressed Ms. Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation Section at the EU Delegation to Iraq.
“A robust anti-corruption agenda and investigative arm of the Commission of Integrity will mean increased transparency and accountability, and a more efficient administration of justice in line with international standards. We are delighted to renew this commitment with KRI’s Commission of Integrity which will be instrumental in restoring public confidence in the institutions that serve them,” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
The objectives of this MoU falls within the framework of the currently ongoing EU-funded Anti-Corruption and Arbitration in Iraq (ACAI) Project, implemented by UNDP.
More information on the ACAI project can be found here.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/186863-kri%E2%80%99s-anti-corruption-agenda-strengthened-under-new-agreement-commission-integrity




Date: 17 June 2022
Title: On World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought, UN and NGOs call for action to support Iraq in managing water and adapting to climate change
Content: 17 June 2022
17 June 2022, Baghdad – As Iraq confronts multiple challenges caused and exacerbated by climate change, including prolonged heat waves, declining precipitation, loss of fertile land, salinisation, insufficient infrastructure investments, transboundary water shortages and a prevalence of dust storms, the UN and NGOs in Iraq mark World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought with a call for action to protect the country from the devastating impacts.
Iraq is among the top 5 countries most affected by climate change, and the 39th most water stressed. Last year’s record low rainfall – the second driest season in 40 years – has led to water shortages, desertification, and soil erosion due to unsustainable agricultural practices and shrinking, damaged vegetation cover. Conflict has devastated land and water sources in Iraq, causing further soil erosion and contamination, while political uncertainty poses challenges to environmental governance.
The drastic decrease in farmland and biodiversity in agriculture, land degradation and the increase of sand dunes have all added to the strain, leading to animal migration and deaths. Some examples are the multiple dust storms experienced so far in 2022, which have even caused human fatalities, or Sawa Lake in Muthanna governorate drying up this year due to the water crisis. Left unattended, projections to 2040 show increasing stress on Iraq’s water sources, which also face significant challenges from pollution caused by the oil industry and sewage, weak environmental governance, and fires. Coupled with water scarcity, the removal of topsoil and decline in land productivity have led to reduced food production in Iraq. A 2021 survey, covering 7 governorates, found 37% of wheat farmers and 30% of barley farmers suffered crop failure. At the same time, incomes have plummeted as farmers do not have the harvested crops to sell, which directly impact upon food security.
The 4 million people living in Iraq’s downstream Basra governorate are most affected by water scarcity. The marshlands of Iraq, with their deep cultural and human heritage, and natural resources for livelihoods, once represented the first line of defence against climatic changes and environmental damage. Reduced river water levels in the once great Tigris and Euphrates have led to rising salt levels and deteriorating water quality. With annual evaporation up to 3 metres and lower river water, sea water has moved upriver to al-Qurna, destroying 60,000 acres of agricultural land and 30,000 trees.
As of March 2022, the displacement of an estimated 3,000 families due to drought and environmental degradation had been recorded across 8 governorates in central and southern Iraq. Recent studies have shown water scarcity to be one of the primary drivers of migration from rural to urban areas, alongside challenges to sustainable agriculture and food security.
Desertification and water scarcity disproportionately affect the most vulnerable. Vulnerable families who have already suffered from conflict and displacement now risk being caught in the cycle of poverty for longer. Of particular concern are children in rural areas, who missed education opportunities due to conflict and COVID-19, that may now be forced to turn to child labour and early marriage to financially help their families meet their basic water and food needs.
Girls and women also face heightened vulnerability due to water scarcity, in large part due to gender inequality. Indeed, limited access to clean water affects menstrual hygiene, compromising the health and dignity of women and girls. Climate-related disasters also strain Iraq’s already stretched health systems. Without medical support during child delivery, the risk of preventable maternal death increases. Heightened tensions along with a breakdown in social cohesion may lead to increased gender-based violence, including sexual-based violence.
With the combined support of local and international actors, Iraq can work to overcome national and regional political uncertainty to mitigate the effects of climate change and land degradation, and address transnational water management. National and local authorities can urgently pursue the legislation and improved practices required for sustainable water management and consumption.
The UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration aims to prevent, halt and reverse the degradation of ecosystems worldwide. The UN and NGOs in Iraq are working with the government and Iraqi universities on smart monitoring systems to track progress or regression on environmental targets, climate, water resources and land use. Such data is critical to equip decision-makers with the knowledge required to take action and form policy. Information is shared with communities to publicly support action planning and community-led decision making on drought prevention.
Stabilizing the soil and protecting its vegetation cover by encouraging efficient water use, replenishing water reservoirs, rehabilitating irrigation infrastructure, planting more trees, bushes and shrubs, developing sustainable green belts around cities, controlling mining activities, improving the quality of the soil and protecting it from salinisation through more sustainable agricultural and farming techniques, are all required. Providing eco-friendly irrigation solutions, and re-skilling farmers, for instance, in drip and smart types of irrigation, saves water and has a transformative positive impact.
From local community, local authorities and national government to international actors: only together, with the support of all, can we ensure a healthy future for Iraq’s land and water and the people who depend on it.

Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq
Ali Al-Karkhi, Managing Director, Humat Dijlah, Iraq
Ally Raza Qureshi, WFP Representative, Iraq
Brooke Gibbons, Country Director, Mercy Corps, Iraq
Dr. Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative, Iraq
Dr. Salah ElHajjHassan, FAO Representative, Iraq
Edward Santiago, Country Director, Mission East, Iraq
George Gigauri, IOM Chief of Mission, Iraq
Ishtiaq Mannan, Country Director, Save the Children, Iraq
James Munn, Country Director, NRC, Iraq
Jean-Nicolas Beuze, UNHCR Representative, Iraq
Katie Thomas-Canfield, Country Director, ACF, Iraq
Khalid Aswad, Country Director, Al-Zahaa Association for Environmental Development, Iraq
Mads Oyen, OiC UNICEF Representative, Iraq
Sami Dimassi, Representative, Regional Director UN Environment West Asia
Sharon Thangadurai, Country Director, WVI, Iraq
Toon Bijnens, Chair, Save the Tigris
Wael Al-Ashhab, Head of Iraq Country Programme, UN-HABITAT, Iraq
Zena Ali Ahmad, UNDP Resident Representative, Iraq
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/186697-world-day-combat-desertification-and-drought-un-and-ngos-call-action-support-iraq-managing




Date: 16 June 2022
Title: Iraqi cookbook United Through Food launched at Iraqi Dialogue and Peace Day
Content: 16 June 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 15 June 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in partnership with the Community Dialogue and Peace Committee in the Office of the Prime Minister yesterday hosted Iraqi Dialogue and Peace Day in Baghdad, which aims to celebrate the unique diversity of Iraqi communities.
The celebration featured cultural and musical performers from across Iraq representing various ethnic and religious groups, and was headlined by oud player Mustafa Zair and his Peace Orchestra. United Through Food, an Iraqi cookbook and history book, was released, focusing on food as a catalyst for unity and social cohesion in Iraq. The book is available online, featuring a brief history of each of Iraq’s 18 governorates as well as recipes for dishes specific to each region.
Iraqi Dialogue and Peace Day, the first celebration of its kind, was held at Baghdad International Fair, and included representatives across all Iraqi governorates, government members, non-governmental organizations, diplomatic corps, United Nations agencies, media, and Iraqi artists and influencers.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad states, “Iraqi Dialogue and Peace Day is a chance for different groups to come together and celebrate the diverse and unique cultural traditions that bring Iraqis together. I am pleased to announce the launch of United Through Food, a project that highlights the importance of hospitality, generosity and community in Iraqi culture.”
According to Dr. Hisham Daoud, advisor to the Prime Minister and Chairman of the Community Dialogue and Peace Committee, “This event is a celebration of peace. Hundreds of people from all Iraqi governorates accepted this invitation and came together to celebrate music, artistic expression, and cuisine. Society is about art, culture, singing, and joy, and after many decades, Iraqis deserve to experience happiness.”
UNDP Iraq’s five-year Social Cohesion Programme launched in January 2020 to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/186354-iraqi-cookbook-united-through-food-launched-iraqi-dialogue-and-peace-day




Date: 16 June 2022
Title: UNITAD, Iraq, and Finland Co-Host a Special Event at UNHQ: Presenting Investigations into ISIL’s Crimes Against the Tikrit Air Academy Personnel
Content: 16 June 2022
Baghdad, 15 June 2022– The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL, jointly with The Permanent Mission of Iraq to the United Nations, and The Permanent Mission of Finland to the United Nations co-hosted a special event titled “The Pattern of Mass Killing: ISIL crimes against the Tikrit Air Academy Personnel.”
The Special Event was held at the Headquarters of the United Nations i New York and brought together participants from the diplomatic community, civil society and different UN offices.
“Our special event coincides with the eighth anniversary of this massacre; one of the most heinous crimes committed by ISIL against the predominantly Shia unarmed cadets of the Iraqi Air Force.” said Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher in his opening remarks, adding that: “UNITAD has completed a case brief on this massacre with detailed evidence that can be used to support prosecutions of ISIL members, including some who are allegedly most responsible for those crimes.”
H.E. Ambassador Mohammed Hussein Bahr AlUloom, Permanent representative of Iraq to the UN underlined that Iraq will spare no effort, and for as long as it takes to bring before justice all perpetrators of terrorist crimes  against all Iraqis especially those committed by ISIL (Daesh). The crime against Tikrit Academy cadets, is rightfully called by Iraqis crime as (the crime of our time). Just as victory over those terrorists was obtained by Iraqis, also fair, transparent and just trials and accountability of those who committed these heinous crimes will be obtained by Iraqis themselves and according to the national legal procedures consistent with the Iraqi legislative code. H.E. Bahr AlUloom, commended the efforts of UNITAD team and Special Adviser Christian Ritscher, and welcomed continued cooperation between the Iraqi government and the UNITAD team.
Special Adviser Christian Ritscher renewed his gratitude to the Government of Iraq and the Iraqi judiciary for the invaluable collaboration with UNITAD on the investigations into those crime, as well as the tremendous work conducted by the national experts in mass grave excavations and victim remains identification. “With the continued collaboration with the Government of Iraq and Iraqi judiciary, UNITAD will be able to further advance investigations towards ensuring accountability for ISIL international crimes, and serving justice to the victims, who have been waiting for long to see their day in court,” said Special Adviser Ritscher.
During the event, UNITAD presented a video that was produced in partnership with SITU Research, as a special production aiming at bringing the crime scene to viewers. The video synthesizes testimonial, documentary, digital and forensic evidence into a compelling narrative that tells the story of the core international crimes committed by ISIL/Da’esh members in Tikrit. Additionally, UNITAD’s lead investigator on this file presented an overview and presentation on the case.
Through a video address, Yasser Al Khozaa’i, Investigative Judge at the Rusafa Court in Bagdad, presented the work done by the Iraqi Judiciary investigating the Tikrit Air Academy massacre, including the support provided to other countries who can arrest and prosecute perpetrators. He also highlighted the Iraqi judiciary’s approach in extending full support to UNITAD, under the guidance of the President of the Iraqi Supreme Judicial Council, Dr. Faiq Zeidan.
In his intervention, Mr. Sarhang Hamasaeed, the Director of Middle East Programs at the United States Institute of Peace highlighted the importance of accountability in reconciliation and peacebuilding, adding that holding ISIL perpetrators accountable is highly significant to ensure that the massacre was not committed by one community against another community, but by members of a criminal organization who committed those international crimes.
Following the Q&A, H.E. Ms. Miia Rainne, Deputy Permanent Representative of Finland to the United Nations and Chargé d’Affaires a.i, provided concluding remarks for the event, highlighting that achieving accountability, especially for the most serious international crimes, is a precondition for sustainable peace and that victims for these crimes deserve to have closure and information about the fate of their family members.
The video presented during the event will be made available in full on UNITAD’s official website and social media.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/186355-unitad-iraq-and-finland-co-host-special-event-unhq-presenting-investigations-isil%E2%80%99s-crimes




Date: 14 June 2022
Title: After Destruction, Sinjar Court House Officially Reopens with Support from USAID and UNDP
Content: 14 June 2022
Sinjar/Baghdad, 14 June 2022 – The Sinjar Court House has been reopened with support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
The Court House, which provides important legal services such as administration of justice, was left severely damaged during ISIL occupation. With generous funding from USAID, UNDP rehabilitated this important facility that serves over 25,000 people across Sinjar District. The spacious and purpose-built Court House consists of 25 rooms, a director room, four waiting rooms and one main courtroom.
The project was implemented through UNDP’s flagship programme, the Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS). Since 2015, USAID has contributed around US $400 million to FFS, including over $10 million in Sinjar, making it the FFS programme’s leading partner.
To date, USAID has supported around 900 FFS rehabilitation projects, including critical water and electrical infrastructure, as well as schools, housing, and health facilities.
“The reopening of this facility is an important milestone in the journey to rebuild Sinjar and for the rule of law to prevail in the area. Rehabilitating critical infrastructure and restoring essential services such as the Sinjar Court House is key to creating a safe and dignified environment for families choosing to return to Sinjar. Especially, through USAID’s support, UNDP has been able to prioritize support to the Yazidi survivors of genocide as they return and rebuild their lives after years of conflict and trauma,” says UNDP Resident Representative in Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
"Restoring access to the judicial system is a critical component of the recovery process. The reopening of the Sinjar Court House is therefore a beacon of hope for the entire Yazidi community. USAID is proud of our work to rehabilitate this essential infrastructure, offering legal services and law enforcement to the residents of Sinjar," said USAID Mission Director to Iraq, John Cardenas.
“We are here today because of the generous funding provided by USAID. As one of the founding partners of FFS, USAID has made generous contributions to Sinjar and to stabilization in Iraq,” added Ms. Ahmad.
Since 2015, FFS has worked with the Government of Iraq and local actors to ensure safe, dignified, and voluntary returns and to lay the foundation for the successful reintegration of displaced populations into the community. To date, around 3,100 projects have been completed across the five governorates liberated from ISIL, improving the lives of more than 8 million Iraqis.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/186093-after-destruction-sinjar-court-house-officially-reopens-support-usaid-and-undp




Date: 14 June 2022
Title: Government of Iraq, UNFPA organise the First National Conference to Address Early Marriage
Content: 14 June 2022
14 June 2022; Baghdad, Iraq - The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), and the Council of Ministers Secretariat (COMSEC), in partnership with the Women Empowerment Department (WED), and support from the United Kingdom, Sweden,  France and Canada, organised a two-day conference to address early marriage in Iraq.
The conference, which took place on 11-12 June, recognised the alarming situation with early marriage which has increased from %21.7 to %25.5 for the past ten years in Iraq.
The event brought together government entities, local authorities, religious and tribal leaders, civil society organisations, young people, academia, and representatives of the international and donor community to discuss the root causes of early marriage, its impact and solutions to address it.
Representatives of the government of Iraq and the government of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, ambassadors, tribal and religious leaders, academia and experts shared profound evidence on the devastating consequences of early marriage  on the socio-economic progress, psychological and physical health of young girls and boys, families, communities and society at large.
UNFPA Representative of Iraq, Dr Rita Columbia, said: “Tribal communities and young people affected by early marriage have asked us to raise our voice and advocate more for women and girls’ rights and empowerment and take a step forward in addressing early marriage in Iraq, including the Kurdistan Region. This event shows the criticality of reducing early marriage to fulfill the rights of girls and women, and accelerate achievement of SDGs in Iraq.”
The conference participants discussed and elaborated recommendations that will be taken by the Women Empowerment Directorate under the leadership of the Secretary-General of the COMSEC to support the local authorities to reduce and prevent early marriage in Iraq.
The Early Marriage is #NotNormal also includes a social media campaign and a partnership with Rakuten’s Viber to promote the end of early marriage.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/186268-government-iraq-unfpa-organise-first-national-conference-address-early-marriage




Date: 13 June 2022
Title: FAO and the European Union: a real partnership with diary producers and empowering rural women
Content: 13 June 2022
Iraq, Nineveh, 13 June 2022- The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture-Ninewa Agriculture Directorate, and through the European Union (EU) funded project “support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh Governorate, Iraq”, held a four-day intensive training on improving manufacture and marketing of traditional dairy products. 75 dairy producers participated including 50 women from Zummar district, Telkaif district, and the city of Mosul.
this training provided an opportunity for the participants to learn about good practices for handling and processing dairy products with practical samples to make these products. During this training, the health aspects to process traditional dairy products were emphasized with the introduction of new techniques on how to process different types of cheese that the Iraqi consumer wants and which have been imported from neighboring countries and they can be manufactured locally. This aims to obtain healthy and safe dairy products and to promote simple ideas to produce distinctive products that can be competitive in the market. The women dairy producers also received training on the use of pasteurizer, how to follow the good milk hygiene standards and to ensure the hygiene of the device under the supervision of FAO Iraq’s International Livestock Value Chain Expert, Dr. Chedly Kayouli.
Dr. Kayouli stressed during the training on the importance of examining milk before use to obtain the highest quality products. The female extension officers carried out the laboratory examination in the presence of all participants to consolidate the examination process through practical practice.
“FAO is striving to establish a real partnership with the dairy producers and to empower them, which is a priority for the organization. This will help them to support their families’ income. It is necessary to activate the role of women milk producers in particular. These trainings seek to improve the capacity of the sector and to contribute to the national development in preserving local products and improving their quality”, says FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah ElHajj Hassan.
On the training’s practical side, focusing on cheese making, FAO Iraq’s expert Dr. Kayouli, highlights that: "a participatory and interactive approach was followed to reflect the spirit of teamwork and self-development, which contributed to the development of new types of cheese for the first time in Iraq and Nineveh in particular."
The women participants liked the new produced varieties of cheese and their wonderful taste, and they emphasized that they are learning this to supply the local market. ”At the beginning, we used the traditional methods. Nowadays, with thanks to FAO’s practical training, we have been able to use modern techniques, starting with the process of examining the milk and learning to use the equipment. In addition, we learned modern methods of processing cheese and new types that are popular in the local market,” says dairy producer Houda Khalid Jamil from Al-Hamdania, who participated in the training held in Zummar district.
"We look forward to the continued support of FAO and the European Union to improve the manufacture of these products and the development of the household industry to meet the growing market needs," Houda adds.
This EU funded project’s contributions formed advanced and successful models of partnership with dairy producers and enabled thousands of families in Nineveh, especially returnees, to improve their income, to develop their businesses and to create new job opportunities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/185961-fao-and-european-union-real-partnership-diary-producers-and-empowering-rural-women




Date: 13 June 2022
Title: On this World Day against Child Labour, ILO and UNICEF call for joint work among all stakeholders to create a protective and inclusive environment for children in Iraq
Content: 13 June 2022
Baghdad, 12 June 2022. On this World Day Against Child Labour, with the slogan “Universal Social Protection to End Child Labour”, ILO and UNICEF are calling on stakeholders to work together to create a protective and inclusive environment for children in Iraq. Children make up the majority of 4.5 million Iraqis who are at risk of poverty due to impact of conflict and COVID-19, with one in two children (48.8%) facing high risk of multiple deprivations in education, health, living conditions, and financial security. Disruption to services and the adoption of negative coping mechanisms by poor households are set to increase deprivation and increase inequality. This will particularly impact the most vulnerable children – those affected by conflict and displacement, including in host communities.
Child labour has been on the rise in Iraq in recent years due to armed conflict, displacement, socio-economic challenges, and the pandemic; children were moved to remote learning, increasing the risk of drop out from school and entering the workforce. Scaling-up social protection and promoting equal access to quality social services, with a focus on education, health, and child protection are central policy directions to respond to drivers of child labour.
The Fifth Global Conference on the Elimination of Child Labour held in Durban last month concluded with a call for urgent action, stating that “the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, armed conflicts, and food, humanitarian and environmental crises threaten to reverse years of progress against child labour”.
Child labour, especially its worst forms, deprives children of their childhood and their education. It increases their risks to serious hazards, illness, and exploitation.
On World Day Against Child Labour the ILO and UNICEF reiterate their partnership with the Government of Iraq to respond effectively and accelerate reforms to protect vulnerable children and their families from the worst forms of child labour and promote child well-being.
Iraq is a signatory of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. It has also ratified the ILO Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138) and the ILO Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (No. 182), which are vital in the fight against child labour.
Furthermore, Iraq’s recent participation in the Durban Conference was encouraging, displaying strong national interest towards tackling the Worst Forms of Child Labour.
Key in tackling child labour has been the development of an ILO-supported Child Labour Monitoring System (CLMS), which is funded by the European Regional Development and Protection Programme for Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq (RDPP II) and implemented with the Government of Iraq. The monitoring system identifies vulnerable children who are in or at risk of child labour and provides them with needed support and services. It focuses on access to education and psycho-social services and providing the children’s parents and caretakers with opportunities that can improve their employability and livelihood. Also, ILO and UNICEF provide age-appropriate skills development programmes for 3,781 young people (10-24 years) including employability skills and educating targeted young people on labour law and human rights standards at work.
After the successful piloting of the system in Ninewa and Duhok, the ILO and UNICEF are jointly supporting the government with capacity building and technical support to adopt and implement the system across the country and specifically in areas where child labour is most prevalent.
In addition, the ILO-RDPP II partnership has helped set up and revive centres in Mosul, Ninewa’s capital, and Dohuk to provide children with support tools to catch up on education and return to school. These centres provide a safe space for children who have been withdrawn from child labour, where they can engage in age-appropriate activities that can help them return to formal education.
Since 2021, ILO, UNICEF, and World Food Programme (WFP), with the support of the European Union and in partnership with the Government of Iraq are implementing Social Protection Reform programme to improve the quality and coverage of government-funded social protection programmes for the poorest and most vulnerable children and families. This will also reduce the risk of household economic hardship and children falling out of school and into the child labour force.
On this occasion, it is important to recognize the imperative of a multi-sectoral response, with a focus on scaling up social protection including social security to the most vulnerable families, and increasing investments in services such as education, health, child protection. This should ensure all children in Iraq enjoy equal opportunities to learn, thrive and live in a safe and friendly environment. This is vital to enable children to develop skills and imagination and prepare them to deal with the new challenges of the world in its current stages of transition.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/185875-world-day-against-child-labour-ilo-and-unicef-call-joint-work-among-all-stakeholders-create




Date: 11 June 2022
Title: Iraq High-level Meeting to present assessment findings and foster national ownership to address threats posed by terrorist and FTF prisoners
Content: 11 June 2022
Baghdad, Iraq – 8 June 2022 - The Government of Iraq and the United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime (UNODC) held a meeting to discuss prison reform in Iraq. UNODC, as an implementer of a capacity building initiative funded by the U.S. Government, presented to key stakeholders from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the High Judicial Council, and the National Security Advisory, on the 6th of June 2022, a review of its recent assessment of Iraqi correctional facilities. UNODC presented the findings as part of the “Returning Foreign Terrorist Fighters in Detention” programme, which enhances the capacity of countries to develop tools to address radicalization and terrorist recruitment in prisons.
The presentation focused on understanding imprisonment issues from a system’s perspective, and by looking at organizational functions, inmate well-being, infrastructure, and security. The report’s findings are based on comprehensive coverage of three major adult male reformatories and one female reformatory facility under the jurisdiction of the Iraqi Ministry of Justice.
During the session, H.E Minister of Justice, Mr. Salar Abdulsatar stated the study was an important assessment that had been prepared with the support of UNODC experts and affirmed that the Ministry was already implementing many of the recommended reforms – and looked forward to working more deeply with UNODC and other international development partners to continue to make progress in these areas, in cooperation with key agencies.
In support of the Minister’s comments, Mr. Ali Elbereir, Senior Programme Coordinator and Head of UNODC Office in Iraq stated that this study came as part of the objectives of the Prison Reform Programme to enhance the capacities of the Government Ministries and departments to detect, analyze and manage threats posed by foreign terrorist fighters (FTFs) and prevent violent extremism in prisons. This is through providing technical assistance to the sector of Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice including law enforcement, corrections, and justice sector departments.
U.S. Embassy Deputy Chief of Mission, Mr. Gregory LoGerfo noted that the U.S. Government wholly recognized that defeating Da’esh and preventing its resurgence in Iraq does not end with conviction in the courts but rely upon prison facilities capable of implementing best practices in sentencing management and the rehabilitation of extremist prisoners. He commended the Ministry and Government of Iraq for reforms undertaken to date and for their commitment to strengthening security protocols and implementing enhanced protections for human rights within Iraqi prisons. He emphasized that this commitment is emblematic of the type of leadership the United States hopes to see from all members of The Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS, particularly as they undertake to manage Da’esh affiliated prisoners in a post-conviction setting.
The meeting concluded with a detailed discussion, in which feedback was obtained from the participants to be considered in the endorsed report. Through this partnership, UNODC aims to strengthen Iraq’s institutional capacity to manage and mitigate the threats of terrorists and FTF prisoners. International corrections best practices will be utilized, including classification and case management, contraband control, access control between cells and prison buildings, and development of intake processes.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/185824-iraq-high-level-meeting-present-assessment-findings-and-foster-national-ownership-address




Date: 11 June 2022
Title: Special Adviser Ritscher Briefs Security Council on UNITAD Investigative Progress: Cooperation with Iraq is Key
Content: 11 June 2022
Baghdad, 10 June 2022 – Special Adviser Christian Ritscher briefed the UN Security Council on the work of the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) over the past six months. The briefing, which highlighted the progress described in UNITAD’s eighth report to the Security Council, stressed the significant progress in cooperation between UNITAD and the Government of Iraq in the pursuit of justice and accountability for ISIL international crimes.

Cooperation with the Government of Iraq and the Iraqi Judiciary has been key for the implementation of UNITAD’s mandate as reaffirmed by Special Adviser Ritscher, expressing his gratitude to the Government of Iraq, the Iraqi judiciary, and the authorities of the Kurdistan Regional Government for supporting the implementation of UNITAD’s mandate. “I have made it a priority to establish and maintain a continuous dialogue with senior members of the Iraqi Government, including the Presidency, the Prime Minister’s Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the National Security Advisory,” said the Special Adviser.
The Special Adviser mentioned that earlier this year, strategic discussions between UNITAD and the Iraqi National Coordinating Committee, chaired by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, jointly defined common areas of priority. This included information sharing as well as capacity building for national counterparts.
During the briefing, Special Adviser Ritscher presented examples of the progress, during the reporting period, in the Team’s structural investigations, which aim to cover ISIL crimes against all affected communities; Yazidis, Shia, Sunni, Christian, Kaka’i, Shabak and Turkmen Shia. One example was the progress in UNITAD’s investigations into ISIL’s development and use of chemical and biological weapons, which revealed new information through testimonial, digital, and documentary evidence pertaining to the manufacturing and use of these weapons. Special Adviser Ritscher stressed that “our investigations will look more closely at the underlying procurement system for these weapons and related financial flows. This entails focusing on the involvement of specific individuals, including those involved in conducting human tests with chemical agents on detained persons.”
Highlighting future priority areas for the work of the Team, Special Adviser Ritscher said that UNITAD intends to intensify its investigations pertaining to crimes committed in Mosul, the capital of the so-called “caliphate” of Da’esh/ISIL. He also mentioned that UNITAD plans to expand investigations into ISIL’s destruction of cultural heritage. He said that “ISIL’s vicious destruction of cultural heritage was an attempt to erase Iraq’s diverse cultural history.” He expressed his devastation after seeing the magnitude of the destruction in some of the cultural heritage sites which he visited recently. “At the same time, I continue to be impressed by Iraq’s ongoing efforts to restore these sites,” he pointed out.
“I can compare the restoration of cultural heritage sites to our own work at UNITAD in the pursuit of accountability and justice. It equally takes years and is a painstaking process, but it is work that must be done”, said the Special Adviser. He reiterated UNITAD’s commitment to continue working towards holding ISIL members accountable for their international crimes in Iraq, stressing that this is “a commitment we owe to the survivors, to international justice, and to humanity at large.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/185825-special-adviser-ritscher-briefs-security-council-unitad-investigative-progress-cooperation




Date: 08 June 2022
Title: ITC launches partnerships with major agri-food companies in Iraq
Content: 08 June 2022
Baghdad (08 June 2022) – New partnerships to connect Iraqi agri-food companies with local producers have now been launched in the country with support from the European Union.
The Strengthening the Agriculture and Agri-food Value Chain and Improving Trade Policy (SAAVI) project signed partnership agreements with major enterprises in the agri-business sector including Beirut Erbil for Potato Products (BEPP), Rawnaq aldur and Waffir.
In Iraq farmers often sell their products in the local markets without making due profits. They are unaware of existing options to upgrade their products and access more remunerative markets.
These partnerships will enable the companies to seize these opportunities and develop local alliances to establish durable linkages and trust between producers and large agri-food buyers.  Through this collaboration buyers will support farmers to improve their production practices to meet the latest market requirements.
As part of these partnerships, SAAVI organized tailored market awareness workshops for farmers and private sector partners in Mosul, Al Hamdaniya and Basra. These workshops serve as a platform for producers and buyers to connect and discuss current practices and entry-points for collaboration. Negotiations are ongoing for the first batch of products to be delivered to interested buyers. Local agri-business plans will also be developed with farmers and buyers to support improved competitiveness and long-term quality improvement, that will create profitable business models.
Agriculture is an important sector for Iraq, as it contributes to economic diversification, inclusive job creation and private sector growth, particularly micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Products, such as tomatoes and other vegetables and poultry products exhibit significant potential for development, notably in the domestic market. There is a need to address competitiveness issues, and foster value addition, as well as improve market linkages for unlocking the potential in the sector.
The International Trade Centre (ITC), in partnership with the Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC), will provide farmers, with an emphasis on youth and women, with technical assistance in less resource-intensive agriculture, enhanced post-harvest practices, quality improvement and food safety standards in alignment with buyers’ requirements. Buyers will in turn gain access to commercially viable volumes of quality products, being able to progressively substitute imports, and offer Iraqi consumers with the local healthy agri-food products they have been seeking.
The five-year SAAVI project seeks to enhance competitiveness of agriculture and agri-food value chains and improve trade policy in Iraq. SAAVI is funded by the European Union and implemented by ITC in close collaboration with the Government of Iraq, NRC, and other implementing partners.
Additional notes for the Editor
ITC is the joint agency of the World Trade Organization and the United Nations. ITC assists small and medium-sized enterprises in developing and transition economies to become more competitive in global markets, thereby contributing to sustainable economic development within the frameworks of the Aid-for-Trade agenda and the United Nations’ Global Goals for Sustainable Development.
The Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) is an independent humanitarian organisation. In Iraq, NRC is continuing to shift towards early recovery programming, aiming for sustainable development and providing integrated and localised services including assistance to smallholders and MSMEs in agriculture.
Media contacts
Delegation of the European Union to Iraq
Al-Sadiq Al-Adilee – Press and Information Officer alsadiq.al-adilee@eeas.europa.eu
International Trade Centre
Waqas Rafique, Public Information Officer wrafique@intracen.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/185219-itc-launches-partnerships-major-agri-food-companies-iraq




Date: 07 June 2022
Title: Italy supports UNESCO Iraq to improve access to quality and inclusive education with gender equality for out of school children
Content: 07 June 2022
6 June 2022 - UNESCO Iraq welcomes a new generous contribution from the Directorate General for Development Cooperation of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, through the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS).
During the visit to the Alimam Almuntazar School today, the Italian Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, H. E. Marina Sereni, and the UNESCO Representative to Iraq, Paolo Fontani, signed a partnership agreement between Italy and UNESCO for the enrollment of out-of-school children in schools in Baghdad and Babil governorates, in the presence of the Director of the AICS Office for Jordan and Iraq, Emilio Cabasino.
With the funding support from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Italy, five schools have been rehabilitated in Salah Al Din governorate and eight more schools will benefit from rehabilitation in Baghdad Governorate. More than 17,000 students have been re-enrolled to date.
This new phase of the project aims to provide further 10,000 Out of School Children (OOSC) in Babil and Baghdad governorates with learning opportunities, safer and more conducive learning environment and enhanced quality of education. Special attention will be given to offer equal opportunities to boys and girls to access quality education.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/185161-italy-supports-unesco-iraq-improve-access-quality-and-inclusive-education-gender-equality




Date: 06 June 2022
Title: Visit to Al-Hol camp in northeastern Syria
Content: 06 June 2022
On Sunday 5 June, a high-level UN delegation, accompanied by the Chief of Iraq’s National Security Service, visited Al-Hol camp in northeastern Syria: a desolate, sprawling complex of tents in the scorching sun, and the forced home of tens of thousands of people for many years now. The delegation witnessed first-hand the dire conditions on the ground. This was just a glimpse of the immense challenges Al-Hol residents endure on a daily basis - despite the best efforts of humanitarian actors.
Many people, in particular children, never asked to be part of this desperate situation with no end in sight. However, 50 percent of Al-Hol’s total population (currently about 56,000 individuals) is under the age of 12. They find themselves deprived of their rights, vulnerable and marginalized. The already extremely precarious humanitarian and security conditions have deteriorated further in past months, making the risks associated with this slow-moving catastrophe ever clearer: a camp like Al-Hol fuels resentment and inspires terrorists, from breakout operations to large-scale attacks. If left unaddressed, the situation will inevitably impact the region and far beyond.
The Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq, Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert: “Keeping people in restricted and poor conditions ultimately creates greater protection and security risks than taking them back in a controlled manner. Iraq is demonstrating that responsible repatriations are possible, by finding dignified solutions anchored in the principles of both accountability and reintegration. The best and only durable solution is to control the situation, managing returns swiftly and decisively, in the spirit of partnership, to prevent the legacy of yesterday’s fight from fueling tomorrow’s conflict.”
The UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Syria, Imran Riza: “Al-Hol is no place for children. The steps taken by the Government of Iraq are extremely important in the path to solutions. Action by other Member States with citizens in the camp is urgently needed.”
So far, and with the latest transfer on 1 June, over 2,500 Iraqis have been repatriated. But as thousands of Iraqis (around 28,000 Iraqi citizens in Al-Hol alone) are still out there, the Iraqi authorities do realize that they cannot stop here. The UN commends Iraq for its courageous efforts, welcomes the hard work of Iraq’s High Committee on Repatriations, and stands ready to continue providing the required post-return humanitarian and protection assistance. We urge all other governments (Al-Hol currently hosts 51 nationalities) to follow suit by repatriating their citizens, residents or associated persons - of course, with the appropriate measures of justice and accountability in line with international law, and community reintegration programmes for those found innocent of any crime.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/185022-visit-al-hol-camp-northeastern-syria




Date: 05 June 2022
Title: Denmark Commits Long-Term Funding to UNITAD for ISIL Accountability
Content: 05 June 2022
Baghdad, 05 June 2022 –  The Government of Denmark has committed long-term funding to UNITAD’s pursuit of justice for ISIL’s international crimes in Iraq. The funding agreement of 16 million Danish Kroner will support key areas of UNITAD’s work until the end of 2025. This includes support to capacity building with the Government of Iraq on technical and digital investigations, and furthering UNITAD’s investigations into sexual and gender-based crimes and crimes against children.
The new contribution builds upon previous Danish support to UNITAD, which began in 2019, and has provided backing to important aspects of UNITAD’s mandate. UNITAD’s partnership with Denmark has already seen notable achievements through the delivery of a training course on internal criminal law and international humanitarian law for Iraqi judges, and the establishment of ‘Zeteo”, UNITAD’s groundbreaking artificial intelligence platform.
According to the Ambassador of Denmark to Iraq, Mr. Stig Paolo “building capacity in the Iraqi justice system to hold ISIL accountability for sexual violence, gender violence and violence against children is vital to building a stable and peaceful Iraq”.
Special Adviser and Head UNITAD Christian Ritscher indicated that “Denmark has been a vital supporter of UNITAD and this announcement of long-term support to the Team’s work is yet another example of the strong partnership that exists. With Denmark’s generosity we will continue to strengthen our efforts with the Government of Iraq to hold ISIL to account”.
The new project will continue to follow a comprehensive approach to ISIL accountability that strengthens the ability of the Iraqi authorities to conduct digital investigations in line with international best practices and enhances the use of advanced technology to strengthen UNITAD’s investigations. Particular attention will be given to applying these technologies to ISIL’s crimes that involved sexual enslavement and the recruitment of child soldiers.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/184997-denmark-commits-long-term-funding-unitad-isil-accountability




Date: 05 June 2022
Title: New contribution from Denmark supports UNDP’s integrated approach to social cohesion in Iraq
Content: 05 June 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 05 June 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq welcomes a US$3.4 million (DKK 24 000 000) contribution from the Government of Denmark to support the implementation of the Iraq Social Cohesion Programme.
UNDP Iraq’s Social Cohesion Programme strengthens institutional frameworks to build peace and social cohesion horizontally and vertically in Iraq. The programme bolsters national and subnational capacities for the implementation of the National Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism, supports local peace infrastructure mechanisms, including Local Peace Committees, community leaders, Community-Based Organizations and Youth and Women for Peace Groups, and ensures conflict-sensitive approaches to peacebuilding. The programme works with the Iraqi government, local partners, and peace actors to address divisions that remain in Iraq following the conflict with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
According to the Ambassador of Denmark to Iraq, His Excellency, Mr. Stig Paolo Piras, “Improved understanding and trust between different social groups, and between citizens and the state will benefit both the Government and civil society and local groups uniting around a national vision for peace and social cohesion in Iraq.”
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad states, “We are extremely grateful to the Government of Denmark, our steadfast partner on social cohesion interventions in Iraq, for this important contribution. Our continued partnership focuses on encouraging peaceful and cohesive communities in Iraq towards durable solutions for reintegration and stability.”
UNDP Iraq’s five-year Social Cohesion Programme launched in January 2020 to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/185003-new-contribution-denmark-supports-undp%E2%80%99s-integrated-approach-social-cohesion-iraq




Date: 03 June 2022
Title: Discussing Da’esh’s Destruction of Cultural Heritage, The UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum Holds its Fourth Thematic Roundtable
Content: 03 June 2022
Baghdad 3 June 2022: The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL held the Fourth Thematic Roundtable of the UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum. The thematic roundtables of the Forum bring together tens of Iraqi and International Non-Governmental Organizations to address one theme relating to UNITAD’s investigative activities. The fourth thematic roundtable was held under the title “Da’esh/ISIL’s Crimes in the Destruction of Cultural Heritage”.
Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher elaborated in his opening remarks on UNITAD’s work aiming to bring Da’esh/ISIL perpetrators to justice, including those responsible for the destruction of cultural heritage, as the Team plans to expand its investigative work on those crimes. He further added: “I’m delighted that a number of Member States have recently provided funding to support UNITAD’s investigations in the destruction of cultural heritage”. Addressing the present NGOs, Special Adviser Ritscher also explained that: “the principal objective of this roundtable’s discussion is to exchange thoughts and get your advice on how UNITAD can work better with the NGO community to strengthen our investigations into ISIL destruction of cultural heritage”.
Mr. Don Schultz, Head of FIU5, UNITAD’s Field Investigation Unit focused on Da’esh/ISIL crimes committed against the Christian community in Iraq, spoke about UNITAD’s investigations in this area, as a significant portion of this destruction was committed against Christian sites, including the destruction and vandalization of churches and monasteries.
Mr. Seán Fobbe, Chief Legal Officer of RASHID International presented on the work of his organization, with special focus on ISIL crimes in destroying Yazidi cultural heritage sites, which he described as aiming to destroy the soul of the Yazidis. He further explored how the destruction of cultural heritage, besides being an international crime on its own, can also serve as evidence to prove the intent for committing genocide.
Mr. Farhad Kakay, Director of the Chiraw Organization spoke about the crimes committed against the Kakaai community, which aimed to destroy the community and its culture, including Kakaai cultural heritage sites.
In 2014, ISIL deliberately committed what could amount to war crimes through destruction of cultural heritage in an attempt to erase Iraq’s rich cultural diversity. Investigating those crimes by ISIL/Da’esh against the rich and diverse Iraqi cultural heritage is one of UNITAD’s cross cutting investigative themes and one that requires continuous collaboration with the different constituencies of the Iraqi community. The fourth thematic roundtable, thus, allowed for an open discussion with different NGOs about this investigative area and how UNITAD can work better with NGOs in this area.
The UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum was launched in December 2020, with the aim of serving as a platform that brings together all relevant international and Iraqi NGOs for regular collaboration, exchange of ideas and best practices, as well as exploring areas for enhancing cooperation. The UNITAD-NGO Dialogue Forum has been convening two types of events; the first is a series of thematic roundtable discussions in a panel-format, addressing specific thematic areas relating to UNITAD’s investigative activities. The events bring together international and local experts with UNITAD team member for an in-depth discussion on one theme for each roundtable. While the second type of events is the biannual plenary roundtable which aim to provide a broader update on the work of UNITAD, and to serve as an open space for suggestions on how to better engage with NGOs. The plenary biannual meeting also serves as a space where survivors can have their voices heard by both UNITAD and the NGO community.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/184789-discussing-da%E2%80%99esh%E2%80%99s-destruction-cultural-heritage-unitad-ngo-dialogue-forum-holds-its-fourth




Date: 03 June 2022
Title: UNDP boosts vital reconciliation and reintegration for perceived ISIL-affiliated families in Iraq with support from Government of Japan
Content: 03 June 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 03 June 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq yesterday hosted the Japanese Ambassador to the Republic of Iraq, His Excellency Mr. SUZUKI Kotaro, on a visit to Habbaniyah, Anbar to meet with local government, partners, and beneficiaries of the Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration in Iraq Project.
Baghdad, Iraq, 03 June 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq yesterday hosted the Japanese Ambassador to the Republic of Iraq, His Excellency Mr. SUZUKI Kotaro, on a visit to Habbaniyah, Anbar to meet with local government, partners, and beneficiaries of the Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration in Iraq Project.
The project covers four areas of Anbar, Ninewa and Salah al-Din, working closely with local and national government partners to facilitate community acceptance for the return and reintegration of 4,000 displaced perceived ISIL-affiliated families. The project’s integrated phased approach includes mediation and reconciliation processes for community acceptance, and a full-scale socio-economic reintegration support package in communities of return, including shelter rehabilitation and psychosocial and livelihood programming, with emphasis on local government and community ownership.
UNDP’s integrated approach to stability and durable solutions in Iraq includes infrastructure and housing rehabilitation, livelihoods support, security sector reform, as well as social cohesion. Ensuring community readiness and reintegration for thousands of Internally Displaced Persons, including persons perceived as affiliated with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), is critical to supporting durable solutions for the displaced in Iraq, toward a stable future for all Iraqis. With support from the Government of Japan, this successful fulsome groundbreaking reintegration project can be replicated and extended to other areas of Iraq.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad states, “In Iraq, social cohesion has become a priority aspect of stabilization. To ensure durable solutions, we must not only provide access to infrastructure and basic services, but also target the return and reintegration of those remaining IDPs, who are the most vulnerable, in order to ensure that no one is left behind. UNDP is grateful to the Government of Japan for supporting this vital project in Iraq.”
According to the Japanese Ambassador to the Republic of Iraq, His Excellency Mr. SUZUKI Kotaro, “The Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration Project has a great significance in Iraq toward healing and recovery from the scars of terrorism and destruction. This project emphasizes the role of community in development for the Iraqi people.”
The Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration Project is anchored on the UN Iraq Joint Approach for Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration of persons perceived to be affiliated with ISIL in Iraq. It is part of UNDP Iraq’s five-year Social Cohesion Programme launched in January 2020 to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/184844-undp-boosts-vital-reconciliation-and-reintegration-perceived-isil-affiliated-families-iraq




Date: 01 June 2022
Title: Italy reaffirms its commitment to Iraq’s stabilization with EUR 2 million contribution
Content: 01 June 2022
Baghdad, 1 June 2022 – The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Italy, through the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS), is supporting the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) with an additional EUR 2 million (approximately US$ 2.26 million) to assist communities affected by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
Italy’s contribution to UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS), which implements fast-track initiatives in areas liberated from ISIL, has been formalised on the occasion of the first visit to Iraq of the Italian Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, H. E. Marina Sereni. Italy has generously provided more than US$ 20 million, since FFS was set up in 2015 with the objective of returning internally displaced Iraqis to their homes.
Deputy Minister Sereni commended the new contribution as a concrete support of the Italian Government for the stabilization process in Iraq in order to guarantee better human conditions to its people, by supporting their urgent needs. A safer Iraq is more than ever a priority of the Italian Cooperation in the country.
“Italy’s previous support made an invaluable contribution to crucial stabilization projects in the liberated areas and contributed to providing much needed support to more than 6.6 million people,” says UNDP Resident Representative Zena Ali Ahmad.
“We are grateful for Italy’s continuous support to stabilization in Iraq. This additional support will position FFS to meet better the expectations and needs of the people of Iraq and contribute to improved conditions that will allow the remaining displaced Iraqis to return to their communities of origin with dignity,” adds Ms Ali Ahmad.
With the support of 30 partners and the Government of Iraq, the FFS has completed over 3,100 projects in areas liberated from ISIL. This has facilitated the dignified and safe return of 4.8 million Iraqis, to their communities of origin, where they hope to restart their lives.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/184475-italy-reaffirms-its-commitment-iraq%E2%80%99s-stabilization-eur-2-million-contribution




Date: 30 May 2022
Title: The rehabilitation of North Al-Jazeera irrigation scheme is restoring the vital water supply in Rabea, Ninewa
Content: 30 May 2022
Iraq, Rabea, 30 May 2022 – The rehabilitated North Al-Jazeera irrigation project was officially inaugurated yesterday by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), Ministries of Water Resources, of Agriculture and of Planning, Ninewa Governorate, farmers union and community leaders with generous funding by the European Union.
The North Al-Jazeera irrigation project was launched in the early 1990s. It was severely damaged during the ISIL occupation. After the liberation, farmers found themselves unable to continue the agricultural practices since the irrigation project stopped pumping irrigation water. Adding to this, the repercussions of climate change added to the farmers’ suffering.
Through this project, FAO rehabilitated the water pumping station at Tel Al-Hawa, 11 bridges, 17 power transmission towers, 21 water control gates, cleaning of irrigation canals from silt and debris engaging 1,250 households through the Cash-for-Work activity and providing spare parts to 150 linear-move irrigation systems.  More than 200,000 people from Rabea and the surrounding areas will be benefiting from resuming agricultural activity.
“We thank FAO for this achievement which will revive the agricultural lands, provide jobs and encourage the return of displaced persons to Ninewa”, says the Administrative Undersecretary in the Ministry of Water Resources, Mr.Raed Abed Zaid Al-Jashami.
“Rehabilitating this irrigation water project will improve the ability of vulnerable agricultural families to resist shocks by increasing their income and resilience, rebuilding agricultural infrastructure and improving rural livelihoods, especially for smallholder farmers, and enhancing their capabilities to achieve food security and better lives,” says FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah ElHajj Hassan.
“The re-operating of this vital agriculture project for farmers in a period where the country is going through a severe decline of water resources will have a significant positive impact on agricultural production, improving farmers' incomes and lives. This achievement would not be possible without the support from one of FAO Iraq’s major partners, the European Union,” he adds.
The rehabilitation of the North Al-Jazeera irrigation scheme is funded through a significant contribution by the European Union through the EU Regional Trust Fund in Response to the Syria Crisis, ‘Madad Fund’.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/184040-rehabilitation-north-al-jazeera-irrigation-scheme-restoring-vital-water-supply-rabea-ninewa




Date: 26 May 2022
Title: UN Iraq served more than 4.2 million Iraqis in 2021 | UN Iraq Releases 2021 Annual Results Report
Content: 26 May 2022
Baghdad, Iraq- Thursday, May 26, 2022 – The United Nations Country Team (UNCT) in Iraq released its annual report for the year 2021, contributing to Iraq achieving its own development goals, to build back better and to leave no one behind.
The report highlights UN serving more than 4.2 million beneficiaries, including displacement affected populations, increasing access to services in priority sectors as well as implementing 629 infrastructure projects rehabilitating thousands of private and public buildings, including schools and medical centers.
As a result, 51% of returnee households are now living in locations with adequate access to services and infrastructure, especially water supply. Moreover, around 152,500 refugees, IDPs, returnees, and other vulnerable groups received multipurpose cash assistance in 2021.
According to the report, over 40,000 youth received technical and vocational trainings while thousands of Iraqi workers benefited from decent job opportunities in the most promising economic sectors. Other interventions include supporting Iraq’s human rights through strengthening the investigative capacity of the Fact-Finding Committee to promote accountability for human rights violations and abuses, improving government services to protect women and girls from domestic and gender-based violence, and strengthening public healthcare services.
In addition, the UN Iraq also facilitated 416 partnerships in sustainable development, conflict prevention, and mitigation processes, which reached 2.5 million people from vulnerable groups (women, girls, children, IDPs, refugees) in fragile settings, including nine refugee and 26 IPD camps. Eight Area Based Coordination mechanisms (ABC) have been put in place in complex areas of return to ensure effective coordination and joint planning with local government structures to facilitate returns of IDPs.
More than 5 million m2 of contaminated land were cleared of explosive ordnance in the main cities of Mosul, Fallujah, and Ramadi. Also, over four million people were also reached with campaigns to boost vaccine confidence and raise awareness of the SDGs, their importance for Iraq, and current and future climate change impacts.
“2021 was a challenging year for Iraq, marked by a series of negative socio-economic impacts from Covid-19 that continue to submerge the country with unprecedented challenges. Despite all these challenges, UN Iraq continues to support the Government of Iraq’s efforts in reducing poverty and improving the living conditions of vulnerable people, resolving the IDPs situation, strengthening equitable services delivery, fighting climate change, and enhancing Iraq’s thrive towards achieving its own ambition towards the Sustainable Development,” said Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, UN Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq.
UN Iraq Annual Results Report summarizes the results achieved in 2021 by 22 UN entities and presents findings and in-depth analysis that tracks progress in the five strategic priority areas of the revised joint Iraq and UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for 2020–2024 (UNSDCF).
More results and information can be found in the report, accessible on the UN Iraq website:  UNCT Annual Results Report 2021 final -IRAQ_.pdf
For questions, please contact Mr. Brian Mau, Senior Development Coordination Officer, Resident Coordinator’s Office at mau@un.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/183606-un-iraq-served-more-42-million-iraqis-2021-un-iraq-releases-2021-annual-results-report




Date: 26 May 2022
Title: Iraq launches, with the support of UNICEF, the National Strategy on Early Childhood Development.
Content: 26 May 2022
The Strategy, supported by UNICEF, is a decisive step towards reaching SDG target #4.2 in Iraq by 2030, ensuring that all girls and boys have access to quality Early Childhood Development (ECD), care and pre-primary education so that they are ready for primary school.
Baghdad, 26 May 2022.- The Government of Iraq, in collaboration with UNICEF, launched today the National Strategy on Early Childhood Development (ECD). The Strategy represents a comprehensive and coherent approach to ECD and acknowledges different stages in child development up to age 8 years. It puts accountability on relevant authorities, providers, and communities to ensure the promotion and protection of the needs of young children.
During the launch, UNICEF OiC Representative, Janet Kamau noted that: “The new National Strategy on ECD is closely aligned with the global Nurturing Care Framework, developed by UNICEF and other partners, and will be key for benefiting Iraqi children in two ways: first in relation to early life influences on their health during the critical first 1,000 days, from conception and continuing through at least the first two years of life, and second through a stronger focus, up to age 8, on maintaining growth, ensuring psychosocial and physical well-being and early childhood education (ECE).”
In recent years, Iraq has made progress on key child survival and nutrition indicators, but progress on access to ECE and sensitive child-rearing has been slower. Participation in formal ECE programs such as kindergarten is below 10%, and almost 90% of children aged 1-14 years have been exposed to some type of violence. This new ECD Strategy represents a major milestone on the road to develop the “thrive agenda”, with a focus on healthy development and well-being for Iraq’s children in a safe and stimulating environment, giving them the strongest foundation for educational achievement, successful socialization, and a long and productive working life.
The Strategy is based on the vision of a safe, stable, and happy childhood within a supportive family, society, and a safe environment to ensure the best opportunities for children well-being in Iraq. In addition, the executive framework of the ECD strategy has been developed covering the main five areas related to the rollout of the Strategy: management and planning; quality; curricula; training; family, children, and community participation. The framework also includes the adoption of basic goals for each field linked to the ministries involved in this strategy.
This new strategy will need to be matched with new investment to overcome related challenges. For example, while there is a national network of primary health care facilities and high rates of skilled birth attendance and immunization, the ECE network remains scarce, and limited priority is given to early stimulation at domestic level. UNICEF acknowledges the additional efforts of the Government of Iraq in the National Development Plan 2018-2022, but the goal of increasing ECE coverage to 30% by 2031 is ambitious and will require a higher budget share in coming years.
To ensure access to ECD services for all children, UNICEF, WFP, and the ILO, funded by the European Union, are working to ensure that children from the most vulnerable groups are prioritized through social protection programs, aiming to improve access to early child education (ECE).

With the additional support of other partners like the World Bank and Germany, and in coordination with UNESCO and other UN agencies, UNICEF will work to support the Government of Iraq on the implementation of the National Strategy on ECD, from conception until 8 years of age.

###
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
Follow UNICEF on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.


The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/183631-iraq-launches-support-unicef-national-strategy-early-childhood-development




Date: 26 May 2022
Title: UN-facilitated dialogue in Erbil: KR political parties discuss elections, public services and empowerment of KR institutions
Content: 26 May 2022
Erbil, 26 May 2022 – Heads and senior representatives* of political parties in the Kurdistan Region met today at the United Nations compound in Erbil, at the invitation of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI).
With Kurdistan Region elections scheduled for 01 October 2022, the meeting provided a timely opportunity for the parties to exchange views on various issues, including the need to move away from divisive politics and the way forward to credible and transparent elections. Serving the interests of the peoples of the Kurdistan Region dominated today's discussions.
Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq and head of UNAMI, Ms. Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, thanked the parties for participating, urging continued and stepped-up efforts to tackle the multiple challenges the Kurdistan Region faces.
*Mr. Bafel Talabani, Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK), Mr. Ali Bapir, Kurdistan Justice Group (KJG), Mr. Omar Said Ali, Gorran Movement, Mr. Fadhil Mirani, Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP), Mr. Salahdin Babakr, Kurdistan Islamic Union (KIU), and Ms. Badria Rashid, New Generation Movement (NGM).
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/183618-un-facilitated-dialogue-erbil-kr-political-parties-discuss-elections-public-services-and




Date: 24 May 2022
Title: Improving delivery of animal health services and disease surveillance in Iraq
Content: 24 May 2022
(Training workshop on Risk Analysis)
Baghdad May 22-25 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 22 May 2022 – The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), hosted the Risk Assessment Workshop, as part of the United States Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) funded project, Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq. The workshop aimed at strengthening the capacity of the veterinary services to identify hazards, manage, communicate and monitor risks.
Twenty six specialists from the veterinary services in Baghdad, Erbil, Duhok, Nineveh, Anbar, Wasit, Muthanna and Basra participated to the training. The opening session was attended by the FAO Representative in Iraq, the Technical Undersecretary of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture as well as the Representative of the World Health Organization (WHO) in Iraq.
The FAO Representative, Dr. Salah Al-Hajj Hassan stressed the organization's commitment to adopting modern concepts and values ​​in the "One Health" approach to confront health threats to animals, humans, plants and the environment. “By developing knowledge and foresight on emerging threats to health and their consequences, as well as on resilience to disease and health improvement, the adoption of this holistic approach will help achieving sustainable agricultural production and global health” and will enable coordinated efforts from Government,  FAO- and  WHO  to overcome the serious challenge, he said.
The Technical Undersecretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Mithaq Abdul-Hussein, in his speech focused on the concept of one health, the recent spread of the Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever in Iraq and the way to deal with it, as well as climatic changes and their impact on the emergence of animal diseases.
WHO Representative, Dr. Ahmed Zouiten, underlined the importance and the role of the veterinarian services in Iraq in addressing CCHF and all other transmissible zoonotic diseases; he added the valuable contribution of FAO work to strengthen and update information among specialists and supervisors of animal health services in Iraq and underlined the importance of intensifying coordination and joint action to control such diseases, as well as flagging the need  for closer coordination in the efforts for controlling  human and animal  diseases .
During the workshop, Dr. Ghazi Yahya, representative of the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) in the Middle East, discussed the “WTO SPS Agreement”, with emphasis on the OIE Roles, in ensuring the safe trade of animals and animals “products” while Dr. Yamen Hegazy, FAO Regional expert, provided an introduction to Risk Analysis. Dr. Shaheen Bayoumi, FAO-EUFMD expert in cooperation with Dr. Rehab Elbassal, FAO Regional expert led the session on “Animal Health Hazards Identification for the Trade of Animals and Animal Products”.
The four days’ workshop is timely needed and will enable veterinary services   to scale up capacities and train Iraqi vets in the field.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/183182-improving-delivery-animal-health-services-and-disease-surveillance-iraq




Date: 24 May 2022
Title: Opening of new primary health care centre in Kawergosk to support the local and refugee communities
Content: 24 May 2022
Erbil, Iraq : 24 May 2022 : UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, and the General Directorate of Health (DoH) of the Kurdistan Reginal Government inaugurated the new Primary Health Care Centre (PHCC) in Kawergosk sub-district in Erbil governorate, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
The new Kawergosk Public PHCC will provide primary health care services to over 20,000 people from the Syrian refugee and Iraqi displaced communities living in Kawergosk town and surrounding areas. As a result, UNHCR is contributing to give better access to quality health services to all without discrimination. The newly-established health care centre has the capacity to take 150 to 200 consultations per day
The construction of the PHCC was made possible through a generous contribution from PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), one of the largest professional services networks in the world. The land for the project was generously provided by the municipality of Kawergosk, and the Directorate of Health will be managing the PHCC and providing the necessary staff, medical equipment, and medicines.
Mr. Hussain Kalari, the Director General of Joint Crisis Coordination Centre, Ms. Nicole Epting, Deputy Representative of UNHCR in Iraq, Ms Kwestan Ahmed, the Mayor of Khabat district, Mr. Suhaib Asad, Tax Partner at PwC, and Jaivir Singh, Leader of the Global Office for Humanitarian Affairs at PwC, cut the ribbon to announce the opening of the new health centre. The PHCC provides comprehensive primary health care services, including consultations, provision of medicines, laboratory services, emergency referrals, immunization and growth monitoring, reproductive health services and dental care.
“We are grateful for the support and hospitality that the local communities in Kawergosk town have extended to the refugee communities in the nearby Kawergosk camp. In return, we are pleased to now support the national health services for the benefit of all, refugees and Kawergosk local communities alike.” said Nicole Epting.
Jaivir Singh “At PwC, we are committed to supporting and empowering those most in need in a sustained manner. The newly inaugurated primary health centre at Kawergosk will significantly improve the quality of care and services provided to the surrounding communities, making a positive contribution to their lives. I extend my thanks to our partner UNHCR Iraq and the General Directorate of Health (DoH) of the Kurdistan Regional Government for their efforts, as well as our teams at PwC for bringing our values to life.”
UNHCR extends its sincere gratitude to the people and Government of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, PricewaterhouseCoopers and all the stakeholders who participated in making this project a success.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/183241-opening-new-primary-health-care-centre-kawergosk-support-local-and-refugee-communities




Date: 22 May 2022
Title: The Government of Canada Supports UNMAS Nationalization Efforts Via Partnership Grant Model in Iraq
Content: 22 May 2022
Baghdad, 22 May 2022 – The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) welcomes a new contribution of $CA 5 million (approximately $US 4 million) from the Government of Canada to further develop national capacity in Iraq. The Canadian contribution will support the partnership grant model, the core foundation behind UNMAS 2020 nationalization strategy.
The presence of explosive ordnance, including improvised explosive devices (IEDs) in areas retaken from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), commonly referred to as Da’esh, continues to endanger the lives of women, men, boys, and girls and hinder the return of displaced communities.
“Families shouldn’t have to return to their homes and rebuild their communities while living in fear of explosive ordnance, especially IEDs meant to target and maim children. Canada is proud to support the work of UNMAS and its partners in rising to this challenge, particularly in building the capacity of Iraqis, in a gender-sensitive manner, to address both their immediate and long-term needs in this area,” explained Mr. Gregory Galligan, the Canadian Ambassador to Iraq.
In 2020, UNMAS adapted its strategy to ensure optimum and sustainable support to the Government of Iraq, particularly through the focus of its assistance to sustainable national capacity inclusive of national authorities and national operators. As part of this strategy, UNMAS rolled out a partnership model bringing together international mine action organizations with local non-governmental organizations (NGOs), paving the way for national ownership and localization of the mine action response in Iraq.
Mr. Pehr Lodhammar, UNMAS Chief Mine Action Programme in Iraq, described the significance of this support: “Canada is an essential contributor to the UNMAS Iraq programme, and is especially supportive of our efforts to nationalize the mine action sector in country. The continuation of the partnerhsip model will allow us to train and share crucial knowledge, skills and tools necessary for humanitarian clearance. This will not only enhance existing national capacity, but will also support a consistant and sustained mine action response in Iraq.”
UNMAS consistently advocates for gender mainstreaming and equal opportunity across all its activities and with all its partners. UNMAS encourages the hiring and training of capable women and men and provides critical livelihood opportunities to vulnerable communities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/183018-government-canada-supports-unmas-nationalization-efforts-partnership-grant-model-iraq




Date: 20 May 2022
Title: Supported by OSAPG, UNITAD and UNDP: Iraqi Religious Leaders Renew their Commitment to Support Accountability for ISIL/Da’esh Crimes
Content: 20 May 2022
19 May 2022-Baghdad: The United Nations Office of the Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, and the United Nations Investigative Team to promote accountability for crimes committed by Da’esh/ISIL in Iraq (UNITAD), jointly with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) held, the Second High-Level Conference on the Interfaith Statement on the Victims and Survivors of ISIL/Dae’sh.
The conference aimed to build on the momentum generated by the adoption of the landmark Interfaith Statement adopted in March 2020 by the religious leaders of the Chaldean Catholic, Kakai, Shia, Sunni and Yazidi communities of Iraq, under the auspices of the UN Office on Genocide Prevention and UNITAD. It also aimed to ensure that accountability, as an integral part of sustainable social cohesion, remains at the heart of the support which the United Nations is providing to religious leaders and actors in Iraq, to advance healing, trust building, reconciliation, and social cohesion, by countering hate speech. More than 40 faith leaders from across Iraq took part in the conference, including some of the leaders representing parties to the Interfaith Statement.
United Nations Under-Secretary-General (USG) and Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, Ms. Alice Nderitu said that “moving forward, bringing peace and building a joint future requires accountability as well as re-knitting the social fabric of the country, from the highest levels in the government institutions in Baghdad to the smallest villages at the heart of the country. This is in the hands of each and every one of Iraq’s citizens and religious leaders have a key role to play. This requires the involvement of all communities, and we are here to support you.”
Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator to Iraq, Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, stated that “the United Nations recognizes the important role of religious leaders in promoting coexistence, preventing violence and extremism, and addressing the needs and grievances of the Iraqi people. While we recognize that the government has the primary responsibility to protect populations, many actors, such as religious leaders who have a strong influence on the lives and behavior of those who follow their faith, shall play an important role in strengthening mutual respect in communities. That is why today’s event is so important.”
In his opening remarks, Special Adviser (SA) and Head of UNITAD Mr. Christian Ritscher stressed that “ensuring accountability for Da’esh/ISIL international crimes and serving justices to the victims from all Iraqi communities are key in ensuring viable reconciliation in Iraq”, adding that “the Interfaith Statement came as an important acknowledgment by faith leaders of the tremendous suffering which Iraqi communities endured as a result of Da’esh/ISIL crimes. It reflected a core belief of UNITAD, and the UN at large: there is no hierarchy in victims. The magnitude of ISIL/Da’esh crimes affected all Iraqi faiths and communities, and to us, each and every victim of such international crimes matter, from all communities that suffered from ISIL crimes.”
UNDP Resident Representative for Iraq, Ms. Zena Ali-Ahmad says, “Today’s conference demonstrates a unified approach to peacebuilding in Iraq.  Engaging with interfaith religious leaders across the country is key to promoting cohesion between groups and is a necessary step to building a strong social fabric.  UNDP is committed to working with our partners to ensure all Iraqis are supported during the journey towards sustainable peace through our ongoing work to promote moderate religious discourse, prevent violent extremism, combat hate speech, and encourage reconciliation and reintegration of Internally Displaced Persons back into their communities.”
During the conference, the United Nations senior officials reiterated their full and unwavering commitment to victims of  ISIL/ Da’esh crimes, which targeted a broad range of communities whether Christian, Kaka’i, Shabak, Shia, Turkmen, Sunni or Yazidi.
Participants at the event discussed challenges and opportunities to ensure that justice for all victims and survivors can be achieved, highlighting the importance of holding ISIL/Da’esh perpetrators accountable for the serious allegations of international crimes committed by them through national courts.
The attending religious leaders renewed their commitment to dialogue and mutual understanding between religious communities in Iraq in areas most impacted by ISIL/Da’esh crimes. They also identified challenges faced by survivors of ISIL/Da’esh crimes, particularly those who have been subject to sexual and gender-based crimes. They also explored means of further coordination with the UN co-hosting entities to effectively engage religious communities in Iraq in promoting accountability as an integral part of viable social cohesion.
Religious leaders and actors reiterated the commitment expressed in the March 2020 Interfaith Statement and renewed their repudiation and condemnation of the violence committed by Da’esh/ISIL as completely contrary to their respective faiths. The Statement also underscored that member of all religions across Iraq have been impacted by the crimes of Da’esh/ISIL, and that all survivors must be supported in their efforts to move on with their lives within their communities. The Interfaith Statement built upon the Office of the Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide’s Plan of Action for Religious Leaders and Actors to Counter Incitement Which Could Lead to Atrocity Crimes.
Following liberation from ISIL/Daesh, UNDP has engaged with over 2,500 leaders through its Social Cohesion Programme, and lately during 2021-2022, UNDP-Iraq facilitated dialogue forums among 300 religious leaders from different sects in Anbar, Diyala, Ninewa, and Salah al-Din. UNDP has also provided training for 82 religious leaders from various faiths on moderate religious discourse and combatting hate speech, and supported the establishment of a coexistence network to foster dialogue, coexistence, and tolerance amongst targeted communities in Anbar, Baghdad, Erbil and Ninewa.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/182823-supported-osapg-unitad-and-undp-iraqi-religious-leaders-renew-their-commitment-support




Date: 20 May 2022
Title: Flexible funding from Sweden enables WFP to provide lifesaving assistance to displaced families in Iraq
Content: 20 May 2022
19 May 2022 / BAGHDAD – WFP Iraq is to receive US$1 million of the US$91.6 million that the Government of Sweden has contributed to the organization’s global flexible funding for 2022.
The funds will support up to 327,000 displaced Iraqis and Syrian refugees living in camps, with lifesaving assistance in the form of cash distributions and food baskets.
“With the unprecedented levels of global food-insecurity we see today, WFP’s efforts to fight hunger are more crucial than ever,” said Jonas Lovén, Sweden’s ambassador to Iraq. “We welcome this allocation to help vulnerable displaced people and refugees in Iraq who need our urgent support in these difficult times, and hope that more donors will step up.”
The multilateral contribution will ensure WFP is able to make critical operational funding decisions, allocating funds to where they are needed most.
It comes at a time when WFP and its partners in Iraq face funding shortfalls amid rising costs.
This will ensure that Iraq’s many internally displaced people (IDPs) continue to receive support as rising food prices are making it harder to put food on the table.
“Despite Iraq’s ongoing transition towards development and stability, humanitarian needs remain a reality,” said Ally Raza Qureshi, WFP Iraq Representative. “Hundreds of thousands of people are supported by WFP in camps based on their food insecurity levels. And while durable peace and conditions for return are not guaranteed for these protracted displacement cases, their immediate food security needs must be met to save lives and maintain peace and harmony.”
WFP Iraq can now continue provide assistance under one of the core pillars of its crisis response in the country, while working to boost resilience-building activities that improve livelihoods, ensuring that vulnerable people are able to provide an income for themselves and their families.
This includes supporting farmers with training and provision of agricultural assets, providing skills and vocational training to youth and supporting the Government of Iraq to implement the National School Feeding Programme for young children.  There is also a focus on reforming and improving the social protection schemes in Iraq including prioritization of the most vulnerable households, with special attention to the Public Distribution System for food rations (PDS) which covers most of Iraq’s population.
#                  #                   #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @wfp_media @wfp_mena @wfp_iraq
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/182822-flexible-funding-sweden-enables-wfp-provide-lifesaving-assistance-displaced-families-iraq




Date: 18 May 2022
Title: UNHCR is grateful for Government of Japan’s renewed commitment to support thousands of displaced persons, returnees, and Syrian refugees in Iraq
Content: 18 May 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 18 May 2022 - The Government of Japan contributed a generous USD five million to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), renewing its longstanding commitment to improving the lives of vulnerable displaced families in Iraq in 2022.
This contribution from Japan comes at a crucial moment when humanitarian funding in Iraq is declining despite continued significant needs, exacerbated by the socio-economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and newly arising food security challenges linked to the conflict in Ukraine.
In the context of Iraq, documentation is crucial. An identity or civil document can be the difference between accessing healthcare and sickness, between going to school or remaining without any education, or for refugees, between being able to remain safe in Iraq and being deported to Syria where violence continues to destroy lives. Over 25 percent of Iraqi families who had been displaced by the violence from ISIL and 16 percent of those who have now returned home as well as close to 40 percent of Syrian refugees in Iraq lack a valid identity document.
With Japan’s generous support, UNHCR will be able to support over 9,000 Iraqi internally displaced persons (IDPs) to obtain civil documentation and to continue to offer its registration services to Syrian and other refugees and. Being recognised as an Iraqi citizen or a refugee in Iraq is a necessary step for having one’s rights fully recognised and fulfilled.
Additionally, Japan’s support will allow UNHCR to provide free legal assistance to 8,500 IDPs and refugees in Iraq, including to allow survivors of gender-based violence to file cases with law enforcement and judicial authorities if they wish, or support individuals with issues related to their properties or workplace. It will also help UNHCR provide legal aid for Syrians at risk of deportation from Iraq.
According to the Japanese Ambassador to the Republic of Iraq, His Excellency Mr. SUZUKI Kotaro, “UNHCR’s support for the documentation is an essential assistance to save IDPs, returnees and Syrian refugees in Iraq from imminent danger and ensure their human dignities.  I commend UNHCR’s continuous and tireless endeavor to mitigate sufferings of those most vulnerable people.  I hope that this project will alleviate the hardships of those people, who also have been most affected by current food security in the wake of the crisis in Ukraine.”
“In Iraq, access to identity and civil documentation is crucial across the humanitarian and development spectrum. So many Iraqis displaced by the recent conflict lost their ID. Being recognised as an Iraqi citizen is key to have access to education or health public services, but also to receive return grants and compensation for lost property. Similarly, not only can documentation prevent a refugee from being deported to a country where their life might be at risk, it also guarantees their access to education and health services as well. Japan’s valuable contribution will help thousands of individuals now in Iraq today, but also over the years to come as the country continues to recover and rebuild,” said Jean Nicolas Beuze, Representative of UNHCR in Iraq.
The Government of Japan has been one of UNHCR’s most important contributors over recent years. Thanks to the generous contributions of Japan and its people, thousands of IDPs, returnees and Syrian refugees in Iraq have been able to regain their place in Iraq and live in dignity and security
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/182431-unhcr-grateful-government-japan%E2%80%99s-renewed-commitment-support-thousands-displaced-persons




Date: 18 May 2022
Title: FAO and Veterinarians Syndicate Intensify Efforts to Combat Haemorrhagic Fever in Iraq
Content: 18 May 2022
(Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever Workshop)
To intensify efforts in limiting the increasing spread of haemorrhagic fever in Iraq, in collaboration with the Syndicate of Veterinarians, the College of Veterinary Medicine / University of Baghdad, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Medical Association, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) took the initiative to organize a workshop entitled (Crimean-Congo Haemorrhagic Fever Workshop).
The workshop was held under the patronage of the Technical Deputy of MoA Minister, Dr. Methaq Abdul-Hussein and the representative of FAO / Iraq, Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan with the participation of a number of parliament members, the head of the agricultural committee in the parliament, the financial advisor to the President of the Republic, a member of the advisory body of the Council of Ministers,  the Captain of the medical association along with  a large number of veterinarians working in the public and private sectors, in addition to an audience of livestock breeders and farmers from Baghdad who participated in the workshop.
The workshop included presentations of specialized scientific lectures about the disease by a number of specialists. The expert of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations presented the methods of disease transmission and modern methods of controlling it, in addition to clarifying the role of FAO in Iraq in the support provided to the Ministry of Agriculture, including the Veterinary Directorate, through the implementation of the project, (Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq) , donated by US Defence Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA). The project activity included, in addition to training courses for veterinary staff (currently ongoing), providing equipment, devices and materials for field and laboratory diagnosis of diseases, which cover an important group of epidemic and transmissible diseases, including the Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever, with providing of personal protection equipment currently used by Vets in the field to control the disease.
In conclusion, the workshop recommendations were presented, which included:
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/182488-fao-and-veterinarians-syndicate-intensify-efforts-combat-haemorrhagic-fever-iraq




Date: 17 May 2022
Title: Canada reaffirms its commitment to Iraq’s stabilization with new CAD 10 million support
Content: 17 May 2022
Baghdad, 17 May 2022– The Government of Canada has pledged an additional CAD 10 million (approximately US$ 7.8 million) to support the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq as it works to accelerate stabilization efforts and boost sustainable livelihoods across western Anbar and Ninewa.
Canada’s generous contribution will be channelled through UNDP’s flagship programme, the Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS), established in 2015 to fast-track stabilization efforts in areas liberated from Daesh. To date, Canada has provided over US$ 39.6 million, including supporting UNDP’s COVID-19 response package to the Government of Iraq.
Focusing on young people and women, the funding will prioritize skills development and training, small grants for new enterprises and start-ups, and the rehabilitation of damaged houses to enable the safe and dignified return of hardest to return population groups.
With FFS transitioning in 2023, UNDP will also use the contribution to build the capacity of the Government of Iraq, allowing it to leverage existing structures and processes to ensure remaining needs are met quickly and to the highest standards.
“We are extremely grateful to the Government of Canada for this generous contribution which will safeguard the hard-won stabilization gains made since 2015. Our strong and continuous partnership will give women and young people greater financial independence by providing more jobs, more opportunities and practical skills training,” says UNDP Resident Representative in Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“The emphasis on building infrastructure and rebuilding homes that prioritize the needs of women and girls is equally important. Thanks to support from Canada and the international community, UNDP will continue to deliver at high speed, scale and quality,” adds Ms Ali Ahmad.
“The Funding Facility for Stabilization continues to deliver projects that are critical to supporting the transitions between humanitarian, peace, and development efforts in Iraq,” says the Canadian Ambassador to the Republic of Iraq, Gregory Galligan. “Canada’s latest contribution reinforces our commitment to stabilizing areas liberated from Daesh, and ensuring that gender equality is a cornerstone of those efforts.”
With the support of 30 partners and the Government of Iraq, the FFS has completed over 3,100 projects in areas liberated from Daesh. This has facilitated the dignified and safe return of over 4.8 million Iraqis to their communities of origin, where they hope to restart their lives.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/182215-canada-reaffirms-its-commitment-iraq%E2%80%99s-stabilization-new-cad-10-million-support




Date: 17 May 2022
Title: UN-Habitat Iraq signs Memorandum of Understanding with Muthana Governorate under the patronage of the Minister of Construction, Housing, Municipalities and Public Works
Content: 17 May 2022
15 May 2022 Under the patronage of H.E. the Minister of Construction and Housing/Ms. Nazanin Muhammad Wasu, represented by the Head of Housing Depoartment /Mr. Haider Al-Mayali, and attendance of the Regional Representative of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme for the Arab States/Dr. Erfan Ali, UN-Habitat Head of Programme/Mr. Wael Al-Ashhab, the Representatives of the Muthanna Governorate in the Iraqi Parliament: Mr. Abdulabbas Khadir, Mr. Muhammad Rasoul, as well as representing the Scientific and Academic side of the Governorate/Dr. Hussein Karim/Head of the Advisory Bureaus of Muthanna University/Dr. Hussein Youssef/Head of Civil Engineering Department at Muthanna University and First Deputy Governor of Muthanna in-charge of the Housing Development portfolio in Muthanna Mr. Sami Nima Al-Hassani, Director of Muthanna Housing Department, Chairman of the Urban Planning Council, Mr. Bashar Fadel, Associate Director, Expert Engineer Abdullah Karim, and Vice-President of the Urban Planning Council, Mr. Safaa Jassim.
The First Deputy of Governor of Muthanna, signed with the Head of United Nations Human Settlements Programme/Iraq (UN-Habitat), a Memorandum of Understanding for  the implementation of the Housing Development Strategy road map through developing pilot projects in Muthana Governorate.
The MOU will guide  the implementing of the recommendations agreed upon during the Cairo Conference held 30-31 August 2021 organised by UN-Habitat Regional Office, on the operationalization of the Housing Strategey in Iraq, and  the implementation of the  proposed road map for urban development and investment in housing sector in Muthana Governorate, that was prepared by Muthana Houisng Department, Urban Planning Council with the support of UN-Habitat and Muthana University.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/182214-un-habitat-iraq-signs-memorandum-understanding-muthana-governorate-under-patronage-minister




Date: 17 May 2022
Title: SYRIAN REFUGEES IN IRAQ WILL LOSE ACCESS TO BASIC FOODS WITHOUT URGENT FUNDS
Content: 17 May 2022
Urgent call for US$ 10.1 million to provide critical assistance as economic shocks take their toll
BAGHDAD - Syrian families living in camps in Iraq face alarming levels of food insecurity, according to a new figure from the World Food Programme (WFP) and UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency.
With very little funding in place to assist people with their day-to-day lives, many appear on course for a deterioration of their already testing circumstances –  drowning in more and more debts that they have no means of repaying
Iraq hosts nearly 260,000 Syrian refugees, the vast majority of whom reside in the Kurdistan Region. This includes 95,745 people who live in camps – 72,000 of whom receive life-saving food and cash assistance from WFP, while UNHCR provides a range of services, including, among others, legal support, registration services, cash assistance, and education support.
86 percent of in-camp refugees remain food insecure or vulnerable to food insecurity following a string of socio-economic shocks.
The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on employment in 2020 and the consequent devaluation of the Iraqi dinar are still being felt while price rises caused by the war in Ukraine continue to reduce people’s access to basic food.
Families' dependence on irregular and unpredictable cash jobs in the informal economy is a key aggravator of food insecurity. When opportunities to earn dry up, they are pushed into negative coping strategies, such as buying food on credit, reducing expenditure on basic needs, selling assets, child labour and having children drop out of school.
Urgent additional funding is needed to continue assisting 72,000 vulnerable Syrian refugees in camps in Iraq. WFP requires US$ 10.1 million to continue uninterrupted monthly food and cash assistance. Receiving this is vital as 86 percent of people in camps are particularly vulnerable to food insecurity – without the requisite funds tens of thousands of people will suffer ever more severe levels of food insecurity.
In a joint statement, Ally Raza Qureshi, WFP Representative for Iraq and Jean-Nicolas Beuze, UNHCR Representative for Iraq said:

“These are serious indicators that highlight the urgent need for supporting vulnerable Syrian refugees who are adversely affected by the current economic difficulties in Iraq. WFP and UNHCR have supported Syrian refugees since the onset of the crisis and continue to do so, yet the rising food prices and reduced purchasing power of people’s income places
them at greater risk of being food insecure.

“WFP and UNHCR are grateful to all donors for their continued and steadfast support to the most vulnerable families in Iraq and would request for their assistance to help ensure that in these trying times, no one shall go hungry.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/182122-syrian-refugees-iraq-will-lose-access-basic-foods-without-urgent-funds




Date: 16 May 2022
Title: UNFPA commemorates the International Day of Families in Basra
Content: 16 May 2022
15 May 2022; Basra, Iraq - 15 May of every year is observed as the International Day of Families.
The theme for 2022 International Day of Families is “Families and Urbanization”, which aims to raise awareness about the importance of urbanization on the life and well-being of families.   On this day UNFPA jointly with the Basra Municipality, Directorate of Youth and Sports and the Business Women Association of Southern Iraq, launched a youth volunteerism campaign focused on protecting the environment in Basrah city in response to climate change.   Families and young people were mobilized to clean their neighbourhood, Al-Muhandisin, and increase awareness about the importance of keeping the community environmentally healthy.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/182105-unfpa-commemorates-international-day-families-basra




Date: 16 May 2022
Title: Japan and UNOPS Enhanced Access to Primary Health Services in Anbar Governorate
Content: 16 May 2022
Baghdad – 15 May 2022 - With the continued support from the Government of Japan, UNOPS handed over Al Adel Primary Health Center in Anbar, along with other six primary health centers in Al Ramadi, which were rehabilitated under the “Restoration of Access to Urgent Primary Health Services in Anbar Governorate” project. In addition to the rehabilitation works, the project procured 25 pieces of medical equipment, 248 pieces of furniture, and more than 2000 supplies.
Speaking at the handover ceremony, Dr. Wisam Salah, Deputy Director of General Office in the Directorate of Health in Anbar, said: “The outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic in Iraq came at a time when the Government of Iraq was working to improve the living conditions of its citizens, who in previous years suffered from lack of basic services and infrastructure, especially health services, due to instability, conflict and many challenges. Not only this project improves the health services for the people in Al Ramadi, but also contributes to reducing the pressure on the hospitals designated for treatment of COVID-19 and severe cases.”
H.E. Mr. SUZUKI Kotaro, Ambassador of Japan to Iraq, congratulated on the completion of Al Adel Primary Health Center and said: “The mission and activities of medical professionals dedicated to protecting people’s health and saving lives in the most difficult situation should be lauded”. He went on to say: “I would like to express my gratitude and respect to the people of UNOPS, who play indispensable roles in these operations”.
Mr. Muhammad Usman Akram, the Director of UNOPS Multi-Country Office in Amman, said, “Thanks to the generous funding from the Government of Japan, UNOPS worked hand in hand with the Directorate of Health in Anbar to serve approximately 123,000 beneficiaries and make a difference in the health sector for the people of Iraq. UNOPS remains committed to supporting our Iraqi partners and the people of Iraq in their efforts to address the challenges in the health sector, and enhance their resilience to counter the future challenges.”
The COVID-19 pandemic exacerbated the health conditions in Iraq and increased the need to enhance the health centers’ infrastructure and to improve their capacities in the provision of inclusive healthcare to the Iraqi people. The project supported the health sector through enhancing access for all to medical services in support of the COVID-19 response in the targeted areas of Anbar Governorate. Through gender-sensitive rehabilitation of primary health centers, and the provision of medical equipment, supplies and furniture, the project contributed to improving the overall living conditions of the beneficiaries including vulnerable and marginalised populations, returnees, and internally displaced persons.
The project supported Sustainable Development Goal 3 - “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages”.

About UNOPS:
UNOPS helps the UN and its partners provide peace and security, humanitarian and development solutions. The organization’s mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. UNOPS services cover infrastructure, project management, procurement, financial management and human resources. Partners call on UNOPS to supplement their own capacities, improve speed, reduce risks, boost cost-effectiveness and increase quality.  UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman covers projects in Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, and Yemen and implements work in partnership with bilateral donors, national governments and other UN agencies.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/182109-japan-and-unops-enhanced-access-primary-health-services-anbar-governorate




Date: 16 May 2022
Title: UNDP supports Deputy Governors on local implementation of the National Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism in Iraq
Content: 16 May 2022
Sulymaniyah, Iraq, 16 May 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq, in partnership with the National Committee on the Implementation of the Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism at the National Security Advisory, completed a three-day workshop to support governorate sub-committees for the implementation of the Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism in Iraq.
The workshop, held from 14-16 May in Sulymaniyah, targeted Deputy Governors, and provided an update on progress and challenges faced by governorate committees to develop and implement their plans for Preventing Violent Extremism, reviewed the outcomes of the capacity building programmes of the sub-committee members, and discussed the role of civil society and the importance of their engagement in the local plans. The workshop included representation from the National Committee, and the governorates of Anbar, Babylon, Baghdad, Basra, Dhi Qar, Diyala, Diwaniyah, Karbala, Kirkuk, Najaf, Maysan, Muthanna, Ninewa, Salah al-Din, and Wasit. On the side of the workshop, a meeting was held with representatives from Sulaymaniyah Governorate including local authorities, civil society organizations, and academics to explore opportunities to strengthen efforts for the prevention of violent extremism in the governorate.
UNDP’s approach to supporting the National Strategy on the Prevention of Violent Extremism falls under Sustainable Development Goal 16 (Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions) and is part of a comprehensive focus on promoting social cohesion and combating violence, extremism, and hate speech, including engagement with youth, media, citizen journalists, religious leaders, local community leaders and Community-Based Organizations.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad states, “UNDP is working closely with the Government of Iraq to ensure a comprehensive national and subnational approach toward the Prevention of Violent Extremism in Iraq. Our aim is to support a coordinated and sustainable implementation of the National Strategy on the Prevention of Violent Extremism, to positively influence social cohesion in Iraq for the generations of tomorrow.”
According to Mr. Ali Abdullah Albedeiri, Chairman of the National Committee on the implementation of the National Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism, “This meeting was very important, as the deputy governors are responsible for the committees in their governorates, and they provide an overview of the situation and progress in their respective areas. We have planned programmes for the next six months and we will follow up closely on the national plan’s implementation.”
Support to Prevention of Violent Extremism (PVE) in Iraq is part of UNDP Iraq’s Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/182107-undp-supports-deputy-governors-local-implementation-national-strategy-prevent-violent




Date: 16 May 2022
Title: Great Event of FAO and Partners on Hemorrhagic Fever
Content: 16 May 2022
(Hemorrhagic Fever Workshop From a One Health Perspective)
Baghdad, 10th May 2022
To keep pace with the events of the spread of hemorrhagic fever in Iraq, in coordination with the College of Veterinary Medicine, the University of Baghdad,  the Ministry of Health and Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, FAO, contributed to the organization of the  workshop entitled Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever from one health perspective.
The workshop was held under the patronage of the President of the University of Baghdad, Prof. Dr. Munir Hamid Al-Saadi, and under the supervision of the Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine, Prof. Hamid Ali Kazem, and in the presence of the Technical Deputy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Mithaq Abdul-Hussein, Representative of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in Iraq Dr. Salah Al-Hajj Hassan, Head of the Veterinarians Syndicate Dr. Samira Latif, and Dr. Karim bin Jabara represented the FAO through the Zoom platform and Dr. Amer Musa Yassin in his presence.
The workshop aimed at building and implementing effective collaborative One Health strategies, simultaneously addressing the health of people, animals and the environment.  Ensuring a One Health approach is essential for progress to anticipate, prevent, detect and control diseases that spread between animals and humans, ensure food safety, prevent environment-related human and animal health threats, as well as combatting many other challenges.
In line with this approach, FAO international expert, Dr. Karim Ben Jebara, delivered a lecture on the measures to control and prevent the occurrence of Crimean Congo Hemorrhagic Fever, including its occurrences and the Geographical Distribution in Animals and Humans in Iraq; the virus Transmission to Humans; the virus transmission in Ticks and Animals, the Pathogenicity of the disease in Humans and Animals and the Disease Prevention and Control.
To conclude, Dr. Amir Moosa Yassin, FAO expert presented the following recommendations of the workshop:

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/181960-great-event-fao-and-partners-hemorrhagic-fever




Date: 16 May 2022
Title: Iraqi Government Officials and UN-Habitat Iraq inaugurate the Bab Sinjar Housing Complex in Mosul
Content: 16 May 2022
Mosul - 16th May 2022: Mr. Ameen Ibrahim Finsh, Mayor of Mosul along with the Senior Government Officials in Iraq convened with Dr. Erfan Ali, UN-Habitat’s Regional Representative for Arab States, and Mr. Wael Al Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq country Programme for the inauguration ceremony of the Bab Sinjar Housing Complex in Mosul, a project made possible through the munificent support from the Government of Japan.
The destruction of homes has been the major obstacle for displaced citizens trying to settle back in their areas of origin. Ninewa Governorate has the highest number of vulnerable people, with more than 260,000 returnees living in deplorable conditions.
The successful completion of the Bab Sinjar Housing Complex in West Mosul offers a safe and dignified residence for 2,300 returnees who have lost their homes in Mosul. The nine medium-rise residential buildings, comprising of 324 apartments, have been built within the city centre on land offered by Mosul Municipality. With an overall budget of USD 10 million, the project also comprised of the rehabilitation of 578 houses in the nearby Zanjili neighborhood, and vocational training for 153 returnees which included 46 females. The project has successfully leveraged infrastructure investments from Ninewa governorate and is seen as one of the best practices for durable solutions.
Japan has been a major contributor to UN-Habitat projects in Iraq to assist internally displaced citizens by the ISIL crisis. Since 2014, the Japanese Government has provided approximately USD 56 million in fundings to UN-Habitat Iraq projects, including the construction of the Bab Sinjar Housing Complex.
After the ribbon cutting ceremony, several dignitaries spoke, including Mr. Ameen Ibrahim and Dr. Erfan Ali. In a video message, Mr. Kotaro Suzuki, Ambassador of Japan, lauded the efforts of everyone who contributed to make this project a success. He said: “As its name “HABITAT” shows, the assistance provided by UN-Habitat is not limited to providing housings and shelters, but also includes basic infrastructure and employment opportunities to ensure to create the entire environment for people to lead humanly lives.” Finally, keys were handed over to respective beneficiary families’ representatives.
While speaking at the inaugural ceremony, Dr. Erfan Ali expressed his gratitude to the Government of Japan for their generous support and mentioned the great partnership between the Government of Iraq and UN-Habitat from durable solutions perspective.
Mr. Ameen Ibrahim Finsh, Mayor of Mosul, expressed his gratitude to the Government of Japan and UN-Habitat. He also highlighted the great need of the similar projects towards the returnees.
A Round Table Meeting with the Mayor of Mosul preceded the Inaugural ceremony along with the Senior Government Officials and Dr. Erfan Ali. The meeting was aimed at discussing the lessons learned and best practice from this project and strengthen ongoing cooperation frameworks towards building inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable cities and communities in Iraq, particularly in the province of Ninewa, beside supporting the country’s efforts to achieve the SDGs.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/182436-iraqi-government-officials-and-un-habitat-iraq-inaugurate-bab-sinjar-housing-complex-mosul




Date: 12 May 2022
Title: UNESCO Iraq celebrates World Press Freedom Day
Content: 12 May 2022
Baghdad, 12 May 2022 - More than 2,600 Iraqi journalists have lost their jobs since the start of the Corona pandemic in 2020 until today, and the cause is due to the digital skills possessed by young creators of digital content that pioneering and senior journalists lack. This is one of the major challenges confronting Iraq's journalistic community, which was highlighted at the ceremony with a lengthy discussion among journalists, Iraqi government agencies, international organizations, and foreign embassies including the UK embassy, Canadian embassy, Australian embassy, and Dutch embassy.
The Netherlands have been an invaluable partner to UNESCO, and yesterday we officially launched the second phase of the project “Breaking the Silence: enhance judicial accountability on safety of journalists and end impunity”.
“Crime and violence against journalists too often go unpunished. We believe that Iraq can do much better - press freedom and safety of journalists in Iraq can and must be improved” said by Rochus Pronk, Deputy Head of Mission at the Netherlands Embassy in Iraq.
Paolo Fontani, UNESCO Representative to Iraq, said in his opening speech: “The theme chosen for this year’s World Press Freedom Day is “Journalism under Digital Siege”.  World Press Freedom Day underlines topics that address the digital era’s impact on freedom of expression, the safety of journalists, access to information and privacy and how to develop concrete recommendations to address these challenges. The digital era has also put media workers  and  their  sources  at  greater  risk  of  being  targeted,  harassed  and  attacked  –  for  instance,  due  to  data  retention,  spyware  and  digital surveillance.
While the Supreme Judicial Council in Iraq recalled the sacrifices of journalists, the representative of the Council’s President, Mrs. Sinan Ghanem, said: “The Supreme Judicial Council strongly supports freedom of expression in Iraq, takes into account the challenges facing the journalistic community, and is one of the supporters of projects to enhance the protection of journalists and end impunity from Punishment."
"We still need to keep up with global development in the areas of digital inclusion, particularly in the press sector in Iraq," said Muhammad Al-Asadi, Executive Director of the Media and Communications Commission CMC. "Our next goal as a body is to build the skills of journalists and women journalists to be able to keep up with digital developments."
The ceremony featured discussions and presentations by a group of journalists on how to break the digital siege on journalism, as well as presentations by the Iraqi Ministry of Interior MoI, on its next steps in strengthening the Iraqi national mechanism for safety of journalists and ending impunity.
The Dutch organization FreePressUnlimited participated in a presentation on the national plans to develop Iraqi media, and the head of FPU, Leo Williams, spoke about the partnership with UNESCO in Iraq, on “Breaking the Silence”.
The MDP Multi-Donor Program for the Safety of Journalists and the Promotion of Freedom of Expression is the primary source of financing for this event. Iraq implements three primary axes in the context of this initiative, headed by the journalistic community, that focus on enhancing legislation ensuring press freedoms, protecting women journalists, and building an effective advocacy pattern in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/181611-unesco-iraq-celebrates-world-press-freedom-day




Date: 12 May 2022
Title: Ba’aj General Hospital reopens: Restoring essential health care services to Western Ninewa
Content: 12 May 2022
Iraq, Ba’aj, 12 May 2022 – The newly rehabilitated Ba’aj General Hospital was officially inaugurated today by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Ninewa Governorate, with generous funding by the Federal Republic of Germany, provided through KfW Development Bank. The reopening of this critical health facility marks a significant moment for the recovery of Western Ninewa after years of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) occupation.
Before ISIL, built in the mid-seventies, the hospital had 50 beds and several departments servicing a catchment population of 30,000 people. The hospital was left significantly damaged during the ISIL conflict, and residents had to travel more than 150 kilometers to reach the nearest hospital in central Mosul.
Through the Funding Facility for Stabilization, UNDP rehabilitated the entire building, including civil, sanitary, mechanical, and electrical works. Today, the newly revamped hospital has added facilities such as more wards for women, a premature delivery hall, a hemodialysis and blood bank, an oxygen and medical gas system, and a reverse osmosis water purification system. UNDP will further supply medical equipment in the coming months.
Currently, the hospital is operated and managed by the Ninewa Directorate of Health and serves over 30,000 residents. The hospital is expected to reduce preventable deaths, particularly among pregnant women and newborn children, as patients will no longer need to travel far to receive care.
“Since work on the hospital began in December 2020, 80 percent of the pre-ISIL population have returned to the area, stating the hospital’s rehabilitation as their main reason for returning. This stands testament to UNDP’s commitment to supporting the people of Iraq, and we will only continue to do so,” says UNDP Resident Representative for Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“This project would not be possible if not for the generous support from one of UNDP’s longest-standing partners, the Federal Republic of Germany. Together with Germany, we have made tremendous contributions towards stabilization in Iraq,” she adds.
“The provision of good living conditions is fundamental to sustainable peace and stability. It is important that people who want to return to their home areas can do so with a decent perspective of finding the necessary conditions, including a certain standard of health care services in the city. This is why Germany supported the reconstruction of the Ba’aj Hospital, to provide the basis for returns, peace and stability,” says Mr. Peter Felten, the German Charge' d'Affairs in Baghdad.
The rehabilitation of the Ba’aj General Hospital is funded through a significant contribution by the Federal Republic of Germany, provided through KfW Development Bank.
UNDP is the leading implementer of stabilization activities in Iraq. To date, UNDP has completed around 3,100 stabilization projects across the liberated areas of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa, and Salah al-Din. The programme has assisted 4.95 million internally displaced people to return home.

Media Contact:
Mrinalini Santhanam, Communications Specialist | +9647901931308
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/181610-ba%E2%80%99aj-general-hospital-reopens-restoring-essential-health-care-services-western-ninewa




Date: 12 May 2022
Title: From Farm to Fork: Europe Day in Iraq highlights country’s vital agri-food sector
Content: 12 May 2022
Baghdad, 11 May 2022 – The Delegation of the European Union to Iraq marked Europe Day in Baghdad today.  An event that brought together partners, highlighted the country’s vital agri-food sector and efforts that support its sustainable development.
The one-day event was attended by representatives of the various partner ministries and local authorities, UN agencies, international partners, the private sector, unions, and key stakeholders of the agricultural sector.
The EU Ambassador to Iraq Mr. Ville Varjola, stated that “This week, we are celebrating Europe Day. It commemorates the 'Schuman Declaration' of 9 May 1950, which paved the way for Franco-German reconciliation and laid the foundations of what is now known as the European Union. Today, the EU continues to work in order to achieve peace also outside its borders”. Mr Varjola added that “History has proven that the development of a robust agricultural sector is one of the most powerful tools to end poverty, boost prosperity, and ensure food security. For this reason, the EU is investing in the development of the entire agri-food value chain in Iraq to promote the needed diversification of its economy. This has proven to be all the more important given the rise in food prices globally, triggered by Russia’s unprovoked and unjustified war on Ukraine”.
A key feature of the event was an exhibition hall, under the theme “from farm to fork” that displayed an array of different activities and stories from the field. This included booths and stalls run by women from rural areas, as well as partner agri-food companies exhibiting and selling their products. It also included an exhibition on the livestock-dairy value chain. The event was an opportunity for participants to voice their experiences of working in the sector, whether in terms of forging commercial alliances with buyers or accessing opportunities to develop their entrepreneurship skills and small businesses.
“Thanks for all operating agencies in Iraq and the European Union for providing cooperation to implement programmes that support the agriculture sector,” said Dr. Hadi Hashim, representative of the Ministry of Agriculture during the event.
A technical panel discussion with experts from the sector offered an insight into some of the challenges, opportunities and practices in addressing agri-food development through a value chain approach. The panel discussion served to raise awareness on this new approach, supported by the EU and with buy-in from the Iraqi government, identify a common understanding on how to further support value chain stakeholders to improve competitiveness and unleash the potential in the sector, as well as to present on-going activities carried out through the Agri-food Business Development Programme - AfBDP.
“This is an excellent example of how to support the agriculture sector and how to create synergies among different stakeholders,” said Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO representative in Iraq, on behalf of Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Solloran, UN Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator.
The European Union in Iraq funds international partners - the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), the International Organization for Migration (IOM), the International Labour Organization (ILO), the International Trade Centre (ITC), and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)- under the umbrella of AfBDP.
Central to the AfBDP is an agri-food value chain approach that supports stabilisation and governance, while promoting sustainable and decent job creation.
About the Agri-food Business Development Programme (AfBDP)
The programme leverages each of the six agencies’ areas of expertise to address the gaps and opportunities in the private sector and agri-food sector in a coordinated fashion, with a focus on several value chains, including dairy, tomato, date and poultry. It does so by working closely with the Government of Iraq and partners to facilitate economic reforms, private sector engagement and improve working conditions; building the capacities of public and private actors; supporting smallholder farmers and workers to adopt sustainable farming practices, strengthening small enterprises through technical and financial assistance; and fostering alliances across the value chains.

For more info, please contact:
Mauro GIOE’
Programme Manager-Delegation of the European Union to Iraq
mauro.gioe@eeas.europa.eu
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/181546-farm-fork-europe-day-iraq-highlights-country%E2%80%99s-vital-agri-food-sector




Date: 12 May 2022
Title: UN-Habitat in Iraq: 25 Years of Improving People’s Living Conditions
Content: 12 May 2022
UN-Habitat Iraq celebrates its 25th anniversary this year. The program looks proudly back at the many milestones in its history of improving living conditions in Iraq by accelerating recovery and promoting adequate housing, better access to basic services and sustainable urbanization.
In response of the drastic deterioration of living conditions and widespread impoverishment, particularly among internally displaced people (IDPs), the UN Secretariat called on UN-Habitat in early 1997 to act as the implementing agency for the multi-million Settlements Rehabilitation Programme setup to assist IDPs and other vulnerable groups in Iraq. Between 1997 and 2003, UN-Habitat build over 21,000 houses, 756 schools, 134 health centers, over 700 km of water mains and 200 km of sewers, nearly 3,000 KM of roads and 34 bridges in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. It also oversaw the Housing Sector Observation Programme in Central and Southern Iraq, as well as the implementation of the Neighbourhoods Rehabilitation Project in Baghdad.
After 2003, UN-Habitat was largely engaged in early recovery efforts, supporting new waves of IDPs through the provision of shelter and reconstruction initiatives. In those years, UN-Habitat has also played an essential role in delivering technical assistance to central and local authorities facing unprecedented urbanization challenges to advise on policy making and strategies, including the National Urban Strategy and National Housing Policy in 2010 (which was reviewed and updated in 2018), upgrading informal settlements and supporting decentralized decision-making.
In 2014, as the country plummeted into a complex humanitarian crisis triggered by the occupation by the so-called Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) which caused the forced displacement of over 6 million people and the physical destruction of settlements affected by the fighting, the portfolio of UN-Habitat Iraq expanded to include both humanitarian and development programmes providing IDPs, Syrian refugees and host communities with dignified shelter and an improved living environment.
In the past 3 years, the agency has refocused its attention towards community-based reconstruction, rehabilitation of housing and basic services in urban settlements affected by the conflict, participatory design and creation of public open spaces, construction of low-cost housing units to support the return of vulnerable IDPs to their areas of origin, delivery of vocational training, and implementation of informal settlement upgrading projects, while continuing to provide technical assistance to local and national authorities in urban policy-making and city planning, urban heritage conservation, advocacy, data analysis, GIS mapping, climate change adaptation, and the protection of Housing, Land, and Property (HLP) rights of minorities and vulnerable groups.
Since its inception, UN-Habitat in Iraq has applied a people-centered approach and established a strong network of international and national partners. UN-Habitat remains steadfast in its commitment to strengthen further the long-standing partnership with the Government of Iraq to achieve its goals for improving the lives of citizens. The agency has served as the leading thinktank for sustainable urbanization and human settlements and has played an unique role in supporting the country attain nine of the ambitious indicators of SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities.
Mr. Wael Al-Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq, remarked: “The last 25 years have given us plenty of reasons to celebrate. This is an incredible milestone for any UN-Habitat office. If we look back at where we started and what we have achieved, since 1997 we have certainly made remarkable progress. The programme has reached this success through our staff’s dedication, commitment, and hard work.”
Finally, these accomplishments would not have been possible without the trust and generosity of numerous donors who provided funding, commitment, and support to UN-Habitat’s programmes and projects. UN-Habitat has also partnered with UN sister agencies and national counterparts to contribute to the recovery, peace-building and socio-economic stability of the country. These partnerships have strengthened UN-Habitat’s efforts and impact throughout its 25-year existence in Iraq.
On this auspicious occasion, UN-Habitat Iraq renews its commitment towards enhancing urban prosperity, scaling-up environmental sustainability, combating climate change and contributing to improved urban policies and legislation, by broadening its collaboration with international and national partners to align and accelerate the application of the New Urban Agenda and contribute to achieving the SDGs in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/181547-un-habitat-iraq-25-years-improving-people%E2%80%99s-living-conditions




Date: 11 May 2022
Title: CANADA SUPPORTS WFP’S LIFE-SAVING WORK IN IRAQ
Content: 11 May 2022
BAGHDAD – In 2021, the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) received a total of a CAD 5.5 million contribution from the Government of Canada, including CAD 1 million from a regional project between Canada and WFP. This donation has helped WFP provide food assistance to 255,000 displaced Iraqi families and 72,000 Syrian refugees living in camps as well as emergency livelihood restoration activities throughout 2021.
WFP focuses on women and youth in all its work, including with Canada’s funding, through innovative urban livelihood projects that provided vocational and skills training to those most in need in cities and towns, while also teaching online marketing. In the long term, such activities support participants to provide a living for themselves and their families.
“This multi-year contribution from Canada has enabled WFP to continue providing monthly food assistance to the most vulnerable families, alongside helping people rebuild their lives,” said WFP Iraq Representative Ally-Raza Qureshi. “Such activities are helping change the lives of Iraqis who are returning home and trying to get back on their feet after conflict, through our resilience-building and livelihood-generating projects, which also foster entrepreneurship.”
In 2021, over half of WFP’s participants from urban livelihoods were women. With its multi-year approach, Canada’s contribution allowed WFP to effectively plan its assistance to support those most in need.
Last year, WFP also completed a gender transformative programme through the enhanced integration and mainstreaming of gender throughout all planning and implementation levels of its activities. This builds upon years of working towards improving gender equality and having policies and strategies on the ground to ensure prioritizing women and girls.
WFP is grateful to the Government of Canada and its people for their continued and steadfast support to the most vulnerable families in Iraq, especially women-headed households, and their children.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/181284-canada-supports-wfp%E2%80%99s-life-saving-work-iraq




Date: 11 May 2022
Title: Coordinating agriculture and technical vocational education and training in Iraq
Content: 11 May 2022
Baghdad: A needs assessment workshop for establishing a National Agriculture Technical Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Committee was held in Baghdad.

This committee would be instrumental in harmonising various activities being undertaken by key partners to reform agriculture-related TVET in Iraq.
Representatives from the Prime Minister's Advisory Commission, the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and, the European Union (EU) Delegation, UNESCO, ILO, FAO, GIZ, private sector, and the BRIDGE project, a Canadian government funded project to support the transition of male and female youth and adult women into new livelihoods, attended the workshop
The European Union Delegation to Iraq   presented its new agriculture TVET project. UNESCO presented its current TVET reforms while the Ministry of Agriculture highlighted their strategy and plans which affect agriculture-related TVET.
Participants discussed current initiatives to reform TVET, the opportunities for greater co-ordination and the advantages of establishing a National Agriculture TVET Committee, which could provide an overarching strategy for agriculture-related TVET for increasing alignment, reducing overlap and highlighting gaps in current activities.
During the workshop, it was agreed that the proposals would be considered by various partners and a decision be made in the coming month.
Ms. Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation of the EU Delegation said, “this workshop provides an opportunity for partners to come together to better understand each other’s current activities with the aim of ensuring greater alignment and impact”.
Mr. Faisal from the Ministry of Agriculture speaking on the occasion said, “The workshop highlighted the range of current activities to support the agriculture sector.  Through these combined efforts to reform the TVET system, the agriculture sector can increase its productivity and its contribution to the economy.”
Mr. Eric Buchot from ITC believed that “TVET is vitally important as a driver of job creation and productivity”. He added that it was crucial to "ensure that young people emerge from TVET institutions and higher education with the practical skills and knowledge that will enable them to take up jobs in the sector, and to ensure that the current workforce has access to courses that enable them to innovate and develop their businesses".
The workshop was organised by the International Trade Centre (ITC) and forms part of a five-year project “Strengthening the agriculture and agri-food value chain and improving trade policy in Iraq” (SAAVI). This 22.5 Million EUR project, funded by the European Union, aims to contribute to inclusive growth and job creation for Iraq citizens, particularly for youth. It seeks to enhance the competitiveness of Iraq’s agribusiness value chain, while improving the country’s trade policy. It is hoped that eventually projects to improve the competitiveness of the private sector may revitalize Iraq’s bid to join the World Trade Organization.
About the International Trade Centre
The International Trade Centre (ITC, www.intracen.org) is the joint agency of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the United Nations (UN), fully dedicated to supporting the development and internationalization of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). ITC's mission is to foster inclusive and sustainable growth and development through trade and international business development. ITC is a UN Resident Agency in Iraq with Headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland.
About SAAVI:
SAAVI contributes to inclusive economic growth and job creation, particularly for youth in Iraq, by improving the country's agriculture competitiveness and supporting trade development.
The project is funded by the European Union (EU) and forms part of the overall EU Special Measure 2019 for Iraq which aims at supporting stabilization and governance through building the capacities of key Iraqi institutions to deliver public services, as well as sustainable job creation through the development of human capital and the private sector.


The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/181304-coordinating-agriculture-and-technical-vocational-education-and-training-iraq




Date: 11 May 2022
Title: In Lead Up to Flagship Migration Policy Conference, Iraq Makes Key Pledges for Improved Governance
Content: 11 May 2022
Baghdad – The UN Network for Migration applauds the Government of Iraq’s commitment to improved migration governance in the lead up to the International Migration Review Forum, where progress on the Global Compact for Migration (GCM) will be reviewed.
Iraq is the first country in the Middle East and North Africa region to submit both a Voluntary National Review (VNR) – an overview of the State’s progress toward the GCM’s objectives – and a set of forward-looking policy pledges.
On 10 May, the Government of Iraq’s Inter-Ministerial Technical Working Group on Migration met in Baghdad to discuss the upcoming Forum (IMRF) and migration governance priorities, as well as to validate its Voluntary National Review, drafted with the support of the UN Network on Migration.
Iraq is a signatory of the GCM – the first intergovernmental agreement to cover all dimensions of international migration in a holistic and comprehensive manner – and a member of the Champion Country initiative. As a Champion country, Iraq demonstrates support for the GCM through leadership and engagement in multilateral processes.
The Inter-Ministerial Technical Working Group committed to a total of seven policy pledges based on findings of the VNR and the activities implemented under the working group’s thematic taskforces. Commitments include:
The Government of Iraq will send a delegation to the IMRF and will participate in all the Forum’s main events including, the thematic roundtables, policy debate, and a general debate which will endorse an overall progress declaration.
“Almost four years have passed since Iraq signed the Global Compact for Migration in 2018. Last year, we were among the first governments in the Middle East and North Africa to complete the voluntary national review of the implementation of the Global Compact for Migration,” said Mr. Karim al-Nouri, Deputy Minister of Migration and Displacement, during the Technical Working Group meeting.
“[The IMRF] is a good opportunity for us to show Iraq as a strong country that is committed to implementing the GCM, and present what has been accomplished. [We would like] to inform all partners that Iraq will be present and strong in this initiative.”
In recent years, important strides have been made towards improving migration policy in Iraq, notably through the development of a National Migration Strategy. The UN Network on Migration looks forward to supporting the Government of Iraq in meeting its GCM policy pledges over the next four years.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/181285-lead-flagship-migration-policy-conference-iraq-makes-key-pledges-improved-governance




Date: 10 May 2022
Title: UNDP completes rehabilitation of 60 municipality shops and three schools in western Ninewa
Content: 10 May 2022
Baghdad/Ninewa, 10 May 2022 – Sixty municipality shops in Tal Abta and three primary schools in Sinjar that were damaged or destroyed during the ISIL conflict were officially inaugurated by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Ninewa Governorate.
Baghdad/Ninewa, 10 May 2022 – Sixty municipality shops in Tal Abta and three primary schools in Sinjar that were damaged or destroyed during the ISIL conflict were officially inaugurated by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Ninewa Governorate.
Benefitting around 1,900 residents, the four facilities in western Ninewa were rehabilitated through UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS) with generous funding provided by the Government of Canada.
The three fully rehabilitated schools have the capacity to accommodate around 1,290 students in Sinjar. While the municipality shops will serve approximately 600 patrons per day. The sixty shops also include a vegetable market with the capacity to hold 50 vendors that will help formalize micro businesses in the region and contribute to sustainable livelihoods creation.
Since 2015, Canada has contributed more than US $38 million to FFS, supporting infrastructure rehabilitation and placing a special focus on promoting livelihood and employment opportunities for Iraq’s most vulnerable communities.
“Rehabilitating infrastructure and services, such as schools, municipality shops, water treatment plants, electricity substations and livelihoods productive infrastructure are important to ensure people return home safely and with dignity. Western Ninewa has always been a priority area for FFS and will continue to be as we work tirelessly alongside the international community, the Ninewa Governorate and local community leaders to support the return of the remaining vulnerable displaced populations,” says UNDP’s Resident Representative in Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“We are extremely grateful to our longstanding partners, the Government of Canada for generously funding these projects. We are proud to support critical sectors like education and livelihoods in Iraq, and we look forward to continuing our work together to build a stable and prosperous Iraq,” she added.
"The opening of these shops is a significant achievement for this community and tangibly demonstrates the important work of the UNDP Funding Facility for Stabilization in fully supporting the transitions between humanitarian, peace, and development efforts in Iraq. The shops will help set the conditions for families to end their displacement, return home, and contribute to their community's long-term economic and cultural recovery. Canada is proud to support this programme," says Ambassador of Canada to Iraq, Gregory Galligan.
Since 2015, through the Funding Facility for Stabilization, UNDP has completed around 3,100 stabilization projects across the liberated areas of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa, Salah Al-Din.  To date, the programme has supported the return of more than 4.8 million displaced people back to their place of origin.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/181242-undp-completes-rehabilitation-60-municipality-shops-and-three-schools-western-ninewa




Date: 04 May 2022
Title: Health facilities in Al-Karma officially reopen after destruction by ISIL
Content: 04 May 2022
Baghdad/Al Karma, 4 May 2022– Two newly-rehabilitated health facilities – the External Consultancy Clinic and Al-Sijr Public Health Centre were officially reopened by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Government of Australia and Anbar Governorate.
When ISIL captured Al-Karma, the health facilities across the region suffered extensive damages. Equipment was stolen and infrastructure was left destroyed. Prior to rehabilitation of the health facilities, residents were forced to travel more than fifteen kilometers to Fallujah Teaching Hospital for treatment and medical services.
The two facilities were rehabilitated by UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS) with generous funding provided by the Government of Australia.  In addition, the Government of Denmark provided furniture and USAID supplied equipment to the Al-Sijr Public Health Centre.
"The reopening of the External Consultancy Clinic and Al-Sijr Public Health Centre in Al-Karma is an important milestone to restoring essential health services across the region. However, our commitment to building Iraq forward better and stabilizing areas affected by ISIL do not end here. We have also supported the rehabilitation of over 50 health facilities in Anbar alone. This includes clinics, public health centers, hospitals and even specialty hospitals such as maternity and dental clinics,” says UNDP Resident Representative in Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“We are here today because of the generous funding and longstanding partnership with the international community. The rehabilitation of the two facilities would not have been possible without the support provided by the Government of Australia. I would also like to thank Government of Denmark for providing the furniture and USAID for supplying the equipment at the Al-Sijr Public Health Centre,” she added.
“Australia values our longstanding partnership with the Government of Iraq and UNDP and is proud to support recovery efforts in this country. The conflict with ISIL left severe damage to vital infrastructure and impacted the lives of many Iraqis, says Ms. Paula Ganly, the Australian Ambassador to Iraq.
“The Australian Government believes that access to adequate health care is a basic human right. The rehabilitation and functioning of these clinics will provide essential health services to Karma district and surrounds,” she added.
Since 2015, through the Funding Facility for Stabilization, UNDP has completed around 3,100 stabilization projects across the liberated areas of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa, Salah Al-Din.  To date, the programme has supported the return of more than 4.8 million people back to their place of origin.

Media Contact:
Mrinalini Santhanam, Communications Specialist | +9647901931308

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/180392-health-facilities-al-karma-officially-reopen-after-destruction-isil




Date: 02 May 2022
Title: UNAMI sends warmest wishes to Iraqis on Eid al-Fitr, calls for an urgent end to the political stalemate
Content: 02 May 2022
Baghdad, 02 May 2022 – We extend our best wishes to you and your loved ones on the occasion of Eid al-Fitr.
On this blessed holiday, we reiterate the importance of overcoming the political stalemate, in the interest of all Iraqis.
Significant domestic vulnerabilities are being compounded by the ongoing effects of the pandemic and global geopolitical tensions. A sincere, collective will to resolve the political differences must now prevail for the country to move forward and meet the needs of its citizens.
While the United Nations remains a partner to all Iraqis, we urge Iraq's political leaders to assume their responsibilities, accelerate the government formation process, observe the constitutional timeframes and thus to agree - without further delay - on a government that is able to, swiftly and decisively, address Iraq’s long list of outstanding domestic priorities.
We wish you and your loved ones peace, stability, prosperity and good health.
Eid Mubarak.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/180256-unami-sends-warmest-wishes-iraqis-eid-al-fitr-calls-urgent-end-political-stalemate




Date: 28 April 2022
Title: UNICEF receives USD $1,4 million from the Government of Canada to support young people’s transition to entrepreneurship and employment in Iraq
Content: 28 April 2022
More than 1,500 socially excluded young people aged between 10-24 years from Baghdad, Anbar and Basra, over half of them girls, will receive direct support to transition from learning to earning and social inclusion
Baghdad, 28 April 2022- The Government of Canada has contributed USD$1.4 million to UNICEF to support close to 1,500 young people in Iraq to generate educational and economic opportunities for inclusive development and participation for a 2-year period. UNICEF will support girls’ equal participation in learning, skill development and employability, which will contribute to their empowerment and expansion of options as they transition to adulthood. The programme will support girls and boys with tailored interventions to transition from learning to earning in Baghdad, Anbar and Basra.
“With nearly half of the Iraqi population under 19 years old, and almost a quarter of the population between the ages of 15 and 24, Iraqi youth are the backbone for social, economic, and political transformation. Through this funding, UNICEF reaffirms its commitment to leaving no one behind and promoting gender equality to support young people with opportunities to create a better future for them and their communities,” said Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF’s Representative in Iraq.
“The prolonged conflict, economic and social crises in Iraq and the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, have severely affected young people. Given that Iraq has a large youth population, we believe that investing in youth and strengthening their employability will facilitate their social and economic re-integration and enable them to contribute to the country’s progress towards peace and prosperity. Canada is pleased to support this initiative from UNICEF to strengthen the economic participation and civic engagement of vulnerable and marginalized young boys and girls in Iraq, helping them to become agents of change for their own lives and their communities”, said Gregory Galligan, Ambassador of Canada to Iraq.
Learning, engagement, and labour market participation constraints are multiplied when they are experienced by girls. Added constraints and vulnerabilities exist for them such as conservative social norms, early marriage and pregnancy, domestic responsibilities, threat of gender-based violence, fewer opportunities to attend school, limited access to services to be financially independent, as well as legal barriers to the labour market and other economic freedoms. The end goal of the project is for girls to serve as equal and empowered community-innovators, proposing, co-designing and leading positive development and serving as role-models for other girls, and boys.
The project will be implemented through a Life Skills Citizenship Education framework that builds youth’s skills around learning, employment, empowerment, and active citizenship, while also supporting youth-led innovative initiatives and amplifying their voices to empower them as agents of change within their communities.
To strengthen the project and ensure sustainability, UNICEF will provide technical assistance to government stakeholders, including the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and their regional directorates to build their capacity on gender equality approaches as well as concepts related to youth development and participation to effectively deliver relevant services for most vulnerable young people, especially girls.
UNICEF and Canada with these funds aim to unlock the potential of young people in Iraq by accelerating progress in improving their skills for learning and employability. The project will continue to encourage youth economically, personally and socially with a vision to increase learning and empowerment of young people as a means to ensure equity for all.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/179402-unicef-receives-usd-14-million-government-canada-support-young-people%E2%80%99s-transition




Date: 25 April 2022
Title: WHO marks five years of strategic partnership with USAID in Iraq
Content: 25 April 2022
Baghdad, 25 April 2022 – The World Health Organization (WHO) marks the five-year milestone of its strategic partnership with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to support the provision of life-saving and essential healthcare services to vulnerable populations in Iraq.
Over the past five years, USAID has provided WHO Iraq with support totalling US$122 million.
“USAID has been the biggest funding partner of WHO in Iraq over the past five years. We’re proud of this genuine and growing partnership, which helped us expand access to much-needed healthcare services for millions of people in different governorates,” said Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative in Iraq.
“We greatly value and appreciate this impactful partnership, and we’re exploring new opportunities to deepen this collaborative partnership further.”
Impact of USAID’s contribution
Thanks to the generous contribution from USAID, over 6 million primary health care consultations, including mental and physical rehabilitation services, were provided to Iraqi citizens, while over 1,500 individuals benefited from various capacity building training.
USAID support also provided 56 new ambulances to the Iraqi health system, helping to ensure uninterrupted access to referral services. Funds also went to delivering essential medicines, medical supplies and diagnostic equipment to various conflict-affected governorates to provide comprehensive primary health care services to millions of people, including around 300,000 Syrian refugees and host communities in Erbil, Dahuk and Sulaymaniyah governorates.
In addition, USAID has contributed to WHO-Iraq’s preparedness and response to COVID-19 by adding up to 800 new COVID-19 vaccination locations, including in challenging humanitarian areas, such as in camps housing refugees and internally displaced persons. It is also providing equipment and supplies, as well as technical assistance to Iraqi laboratories, clinics, and hospitals for testing, diagnosing, and treating COVID-19. USAID funding is also helping train frontline workers on caring for COVID-19 patients and organizing awareness-raising campaigns.
“The United States is the leading humanitarian assistance provider in Iraq. We are pleased to celebrate five years of fruitful partnership with the WHO and stand committed to working with the Government of Iraq and other partners to provide critical services to Iraq’s most vulnerable populations,” said Heather Schildge, Acting USAID Mission Director to Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/179151-who-marks-five-years-strategic-partnership-usaid-iraq




Date: 24 April 2022
Title: UNICEF receives US$26 Million from the Government of Germany to support the provision of basic services and the COVID-19 response in Iraq
Content: 24 April 2022
The funding will allow 1 million children and adolescents to have continued access to learning through a combination of approaches such as blended learning and 50,000 vulnerable people to receive critical child protection services
Baghdad, 24 April 2022- The Government of Germany has contributed $26 million to UNICEF to support UNICEF in its ongoing efforts to assist the Government of Iraq in strengthening its systems and improve access to quality basic services for children and their families in the context of COVID-19. This amount brings the German Government’s total contributions to UNICEF in Iraq to over 200 million dollars since 2015.
The funding includes support for measures addressing the impact of COVID-19 by ensuring communities continue to receive essential water, sanitation, education and child protection preventive and response services. This will include the provision of personal protective equipment to 20,000 healthcare providers and hand sanitizer gel, soap bars and hand hygiene promotion to over 200,000 people.
“This funding is crucial as we support Iraq to increase access to basic services and bolster the national COVID-19 vaccination campaign. UNICEF thanks the Government of Germany for this timely support and partnership to accelerate our efforts to ensure every child in Iraq has access to safe water, education, social and child protection services when required,” said Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF’s Representative in Iraq.
“Children belong to the most vulnerable members of the Iraqi population, especially those living in IDP camps. I was very touched recently by my visit in a UNICEF-built school in Shariya Camp”, said GER Ambassador to Iraq, Martin Jäger. “Germany is funding UNICEF activities to make sure that Iraqi children grow up equipped with what they need most: health and education, because we can only overcome the Covid pandemic together, it is a global challenge where no one is safe until everyone is safe.”
An estimated 1 million children and adolescents will have continued access to learning through a combination of approaches such as blended learning, education TV & online portals and self-learning materials. At least 50,000 people will receive critical child protection services mainly from high-risk areas across Iraq and areas with vulnerable populations, such as camps for the internally displaced and returnee community areas. In addition, UNICEF will support provision of access to safe, equitable, gender-inclusive water and sanitation services for over 700,000 vulnerable people and their families in targeted governorates, including community-focused hygiene promotion and improvement of WASH services in schools and healthcare facilities.
The project will primarily benefit children and young people, who make up more than half the population of Iraq. As the country marks two years since the pandemic was declared, the number of children and young people estimated to be under the poverty line has doubled. Children and young people are also the most at risk of experiencing poverty, service disruptions in critical basic services like primary health, water sanitation and hygiene, education and increase in rights violations.
UNICEF, in collaboration with the Government of Iraq and partners, will continue to work on long-term sustainability of national systems by strengthening national capacity to provide integrated access to basic services with the goal of enabling children to overcome poverty, enjoy their rights and fulfil their full potential.

###
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
Follow UNICEF on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/179050-unicef-receives-us26-million-government-germany-support-provision-basic-services-and-covid




Date: 22 April 2022
Title: On “Earth Day”, UN in Iraq Renews Commitment to Joint Climate Action
Content: 22 April 2022
Baghdad, 22 April 2022 – In recognition of the 52nd Earth Day today, the United Nations in Iraq renews its commitment to protect the environment, and jointly confront climate change. This is the first Earth Day celebrated within the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration.
Anchored under the 2022 theme “Invest in our Planet”, this day is a reminder to redirect all our attention to creating a 21st century that prioritizes the health of our planet and all species including our own. Our choices today can either accelerate the speed of destruction of the environment or help preserve it and protect our health, our families, and our livelihoods. Climate change and extreme weather events, man-made changes to nature, and protracted conflicts that disrupt biodiversity are destroying the planet we are leaving to future generations.
Restoring our damaged ecosystems will help to end poverty, combat climate change, and ultimately achieve the sustainable development goals. Everyone should play a part in this, if we are to succeed.
In Iraq, the environmental situation has been subject to a number of converging pressures, ranging from poor water quality, deforestation and soil salinity to air pollution, conflict and land-use change, all of which have led to the deterioration of key ecosystems, climate change impacts, and water shortages.
Nevertheless, protecting the earth through policies for environmental action has become a top priority in Iraq. On 22 March 2022, the first protected area in Iraq was declared by the Ministry of Environment and UNEP, home to 230 plant species, of which a large number are endangered. The protection of this reserve will help mitigate extreme weather events, enhance carbon storage, and provide space for plants and animals to reproduce and adapt to the changing climate.
The UN is supporting Iraq in mitigating and adapting to climate change, through the design of sustainable projects that focus on supporting small and medium businesses, livelihoods and development; investments in efficient water and wastewater infrastructure; irrigation and the management of water consumption; as well as the use of renewable energy such as solar power. The UN is also working with the government on training, skills development and capacity strengthening to tackle climate change. Advocacy efforts are raising public awareness on the issues around water consumption and sustainable water management.
Ecosystems support all life on Earth. The healthier our ecosystems, the healthier the planet - and its people. For Earth Day 2022, we need to act boldly to restore our damaged ecosystems.  It’s going to take private sector, entrepreneurs, governments, and citizens — it is everyone’s business!

Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq
Sami Dimassi, UNEP Representative and Regional Director for West Asia
Dr. Salah ElHajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq
Ally Raza Qureshi, WFP Iraq Representative
Zena Ali Ahmad, UNDP Resident Representative
Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Iraq Representative
Giorgi Gigauri, IOM Iraq Chief of Mission
Eric Buchot, ITC Head of Country Programme
Jean-Nicolas Beuze, UNHCR Iraq Representative
Himyar Abdulmoghni - UNFPA Iraq Deputy Representative
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/178973-%E2%80%9Cearth-day%E2%80%9D-un-iraq-renews-commitment-joint-climate-action




Date: 21 April 2022
Title: UN Women and WFP join forces to promote gender equality and women’s empowerment in Iraq
Content: 21 April 2022
Baghdad, Iraq — The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the World Food Programme (WFP) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) and reaffirm their commitment to strengthening collaboration and joint initiatives on gender equality and women empowerment in Iraq.
In collaboration with the Government of Iraq, UN Women and WFP’s joint work will leverage gender-transformative programme opportunities and will focus on women’s leadership, economic empowerment, social protection, resilience and livelihoods with regards to the impact of climate change, ending violence against women and girls, Women Peace and Security (WPS), gender and humanitarian development peace actions, food security and nutrition, and school-based programming.
“We thank WFP for this collaboration and hope that this agreement will cement the important work of UN Women and WFP in ensuring that the needs of women, men, girls and boys are met,” said Dina Zorba, UN Women Representative to Iraq and Yemen. “By incorporating a gender-inclusive lens in the implementation of projects, this will contribute to achieving the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG5) on Gender Equality.”
“We value this partnership and will exchange technical expertise plus develop research with UN Women, to expand our support for the Government of Iraq to incorporate a gender perspective to address the needs of women and girls,” said Ally Raza Qureshi, WFP Iraq Representative. “We will respond to climate change and work to have an impact on gender mainstreaming at the national level through joint programmes, initiatives, advocacy and coordination.”
The agreement also sets out terms by which equality and empowerment will be championed in strategic projects, including school-based programming addressing the complexity of requirements around girls’ education in Iraq and food security. Digital innovation for development will also be a parallel priority.
UN Women and WFP are committed to promoting and advancing the agenda on gender equality and women empowerment by strengthening collaboration and coordination on joint activities, projects and programming.

About UN Women
UN Women is the United Nations entity dedicated to gender equality and the empowerment of women. A global champion for women and girls, UN Women was established to accelerate progress on meeting their needs worldwide.

About WFP
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/178843-un-women-and-wfp-join-forces-promote-gender-equality-and-women%E2%80%99s-empowerment-iraq




Date: 21 April 2022
Title: UNITAD joins the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Coordination Compact
Content: 21 April 2022
New York, 21 April 2022 – The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh (UNITAD) joined the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Coordination Compact in a virtual signing ceremony attended by principals of both entities. With this latest addition, the Global Counter-Terrorism Coordination Compact, already the largest coordination framework within the UN-system, now comprises 44 UN and non-UN entities.
During the ceremony, Under-Secretary-General for Counter-Terrorism and Chair of the Global Counter-Terrorism Coordination Compact, Mr. Vladimir Voronkov, said that “UNITAD’s work on accountability for the crimes committed by Da’esh in Iraq adds an important operational layer to the work of the Compact on the ground.” He also praised UNITAD’s efforts on pursuing justice for victims of terrorism.
Highlighting the importance of holding Da’esh members accountable for international crimes as a common goal for both organizations, Mr. Christian Ritscher, Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD, underscored that “as the ultimate goal of the Global Counter-Terrorism Compact is to strengthen a common United-Nations approach to support Member-States in this area, UNITAD is honored to contribute to this overall architecture, in compliance with its mandate.”
The United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Coordination Compact, launched by the Secretary-General in December 2018, is the primary institutional vehicle for coherent, coordinated and increased support to Member States in their implementation of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy.
UNITAD will enrich the work of the Global Counter-Terrorism Coordination Compact by providing analysis and insights from their pioneering work on new technologies, particularly in archiving and digitalization of evidence, and utilizing artificial intelligence and e-discovery tools.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/178882-unitad-joins-united-nations-global-counter-terrorism-coordination-compact




Date: 20 April 2022
Title: FAO and the European Union Bring Back Joy and Happiness to Nineveh Women's Groups Amid the Holy Month of Ramadan and Easter Festivities
Content: 20 April 2022
On 18 April 2022, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) under the patronage of His Excellency the Minister of Agriculture, Eng. Muhammad Karim Al-Khafaji, conducted a ceremonial distribution of agro-processing equipment to rural and peri-urban women of Bashiqa district in Ninewa governorate of Iraq.
The equipment for milk collection and processing was made available to 4000 rural producers, thanks to a funding from the European Union and close collaboration of FAO with the Ministry of Agriculture within the project “Support to agriculture livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh Governorate, Iraq”. This project is an integral part of a holistic strategy aimed at developing dairy, feed and fodder value chain initiated earlier by FAO in the country, which has achieved tangible results to date.
During the distribution ceremony, FAO Representative in Iraq Dr. Salah ElHajj Hassan stated that the organization has already supported Women Groups and farmers with different equipment for collecting and processing milk, in total targeting 4,000 households, as well as the rehabilitation of 35 milk collection centers to support rural women. He added that this work has resulted in increasing the productivity and quality of dairy products, enabling their marketability, which has become well known with consumers over a comparatively short period. To further complement the production cycle, FAO is distributing additional equipment for the benefit of 750 women each representing a household and 150 Women Groups. The FAO Representative concluded by expressing his thanks and appreciation for the exceptional efforts and daily follow-up made by the project team, the extension staff of the Nineveh Agriculture Directorate, the Ministry of Agriculture and to the European Union for their continuous support.
In turn, the Head of Nineveh Agriculture Directorate Dr. Rabie Yousef Soran, praised the joint cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture and FAO and emphasized the pioneering efforts made by FAO in cooperation with the Nineveh Agriculture Directorate, and concluded that the remarkable achievements covered a large segment of  farmers in Nineveh Governorate, especially displaced farmers and returnees.
The FAO Livestock Expert Dr. Chedly Kayouli said that the beneficiaries of today’s ceremony have been trained beforehand, the practical training on milk collection and processing was essential while providing a platform for experience and knowledge sharing among farmers. In addition to building their individual capacities, participants also learned on working in teams within their Women Groups. The above coupled with exchange of skills and knowledge resulted in producing new types of domestic cheese for the first time in Nineveh and Iraq. These new varieties of cheese along with other dairy products benefited from improved technological process have been introduced to local markets stretching even beyond Nineveh governorate due to the quality that can compete with imported analogies. He added that during the blessed month of Ramadan and the Easter holidays, FAO today continues to spread joy and happiness to Women Groups in Nineveh by providing marketing equipment to facilitate their production, as well as improving opportunities for marketing their products and ultimately their livelihood conditions.
At the end of the ceremony, one of the project beneficiaries, Ms. Huda Khaled, spoke on behalf of all beneficiaries and pointed out the great role of FAO in improving livelihoods in Nineveh Governorate, and thus thanking both FAO and the European Union.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/178805-fao-and-european-union-bring-back-joy-and-happiness-nineveh-womens-groups-amid-holy-month




Date: 14 April 2022
Title: A new step towards gender equality in Iraq; Italy, UN Women, UNFPA collaborate on women and girls protection in Kurdistan
Content: 14 April 2022
14 April 2022, Baghdad, Iraq – The Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS) has established a partnership with UN Women and UNFPA to improve the safety, protection and wellbeing of women and girls survivors of gender-based violence in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
Building on existing structures and ongoing gender mainstreaming efforts, the new partnership will contribute to increasing access to quality gender-based violence protection services, such as mental health and psychosocial support, strengthening case management and referrals to other services upon survivors’ requests. Survivors of gender-based violence will have easier access to justice through endorsed practical standard operating procedures for legal and police actors.
The project will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Kurdistan High Council of Women Affairs and the General Directorate of Combating Violence against Women to enhance the implementation of existing policies and services addressing violence against women and girls.
Dina Zorba, UN Women Representative to Iraq & Yemen, expressed UN Women gratitude to the Government of Italy for their generous contribution to addressing gender-based violence, gender inequality and in improving access, safety, and wellbeing of women and girls survivors of gender-based violence in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. “Through this partnership, together with UNFPA, we intend to enhance coordination and support the KRI government in responding effectively to the protection needs of women and girls at risk and subject to gender-based violence.”
“The Government of Italy fully supports the urgent need to provide assistance to women and girls victims of gender violence, through the restoration of basic services. Every effort should also be taken to reintegrate those victims within their communities and provide them with tangible support to rebuild their lives” said the Ambassador of Italy to Iraq—Maurizio Greganti.
Since 2018, the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS) office in Amman has been responsible for implementing international cooperation initiatives in Iraq. Emilio Cabasino  added “This project comes in line with the Italian Cooperation's aid priorities targeting the prevention and fight against gender-based violence in the Country, as it addresses immediate recovery and aims to improve accessibility to basic services”.
Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative to Iraq, commented on the contribution: “We are extremely grateful to the people and Government of Italy for their continuous commitment to eliminating gender-based violence especially in humanitarian settings and strengthening the capacities of those working to protect women’s rights and dignity. This support comes at a time when the COVID-19 pandemic has increased cases of gender-based violence and immediate action at scale is required”.
Khanzad Ahmad, Director of the High Council of Women and Development added that “It is necessary to thank the citizens of Kurdistan, the international community and UN agencies; without their generous support, it would have been difficult for the Kurdistan Regional Government to respond to the urgent requirements of the forcibly displaced people from the Iraqi provinces. On behalf of the Kurdistan Regional Government, I would like to also thank the people and government of Italy for providing continuous coordination and development to the Kurdistan Region and especially to women and girls who are victims of sexual based violence.”
Yusra Mohsen, Director of the Department of Women Empowerment at the Council of Ministers, said “We value the initiative by the Italian Government and the Italian agency for development in launching this project which focuses on providing services to women and girls who have experienced violence in the Kurdistan Region. This project comes at a critical time as Kurdistan has recently hosted many Syrian refugees who have fled due to ISIS and are in need of humanitarian assistance and protection”.
UN Women and UNFPA are committed to addressing gender-based violence through strengthening institutional capacities to scale up and improving multi-sectoral responses and support the Kurdistan Regional Government to advance its agenda on gender equality and empowerment of women.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/177760-new-step-towards-gender-equality-iraq-italy-un-women-unfpa-collaborate-women-and-girls




Date: 14 April 2022
Title: Germany and WFP supports families in Iraq through resilience, climate change and social protection projects
Content: 14 April 2022
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and the German Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) together supported 104,500 people from vulnerable communities in Iraq to rebuild their livelihoods after conflict and adapt to climate change, alongside advancing the digitalization of the Public Distribution System for food rations (PDS).
“The thought that people in Iraq in these times still suffer from food insecurity is unbearable to me,” said German Ambassador to the Republic of Iraq Martin Jäger. “Germany is committed to helping Iraqi people build economic resilience given that this is the basis for growth and stability. We are promoting numerous multi- and bilateral programmes such as WFP’s Country Strategic Plan to advance food security and will continue to do so. Germany has an interest in seeing the most vulnerable supported, a functioning social security structure as well as a prospering and stable Iraq.”
Germany is a long-standing partner of WFP in Iraq and contributed EUR 17.25 million in 2021 including for rural and urban livelihoods programmes, which also supported 288,100 people indirectly in the communities. Germany is a key donor for the EMPACT (Empowerment in Action) initiative, WFP’s award-winning digital skills, English and entrepreneurship training for youth. In addition, digitalizing the PDS, Iraq’s paper-based food ration card and largest social protection programme, continues to help the government assist the right people with the right food at the right time, across 18 governorates.
“Germany is a very important partner of WFP and their multiyear flexible support has helped the most vulnerable Iraqis to reestablish their livelihoods in areas of returns, and enabled us to work with the Iraqi government and partners to introduce smart innovative solutions to help smallholder farmers adapt to and mitigate the impact of climate change in Iraq,” said WFP Iraq Representative Ally Raza Qureshi. “In parallel, Germany’s assistance for urban livelihoods and EMPACT training helped youth and women with vocational skills and small business grants, while funding for digitalization of the PDS is enhancing the government’s social protection for citizens. It is a holistic approach, and we thank the people and government of Germany for the generous contribution.”
With support from Germany, WFP’s rural development activities helped vulnerable communities with water access, to minimize water usage, manage salinity, and training and tools to be able to plant and grow food, and sell the surplus. It is essential support to confront climate change, and in conflict-affected areas, simultaneously contributes to the UN’s ‘durable solutions’ approach to assist families returning home after displacement. Digitalized PDS systems mean that families can more easily update their data to receive government assistance in their location.
Building on the German support from 2021, in 2022 climate change adaptation is another focus alongside urban livelihoods projects in southern Iraq and Ninewa, which continue with training prioritizing youth and women, including online marketing so they can reach their customers. The approach, as in the EMPACT programme, fosters entrepreneurship. As we approach COP27 in Egypt in 2022, Germany and WFP continue to support families to confront climate change. Germany’s partnership with WFP is helping the most vulnerable families to grow sustainable livelihoods again.
#                 #                   #

The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @wfp_media @wfp_mena @wfp_iraq
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/177761-germany-and-wfp-supports-families-iraq-through-resilience-climate-change-and-social




Date: 13 April 2022
Title: UNITAD, Iraq and Germany Renew Commitment to Investigating the Financial Dimensions of ISIL International Crimes in Iraq
Content: 13 April 2022
Berlin, 13 April 2022 – The United Nations Investigative Team to promote accountability for crimes committed by Daesh/ISIL (UNITAD) joined by the Embassy of Iraq to Germany and the German Federal Foreign Office co-hosted a special event on Investigating Financial Dimensions of War Crimes, Crimes against Humanity, and Genocide today in Berlin, Germany.
“With thanks to the generous financial support from Germany, UNITAD established a dedicated Economic Crimes Unit (ECU) to support the work of the Team in relation to the financial aspects of crimes falling within UNITAD’s mandate”, explained Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher. “This enabled UNITAD to investigate the complex financial structures that were central to ISIL/Da’esh as an organization which maintained a huge bureaucracy, and used massive resources to commit heinous international crimes.”
H.E. Mr. Lukman Faily, Ambassador of Iraq to Germany, stressed in his opening remarks that “the importance of the continuity of UNTAD’s work inside Iraq and on the international arenas such as Germany, as it reflects the Iraqi and global will to hold ISIL/Da’esh accountable, reveal its sources of funding, its support, and its effects, and also to eliminate ISIL/Da’esh as a transnational terrorist entity.”
In his address, Minister of State of the German Federal Foreign Office, Dr. Tobias Lindner, emphasized the importance of UNITAD’s work to hold ISIL/Da’esh members accountable for their crimes: “accountability is the key to successful reconciliation in post-conflict-societies. Impunity - on the other hand - destroys the social fabric of a society. This is the reason why we encourage partners to adopt the concept of universal jurisdiction and to make ample use of it.”
The Special Adviser further commended Iraq’s commitment to support the mission of UNITAD, and the facilitation of the Team’s investigations towards the common goal of ensuring accountability for ISIL/Da’esh international crimes. At his end, Judge Raed Hameed, Deputy Head of the Ninewa Federal Appeals Court and one of the main Iraqi Investigative judges working on ISIL/Da’esh crimes provided an overview on his investigative work and the ongoing cooperation with UNITAD in this regard.
UNITAD has been able to complete initial lines of inquiry across ISIL/Da’esh’s various revenue streams, with a focus on ISIL/Da’esh’s central treasury (Bayt Al Mal). This progress was built on engagement with Iraqi national authorities which included close collaboration with the Iraqi judiciary, as well as with regulatory bodies such as the Iraq Anti-Money Laundry and Counter-Terrorism Financing Office.
During the special event, UNITAD provided an update on investigations into ISIL/Da’esh’s oil trade and the trafficking in Antiquities, inextricably linked together through ISIL’s own design under the Diwan Al Rekaz (Ministry of Buried Resources), and exploring ISIL/Da’esh’s exploitive taxation schemes, focused on collecting wealth, property, and personal possessions from a range of targeted minority groups.
Discussions also were prompted by valuable insights presented by Ms. Nina Jørgensen, Professor of Public International Law-University of Southampton on the international legal framework presently available to holding financial actors accountable for their role in the commission of international crimes. Those present reaffirmed, in their discussions, the importance of further enhancing international cooperation to track and hold accountable the individuals who facilitated and financially benefited from ISIL/Da’esh crimes in Iraq.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/177665-unitad-iraq-and-germany-renew-commitment-investigating-financial-dimensions-isil




Date: 12 April 2022
Title: Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and UNDP partner to boost employment opportunities in Iraq
Content: 12 April 2022
Baghdad, 11 April 2022 – A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed between the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs (MoLSA) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) today. The partnership will focus on promoting sustainable economic growth and boosting employment opportunities in Iraq.
The MoU brings MoLSA and UNDP together to work on several initiatives, including supporting small enterprises and creating an enabling start-up ecosystem in Iraq. The collaboration will cut across policy, institutional, and individual levels to support innovative small businesses and start-ups needed for employment generation in Iraq today.
“At UNDP, we prioritize support to Iraq to diversify the economy, boost sustainable livelihoods and create jobs. We will together focus on bolstering our efforts to support small enterprises and creating more employment opportunities for Iraqis, especially vulnerable groups, as we help rebuild Iraq after years of conflict,” says Ms Zena Ali Ahmad, Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq.
“The partnership comes at the right moment as it builds on the ongoing technical and training support UNDP has provided to MOLSA since December 2021. We are working closely with MoLSA to improve monitoring of small enterprises that have received loans and incubation services from the Ministry,” Ms Zena adds.
Through this agreement, MoLSA will also play an active role in implementing UNDP-implemented projects aiming at strengthening livelihoods.
"Micro and small businesses are the backbone of any economy, especially in a country like Iraq where they have the potential to create sustainable job opportunities. Through this partnership with UNDP, we aim to create an enabling and nurturing environment for micro and small business in Iraq to succeed," Judge Salar Abdul Sattar Mohammed, Minister of Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
“The support UNDP is providing to MoLSA, especially with regards to micro and small projects and business incubators is in line with the global standard and draws from valuable international experience. Through the partnership, we also receive UNDP’s technical support with running programmes, creating job opportunities, and improving the start-up ecosystem in Iraq,” Mr Raid Jabbar Bahad, Director General of the Department of Labor and Vocational Training at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/177414-ministry-labour-and-social-affairs-and-undp-partner-boost-employment-opportunities-iraq




Date: 12 April 2022
Title: UNFPA and the Iraqi Alliance of Disability Organization partner up to support the rights and needs of persons with disability
Content: 12 April 2022
12 April 2022; Baghdad, Iraq - UNFPA signed on Tuesday a Joint Cooperation Framework with the Iraqi Alliance of Disability Organization (IADO) to promote disability inclusion in alignment with the UN Iraq Disability Inclusion Strategy and address the gaps.
This joint cooperation framework enables UNFPA and IADO to strategise and establish an advisory board that will ensure the rights of persons with disabilities, especially the rights of women and girls with disabilities to access reproductive healthcare.
The partnership will allow both parties to raise awareness on prevention and response to gender-based violence, advocacy for disability inclusion in legislation, policies and programmes at the central, regional and local levels, and promote youth empowerment across Iraq.
Mofaq Tofiq, the president of the Iraqi Alliance of Disability Organization highlighted the importance of this partnership for further collaboration to uphold the rights of persons with disability and ensure their participation in the society.
For his part, the Deputy Representative of UNFPA, Mr Himyar Abdulmoghni said that: “IADO has been UNFPA's strategic partner for several years. Today's signature of a cooperative framework between IADO and UNFPA confirms our strong partnership and ensures that issues of people with disability are mainstreamed throughout UNFPA's programmes in Iraq. We look forward to continuing our collaboration with IADO so that the people with disabilities in Iraq, particularly the women and girls can enjoy their reproductive health and rights.”
UNFPA and IADO will jointly support advocacy initiatives for inclusion of and awareness about persons with disabilities. The JCF further outlines plans for capacity building activities for IADO staff focused on project design and implementation, advocacy, and other areas identified through a needs assessment.
******
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/177525-unfpa-and-iraqi-alliance-disability-organization-partner-support-rights-and-needs-persons




Date: 11 April 2022
Title: Working to set an example on the global stage: Iraq, UN and International Community discuss way forward on return of Iraqis from Syria's A-Hol
Content: 11 April 2022
Baghdad, 10 April 2022 — Concerted coordination between the Government of Iraq (GoI) and United Nations (UN) entities is crucial to bringing home Iraqi nationals who have become stranded in crowded camps or are detained in northeast Syria following the territorial collapse of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
On 9 April, the International Organization for Migration (IOM), the International Centre for Counter Terrorism (ICCT) and the National Security Advisory of Iraq convened a high-level roundtable in Baghdad on Prosecution, Rehabilitation and Reintegration (PRR) in the context of the GoI-led repatriation of Iraqi nationals from northeastern Syria’s Al-Hol Camp. Today, almost 30,000 Iraqis — the vast majority of whom are women and children — remain stranded in northeast Syria with limited access to food, healthcare, education and other fundamental rights and services.
Organized under the patronage of H.E. Mr. Mustafa Al Kadhimi, Prime Minister of Iraq, H.E. Mr. Qasim Al-Araji, National Security Advisor of Iraq and H.E. Ms. Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq and Head of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI), the event comes as part of efforts to interpret and implement the ‘Global Framework on all-of-UN Support to Member States on Individuals Returned from Syria and Iraq’ in the Iraqi context and featured a keynote address from H.E. Mr. Ambassador Matthew Tueller, U.S. Ambassador to Iraq.
The roundtable brought together representatives of the GoI, UN entities and the diplomatic corps to take stock of the ongoing GoI effort to repatriate its citizens from northeast Syria. With the GoI now seeking to accelerate this process, the roundtable also provided a timely opportunity to discuss the challenge of ensuring a comprehensive, human rights-based approach that promotes security and accountability for any offenses allegedly committed by returning adults, while also responding holistically to the protection and reintegration needs of children and adults.
“In terms of proactively taking steps to fulfil its obligations to repatriate its nationals, Iraq has set an example on the global stage. Some 450 families, or nearly 1,800 individuals, have been repatriated since May 2021,” noted H.E. Ms. Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert. “The United Nations is particularly appreciative of Iraq’s intention to not only continue but also to accelerate repatriations. And yes, we are ready to continue providing the required post-return humanitarian, protection and reintegration assistance.”
IOM Iraq Chief of Mission, Mr. Giorgi Gigauri, stated, “To date, an incremental approach to the process of repatriation and onward return to areas of origin has allowed the GoI and UN to work together to identify ways to improve the process over time. Nonetheless, with the profiles of returnees likely to grow more complex, there are significant challenges to come. It is in this context and through these roundtables that IOM and UN partners are opening dialogue with the GoI on expanded support to address needs and gaps under the Global Framework.”
This event was the fourth and final roundtable in a series launched in February 2022. The first roundtable, which took place on 22 February, focused on screening, risk assessments and needs assessments; the second took place on 24 February and focused on age-appropriate approaches to rehabilitation; the third was held on 27-28 March, focusing on ways to promote community acceptance in areas of origin and facilitate the reintegration of adults and children; and the latest event, on 9 April, looked at the way forward in the application of good practices in Iraq.
The four roundtables were made possible by the generous support of the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/177298-working-set-example-global-stage-iraq-un-and-international-community-discuss-way-forward




Date: 07 April 2022
Title: New partnerships to enhance competitiveness of Iraqi farmers and businesses
Content: 07 April 2022
Baghdad, 3 April 2022: The International Trade Centre’s, Strengthening the Agriculture and Agri-food Value Chain and Improving Trade Policy (SAAVI) project signed a partnership agreement with Zuhoor al Watan in Baghdad.

SAAVI will collaborate with Zuhoor al Watan, one of the largest agricultural and poultry production companies in Iraq, to connect smallholder producers, strengthen their capacity, and create local alliances offering commercially viable volumes of quality products.
The five-year SAAVI project, funded by the European Union, seeks to enhance competitiveness of the agriculture sector and improve trade policy in Iraq with a budget of 22.5 million EUR. It is being implemented by the International Trade Centre (ITC) in close collaboration with the Government of Iraq and other implementing partners, including the Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC).
This partnership will rely on the use of market-based solutions to support increased profitability of Iraqi small and medium enterprises (SMEs), which will eventually translate into job creation and inclusive growth. It will support broader strategic efforts from the government of Iraq to build a competitive agri-food sector, able to seize remunerative domestic market opportunities currently largely captured by products imported from neighbouring countries.
“Iraqi agricultural products have undeniable market potential,” said Eric Buchot, SAAVI Senior Programme Coordinator. “With the right support and associated reforms, they could not only provide jobs for thousands of Iraqis, but also a strategic and reliable alternative to foreign imports, which are more prone to price fluctuations and supply disruptions.”

-END-

Additional notes for the Editor
ITC is the joint agency of the World Trade Organization and the United Nations. ITC assists small and medium-sized enterprises in developing and transition economies to become more competitive in global markets, thereby contributing to sustainable economic development within the frameworks of the Aid-for-Trade agenda and the United Nations’ Global Goals for Sustainable Development.

The Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) is an independent humanitarian organisation. In Iraq, NRC is continuing to shift towards early recovery programming, aiming for sustainable development and providing integrated and localised services including assistance to smallholders and MSMEs in agriculture.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/177038-new-partnerships-enhance-competitiveness-iraqi-farmers-and-businesses




Date: 06 April 2022
Title: Japan, through UNFPA, invests in integrated, life-saving reproductive health and youth services in Diwaniyah Governorate
Content: 06 April 2022
6 April 2022; Baghdad, Iraq - The People of Japan contributed US$ 777,592 to the UNFPA programme in Diwaniyah Governorate.
The new grant will cover integrated life-saving reproductive health and youth-related services to internally displaced persons, returnees and host community. UNFPA will benefit 300,000 individuals in the Governorate with improved access to reproductive health services and knowledge.
The fund will support the rehabilitation of hospitals in four major cities in the Governorate and the capacity-strengthening of health professionals serving that population. UNFPA will also provide psychosocial support and counselling services to adolescents and youth in centres, primary healthcare clinics and schools across Diwaniyah.
The Japanese Ambassador to the Republic of Iraq, HE Suzuki Kotaro said, “Japan has consistently supported the people of Iraq through various humanitarian assistance since 2014, amounting to over US$ 600 million to date.”
“I trust that UNFPA will achieve the improvement of health and social services in Diwaniyah backed by the coordination with its authorities and communities, through completing this project and making use of its excellent expertise.”
Commenting on the grant, UNFPA Representative to Iraq, Dr Rita Columbia, said: “Al-Diwaniyah Governorate is one of the poorest governorates of Iraq. The COVID-19 pandemic has worsened the situation and increased the emotional, psychological and mental health problems, especially for adolescents and youth. I am thankful for the People of Japan for their commitment to improving the quality of life of people in Diwaniyah and investing in their health, whether reproductive or mental.”
Thanks to Japan, adolescents and youth will also have access to life skills education in youth centres for returnees and internally displaced persons to cope with stress, frustration, emotions and daily life issues.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/176921-japan-through-unfpa-invests-integrated-life-saving-reproductive-health-and-youth-services




Date: 05 April 2022
Title: On International Mine Awareness Day, UNICEF and UNMAS call for an Iraq free of explosive ordnance
Content: 05 April 2022
Over 519 children have been killed or maimed over the last five years in Iraq from explosive ordnance. UNICEF and UNMAS commend international efforts to put forward a political declaration to ensure the protection of civilians from the use of explosive weapons in populated areas.
Baghdad, 4 April 2022- No matter where they are used, explosive ordnance endanger a child's most fundamental rights. On International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action, UNICEF and UNMAS call on governments to avoid the use of explosive weapons in populated areas (EWIPA), and to speak out to protect children and civilians worldwide from the threat of explosive ordnance.
The creation of a stable and safe environment in Iraq continues to be undermined by the presence of explosive ordnance, particularly in residential and rural communities. Even though Iraq has not suffered from open conflicts in the last years, the effects of explosive weapons will reverberate for years to come. Landmines and unexploded or abandoned ordnance (so-called “remnants of war”) still cause death and injury across the country.
For the last 5 years, 519 children have been killed or maimed in Iraq due to explosive ordnance. More than 80 per cent of children affected are boys. Boys are disproportionately impacted due to incidents of child labour, such as grazing animals or collecting scrap metal to sell. Children are particularly vulnerable, attracted to remnants for their colourful appearance and unaware of how dangerous they are. Some of these weapons are familiar household objects that have been turned into explosives.
UNICEF and UNMAS welcome the international efforts to put forward a political declaration to ensure the protection of civilians from harm arising from the use of explosive weapons in populated areas.
UNICEF and UNMAS continue to provide explosive ordnance risk education (EORE), and referrals to relevant services including medical treatment and psychosocial support when needed.
UNICEF and UNMAS urge all parties to accelerate every effort to clear existing mines and unexploded ordnance and promote victim assistance, and to uphold children’s right to a safe and protective environment.
UNICEF and UNMAS also urge the Government of Iraq and the donor community to support the scale-up and provision of EORE activities so that children and other community members receive life-saving messages in schools and communities in all areas previously affected by conflict in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/176818-international-mine-awareness-day-unicef-and-unmas-call-iraq-free-explosive-ordnance




Date: 04 April 2022
Title: KRG Department of Media and Information and UNFPA partner up to support women and young people
Content: 04 April 2022
4 April 2022, Erbil, Kurdistan Region, Iraq - The Department of Media and Information (DMI) of the Kurdistan Regional Government signed on Sunday a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) to promote ending gender-based violence and youth participation in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
The newly established partnership will allow DMI & UNFPA to raise awareness on prevention and response of gender-based violence, on women’s rights and promote healthy and informed choices for young people across the Kurdistan Region.
The event was also attended by the Head of KRG Department of Foreign Relations, Safeen Dizayee.
The newly established partnership will allow DMI & UNFPA to raise awareness on prevention and response of gender-based violence, on women’s rights and promote healthy and informed choices for young people across the Kurdistan Region.
 
DMI & UNFPA will jointly conduct advocacy campaigns and support dissemination of people-centred data and interventions.
The MoU further outlines plan for collaboration between the two parties including joint interventions and activities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/176704-krg-department-media-and-information-and-unfpa-partner-support-women-and-young-people




Date: 04 April 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General's Message on the International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action
Content: 04 April 2022
4 April 2022
The International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action reminds us how far we have come in clearing the world of explosive remnants of war – and how far we still have to go.
Exactly thirty years ago, civil society activists came together to launch the International Campaign to Ban Landmines.
Within five years, the Mine Ban Convention was opened for signature.
Today, more than 160 states have signed the Convention and landmines have become almost universally unacceptable.
Over 55 million mines have been destroyed, more than 30 countries across the world have been declared mine-free, and casualties have dramatically decreased.
But the world is still rife with millions of stockpiled landmines and over 50 countries remain contaminated with these abhorrent weapons.
Mines, explosive remnants of war and improvised explosive devices continue to kill or injure thousands of people every year – many of whom are children.
We must do more to protect people living under the shadow of explosive ordnance, from Syria, Somalia and Afghanistan to Myanmar, Cambodia, and beyond.
In Ukraine, the legacy of a single month of war – in the form of unexploded ordnance, landmines, and cluster munitions – will take decades to tackle, threatening lives long after the guns fall silent. Already today, they restrict emergency humanitarian aid delivery and prevent people fleeing to safety.
I call on all states to accede to the Convention without delay. Permanent members of the Security Council in particular have a special responsibility.
Mine action is an investment in humanity. It is a prerequisite for humanitarian relief efforts and the foundation of lasting peace and sustainable development.
On this International Day, let us build on past progress and rid the world of the scourge of landmines once and for all.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/176677-un-secretary-generals-message-international-day-mine-awareness-and-assistance-mine-action




Date: 03 April 2022
Title: New contribution from Japan supports UNDP’s work on Preventing Violent Extremism in Iraq
Content: 03 April 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 03 April 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Iraq has welcomed a US$2.5 million (JPY 289 730 000) contribution from the Government of Japan to support social stability in Iraq through Preventing Violent Extremism.
The contribution will be channeled through UNDP Iraq’s Support to Social Stability in Iraq through Preventing Violent Extremism Project which will address causes of violent extremism throughout Iraq and assist the Government of Iraq to implement its National Strategy to Combat Violent Extremism Conducive to Terrorism by building institutional capacity at the national and sub-national levels, enhancing community resilience, and promoting viable pathways to reduce violent extremism with focus on women and youth. The project will also focus on improving security and stability in communities through advancing sustainable reintegration and socio-economic support to vulnerable groups.
UNDP’s unique integrated and comprehensive approach to support stability in Iraq includes infrastructure and housing rehabilitation, livelihoods support, municipal strengthening, security sector reform, and social cohesion, supporting the country’s transition. This project compliments UNDP Iraq’s work on stabilization and community readiness and reintegration for thousands of Internally Displaced Persons including families perceived as affiliated with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad states, “We are extremely grateful to the Government of Japan for this important contribution and our continued work together to support the people of Iraq. Our partnership with the Government of Iraq on Preventing Violent Extremism is focused on sustaining the stabilization gains made and creating durable solutions for community return and reintegration. With this project, we will ensure continued support to resilience and promotion of peaceful coexistence amongst groups that are vulnerable to marginalization, addressing key drivers that can lead to violent extremism.”
According to the Japanese Ambassador to the Republic of Iraq, His Excellency Mr. SUZUKI Kotaro, “Japan has consistently supported the people of Iraq through various humanitarian assistance since 2014, amounting to over 600 million US dollars to date. I praise UNDP’s continuous and tireless endeavour to help preventing violent extremism, the root causes of terrorism. The Government of Japan and people of Japan wish this project mitigates sufferings of internally displaced and vulnerable people and paves a way for ensuring human security and stability at the community level.”
The Support to Social Stability in Iraq through Preventing Violent Extremism Project is part of UNDP Iraq’s five-year Social Cohesion Programme launched in January 2020 to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/176645-new-contribution-japan-supports-undp%E2%80%99s-work-preventing-violent-extremism-iraq




Date: 03 April 2022
Title: UNFPA, KOICA open One-Stop Assistance Centre in Mosul
Content: 03 April 2022
3 April 2022, Mosul, Iraq - UNFPA and the Ministry of Health opened today, with support from the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA), a one-stop assistance centre (OSAC) for women and girls survivors of gender-based violence in Mosul, Nineveh Governorate.
Survivors of gender-based violence can receive medical treatment, including clinical management of rape, counselling, as well as legal services and referrals to additional support.
Social workers and medical staff at the centre will provide culturally sensitive care that upholds the dignity of survivors and promotes long-term recovery. They will also be receiving capacity-building on mental health and psychosocial support and gender-based violence response.
Dr Falah Hassan Altayy, the Director of Health of Nineveh stressed the importance of the One-Stop Assistance Centre and taking action to respond to the needs of women and girls whether in response to gender-based violence or to their reproductive health needs. He also expressed his gratitude to UNFPA for supporting the health sector in the governorate.
For this part, Mr Himyar Abdulmoghni, UNFPA Deputy Representative in Iraq, said: “As we transition from humanitarian assistance to the development phase, protecting women and girls is more essential than ever. This One-Stop Assistance Centre will ensure that the women and girls survivors of gender-based violence do not have to visit several facilities to provide them with quality and holistic services but can reach multiple services in one place.
Commenting on the event, Mr Cho Heyong Lae, KOICA Iraq Country Director, stated: “KOICA, as a strong supporter of UNFPA, celebrates the opening of the One-Stop Assistance Centre in Mosul today. We are delighted to witness this meaningful occasion succeeding the One-Stop Centre in Kirkuk which opened last December. We hope that the Centre will make a significant contribution to providing necessary services for people who suffer difficulties from conflict-related sexual violence.”
The project will be implemented in close collaboration with relevant ministries, including the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Youth & Sports, the Ministry of Justice, the General Directorate of Combatting Violence against Women and the Women Empowerment Department.
The OSAC, the third of its kind in the country and the first in Mosul, is supported by the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) and will be run by the Directorate of Health in the Governorate.
******
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/176650-unfpa-koica-open-one-stop-assistance-centre-mosul




Date: 02 April 2022
Title: UN Iraq wishes Iraqis a safe and healthy Ramadan
Content: 02 April 2022
Baghdad, 2 April 2022 - The holy month of Ramadan is a period of peace, reflection and prayer for Muslims.
This year, the blessed month arrives at a time of heightened apprehension and concern about the future everywhere.
Let us remain optimistic that better days lie ahead, focusing on family, friends and what brings us together. Let us also stand in solidarity with the vulnerable, those who remain displaced and those who are in need.
The UN family in Iraq wishes Iraqis a safe and healthy Ramadan.
Ramadan Kareem.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/176609-un-iraq-wishes-iraqis-safe-and-healthy-ramadan




Date: 01 April 2022
Title: IHEC and UNAMI conclude lessons learned workshop
Content: 01 April 2022
31 March 2022 - The Independent High Electoral Commission (IHEC) and the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) concluded a four-day general lessons learned workshop.  Throughout the workshop, which was held in Sulaymaniyah from 27-30 March, IHEC Board of Commissioners (BoC) and senior leadership together with senior officials from the UNAMI Office of Electoral Assistance (OEA) brainstormed on the challenges and lessons learned from the 2021 Council of Representatives (CoR) elections and agreed upon recommendations to turn weaknesses into strengths to further improve Iraq’s electoral processes.
Judge Jalil Adnan Khalaf, IHEC Chairman, noted that “After the successful implementation of 2021 Council of Representatives elections, IHEC has made itself ready to systematically assess its performance and identify areas for improvement throughout the institution.  The outcomes of this workshop will set the ground for developing a comprehensive capacity building plan with the support of UNAMI.   I extend my gratitude to UNAMI for its continued support”.
The workshop covered key thematic areas including legal, operational planning, public outreach and media, voter registration, training and procedures, procurement and logistics, field coordination, security coordination and election information and results managements.  The exercise also provided an opportunity for a participatory, inclusive, and bottom-up institutional approach to post-election reflections and evaluations, contributing to the development of an institutional culture where dialogue and contributions are incentivized and promoted.
UNAMI OEA Senior Election Operations Adviser, Jawed Habibi, said that “The 2021 Council of Representatives election was an achievement for Iraq that was successfully conducted under leadership of IHEC with the technical assistance of UNAMI mandated by the UN Security Council.  Despite this success, this enormous and complex process requires continuous improvement.  I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm UNAMI's full commitment in supporting IHEC in the execution of the recommendations of the lessons learned workshop starting with a comprehensive capacity building needs assessment to move forward in enhancing the institution’s technical preparedness under the lines of UNAMI’s mandate”.
In closing remarks at the conclusion of the lessons learned workshop, UNAMI OEA Senior Legal Adviser, Hugo Kacic, said that “IHEC and OEA colleagues gathered to exchange, to listen, discuss and to learn from each other. We documented and highlighted those aspects that worked well. At the same time, we honestly looked at areas and activities where IHEC could have performed better.   The challenge remains. And this challenge is to how to apply the lessons learned that we have identified here to improve in the future.  I would like to use this opportunity to re-confirm that under the leadership of the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq, UNAMI will continue to support IHEC as it is stipulated in its mandate.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/176518-ihec-and-unami-conclude-lessons-learned-workshop




Date: 27 March 2022
Title: The United Nations and partners’ Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) for 2022, which aims to assist nearly one million vulnerable Iraqis with life-saving aid, released
Content: 27 March 2022
Baghdad, 27 March 2022.  Today, the Minister of Planning H.E. Dr. Khalid Batal Najim Abdullah, joined the United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, in releasing the United Nations and partners’ Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) for 2022, which aims to assist nearly one million vulnerable Iraqis with life-saving aid.
“The Government of Iraq values its collaboration with the United Nations in all areas, including the humanitarian sphere,” said H.E. Dr. Abdullah. “The continued commitment of humanitarian actors to serve the most vulnerable Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and returnees is welcomed.”
“Five years after the conclusion of large-scale military operations against ISIL, the humanitarian situation in Iraq has improved considerably,” said Ms. Vojáčková-Sollorano. “However, a significant number of Iraqis still require humanitarian assistance. The 2022 HRP will help us meet their immediate needs, while we partner with the Government to implement durable solutions for those in protracted displacement and work towards a gradual handover of service delivery to the Government by 2023.”
The 2022 Humanitarian Needs Overview (HNO) found that 2.5 million Iraqis are in need of humanitarian assistance, down from 4 million assessed as in need the previous year. This reduction is not a reflection of a considerably improved situation for affected populations, but rather a change in methodology in order to ensure the most vulnerable are prioritized. On the ground, the situation for IDPs and returnees actually remains broadly the same as compared to 2021. Many Iraqis currently and formerly internally displaced by the conflict with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) continue to face a range of issues that prevent them from fully recovering, regaining self-sufficiency, and achieving long-term stability.
In 2022, humanitarian assistance will be prioritized for those with deep and compound needs that require life-saving aid. Special focus will be given to those who live in critical emergency shelter, who lost their civil documentation during the crisis, or for whom access to essential services or livelihoods opportunities remains compromised due to the large-scale destruction and displacement that took place between 2014-17. However, as the underlying causes of these challenges – such as lack of social cohesion, high levels of poverty, and inadequate social services in areas of origin – are better assisted through longer-term engagement and investments by the government and development actors, the international humanitarian community will also undertake a program of transition in 2022, seeking to handover most direct service provision to the Government and development actors by 2023.
The Humanitarian Response Plan for 2022 comes on the heels of the successful delivery of humanitarian assistance to approximately 1.2 million Iraqis in 2021, thanks to the efforts of partners and the generosity of donors in providing $600 million in humanitarian financial contributions, of which $381 million went to the UN and partners’ 2021 HRP.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/175964-united-nations-and-partners%E2%80%99-humanitarian-response-plan-hrp-2022-which-aims-assist-nearly




Date: 27 March 2022
Title: UNDP Iraq strengthening national and subnational capacities on action planning and measurement of the National Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism
Content: 27 March 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 27 March 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq in partnership with the National Committee on the Implementation of the Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism at the National Security Advisory has completed a series of workshops to strengthen the capacity of the national committee members and sub-committees across Iraqi governorates on risk management, action planning, monitoring, and evaluation of the Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism in Iraq.
A technical workshop with representation from the Ministry of Planning and the Central Statistical Organization of Iraq held on 20 March was dedicated to discussing synergies and linkages of the national strategy with the national development frameworks, and the Sustainable Development Goals focusing on Goal 16 (Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions). Additionally, a series of four-day workshops between 13 and 24 March have focused on developing the capacity of the governorate sub-committees across Iraq on implementing the National Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism.
UNDP’s comprehensive approach to supporting the Prevention of Violent Extremism across Iraq and promoting social cohesion includes the provision of technical support to the National Security Advisory and the Iraqi Department of Non-Governmental Organizations, as well as engagement with youth, media and supporting moderate religious discourse and discouraging hate speech among interfaith religious leaders across Iraq.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad states, “UNDP’s contribution to Preventing Violent Extremism in Iraq is focused on making sustainable change by supporting the Iraqi government at the national and sub-national levels, and communities, through strengthening capacities needed to address and respond to the root causes of violent extremism, to enhance conflict prevention and promote social cohesion in Iraq.”
According to Mr. Ali Abdullah Albedeiri, Chairman of the National Committee on the implementation of the National Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism, “The presence of United Nations experts and the Ministry of Planning enhance our capacities and we will continue this engagement to boost planning, follow-up, and performance measurement, extending our reach to additional governorates and directorates.”
Support to Prevention of Violent Extremism (PVE) in Iraq is part of UNDP Iraq’s Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/175981-undp-iraq-strengthening-national-and-subnational-capacities-action-planning-and-measurement




Date: 22 March 2022
Title: France Renews its Commitment to Protecting Civilians impacted by Explosive Ordnance in Iraq
Content: 22 March 2022
Baghdad, 22 March 2022 - The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) welcomes an additional contribution of EUR 480,000 (approximately USD 550,000) from the Crisis and Support Center of the French ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs that will support life-saving mine action activities in Iraq. Activities will include survey and clearance of areas liberated from Da'esh contaminated with explosive ordnance and the provision of technical and advisory support to national authorities.
Four years after the Government of Iraq declared victory over Daesh, the presence of explosive ordnance, including improvised explosive devices, continues to kill and maim civilians, hindering the durable and safe return of internally displaced persons and inhibiting reconstruction efforts.
The Government of Iraq and other national actors maintain mine action capacities within a number of government entities and established mine action authorities, though the demand for assistance far exceeds the resources available.
Through this grant, UNMAS will continue to assist the Government of Iraq to carry out clearance and risk education in liberated areas to create safe spaces for returns and protect Iraqis from explosive threats. Local capacity enhancement will also be prioritized through a partnership model that brings together international mine action organizations with local NGOs, paving the way for localization and a sustainable mine action response in Iraq.
Commenting on the contribution, the French Ambassador to Iraq, Mr. Eric Chevalier, said: “Demining is often the first step in restoring stability and bringing back a normal life in conflict zones. As such, it is a priority of our support to the Iraqi territories liberated from Da’esh. Since 2019, France has supported UNMAS with 1.6 million euros. Through the Crisis and Support Center, France has also been directly funding several mine action NGOs. In 2022, France stays committed to the fight against Da’esh and to reconstruction efforts for the benefit of the Iraqi people.”

“France has been a core supporter of UNMAS activities in Iraq since day one. This additional contribution will go a long way in assisting UNMAS to further develop local mine action capacities in country, which will be the primary building blocks for a strong and independent nationally-led mine action sector in Iraq,” said Mr. Pehr Lodhammar, Chief of Mine Action Programme of UNMAS in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/175468-france-renews-its-commitment-protecting-civilians-impacted-explosive-ordnance-iraq




Date: 21 March 2022
Title: Government of Germany/KfW and UNOPS Support Affected Communities in  Anbar and Sinjar, Iraq
Content: 21 March 2022
Baghdad – 21 March 2022 - The KfW Development Bank and UNOPS signed an agreement to support the conflict-affected communities in Anbar governorate and Sinjar district in Ninewa governorate in Iraq.
With a total support of 35 Million EUR from the Federal Republic of Germany, through the KfW Development Bank, UNOPS will undertake the rehabilitation of war-damaged shelters and basic community infrastructure such as water and sanitation stations and networks, roads and solar street lighting.  UNOPS will adopt an integrated approach in order to enhance the living conditions of the conflict-affected communities and to improve their access to basic public services.
“Strengthening local resilience by rehabilitating the war-affected infrastructure which is necessary for everyday life is one of the priorities of German cooperation with Iraq. The project in Anbar and Sinjar, financed through KfW on behalf of the German Federal Government and implemented by UNOPS, can contribute significantly to this end and will support host communities and IDPs alike,” said Germany’s Chargé d’Affaires Peter Felten.
Mr. Muhammad Usman Akram, UNOPS Director of Amman Multi-Country Office said, “Building on our robust partnership with KfW in the region, we are pleased at the opportunity to continue our cooperation in Iraq in support of communities in Anbar and Sinjar. Working together with KfW, as our partner, we can support Iraq’s efforts to build a better future for all, as we see more and more people returning to their homes”.
The new agreement marks the second phase of an ongoing shelter project with KfW in Anbar governorate. The first phase of this project was initiated in December 2020 for the rehabilitation of 1,000 war-damaged shelters. Under the first phase, around 2,400 individuals have been receiving legal assistance to ensure their housing, land and property rights and obtain the legalisation of their ownership documents. With the additional funding of EUR 20 million, the total project budget will increase to EUR 35 million, which will enable UNOPS to assist 450,000 women, men, boys and girls who have returned to the affected areas.
About KfW:
KfW Development Bank has been helping the German Federal Government to achieve its goals in development policy and international development cooperation for more than 50 years.  KfW is an experienced bank and a development institution with financing expertise, an expert knowledge of development policy and many years of national and international experience.
On behalf of the German Federal Government, and primarily the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), KfW finances and supports programmes and projects that mainly involve public sector players in developing countries and emerging economies – from their conception and execution to monitoring their success. KfW's goal is to help partner countries fight poverty, maintain peace, protect both the environment and the climate and shape globalisation in an appropriate way.

About UNOPS:
UNOPS helps the UN and its partners provide peace and security, humanitarian and development solutions. The organization’s mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. UNOPS services cover infrastructure, project management, procurement, financial management and human resources. Partners call on UNOPS to supplement their own capacities, improve speed, reduce risks, boost cost-effectiveness and increase quality.
UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman covers projects in Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, and Yemen and implements work in partnership with bilateral donors, national governments and other UN agencies.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/175400-government-germanykfw-and-unops-support-affected-communities-anbar-and-sinjar-iraq




Date: 20 March 2022
Title: UN Iraq Representative Hennis-Plasschaert on Nowruz: optimism is essential
Content: 20 March 2022
The International Day of Nowruz was proclaimed by the UN General Assembly in 2010. An ancient festivity celebrating rebirth on the first day of Spring, Nowruz plays a significant role in strengthening the ties among peoples, as it proclaims the renewal of life and harmony, honoring values of peace, solidarity, forgiveness and reconciliation.
These values are more necessary than ever today. We face the existential threat of climate change that is adversely affecting our lives and our planet, not to forget the COVID-19 pandemic that continues to take its toll. Conflicts close and far, and political disputes at home, also harm our physical and mental wellbeing.
In the face of these compounding challenges, optimism is essential. Let us reflect on how we can be part of rebirth, of new beginnings inspired by the justice and respect, that our world so desperately needs. Our hope is that differences in Iraq can be swiftly resolved for the country to move forward on the path towards sustainable development and prosperity. The human yearning for peace knows no borders.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/175361-un-iraq-representative-hennis-plasschaert-nowruz-optimism-essential




Date: 20 March 2022
Title: Dialogue launched for establishment of Network of Religious Leaders to Prevent Violent Extremism in Iraq
Content: 20 March 2022
Baghdad, Iraq, 20 March 2022 – On 19 March, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq and the National Committee on the Implementation of the Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism at the National Security Advisory launched the first dialogue session on the establishment of the Network of Religious Leaders to Prevent Violent Extremism in Iraq.
A high-level dialogue session included members of the National Committee on the Implementation of the Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism and members of the Shiite and Sunni, Yazidi, Christian and Sabian endowments, in addition to the AlHussein Holy shrine. A key focus of the Network of Religious Leaders will be to promote moderate religious discourse and increase awareness and support to community initiatives on the Prevention of Violent Extremism in Iraq.
This dialogue session contributes to UNDP’s integrated approach to Preventing Violent Extremism and supporting social cohesion in Iraq, including support to the National Committee, through capacity development for sub-committees located in various governorates on implementing the strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism in Iraq, as well as the establishment of interfaith religious leader networks across Iraqi governorates on Preventing Violent Extremism.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad states, “The establishment of a Network for Religious Leaders builds on UNDP Iraq’s support to the Government of Iraq in preventing violent extremism, with an integrated and comprehensive approach related to engagement with a cross-section of Iraqi society including religious leaders, youth, and civil society. It will strengthen social cohesion in Iraq.”
Mr. Ali Abdullah Albedeiri, Chairman of the National Committee on the implementation of the National Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism, states, “The national committee gives priority to the influential role of religious leaders in society, which will be further enhanced through the network in spreading moderate discourse and will contribute to the implementation of the strategy.”
“There is a consensus among different religious sects on the need for this network. This session will provide important recommendations to proceed in forming a network to work on Preventing Violent Extremism,” states Ali Al-Qarawi, from the AlHussein Holy Shrine.
“The meeting today on establishing the network has been open and transparent to advocate for moderate speech and combatting hate speech. The goal of the network is to monitor, analyse, and respond to hate speech that leads to conflict,” says Mohammed Salah Rashad, from the Sunni Endowment.
“Today’s initiative was a first step in establishing the network to support the strategy on Preventing Violent Extremism in Iraq. We agreed on mobilizing our communities to prevent violent extremism,” states Dr. Ihsan Jafar, from the Shia Endowment.
“Today we discussed several ideas and recommendations, and we are optimistic that we will implement good initiatives under this network to prevent violent extremism before it happens,” says Raad Jabbar, from the Minorities Endowment.
Support to the Prevention of Violent Extremism (PVE) in Iraq is part of UNDP’s Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.

Media contact:
Miriam Pineau, Communication Analyst | miriam.pineau@undp.org | +964 790 110 1982

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/175360-dialogue-launched-establishment-network-religious-leaders-prevent-violent-extremism-iraq




Date: 20 March 2022
Title: With the support of the European Union, the section of the FAO / Ministry of Agriculture attracted senior officials and many visitors in the Baghdad International agricultural Fair.
Content: 20 March 2022
Under the patronage of His Excellency the Prime Minister, Mr. Mustafa Al-Kadhimi, His Excellency the Minister of Agriculture, Eng. Muhammad Al-Khafaji, inaugurated the activities of the thirteenth agricultural week on the grounds of the Baghdad International Fair, under the slogan “Protecting and Supporting the Agricultural Product is a Guarantee to Achieve Sustainable Food Security for the period from 19 to 25 March 2022. Also present was His Excellency the Minister Youth and Sports, members of the Iraqi Parliament and the FAO Representative in Iraq Dr. Salah ElHajj Hassan, the president and members of the agricultural associations, as well as a large number of farmers, officials and those interested in agricultural affairs.
Activities of the projects funded by the European Union in Iraq and implemented by FAO in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture witnessed a large number of visitors by presenting a wide range of distinguished Iraqi products processed by rural women through the milk value chain development program. Visitors were exposed to tasting many products, In addition explanations and extension leaflets were distributed.
Ministers of Agriculture, Youth and Sports acknowledged FAO efforts to improve Iraqi products at all levels while introducing innovations in selected value chains. On the other hand, FAO representative highlighted that such efforts are within the FAO and EU strategy to improve livelihoods, create more opportunities for youth, empower rural women and encourage investment and private sector role in rural areas.
Dr. Salah thanked the European Union for their continuous support and partners working in the Ministry of Agriculture for their cooperation in the implementation of these strategic projects promoting the development of the agricultural sector.
The aim of this 2022 agricultural week is to exchange experiences and find plans and projects to support the country’s economy, programed activities are an important link between the public and private sector to introduce agricultural and animal products, mechanization, sprinklers, feed, fertilizers, poultry projects, veterinary medicines, horticultural projects, technologies for combating desertification, new varieties of seeds to support national food security.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/175365-support-european-union-section-fao-ministry-agriculture-attracted-senior-officials-and-many




Date: 18 March 2022
Title: Role of Civil society associations in agriculture water and environment
Content: 18 March 2022
Baghdad , March 17, 2022,The Representation of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq, in partnership with the Al-Aghsan Foundation for Agricultural and Environmental Development, held a workshop and a dialogue platform to strengthen partnership with civil society organizations (CSO) in Iraq. The workshop was chaired by Dr. Salah Al-Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, and Dr. Khaled Naji, head of the Al-Ighsan Foundation.
Dr. Salah stated that there is more than one association and organization working in the same field, but there is no coordination among them and with other stakeholders. This workshop should be an initiative to establish a platform to coordinate with CSO working to develop the agricultural, water and environmental sectors and propose solutions to the problems while working on closer coordination with non-governmental organizations, the private sector, civil society organizations and governmental stakeholders, and others.
FAO has a long history of engagement with CSO in the fight against food insecurity, malnutrition and rural poverty, and in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. FAO has been working for many years with civil society organizations in technical work, emergency field operations, training and capacity building, and advocacy for best agricultural practices. The areas of cooperation in the organization's activities are in field programme, knowledge sharing and capacity development, policy dialogue, joint use of resources in emergency situations, normative activities, and communication and advocacy.
FAO has established mechanisms to ensure the impartiality of the Organization, namely the capacity to provide a neutral forum for discussions and its evidence-based knowledge generating work. FAO is working on identifying potential local CSO partners, and playing a catalytic role in facilitating and supporting increased dialogue with CSOs by providing a neutral space for dialogue and expertise in technically-related discussions
The workshop objectives included the creation a dialogue platform for civil society organizations with FAO and other partners, raising awareness about areas of cooperation and partnership, discussing potential partnerships with civil society organizations, identifying gaps and opportunities, and preparing a future roadmap.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/175281-role-civil-society-associations-agriculture-water-and-environment




Date: 16 March 2022
Title: Remarks on Iraq by Farhan Haq, Deputy Spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, at the noon briefing at UN Headquarters in New York on Monday 15 March 2022:
Content: 16 March 2022
“I had been asked about the Sunday missile attack in Erbil, in Iraq.
I can say that the Secretary-General is deeply concerned about the missile attack in Erbil. The attack comes at a critical moment for Iraq’s path to peace and stability. He renews his call on all concerned sides to exercise restraint and avoid escalation.
He urges Iraq’s partners to support Iraqi efforts to advance regional peace and security, in accordance with the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity and good neighbourly relations.”

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/174969-remarks-iraq-farhan-haq-deputy-spokesman-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres-noon-briefing




Date: 15 March 2022
Title: The UK & UNFPA partner to enhance rights-based family planning in Iraq
Content: 15 March 2022
15 March 2022, Baghdad, Iraq –The United Kingdom is investing US$ 19 million in the UNFPA multi-year programme on family planning in Iraq.
This new partnership will improve national policies and regulations on access to right-based family planning with a focus on young people and vulnerable groups. It will also increase awareness of decision-makers, community leaders, and influencers about family planning, reproductive rights and the dangers of child marriage.
The contribution will enable all women, young people, and people with disabilities, to access good quality family planning services, age-appropriate and reliable information, life skills, education on reproductive health and rights and better understand the negative consequences related to child marriage.
The British Ambassador to the Iraq, HE Mark Bryson-Richardson, commented on the grant, saying: “The UK is excited to be working with UNFPA and the Government of Iraq in support of Iraq’s Family Planning Strategy. This will see local communities, particularly young people and women, enabled to make informed choices regarding their reproductive health and have access to quality health care. Investment in family planning has very high returns, both directly on health and household, as well as broader economic and political stability.”
Acknowledging the British support, UNFPA Representative to Iraq, Dr Rita Columbia, said: “UNFPA is grateful to the UK Government for supporting reproductive rights of women and girls in Iraq. This funding will help to empower families and women to make informed choices about the timing of having children that will improve the health of mothers and children, and the overall wellbeing of families. The project will also support the prevention of early marriages and the empowerment of girls and women to contribute to their communities.”

******
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/174905-uk-unfpa-partner-enhance-rights-based-family-planning-iraq




Date: 15 March 2022
Title: International Women’s Day 2022: Marking One Week of Action Towards Equality
Content: 15 March 2022
15th March 2022; Baghdad, Iraq, each year, International Women's Day is a time to reflect and recommit to challenging gender norms, empowering each other, breaking stereotypes, celebrating diversity and taking climate action.
Over the past week, the UN in Iraq commenced an advocacy campaign to remind us all that women and girls play a critical role in leading climate change adaptation, mitigation, and response within our communities, and it’s time to recognize their contribution.
This year’s theme, “Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow,” is designed to recognize the contribution of women and girls around the world and is aligned with the priority theme for the upcoming 66th Commission on the Status of Women (CSW66): “Achieving gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls in the context of climate change, environmental and disaster risk reduction policies and programs.”
Advancing gender equality in the context of the climate crisis and disaster risk reduction is one of the most significant global challenges of the 21st century. Women are increasingly acknowledged as more vulnerable to climate change impacts than men. They constitute the majority of the world’s poor and are more dependent on the natural resources that climate change threatens. All at once, women and girls are practical and influential leaders and change-makers for climate adaptation and mitigation; they are involved in sustainability initiatives around the world, and their participation leads to more effective climate action. Supporting women in sustainable entrepreneurship and trade can help mitigate climate change by enabling them to be more active in global value chains. On the other hand, the women’s leadership role has both opportunities and constraints to increase empowerment, for women and girls to have a voice and be equal players in decision-making. Sustainability is essential for development and greater gender equality; without equality, today, a sustainable future and a similar future remain beyond our reach.
“Everyone needs to stand with women and girls to accelerate the achievement of SDG5, through the advancement of gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls," said Resident Coordinator Vojáčková-Sollorano, adding: “This is the time where we should all come together to work towards transformative climate action and to reverse gender inequalities to have a gender-inclusive and more equitable and sustainable world for us all”.
We call upon the government, international community and civil society organizations to ensure that women’s and girls’ health, rights, and dignity are safeguarded and protected at all times. We must listen to women's voices and invest in their leadership and resilience. This also includes increasing women’s participation in the labour market through the promotion of decent work. Women bring communities together, lead efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change, and women can drive reconciliation and ensure long-lasting peace.
Building on the past week’s efforts, we will continue to join together to empower women and girls in Iraq to step up and take leadership positions to tackle challenges such as climate change and support in creating a better and more sustainable future, for the generations to come.
Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq
Dina Zorba, UN Women Representative, Iraq, and Yemen
Ally Raza Qureshi, WFP Representative, Iraq
Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator, Iraq
Danielle Bell, Representative, OHCHR, Iraq
Salah El-Hajj Hassan, Representative, FAO, Iraq
Rita Columbia, Representative, UNFPA, Iraq
Eric Buchot, ITC Head of Country Programme Iraq
Zena Ali Ahmad, Resident Representative, UNDP Iraq
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/174911-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-2022-marking-one-week-action-towards-equality




Date: 15 March 2022
Title: FAO through EU funded project supporting Nineveh vegetable producing farmers
Content: 15 March 2022

Nineveh, 13th March 2022
Through the EU funded project: Support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh and under the crop value chain development activities, FAO proceeded with supporting farmers and started distribution  of high-quality vegetable seeds to 4000 farmers in close cooperation with MOA, local authorities and farmers union.
The ceremony took place in the presence of the representative of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in Iraq Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan, Director of Nineveh Agriculture Directorate, and president of farmer’s union Mr. Abdul Hamid Al-Rashidi, and a large number of farmers.
Dr Hajj Hassan highlighted the importance of empowering farmers through the introduction of good agricultural and post-harvest practices in order to reach better yields, reduce post-harvest losses, and increase both crop productivity and quality with higher potentials for more added values and market competing opportunities.
The FAOR thanked and praised the important support and role of the EU in enabling further development for the agriculture sector in Iraq, supporting local communities especially returnees, he also acknowledged the partnership with the Minister of Agriculture, the Directorate of Agriculture in and farmers union in Nineveh.
The director of Nineveh Agriculture directorate highlighted the important of Nineveh governorate as the food basket for all Iraq and addressed the appreciations for the efforts made by FAO in supporting the agriculture sector. The president of farmer’s union, pointed out the effectiveness of the role played by FAO in supporting farmers and the agricultural sector in the governorate.
It is worth highlighting that the development of the vegetable value chain is an important pillar of the aforementioned project including the introduction of highly quality inputs developing technical expertise through the Farmers field school approach and should be enabling farmers to improve their management practices and post-harvest handling experiences which will be improving their livelihood conditions and sustaining their rural resilience capacities.



The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/174907-fao-through-eu-funded-project-supporting-nineveh-vegetable-producing-farmers




Date: 14 March 2022
Title: Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq (Legislation Training workshop)
Content: 14 March 2022
Baghdad, 13-14th March 2022 - 41 government legal advisors and veterinary representatives throughout Iraq participated in the workshop hosted by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) under the title of veterinary legal legislation, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, and within the activities of the Project to Improve Animal Health Service Delivery and Disease Control in Iraq funded by the Defence Threat Reduction Agency American (DTRA). The workshop aimed to introduce regulatory mechanisms for animal disease surveillance and control, import and export of animals and their products, as well as to bridge the gap between animal health services and disease control legislation and its practical application.
The representative of the FAO organization in Iraq, Dr. Salah Al-Hajj Hassan, addressed opening remarks by greeting and thanking the attendees. He affirmed the organization's commitment to adopting modern concepts and values ​​in the "One Health" approach to address health threats to animals, humans, plants and the environment. He added that this workshop provides an opportunity to exchange information and ideas on Iraqi animal health legislation and related regulations and how to move forward in amending them in accordance with OIE and international standards. He also explained that all recommendations will be reviewed for the purpose of their announcement after coordination with the Food and Agriculture Organization and the Ministry of Agriculture.
Representative of his excellency the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Raed Haddad, the legal advisor to the minister conveyed the greetings of his excellency the Minister of Agriculture, in addition to praising the effective cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Food and Agriculture Organization and the organization’s role in implementing activities and programs funded by donors to support the agricultural sector in Iraq.
While the head of the Iraqi Veterinarians Syndicate, Dr. Samira Latif, explained the role of FAO in supporting the agricultural sector, both plant and animal, and the importance of holding these specialized training workshops, including this one (Veterinary Legislation).
The legal advisor to the Iraqi Lawyers Syndicate, Mr. Ahmed Majid Al-Hassan, stressed the importance of involving the Association in studies on veterinary legal legislation, thanking the role of the FAO by shedding light on this important issue.
The workshop was attended by the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources/Kurdistan Regional Government, representative of the Syndicate of Veterinarians in Kurdistan, The deans of both veterinary colleges in Baghdad and Duhok, with the participation of officials and representatives of veterinary services from Erbil and Baghdad, in addition to the targeted governorates (Duhok, Nineveh, Anbar, Wasit, Muthanna and Basrah).
The training included of presentations, group work, practical examples and case studies to enrich discussions on elements of veterinary legislation, including animal disease control and animal production, and was supplemented by the exchange of observational experiences and the exchange of information among the participants.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/174749-improving-delivery-animal-health-services-and-disease-surveillance-iraq-legislation-training




Date: 14 March 2022
Title: UNICEF Statement
Content: 14 March 2022
February has been one of the most dangerous months for children in Iraq in recent times - 6 children (all boys) have lost their lives, and 10 children (9 boys, 1 girl) have been maimed by explosive remnants of war (ERW).

ERWs and improvised explosive devices (IEDs) remain one of the leading causes of killing and maiming of children in Iraq, with boys particularly affected.
UNICEF is alarmed by the high number of children affected by ERW and urges all stakeholders to accelerate efforts to clear existing mines and unexploded ordnance, expand risk education, and promote victim assistance. Combined, this upholds children’s right to a safe and protective environment.
UNICEF continues to work with partners including the Directorate of Mine Action within the Government of Iraq and the Iraqi Kurdistan Mine Action Agency to raise awareness and increase safety for children, their families and communities in highly contaminated areas.
###
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
Follow UNICEF on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/174752-unicef-statement




Date: 14 March 2022
Title: UNFPA hands over 11 women centres in Duhok to the Ministry of Labour & Social Affairs
Content: 14 March 2022
14 March 2022; Duhok, Kurdistan Region of Iraq – UNFPA and its partner Harikar Organisation handed over 11 Women Community Centres to the Directorate of Labour and Social Affairs in Duhok.
The Women Community Centres were first established by UNFPA in 2013 amid the humanitarian crisis, during the war against ISIL. The centres, which provided psychosocial support, case management, life skills activities and awareness sessions to women and girls, were located in 11 camps for refugees (4) and internally displaced persons (7).
The handover took place in presence of Dr Sherzad Hamed, Director General of the Labour and Social Affairs in Duhok, Mr Himyar Abdulmoghni, Deputy Representative of UNFPA in Iraq and Mr Salah Yaseen, Head of Harikar Organisation, in the presence of government and governorate representatives, staff from the Directorate of Labour and Social Affairs and social workers from the Women Community Centres.
Speaking during the ceremony, Dr Hamed, said: “We are happy to take on these centres to help the women and girls in our community. I thank UNFPA for their partnership and for the ongoing building and strengthening of the capacity of the Directorate’s staff. Our collaboration will ensure we maintain good quality services to all women and girls requiring assistance at these Women Community Centres.”
For his part, Mr Abdulmoghni emphasised that this handover comes as part of  UNFPA transition strategy that was developed in full consultation with all stakeholders to ensure the continuance of gender-based violence and women empowerment related services to women and girls in camps: “The importance of transitioning these centres from NGO’s management to the Government is to ensure sustainability of the confidential multi-sectoral response and services, including medical, psychosocial and legal services for GBV survivors and confirm the government accountability to the most vulnerable women and girls.”
The Deputy also thanked Harikar Organisation for being a key partner in the provision of quality gender-based violence and reproductive health services to women and girls amid consecutive crises in Iraq since 2013 to date.
In 2022, UNFPA will hand over another 11 Women Community Centres to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs across the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, in addition to the centres already handed over.
*****
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/174751-unfpa-hands-over-11-women-centres-duhok-ministry-labour-social-affairs




Date: 13 March 2022
Title: WFP launches solar energy solution for youth project with University of Sulaymaniyah
Content: 13 March 2022
ERBIL – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) has helped provide a new solar power system for the Career Development Centre at the University of Sulaymaniyah. The solar energy provided now effectively meets the electricity gap during power cuts or shortages, enabling seamless support to youth in need.
The centre is a key structure for the EMPACT (Empowerment in Action) project, WFP’s pioneering digital skills, English and entrepreneurship training programme, which runs across Iraq. Starting in 2017 in Sulaymaniyah governorate as a pilot, EMPACT expanded to Anbar, Baghdad, Duhok, Erbil and Mosul. The initiative has won multiple awards for its innovative approach supporting vulnerable youth – internally displaced people (IDPs), Syrian refugees and their host communities – with the training and skills they need to take up work opportunities, including online, or to start small businesses.
“Through this new solar power system, WFP and the University of Sulaymaniyah created a sustainable, green energy solution, to continue improving livelihoods for youth through EMPACT,” said WFP Iraq Representative Ally Raza Qureshi. “Given the impact of climate change in Iraq, which has the worst effects on the most vulnerable people such as youth and women, the adoption of green energy solutions with the University of Sulaymaniyah is even more timely. Iraq has huge potential for renewable energy adoption, which is a priority among its commitments made to climate action, including at last week’s Baghdad International Water Conference, on which WFP and our UN partners collaborated. We thank the people and government of Germany, without whose support this initiative would not be possible.”
WFP is working closely with the Government of Iraq and partners on addressing the root causes of climate change and adaptation, and national policy to support the most vulnerable families. WFP is committed to using renewable energy solutions in its projects, part of its climate action. As well as climate-smart programmes, the solar power system is one example of how WFP weaves climate change sensitivity into all its work, such as recycling and avoiding plastic use through reusable water bottles.
Since 2020, WFP and University of Sulaymaniyah have successfully partnered on running EMPACT courses, supporting 520 students to graduate. These young graduates are a small portion of the thousands of students who graduated since 2017, and thousands more of their family members. WFP also runs EMPACT in Colombia, Kenya, Lebanon, Turkey and Zimbabwe. Students learn a wide range of skills including office software, image editing and visual production, and coding such as HTML or Python.
#                 #                   #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/174668-wfp-launches-solar-energy-solution-youth-project-university-sulaymaniyah




Date: 09 March 2022
Title: UNICEF, in partnership with the Ministry of Health, launched a campaign to support the delivery of COVID-19 vaccines and routine immunization services in all districts of Iraq
Content: 09 March 2022
More than 1,300 mobile outreach teams will be supported throughout the country.
Baghdad, 9 March 2022 – UNICEF in partnership with the Ministry of Health have launched a campaign to expand the coverage of COVID-19 vaccines and routine immunization services, involving over 1,300 mobile outreach teams across Iraq.
With the rapid spread of COVID-19 in 2020, the Iraqi Ministry of Health took the initiative to join the COVAX Facility, which is providing COVID-19 vaccines in sufficient number for approximately a quarter of Iraq’s population. In addition, the Ministry of Health signed memoranda of understanding with vaccine manufacturers to procure additional doses of vaccines, to ensure that an even higher proportion of the population can receive these vaccines and that there is no shortage of COVID-19 vaccines in Iraq.
The COVID-19 pandemic, vaccination efforts and associated preventive measures have led to disruption of routine immunization activities, resulting in increased numbers of children vulnerable to vaccine-preventable diseases. These children will also be reached through this campaign.
The campaign includes more than 1,300 outreach teams operating from primary health care centers throughout the country. Each team includes qualified staff conducting awareness raising, COVID-19 vaccination and routine immunization targeting millions of children and households in Iraq.
All Iraqis above the age of 12 are eligible for COVID-19 vaccination, but the priority is to protect those most vulnerable to the disease, including health workers, those aged above 60 years, all people with chronic illness or immunosuppression and certain occupational groups such as teachers and security personnel. The campaign will also identify and vaccinate infants and young children who have missed doses of routine vaccines, reducing the risk of polio, measles and other diseases.
“This large-scale campaign is timely and will allow us to reach unvaccinated individuals and communities with COVID-19 vaccines and children with catch-up doses of routine immunization across the nation. This will reduce the risk that vulnerable unvaccinated individuals will lose their lives due to vaccine-preventable diseases. UNICEF appreciates the support from USAID, ECHO and the Government of Germany and acknowledges the leadership of our partner the Government of Iraq in this effort.” said Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq.
Among other measures, community awareness about vaccines and the risks of COVID-19 disease will be raised, encouraging families to follow up their vaccination schedule.
“As part of the continuous efforts of the Ministry of Health to vaccinate the highest possible percentage of the Iraqi people, this vaccination campaign is launched as part of a series of continuous campaigns with the support of UNICEF and number of international agencies. The goal of these campaign is to reach the highest possible proportion of recipients of the vaccine to face the threat of the COVID-19 pandemic. We encourage all Iraqis to receive a full course of a vaccine that is effective against the coronavirus variants. All thanks and appreciation to the staff of the Ministry of Health, UNICEF and all international supporting partners” remarked Dr. Hani Mousa Badr Minister of Health in Iraq.
UNICEF and the Ministry of Health through this campaign are committed to ensuring that all people receive vaccines and immunization as appropriate, especially children, those most vulnerable to COVID-19 including internally displaced and refugee populations.

###
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
Follow UNICEF on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/174386-unicef-partnership-ministry-health-launched-campaign-support-delivery-covid-19-vaccines-and




Date: 08 March 2022
Title: On International Women’s Day, UNICEF and GDCVAW in KRI launch the radio station “Voice for Equality”, with support from USAID, to empower women and adolescent girls'
Content: 08 March 2022
Under the theme, “Gender Equality Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow!”, IWD focuses this year on the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on women and adolescent girls, especially in terms of increased gender-based violence (GBV).
ERBIL, 08 March 2022. – Marking International Woman´s Day, under the theme, “Gender Equality Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow!”, Iraq celebrates the remarkable achievements of women and girls in our societies and UNICEF and partners redouble their commitment to extend those gains to every girl, everywhere. On this occasion, the General Directorate for Combatting Violence Against Women (GDCVAW) in the KRI and UNICEF, with support from USAID, launched today the new radio station “Voice for Equality”, a powerful platform to advocate for women and adolescent girls' well-being and empowerment and to address the issue of prevention of GBV and violence against girls and boys; especially among IDPs, refugees and host communities in Kurdistan region of Iraq.
The ceremony was attended by Mr. Rebar Ahmed, Minister of Interior of KRI, Mr. Omed Khoshnaw, Governor of Erbil, US Consul General, Mr. Robert Palladino, and Ms. Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq, in addition to other authorities.
Building on UNICEF-GDCVAW collaboration, “Voice for Equality” will echo the voices of women and girls of KRI but also voices of men and boys as advocates and champions of change in accelerating women's equality. It will promote participatory approaches that aim to stimulate critical reflection on power and strengthen voice and agency and also facilitate partnerships across organizations and sectors.
This radio station is one step further on women and adolescent girls’ empowerment in the country. Iraq has made significant advances on women and girls’ rights especially in girls’ enrollment in education and the reduction of the rate of girl child mortality. Moreover, the second National Action Plan for the implementation of the UN Security Council Resolutions 1325 (2020-2024), the National Strategy on Violence against Women and Girls (2018-2030) and the National Development Plan (2018-2022) are positive measures to make the Government accountable to protect women’s and girls’ rights.
However, despite efforts to reach gender equality and parity, significant barriers persist in Iraq. Recent data confirmed a 125% increase in reported GBV incidents in 2021 compared to 2020, reaching over 22,000 cases. This increase is reporting of cases is linked to the resumption and scale-up of GBV-related services after COVID-19 related restrictions were eased. These cases are related to an increase of GBV cases in domestic violence, with a worrisome increase in depression and suicide among women and girls, especially among vulnerable groups such as IDPs and refugees.
UNICEF Executive Director, Ms. Catherine Russell, in her recent statement on International Women’s Day, also asserted the need to protect women and adolescent girls due to the impact of COVID-19 pandemic in their lives, “We cannot let a generation of girls bear the cost of this pandemic for the rest of their lives. As we work toward a post-pandemic era, girls must be at the centre of global, national, and local pandemic response and recovery plans.”
Girls and women suffer disproportionately from violence and abuse. Based on reported cases at least 900,000 women and girls are at risk of GBV in Iraq, though the actual number is estimated to be significantly higher. Child marriage rate is 28%, and illiteracy rates among teenage girls are double that of boys.
UNICEF will continue to work with the Federal Government of Iraq and of the Kurdistan Region to create a safer environment for women in the country, while calling for stronger government investment to prevent GBV and support women and children with access to comprehensive response service as well as to promote girls and women well-being and empowerment especially on access for girls’ secondary education and skills-building, child marriage prevention, and adolescent health care.

###
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
Follow UNICEF on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/174171-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-unicef-and-gdcvaw-kri-launch-radio-station-%E2%80%9Cvoice-equality%E2%80%9D




Date: 07 March 2022
Title: UNAMI Report: Overcoming obstacles, women shone in 2021 elections; greater political participation is imperative
Content: 07 March 2022
Baghdad, 7 March 2022 - A gender analysis of Iraq’s 2021 national elections, conducted by the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI), reveals that Iraqi women candidates were able to break out on their own and win seats, beyond their quota, despite obstacles such as gender stereotypes, security challenges, insufficient political support, and the limited campaign experience of some first-time candidates.
The performance of Iraqi women in the October elections marks a major improvement from the 2018 elections, with 29 percent representation up from 25 percent. The fact that 57 women from 16 governorates, out of the 95 women candidates, won outside the quota demonstrates Iraqi women’s ability to win on their own merits. Notwithstanding this achievement, the quota remains a key instrument to guarantee women’s representation in the Council of Representatives, the report added.
The analysis highlighted impediments to women’s advancement in the elections, such as security challenges, cultural and traditional gender roles in rural areas, violence against female candidates, limited training, insufficient political party support and financial resources. The report revealed that the majority of women who won were politically affiliated, indicating that political parties remain a key avenue to enter parliament.
The Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq for Political and Electoral Affairs, Ingibjörg Sólrún-Gísladóttir, said: “Iraqi women have proven that when they have the opportunity to enter politics, they excel. The 2021 election is a case in point – an unprecedented number of seats went to women candidates, above their quota. I encourage this success to be reflected in the government formation and with senior appointments. Women should take their rightful place in politics and all decision making in the society. The exemplary performance of women in the October elections should be translated into advances in other areas.”
The report recommended measures to bring Iraq into compliance with international standards such as the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) to which it is a party, in order to end gender-based discrimination in politics and create a more enabling environment for women’s political participation and electoral representation. Measures beyond quotas could be introduced, including financial support, lower thresholds for candidate nomination, tailored training programmes for women candidates, gender auditing of political parties, targeted recruitment, outreach programmes and extra security.
Recommendations to ensure that  future elections are more gender-responsive also include for the Independent High Electoral Commission to reward political parties for promoting women’s full and active participation; a call on the Council of Representatives to assess the differential impact of proposed amendments on women and men when it reviews and amends electoral legislation; passing legislation to address violence against women in politics; as well as continued capacity building efforts for women who aspire to run for office.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/174024-unami-report-overcoming-obstacles-women-shone-2021-elections-greater-political-participation




Date: 04 March 2022
Title: Kingdom of Belgium renews commitment to stabilization with new €1.4 million contribution
Content: 04 March 2022
Baghdad, 4 March 2022 – The Government of Belgium has contributed an additional €1.4 million (US$ 1.6 million) to the Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS). The critical funding will support stabilization efforts implemented by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) across Iraq’s five governorates in Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa and Salah Al-Din.
This is the Kingdom of Belgium’s seventh contribution to the FFS, bringing the country’s total contribution to €13.52 million. With this generous additional funding, UNDP will be able to support the rehabilitation of critical infrastructure in the sectors of electricity, water and education.
“The impact of our collective stabilization efforts with continuous support from key international partners such as Belgium are clearly visible across Iraq. Schools are reopening, clean and potable water is reaching people, roads are linking people and homes are rehabilitated,” says UNDP Resident Representative Zena Ali Ahmad.
“However, critical stabilization needs remain as 1 million people are still internally displaced, including the hardest-to-return populations. This contribution comes at a critical period for Iraq, as we look to safeguard the hard-won stabilization gains and prevent ISIL’s resurgence,” she adds.
“After winning the war, we must win the peace and address the root causes and consequences of Daesh's presence in the region. In this regard, building resilience for returnees and local communities in the sectors of electricity, water and education is critical to the long-term stability of the region. That is why Belgium is happy to confirm with this new contribution its full and continuous engagement in the stabilization process in Iraq since 2016,” Axel Kenes, Director General for Multilateral Affairs and Globalization, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Belgium.
At the request of the Government of Iraq, UNDP established the FFS in 2015 to facilitate the return of displaced Iraqis, lay the groundwork for reconstruction and recovery, provide capacity support and safeguard against the resurgence of violence and extremism. The mandate was extended to 2023 due to the scale of urgent remaining stabilization needs and the request from the GOI and international partners to continue our interventions.
In 2021, FFS placed greater emphasis on utilizing an integrated approach that included promoting sustainable livelihood and employment opportunities by rehabilitating supportive infrastructure for productive sectors, such as agriculture and small industries.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/173858-kingdom-belgium-renews-commitment-stabilization-new-%E2%82%AC14-million-contribution




Date: 01 March 2022
Title: Security Council Press Statement on Iraq-Kuwait
Content: 01 March 2022
The members of the Security Council welcomed the ongoing cooperation between Iraq and Kuwait in the search for missing Kuwaiti and third-country nationals.
They welcomed Kuwait’s conclusion of the identification process of human remains recovered from Samawah in Iraq and transferred to Kuwait in 2019 and 2020. They noted that 59 sets of remains were identified as Kuwaiti and third country nationals. They also noted that Kuwait transferred to Iraq the 6 sets of remains that were not matched against its missing persons database.
The members of the Security Council reiterated their deepest sympathy to the families of the missing and expressed their condolences for the lives lost.
The members of the Security Council commended the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the Tripartite Mechanism, and the United Nations Assistance Mission in Iraq (UNAMI) for their role in facilitating the implementation of resolution 2107 (2013) to resolve outstanding issues related to missing Kuwaiti and third-country nationals. They welcomed the sustained commitment of the Government of Iraq to return all remaining Kuwaiti property and encouraged the Government of Iraq to continue its search for the missing property, in particular to reinvigorate its search for the missing Kuwaiti national archives.
The members of the Security Council expressed their appreciation to the Government of Iraq for its efforts to fulfil all remaining obligations in accordance with relevant Security Council resolutions.
28 February 2022
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/173567-security-council-press-statement-iraq-kuwait




Date: 01 March 2022
Title: With support from the European Union, UNICEF, WFP, and ILO partner with the Kurdistan Regional Government to reform social protection
Content: 01 March 2022
The project will benefit millions of vulnerable families in the Kurdistan Region
Erbil, 1 March 2021 –The Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Kurdistan Regional Government, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), and the International Labour Organization (ILO), today launched a new programme to reform the social protection system and the effectiveness of its response to ongoing socio-economic shocks. This important work is funded by the European Union (EU) which has prioritised support for Iraq to build a sustainable and more inclusive social protection system for families in need.
The Ministry of Planning and Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Kurdistan Regional Government launched this new partnership with the three UN Agencies in line with their vision to develop an effective social protection response and to accelerate reform.
The joint programme will contribute to social protection reform by adapting, expanding, and innovating social protection responses to address the immediate needs of women, children, their families, workers in the informal sector and communities in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The reforms aim to improve the public policy environment for sustainable and inclusive expansion of social protection, and to reinforce capacities of regional authorities to deliver quality child, age, and disability sensitive, and gender responsive social protection programmes and services, fill in gaps in employment related social insurance and assistance, and make social protection schemes food security sensitive and nutrition sensitive.
The programme aims to support the Ministries of Planning, and Labour and Social Affairs to update the Kurdistan Region’s Social Protection Strategic Framework, developing reform scenarios and a roadmap, introducing a cash transfer targeting children and pregnant women with linkages to health and education. The programme also aims to expand the scope and coverage of the contributory social security system and active labour market programmes to young people and informal workers, coordinate management of information systems and establish a single registry of people in need of assistance.
“Social protection reform means we can better fight poverty and ensure that vulnerable women, children and their families are included and supported. This programme is just the beginning of a process that will improve access to basic needs such as food, access to health care, education and vital public services for vulnerable families, as well as employment opportunities and improved working conditions,” said UNICEF Iraq Representative Sheema Sen Gupta, WFP Iraq Representative Ally Raza Qureshi, ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq Maha Kattaa, and EU Head of Cooperation Barbara Egger, in a joint statement.
As part of this project the UN agencies will support the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in gathering evidence, such as assessing and mapping social protection, reviewing public expenditure on social protection, and analysing multidimensional poverty, food insecurity, the labour force, and household access to social protection.
As a result, the Social Protection Programme will lay the groundwork for an evidence-based approach to social protection reform that is backed up by legislation, strengthened institutional capacities, and effective coordination.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/173610-support-european-union-unicef-wfp-and-ilo-partner-kurdistan-regional-government-reform




Date: 01 March 2022
Title: FAO implementing pilot interventions for livestock producers in Najaf al Ashraf
Content: 01 March 2022
Tuesday 1/3/2022 Najaf al Ashraf, As part of the efforts to support farmers in Iraq, FAO, in cooperation with the MOA/DOA Najaf al Ashraf Governorate, has started distributing molasses in Um Khashem / Al-Mishkhab District to livestock producers in order to improve livestock nutrition and mitigate high feed costs.
During the inauguration ceremony, FAO representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan, accompanied by Mr. Munim Shahid Hussein, Director of Najaf al Ashraf Agriculture, pointed that FAO started today distributing molasses to more than 600 buffalo farmers owning more than 20,000 buffalo heads in the region of Um Khashem to improve the nutrition of their livestock after the increase in feed prices. This intervention is one of several interventions under “capacity building project to empower women and pioneer farmers in activities related to livestock in the governorates of Najaf al Ashraf - Karbala", which was initiated by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in close cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture.
After the opening, the FAOR visited several farmers and observed the most important challenges facing rural women in processing the dairy products.
The implementation of these interventions was preceded by a field survey conducted by the project team, through which the most important obstacles and problems facing livestock breeders in the targeted areas were identified, and the lessons learned and achieved from the livelihood support project funded by the European Union and implemented in Nineveh Governorate and transferred to the governorates of central and southern Iraq. It is noteworthy that the Um Khashm area is considered the first source of buffalo milk for the Najaf al Ashraf Governorate and the neighboring governorates.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/173613-fao-implementing-pilot-interventions-livestock-producers-najaf-al-ashraf




Date: 27 February 2022
Title: IOM Welcomes Decisions by Directorates of Education in Salah al Din and Ninewa to Protect Children’s Right to Education
Content: 27 February 2022
27 February 2022 Baghdad – Every child is entitled to an education, but in Iraq, almost 3.2 million school-aged children – including about half of all displaced children – are unable to enjoy this right. This prevents them from developing to their fullest potential and leaves them more vulnerable to social isolation, exploitation and abuse.
This February, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Iraq welcomed the decision of Ninewa Governorate’s Directorate of Education (DoE) to allow undocumented children and children with incomplete civil documentation to continue with their schooling and obtain official diplomas at the end of the scholastic year upon submission of their civil documents. The key decision was obtained by invoking as legal precedent a similar achievement attained in Salah Al-Din Governorate in January 2022. These come after extensive advocacy efforts, consultations with local authorities and direct engagement with DoE officials by IOM Iraq’s legal programming unit. Over 3,000 undocumented children are expected to benefit from these changes.
Until recently and despite an earlier MoE directive, governorate-level authorities required children to have valid civil documentation to attend school. This posed a major problem for children whose documents were lost or destroyed during displacement, and children born during the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) occupation who were not issued documents or whose documentation is not recognized by Iraqi Authorities.
“This helps to resolve a critical issue faced by returnee families and vulnerable households in Ninewa and Salah Al-Din with respect to children’s access to schools and formal education,” said IOM Iraq Chief of Mission Giorgi Gigauri. “This achievement will serve as a precedent allowing IOM to scale up efforts to support access to education for mobile populations in line with Iraq’s commitments under the Global Compact for Migration.”
Access to civil documentation is a fundamental human right. It is necessary for the exercise of other rights, including education, health, adequate housing, freedom of movement and due legal process. In the context of displacement and durable solutions, access to civil documentation is essential to voluntary and sustainable returns to areas of origin, as it helps to facilitate access to government services and increases community cohesion by reducing social divisions.
The IOM Iraq legal programming unit also supports communities with direct legal services covering documentation; Housing, Land and Property rights; and family law, and provides capacity-building activities for authorities and community-based groups to increase individual and collective resilience to conflict and drivers of violence.
The efforts of the IOM Iraq legal programming unit to obtain the DoE decisions were made possible thanks to the support of the Governments of Canada and Germany.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/173438-iom-welcomes-decisions-directorates-education-salah-al-din-and-ninewa-protect-children%E2%80%99s




Date: 27 February 2022
Title: New partnership supports private sector development in Iraq’s Kurdistan Region
Content: 27 February 2022
Erbil, 27 February 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government’s Ministry of Planning (MoP) have today signed a new Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that will boost the private sector by encouraging the growth of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).
The MoU provides a general framework for cooperation between the two parties to conduct a survey of MSMEs, funded with the generous support of the American people through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) in all governorates of the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG): Dohuk, Erbil, Halabja and Sulimaniyah.
The findings of the survey, which follows a similar survey conducted in Federal Iraq across Baghdad, Basra and Ninewa, will build a comprehensive understanding of MSME structure, development trends, and operations, in order to help MSMEs develop into a sustainable economic base in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
“Micro, small, and medium enterprises are the lifeblood of a healthy economy. They are also exceptionally vulnerable to risk. The U.S. Government, through USAID, is proud to contribute to this important research that sheds light on the opportunities and challenges of this critical sector and promote sustainable economic growth in the Iraqi Kurdistan Region,” says USAID Mission Director to Iraq John Cardenas.
“The KRG is very grateful to USAID and UNDP for their assistance in conducting a Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) Survey, which will be held for the first time throughout the Kurdistan Region. This will help identify deficiencies and provides recommendations for developing these institutions to provide job opportunities for young people in the private sector and reduce the unemployment rate, especially among young people.” says Minister of Planning of KRG, Dr. Dara Rashid.
“This partnership is critical to enhancing livelihoods creation through strengthening the development of MSMEs in the Kurdistan region. We have already derived some extremely valuable insights through the Federal Iraq survey which has helped us develop a roadmap on the way forward – ensuring business owners and those thinking of starting their own business have the necessary support and encouragement they need,” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq Zena Ali Ahmad.
"This memorandum is another testament to the excellent cooperation between UNDP Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government - a key partner across many of UNDP’s initiatives - as well as the partnership with our generous donor, USAID. We are extremely grateful for its ongoing commitment to fostering private sector growth in both Federal Iraq and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq," she added.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/173441-new-partnership-supports-private-sector-development-iraq%E2%80%99s-kurdistan-region




Date: 27 February 2022
Title: Interfaith religious leaders from Diyala Governorate support social cohesion and reintegration of IDPs in Iraq
Content: 27 February 2022
Erbil, Iraq, 27 February 2022 – The United Nations Development Programme in Iraq (UNDP) under the auspices of the Council of Ministers Secretariat (COMSEC), the Iraqi Ministry of Migration and Displaced (MOMD), and the Governor of Diyala, and supported by the Government of Germany, has today concluded an interfaith conference for over forty religious leaders from Diyala Governorate.
The two-day conference gathered key religious leaders from Diyala from different sects to elaborate on how best to advance social cohesion, coexistence, and combat violent extremism within Diyala Governorate, as well as encourage the return and reintegration of displaced families. The religious leaders agreed to support community readiness and work together to prevent violent extremism in Diyala Governorate.
The conference is part of a series of conferences held previously for the governorates of Anbar, Ninewa, and Salah al-Din, within a programme undertaken by UNDP with interfaith religious leaders which contributes to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal of Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions (Goal 16).
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative, Zena Ali-Ahmad, states, “To promote social cohesion and work towards durable solutions in Iraq, UNDP is committed to creating an environment conducive to return and reintegration and the prevention of violent extremism within Iraqi communities. We are very pleased to work alongside COMSEC, the MOMD, and at the governorate level, to establish this important network among key religious leaders.”
The Deputy Secretary General of the Council of Ministers Secretariat, His Excellency Mr. Jasim Alhalbousi, states, “Religious leaders play an important role in influencing society. Moderate religious discourse is the foundation for coexistence and contributes to encouraging the return and reintegration of IDPs, and a move toward societal peace. This is important in the diverse communities of Diyala.”
The Deputy Minister of Migration and Displaced, His Excellency Mr. Karim Hussein Ali Al-Nuri, emphasizes, “It is very important to work with religious leaders because of their influence on society. Through their speeches they can be messengers of peace, unity, and cohesion. This engagement will encourage moderate religious discourse.”
The Governor of Diyala, His Excellency Mr. Muthanna Ali Al-Tamimi states, “Focusing on ensuring community readiness for return and reintegration is an important topic in Diyala Governorate and engaging religious leaders is vital for peacebuilding in Iraq.”
In 2020, UNDP Iraq launched a dedicated five-year Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/173440-interfaith-religious-leaders-diyala-governorate-support-social-cohesion-and-reintegration




Date: 23 February 2022
Title: UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator visits Basra and Thi-Qar to  discuss support needed to combat water scarcity and climate change
Content: 23 February 2022
Basra, Iraq; 23 February 2022 -The Deputy Special Representative of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) and the United Nations Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator in Iraq, Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano visited Basra and Thi-Qar to reaffirm the UN’s long-term commitment to supporting the Government of Iraq in tackling climate change.
Ms. Vojáčková-Sollorano was accompanied by H.E. Mr. Michel Rentenaar, Ambassador to the Netherlands,  Mr. Edvard George from the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency, Mr. Ally Raza Qureshi, United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) Representative, Mr. Junaid Sorosh-Wali, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) Ms. Sheema Sen Gupta, United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) Country Representative, and Ms. Zena Ali Ahmad, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Resident Representative, as well as representatives from the United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and a representative from the UN Assistance Mission in Iraq.
During her three-day trip in southern Iraq, from 21 to 23 February 2022, the Resident Coordinator met with a wide range of partners, including government officials and representatives of civil society, and conducted joint site visits to several UN projects. Together with H.E. Michel Rentenaar, Netherlands Ambassador to Iraq, Mr. Edvard Thorfinn George, Swedish International Development Agency, Mr. Qureshi, Ms. Sen Gupta, and Ms. Ali Ahmad, Ms. Vojáčková-Sollorano Governor of Thi-Qar H.E. Mr. Mohammed Hadi Al-Ghazi, with the Basra Director-General of Water, Mr. Zuhair Jawad Hashim, Basra Director-General of Education, Mr. Muslim Abdulkareem Naser, academics and representatives from various fields such as agriculture, food and energy to discuss the current climate challenges facing communities in Basra and Thi-Qar . The latest development projects that use innovative climate smart practices and eco-friendly technologies that improve water supply, sanitation and irrigation service delivery in Basra were also discussed.
“Water is at the core of sustainable development and is critical for socio-economic development and healthy ecosystems. Water is the common thread that connects all aspects of our life and one of the major issues in tackling climate change. Without urgent action, water shortages will not only cause large losses across multiple sectors of the economy, but affect more vulnerable people. More needs to be done to secure water resources and limit the impacts of water scarcity on economy, society, and environment,” said Resident Coordinator Vojáčková-Sollorano.
The delegation visited the Anwar Al Zahraa school, which is the first school in Basra equipped with a desalination unit powered by solar energy. UNICEF will provide solar operated water units to 100 schools, with generous funds from the Netherlands, to ensure that more children have access to safe and quality drinking water.
They also visited several water complexes, where UNDP, jointly with UNICEF is implementing a water management project with generous support from the Netherlands. The project focuses on improving access to safe drinking water in Basra by rehabilitating four major non-functional water treatment complexes, focusing on those who are most vulnerable and ensuring that almost a million residents of Basra governorate have sustainable access to safe water. These resources will help the Directorate of Water in its conservation efforts by equipping it with smart devices to measure water consumption, track leakages, and put a stop to any waste.
“Access to clean and safe water is a basic human right, and this access can only be ensured when there is a good water management system in place. The Netherlands is very pleased to help by sharing our extensive expertise in this field and contributing to improving the lives of citizens in Basra,” explained Ambassador Rentenaar.
Ms. Vojáčková-Sollorano visited WFP’s Greenhouse and Solar Water Pump projects in Basra to meet some of the 4,500 farmers benefiting from these initiatives. The projects have significantly increased land use and productivity in the area. Solar-powered water pump technology not only improves water security in drought prone areas, but also reduces air pollution and protects the environment. WFP’s climate change-focused resilience projects in southern Iraq aim to support vulnerable communities’ abilities to withstand climate change effects and positively impact upon their livelihoods and food security, while also working jointly with Government of Iraq partners at national and local levels to build capacities to provide support to vulnerable households.
In the Mesopotamian Marshes, where FAO in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture are supporting   and improving production practices that are directly linked to the livelihoods of the communities living inside and around the  Marshes, in addition to the implementation of activities that are promoting its  restoration and at the same time  reducing the degradation of its natural resources, Resident Coordinator Vojáčková-Sollorano stated “Look no further than the low elevations of the rivers, water shortage, desertification, salination, loss of biodiversity or the record-setting heat waves-- climate change is already here and Iraq is one of the countries considered most vulnerable to its effects. From providing clean and safe water sources using solar energy, to establishing quality health and community infrastructure, to creating sustainable livelihood opportunities– the UN has made a positive impact across Thi-Qar and Basra governorates. But more needs to be done and the UN stands ready to support the Government of Iraq in fighting climate change.”
The marshes are of fundamental importance because of their ecological and economic value and unique characteristics. The UN interventions to preserve and restore the marshes include improving the adoption of water efficient and climate smart agriculture practices and technologies, by enhancing water management practices and efficient irrigation technologies; drought-tolerant crop varieties and job creation.
Along with H.E. Mr. Michel Rentenaar, Ms. Vojáčková-Sollorano visited Shatt al-Arab region where UNMAS Iraq has cleared landmines and other forms of explosive ordnance over 536,800 m2 of land since 2021 in Basra. There they met with female deminers who are clearing the land in order to increase agricultural opportunities.
Resident Coordinator Vojáčková-Sollorano led the local ‘Area Based Coordination’ (ABC) meeting in Basra with UN, government and local partners, which coordinates all actors, UN and NGOs, working on water and agriculture.
Before departing, Ms. Vojáčková-Sollorano, together with the H.E. Michel Rentenaar, Mr. George, Mr. Qureshi, Ms. Sen Gupta, and Mr. Sorosh-Wali visited the sites in the old city of Basra for the EU funded project, ‘Reviving Basra and Mosul Old Cities,’ implemented by UNESCO. The project promotes social cohesion and reconciliation through the restoration and reconstruction of historic urban landscapes. As well as rehabilitating cultural heritage assets, the project also included much-needed creation of job opportunities and the development of youth skills among displaced families and returnees.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/173164-un-resident-coordinator-and-humanitarian-coordinator-visits-basra-and-thi-qar-discuss




Date: 22 February 2022
Title: UNITAD Presents Iraq’s Medical Legal Directorate an advanced Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS)
Content: 22 February 2022
Baghdad, 22 February 2022 – The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) hosted a ceremony in Baghdad to mark the official handover of the Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) including a DNA matching module MatchMaker to the Medical Legal Directorate’s (MLD) DNA laboratory.
“This ceremony is the culmination of a joint process that began in May 2021 and is the result of extensive cooperation and collaboration between MLD and UNITAD. We are committed to continuing this crucial partnership between UNITAD and the Iraqi government and strengthening the capacities of national counterparts”, said Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher.
Mr. Ritscher underscored the importance of this system highlighting how it will enable Iraqi authorities to accelerate the process of DNA identification of the victims of ISIL crimes underpinned by a robust evidence management process, namely the step-by-step tracking of the handling of the forensic evidence, the scientific procedures performed and maintaining chain of custody in line with international standards. These are key components to ensure admissibility of the forensic evidence in judicial proceedings.
The LIMS, which will be installed at the premises of the MLD, will support the MLD team in its efforts to establish robust scientific identifications of the remains of victims recovered from ISIL mass graves across Iraq.
Dr. Zaid Ali Abbas, Director General of MLD, expressed his thanks to UNITAD, praising the partnership between the Team and Iraqi national institutions, which promotes the capacities of national experts. He also pointed out that this system "will significantly enhance our capabilities to match and identify the remains of ISIL victims more effectively and quickly". He further explained that the MLD, in cooperation with UNITAD, continues to conduct campaigns to collect information on victims and missing persons from their families.
The MLD’s DNA scientists have played a leading role in realizing this initiative, as they identified the need for this system based on their expertise and their deep understanding of the scale of the challenge to identify all victims of ISIL crimes in Iraq.
Dr. Timm Zörgiebel, Managing Director of qualitype GmbH, which developed the Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS), accentuated:  “It is a big honour for us to become part of the mission of UNITAD. This really adds to the purpose of our company and pushes the motivation of our people. It is a pleasure to support with our deep expertise in genetic analysis and digital laboratory management. Especially the MatchMaker module, will enable rapid search for individuals in a large database of DNA profiles.”
Dr. Zörgiebel underscored that the MatchMaker module not only identifies direct matches it also finds relationships between individuals. “By enabling you with these   ́superpowers ́ I really hope we can contribute to the success of your mission in a meaningful way.”
Supporting Iraqi capacities is at the heart of UNITAD’s mandate towards achieving the common objective of pursuing accountability for ISIL international crimes, and achieving justice for victims and survivors. The cooperation between UNITAD and qualitype GmbH to provide the LIMS including the DNA MatchMaker application will advance Iraq’s national capabilities to account for persons missing as a result of ISIL crimes, and subsequently support domestic proceedings to hold ISIL members accountable.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/173002-unitad-presents-iraq%E2%80%99s-medical-legal-directorate-advanced-laboratory-information-management




Date: 19 February 2022
Title: Moslawis celebrate the reopening of Mosul University’s Central Library and Ninewa Federal Court of Appeal
Content: 19 February 2022
Mosul, 19 February 2022– The newly-rehabilitated Central Library at Iraq’s second-largest university, Mosul University, was officially reopened today by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ninewa Governorate.
Mosul University’s Central Library, once a center of knowledge and culture, was left in ruins by Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Founded in 1921, the Library became known as one of the richest libraries in Iraq, second only to the central Library in Baghdad. It was a hive of activity and housed close to one million resources. During ISIL, it was bombarded by missiles and badly damaged, burning an estimated 8,000 to 10,000 books and manuscripts.
The two-storey Library is next to the bustling Student Centre and recently reopened Theatre Hall. It can seat over 1,000 students at once and has the capacity to house over 100,000 books. The Library comes with dedicated spaces for studying, meetings, computers, and exhibitions.
Also reopened today was the Ninewa Federal Court of Appeal based in Mosul which holds the court of appeal, personal status court, tort court, investigation court, domestic violence court and first instance court. The purpose-built facility will house 50 judges, 300 administrative staff and 50 security personnel. The six courts will have the capacity to handle around 7,500 cases every month.
“The reopening of the Central Library and Ninewa Federal Court of Appeal is an important milestone in the journey to revitalizing this iconic city. Due to the city’s historical importance and devastating destruction under ISIL, UNDP prioritized its stabilization and rebuilding efforts in Mosul. I am proud that today, the number of students at the University has surpassed enrollment rates before ISIL occupation by over 40 percent. This shows the strength and resilience of the city – one that’s well on its way to recovery after years of conflict,” said UNDP Resident Representative in Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS) rehabilitated the Central Library with financial support from the Federal Republic of Germany, provided through KFW Development Bank. The facility was furnished with support from the Netherlands. The rehabilitation of the Ninewa Federal Court of Appeal is also funded by the Federal Republic of Germany, and furniture for the facility is provided by Australia.
“We would not be here today if not for the support of one of our longest-standing partners, the Federal Republic of Germany. Together with Germany, we have made tremendous contributions to stabilization in Iraq. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Netherlands and Australia for furnishing the Central Library and Ninewa Federal Court of Appeal. This combined effort only goes to show that we will continue to work together to support the people of Iraq build forward better,” added Ms. Ahmad.
“Speaking to people in Mosul I understand how much it means to them that two central places of community life have risen like a phoenix from the ashes. Germany is pleased to have contributed to the rehabilitation of Mosul University’s Central Library because we want the youth in Iraq to be able to build up the knowledge and skills needed to shape Iraq as a stable, sovereign, united, democratic and inclusive country. Likewise, the rehabilitated Court sends a reassuring signal that, despite all the devastation endured by Moslawis, in the end, the rule of law prevails,” said Chargé d’Affaires a.i. Peter Felten, German Embassy Baghdad.
“We are very pleased that KfW Development Bank on behalf of the German Government was able to provide the financial support for rehabilitating the Central Library. It is a great pleasure to witness the reopening of this facility and we look forward to seeing this important centre of learning used for exchange and interaction enriching the cultural and academic life at the University,” added Dr. Anna-Christine Janke, Country Director of the KfW Office Iraq.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/172537-moslawis-celebrate-reopening-mosul-university%E2%80%99s-central-library-and-ninewa-federal-court




Date: 17 February 2022
Title: The Federal Republic of Germany Provides Additional Contribution to UNMAS in Support of the Mine Action Sector in Iraq
Content: 17 February 2022
Baghdad, 17  February 2022 – The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) in Iraq welcomes an additional contribution of USD 5.7 million from the Federal Republic of Germany for residential area clearance in support of stabilization initiatives and post-conflict returns in country.
The conflict with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in Iraq has resulted in complex and extensive explosive ordnance contamination and displaced 5.8 million people since 2014. While the majority have returned, explosive ordnance continues to present a significant risk for individuals returning to their communities.
In Sinjar, the Yazidi population have suffered tremendously throughout the conflict with ISIL. The legacy of ISIL will continue to live on so long as explosive ordnance are scattered in houses, neighborhoods, and across communities, posing a threat to citizens set on rebuilding their lives post conflict.
In response, with the generous contribution from the Federal Republic of Germany, UNMAS is now clearing residential areas in Sinjar, paving the way for a gradual return of displaced Yazidis to their homes.
This contribution adds to a long-standing partnership between UNMAS and Germany to promote mine action in Iraq, advancing peacebuilding, stabilization and development, particularly in areas formally occupied by ISIL.
On the occasion of Germany’s contribution, Chargé d’Affaires a.i. Peter Felten, German Embassy Baghdad, said: “Speaking to affected communities, I understood how much it means for them to be able to live their lives without the fear of explosive ordnance. It is obvious that only when the deadly remnants of war are removed can life return to normal. Explosive ordnance contamination is particularly heavy in Sinjar, which is why the people there consider UNMAS residential clearance in that area all the more important. Germany is grateful for the courageous and dedicated work of the demining teams and pleased to support their efforts because we want to contribute to the safe return of communities, including Yazidis, to their homes.”
Commenting on the contribution, Pehr Lodhammar, UNMAS Iraq Chief Mine Action Programme, said: “The support from Germany will significantly enhance UNMAS efforts towards durable solutions. Residential area clearance will support safe returns for the many internally displaced persons that have not yet been able to return home, many who have cited booby-trapped residences as one of the primary reasons curtailing their return.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/172405-federal-republic-germany-provides-additional-contribution-unmas-support-mine-action-sector




Date: 15 February 2022
Title: UNICEF and Zain Iraq launch partnership to improve the lives of more than 5 million children in Iraq
Content: 15 February 2022
Through the partnership, UNICEF and Zain Iraq will address key issues affecting children and young people, reaching 20 million people through awareness raising campaigns.
Baghdad, 15 February 2022 – UNICEF and Zain signed today a partnership based on their shared values to support the rights of children in Iraq by adopting joint work plans on several child related areas, including education, health and nutrition, social protection, water and sanitation and youth engagement for the coming 3 years.
Under the partnership, UNICEF will join forces with Zain to leverage the leading telecom operator’s strong network and world-class digital services to reach out to young people and children in Iraq with critical information and hear their views through surveys which will enrich UNICEF programs.
“We welcome this partnership with Zain Iraq, which will enhance our work in Iraq and allow us to reach more communities, especially in hard-to-reach areas. This is one step forward in strengthening our strategic relationship with Zain to improve the lives of children and young people in Iraq”, said Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq.
Ali Al-Zahid, CEO, Zain Iraq, said: “We are pleased to announce this partnership with UNICEF, as it represents an extension of our mutual initiatives and efforts that aim to develop the living standards of Iraqi children and the local community. We place corporate social responsibility on top of our priorities and remain keen to employ our advanced technologies and services for the wellbeing of Iraqis, hand in hand with strategic partners as UNICEF”.
The partnership will allow over 5 million children under 5 years, and 2 million women to be reached by 2022 through promoting maternal, newborn and child health digital initiatives.
Activities also include reaching 20 million people with messages on COVID-19 preventive measures and vaccination.
The new partnership will also provide at least 1,000 young person in Iraq with opportunities to reach their full potential through learning and engagement opportunities.
Overall, Zain Iraq and UNICEF Iraq will work collaboratively to support the rights of children in Iraq by jointly supporting projects on education, risk communication and community engagement, health and nutrition, water, sanitation and hygiene, adolescent development and participation, child protection and social inclusion and policy.
The partnership will raise awareness and influence policy agendas for multiple audiences, including civil society, governments, business networks and the general public. It will also be executed through Zain’s leadership and impact in marketing and communication channels, innovation in communications products and services, and build on UNICEF ‘s expertise in programming for children and young people.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/172105-unicef-and-zain-iraq-launch-partnership-improve-lives-more-5-million-children-iraq




Date: 10 February 2022
Title: UNICEF receives US$1.8 million from the Government of the Isle of Man to support the protection of Syrian refugee girls and boys
Content: 10 February 2022
The programme is expected to reach almost 50,000 Syrian refugees in Iraq
Baghdad, 10 February 2022 – UNICEF has received US$1.8 million from the Government of the Isle of Man to increase access to quality and integrated Child Protection and Gender Based Violence (GBV) services for Syrian refugees in Iraq.
Overall, over 49,995 refugees will be reached through the programme, including 21,950 children (50 per cent boys and 50 per cent girls), 27,900 parents and community members (almost two thirds female) and 145 social workers and government and partner staff (also two thirds of them female).
The project will reach 12,500 girls and boys with psychosocial activities to help them process their experiences and strengthen their resilience for the future. This support will be provided through community-based centers by trained psychosocial service officers in targeted locations. Parents and caregivers will also be supported to identify and manage their own stress and 1,200 men and women will receive parenting education to support protection and care of children. Finally, over 30,000 individuals will be reached through sustainable and community-based child protection and gender-based violence awareness-raising campaigns to mitigate protection risks for children.
Over 241,000 Syrian refugees continue to reside in Iraq. Women and children represent 68% of the overall registered refugee population in Iraq. Most of these populations have been displaced for many years, resulting in limited livelihood opportunities and increased risk of violence and abuse. Women and children have lacked sufficient access to basic protection and support services, and these funds will enable a critical response.
“80 percent of children in Iraq have been exposed to some form of violence. This is alarming and calls for urgent action”, said UNICEF Representative in Iraq, Ms. Sheema SenGupta. “The COVID-19 pandemic has worsened the situation for these children, with these funds we will be able to reach the most in need children with critical services thanks to the Government of the Isle of Man” she added.
UNICEF, in partnership with the Isle of Man Government, will implement the project through partners with an aim to ensure protection of Syrian refugee children and adolescents in Iraq. Driven by an equity approach, UNICEF will focus on reaching the most vulnerable children, including out of school children and children who have suffered trauma and abuse, to ensure that they are provided with child protection services and skills to bring about positive change in their lives.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/171660-unicef-receives-us18-million-government-isle-man-support-protection-syrian-refugee-girls-and




Date: 09 February 2022
Title: Major strides made towards Iraq’s poultry and tomato sector strategies
Content: 09 February 2022
8 February 2022 - Iraqi government officials, farmers and business leaders have approved two strategic plans that should help the country enhance its competitiveness, reinforce its productive capacity and ultimately create jobs.
Under the auspice of the Ministry of Agriculture, the International Trade Centre is facilitating the elaboration of the poultry and tomato sector strategies within the framework of the European Union-funded project, “Strengthening the agriculture and agri-food value chain and improving trade policy in Iraq” (SAAVI) under the leadership of Ministry of Agriculture.
Key public and private sector representatives validated the strategic framework and plan of action for both sector strategies at the second core meeting for poultry and tomato sectors.
Building on a highly inclusive and participatory process, and sound technical assessments including farmer and firms’ competitiveness surveys and an unprecedent domestic market research this second core team meeting is the final step towards endorsement and transitioning to implementation of the national strategies for the poultry and tomato sectors.
The strategy design process will produce two endorsed, coherent and comprehensive documents that will serve as a compass for the government, private sector and development partners to improve the competitiveness of farmers and small and medium enterprises in these two sectors, contributing to the national pathway towards sustainable food systems, inclusive growth and job creation for Iraq citizens.
Aligned with national planning frameworks, the strategies will specify clear priorities eventually producing a concrete five-year plan of action (2022-2026) that will not only define roles for implementing institutions but also provide an implementation management framework. Through the SAAVI project, ITC stands ready to contribute to implementation of key priorities under the strategies’ plans of action.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/171456-major-strides-made-towards-iraq%E2%80%99s-poultry-and-tomato-sector-strategies




Date: 09 February 2022
Title: Sporting helps kicking the challenges away
Content: 09 February 2022
Kick4Trade engages Iraqi agripreneurs to impart life skills for sustainable livelihood.
“It was great to play a football game with rules changing every 5 minutes. With the team, we had to adapt to the change and find ways of succeeding in the new circumstances. Like in work or business, the world is always changing, and as entrepreneurs, we are able to adapt to survive and thrive as things change,” said Maha Al Tamimi, young participant.
“It is possible to have fun while learning new skills,” said Samer Saad who lead the football training and is also former Head coach of Iraq Futsal national team. “We had the chance to put adaptability into practice in a creative challenge and on the football pitch.”
In an action-packed day six young women and 13 young men participated in learning activities through football at the Sports City in Basra, Iraq.
This was an opportunity to learn about innovative ways of overcoming challenges with the help of sports. Young entrepreneurs and agri-preneurs went on the football pitch and took part in activities around adaptability.
“The participants shared their thoughts with each other on how best to adapt. Being opened to change and different ways of doing things, being willing to leave their comforts zones, accepting and listening to other people’s ideas and perspectives, responding creatively to new circumstances or composure and positivity to cope with changes and new challenges were some of the reflections shared by the group,” said Mr. Saad.
Alongside a broad range of interventions implemented under the “Strengthening the agriculture and agri-food value chain and improving trade policy in Iraq” (SAAVI) project, ITC's Sport for Development initiative aims to use sporting activities to foster the socio-economic inclusion and development of youth, and to support young people in developing skills that are essential for gaining and sustaining employment, as well as nurturing entrepreneurial skills.
In the coming months, this initiative will impart hundreds of youths with transferable life-skills to enhance their career paths, delivered in a hands-on and accessible way on the football pitch in Baghdad and Basra governorates.
The event was organized by the International Trade Centre (ITC) in collaboration with the Ministry of Youth and Sports, for the benefit of talented young Iraqi entrepreneurs, through the SAAVI project.
This 22.5 million EUR project, funded by the European Union, aims to contribute to inclusive growth and job creation for Iraqi citizens, particularly for youth. It seeks to enhance the competitiveness of Iraq’s agribusiness value chain, while improving the country’s trade policy. It is hoped that eventually, efforts to improve the competitiveness of the private sector will revitalize Iraq’s bid to join the World Trade Organization.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/171583-sporting-helps-kicking-challenges-away




Date: 08 February 2022
Title: Mosul University’s Theatre Hall Officially Reopens After ISIL Destruction
Content: 08 February 2022
Mosul, 8 February 2022– The newly-rehabilitated Theatre Hall at Mosul University was officially opened yesterday by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), KfW Development Bank and Ninewa Governorate.
The Theatre Hall, which was the biggest hall in Ninewa, was severely damaged during ISIL occupation and Mosul’s liberation. It is rehabilitated by UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS) with financial support from the Federal Republic of Germany, provided through KFW Development Bank.
Rebuilt over 3,250 square meters of the University’s campus, adjacent to the bustling Student Centre and Central Library, it is the largest theatre hall in Ninewa. The facility has the capacity to seat around 1000 people.
"From the start of FFS operations in Mosul in early 2017, we prioritized the rehabilitation of Mosul University, due to its symbolic importance as a center of learning. Today, I am very pleased to see how far we have come. I hope the University’s Theatre Hall becomes a hub for not just learning but celebration of a peace, art, music and culture,” says UNDP Resident Representative in Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“We are here today because of the generous funding provided by the Federal Republic of Germany, through KFW Development Bank. As one of UNDP’s longest standing partners, Germany has made generous contributions to the revival of Mosul, and to stabilization in Iraq,” she added.
Other key features of the Theatre Hall include state-of-the-art equipment for digital projections, surround sound system, perforated wall panels for acoustic enhancement and numbered seating.
“The arts, music and scientific discourse are key elements to promote mutual understanding and peace within society,” says Peter Felten, Chargé d’Affaires of the Germany Embassy in Baghdad. “Art, music and communication are just as important to a community’s well-being as physical and economic security. Germany has funded the construction of this Theatre Hall because we hope that it will connect young Iraqis of all ethnic and cultural backgrounds through the means of artistic self-expression and joint cultural performance, and, thereby, contribute to reviving the famous ‘spirit of Mosul’ as a city that has always drawn its prosperity from the fruitful interaction between the diverse cultural, religious and ethnic components of its population.”
“It is a great pleasure to witness the reviving of this facility which was possible with the generous contribution of the German Government through KfW Development Bank. We look forward to seeing the Grand Theatre Hall as a place of exchange and interaction enriching the cultural life and cultural diversity of this important centre of learning,” says Dr. Anna-Christine Janke, Country Director of the KfW Office Iraq.
Mosul University is the country’s second-largest institution of higher learning, after the University of Baghdad, with 24 colleges, 40,000 male and female students and 11,000 faculty before the ISIL occupation. Many of the University’s buildings were severely damaged or destroyed by ISIL, and library resources and technical equipment were burned, stolen or damaged. UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization has rehabilitated facilities under the Colleges of Agriculture, Computer Science, Education, Fine Arts, Mathematics, Medicine, Engineering and Science, allowing tens of thousands of students to resume their studies. The number of students at the University now surpasses enrollment rates before ISIL occupation by over 40 percent.
The opening ceremony included a musical performance followed by a short theatrical performance by the University's students on life after the ISIL conflict.

For photos of the before and after transformation of the Mosul University’s Theatre Hall click here.
For photos from the inauguration of the Mosul University’s Theatre Hall click here.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/171348-mosul-university%E2%80%99s-theatre-hall-officially-reopens-after-isil-destruction




Date: 07 February 2022
Title: The European Union and UNICEF, in collaboration with Eni, launch a project to improve the water quality for 850,000 people in Basra
Content: 07 February 2022
By 2024, the project aims to provide access to improved and climate resilient water services to children, young people and their families in two areas, Al-Baradiya and Al-Jiha watersheds in Basra. This includes 40 schools and 21 health centers.
BASRA, 07 February 2022. – The European Union (EU) and UNICEF, in collaboration with Eni, launched a project today in partnership with the Basra Governorate, aiming to improve the water quality for 850,000 people in Basra City, including over 160,000 children as direct beneficiaries. The launch ceremony was attended by the Governor of Basra, H.E. Asaad Al Edani, Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation of the EU Delegation in Iraq, Paula Bulancea, UNICEF Deputy Representative in Iraq, Alberto Piatti, Eni’s Head of Sustainable Development, Walid ElMahdy, Eni Iraq BV Managing Director, and other authorities.
“UNICEF continues to work in Iraq to support a climate resilient environment, ensure access to safe water and empower young people to be actors of change through civic engagement. This project with the EU in collaboration with Eni will help to ensure the provision of equitable, sustainable and safe drinking water to vulnerable populations and support sustainable green job creation for young people in Basra city,” said Paula Bulancea, UNICEF Deputy Representative in Iraq.
“We are proud to continue with this important joint programme with UNICEF our strong EU engagement in Iraq and in particular in the South of Iraq, notably in Basra. It is our priority to contribute to improving the quality of life for Basrawis and strengthening the capacity of the water sector to provide for the equitable and sustainable provision of clean drinking water, in close collaboration with the Basra authorities. Applying an employment intensive approach, we will contribute to creating green decent jobs for Basra’s Youth but also build strong alliances to advance the climate change agenda together with ENI,” confirmed Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation of the EU in Iraq.
“This partnership is a clear example of how public-private alliances can create added value for local development, contributing to improve people’s living conditions. Eni will provide its Al-Baradiya water treatment plants – each with a capacity of 400,000 litres per hour –under the sponsorship of the Ministry of Oil and Basra Oil Company, and thanks to this joint initiative with UNICEF and the EU we will be able to supply clean drinking water to the community of Basra. By joining our forces we will take one step closer to the achievement of the UN SDGs”, said Alberto Piatti, Eni’s Head of Sustainable Development.
Climate change has a dire impact on children’s lives in Iraq, including increasing water scarcity and salinization, with serious implications on the country´s future. Nearly 3 out of 5 children in Iraq have no access to safely managed water services and less than half of all schools in the country have access to basic water.
As a response, and thanks to the project, 350,000 people in two communities within Basra city, will have access to improved and climate resilient water services. In addition, 1,000 people in Basra city, especially young people, will have improved capacity to contribute to delivering equitable services and promote employment-intensive green growth.
To implement the project, costed at almost $7 million over 3 years, UNICEF will work in close coordination with local authorities in Basra and Ministry of Construction, Housing and Public Municipalities in Baghdad and in partnership with Basra Water Directorate and private consultancy firms, and through strengthening capacities of local contractors, NGOs, and operators to improve water services management and social inclusion.
The project, launched by the EU and UNICEF in collaboration with Eni, is a new step in the right direction and aligns with joint engagement with the business sector to drive progress towards Agenda 2030 and the SDGs in Iraq and globally.

###
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
Follow UNICEF on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook.
###
About Eni
Eni is a global integrated energy company engaged in the entire energy chain in 68 countries around the world: from exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas, to the generation of electricity from cogeneration and renewable sources, traditional and biorefining and chemicals, and the development of circular economy processes and carbon capture projects. Eni concretely supports a just energy transition, with the objective of preserving our planet and promoting an efficient and sustainable access to energy for all and aims to achieve net zero emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) and net zero carbon intensity by 2050. Eni’s mission statement is inspired by the UN 2030 Agenda and is reflected in the company’s business model, believing in the value of long-term partnerships with the countries and communities where it operates and the creation of alliances for local development.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/171245-european-union-and-unicef-collaboration-eni-launch-project-improve-water-quality-850000




Date: 07 February 2022
Title: UNFPA, IOM, UN Women Support Strengthening Legal Frameworks for Female Survivors of Violence
Content: 07 February 2022
7 February 2022, Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq - The Women Empowerment Department, in collaboration with the Arab Women Organisation, organised a two-day conference on 3-4 February to discuss the legal frameworks for female survivors of violence in Arab countries affected by armed conflicts and war.
Delegates from Yemen, Lebanon, Syria, Sudan, Palestine and Iraq, including the Kurdistan Region, attended the conference, supported by UNFPA, UN Women and IOM. The participants discussed and shared the lessons learnt, the road to recovery for survivors of gender-based violence, and the importance of applying the survivor-based approach for effective response to gender-based violence.
Guest panellists from the Arab countries presented their countries’ progress regarding the UN resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. Representatives of Iraq and the Kurdistan Region shared the national and regional policies and legislation to help survivors of gender-based violence, including the Law on Support to Female Yazidi Survivors.
Several survivors, including survivors of sexual violence in war, shared their stories. They highlighted the importance and impact of mental health and psychosocial support in their journeys to recovery and reintegration into society.
The meeting resulted in recommendations for strengthening women representation, building platforms for implementing 1325 Resolution, and improving legislation to combat violence against women ensuring survivors centred approach.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/171246-unfpa-iom-un-women-support-strengthening-legal-frameworks-female-survivors-violence




Date: 07 February 2022
Title: Enhancing labour governance, inspection and working conditions in response to COVID-19
Content: 07 February 2022
This project contributes to the socio-economic development of Iraq through enhancing the application of International Labour Standards and national labour legislation and promoting social dialogue, social justice, and decent work.
The International Labour Organization, with support from the European Union , is implementing a project to enhance labour governance, inspection and working conditions in Iraq, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

The project addresses a number of labour market challenges imposed by the pandemic, as well as some of the longer-term decent work priorities of Iraq.

It focuses on strengthening the labour inspection system and improving occupational safety and health (OSH) in line with international labour standards, through policy development and capacity building. The project will also work closely with social partners to raise their awareness on labour inspection, OSH and fundamental principles and rights at work, so they can better engage in programmes to promote compliance with labour legislations and respond to COVID-19. 

Emphasis will be placed on compliance with decent work in the agricultural sector. Pilot interventions on farms will help farmers move towards compliance with labour standards, which are a pre-requisite for access to foreign markets. Interventions will provide trainings and guidance on labour standards to build their knowledge and capacity, while supporting workers to understand their rights, enhance their employability through skills development and help labour inspectors carry out their functions. Under the first phase of the project, at least 2,000 workers including 30 per cent women and 5 per cent Persons with Disabilities, will have their working conditions and skills enhanced.

The project will be implemented with a range of national partners, including the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. Other stakeholders include the General Federation of Workers Unions and the Iraqi Federation for Industries.
Development Objective
The project will contribute to the socio-economic development of the Republic of Iraq through enhancing the application of International Labour Standards and national labour legislation and promoting social dialogue, social justice, and decent work.

Immediate Objectives
Labour inspection
Occupational Safety and Health
Awareness raising and capacity building
Improving working conditions in the agricultural sector
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/171249-enhancing-labour-governance-inspection-and-working-conditions-response-covid-19




Date: 06 February 2022
Title: Disaster Risk Reduction Standard Operating Procedures Crucial to Address Vulnerability in Iraq: IOM
Content: 06 February 2022
6 February 2022 Erbil – Iraq is at risk of multiple natural and man-made hazards, like droughts, desertification, earthquakes and floods. Conflict-affected communities, including displaced populations, are particularly vulnerable to these disasters.
From January 29-30, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) hosted a workshop for senior government stakeholders from Baghdad and Erbil, to support their work developing standard operating procedures for crisis preparedness and response. The workshop focused on disaster risk reduction (DRR) and was organized with support from the European Union.
The workshop covered topics including risk mitigation, early warning systems and more. Senior participants from the Government of Iraq’s Joint Center for Monitoring and Coordination (JCMC) and the Kurdistan Regional Government’s Joint Crisis Coordination Centre (JCC) along with the Ministry of Migration and Displacement (MOMD) the National Operations Centre (NOC) and the Ministry of Defence along with Civil Defence and the Ministry of Oil were in attendance. All emphasized the importance of collaboration and coordination for more effective crisis responses.
“We have maintained a robust partnership with IOM during many previous issues and crises, but this particular topic is considered extremely important in the country’s current circumstances,” added Naseer Abdel Sattar, Director of JCMC in the Secretariat of the Federal Cabinet. “We will work on standard procedures during the coming period, which of course will be based on some guiding evidence set by the JCMC.”
“We discussed expected scenarios in the event of [disasters like flooding]. At the second stage, we will arrange for coordination between state institutions in the face of such cases,” said MOMD spokesperson Ali Jahakir. “The third stage will include an assessment of the disasters and their repercussions on society and state institutions. The final point will be to document the role of voluntary teams in cooperating with state institutions in the event of any emergency.”
“Clear and standardized operating procedures at the governorate level are the key to reducing the impact of hazardous events, which claim the lives of many and undermine national development and security,” said Shanaz Taha, Head of the JCC’s Strategy Division.  “At the end of the workshop, both Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) and central government representatives gave their recommendations. We hope, with IOM’s help, to implement these recommendations soon and create a suitable solution to reduce the tragedies happening in KRG,”
IOM Iraq Chief of Mission Giorgi Gigauri concluded: “With clear links between disasters, climate change, conflicts and population movements, it is imperative to include DRR work in humanitarian work. This workshop was an occasion for IOM to reaffirm its commitment to support the government at all levels to build resilience.”
Working closely with governmental partners at national and sub-national levels, IOM’s DRR activities support initiatives to prevent and prepare for disasters and related population movements, provide disaster assistance and protection where displacement cannot be avoided and contribute to post-disaster recovery by promoting durable solutions to displacement and strengthening resilience to future and existing risk. Globally, IOM’s work on DRR contributes to States’ efforts to implement the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 which, along with the Paris Agreement, contains vital targets that contribute towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
The EU, via ECHO, also supports IOM Iraq’s work providing direct assistance to internally displaced persons — such as critical shelter arrangements, household items, camp management support services and essential information provision for thousands of vulnerable Iraqi families in Ninewa, Anbar and Baghdad governorates.

For more information, please contact IOM Iraq’s Public Information Unit,
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/171082-disaster-risk-reduction-standard-operating-procedures-crucial-address-vulnerability-iraq-iom




Date: 06 February 2022
Title: FAO Strengthens Capacity Building of Agricultural Extension Workers to Support Buffalo Producers in the Marshes (Al-Ahwar)
Content: 06 February 2022
Restoration and strengthening the resilience of agri-food systems in Southern Iraq (Basra, Dhi-Qar & Missan)
On 2-3 February 2022 at the Center for Rehabilitation of AL-Ahwar in Al-Chbayish, FAO has organized a workshop for agricultural extension workers within the project ‘’Restoration and strengthening the resilience of agri-food systems in Southern Iraq’’ funded by the European Union and implemented by FAO in close cooperation with  Ministry of Agriculture - Directorates of Agriculture in ( Basra, Maysan and Dhi Qar), the project aims to empower poor small farmers and vulnerable rural families in the targeted governorates through improving crop and buffalo productivity.
The workshop was attended by 20 agricultural extension people from all the districts of the targeted Governorates with the aim of developing their capacity and technical skills to implement livestock and feeding activities with a focus on improving the productivity of buffaloes. The training sessions were supervised by Dr. Chedly Kayouli, FAO International Livestock Expert, with the assistance of Dr. Mohamed Abdulradh, the technical coordinator of the livestock activities in the project, and Dr. Khaled Al-Fartousi, FAO Coordinator in the South. The FAO expert focused on introducing good techniques to improve the Buffalo feeding by using molasses to increase the nutritional value of low-quality local feed resources such as reeds, papyrus, various water plants, wheat and rice straw and corn cobs. He also lectured on introducing on large scale the technique of cultivating green fodders adapted to local conditions, and finally he explained the practical work plan to implement the project's activities in the next phase.
FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, expressed FAO’s interest in contributing of the improvement of the agricultural sector in Iraq and creating job opportunities for the rural poor families. He indicated that FAO responded urgently to support the buffalo breeders in the marshes, who were affected during this season by the drought that led to a decrease in the water of the marshes with an increase in salinity and a multifold increase in feed prices.
Dr. Salah announced that FAO had purchased 3000 tons of fodder (1000 tons of wheat bran, 1000 tons of straw and 1000 tons of maize silage) to be distributed in the coming days to alleviate the suffering of 5000 buffalo breeders. He stated also that the organization is in the process of purchasing 3000 tons of molasses to begin distribution to 10,000 breeders in the project working areas in the south within a period of at least six months starting from the month of March 2022 at the latest.
The workshop was concluded in the presence of the Mayor of AL-Chabayish District, Mr. Kifah Shanawa, who thanked FAO for its support to upgrade agricultural extension staff in southern marshlands in a scientific and practical manner as well as in implementing concrete activities on the ground that effectively ease the suffering of buffalo breeders. He also expressed the readiness of the Local Government in the district of AL-Chabayish to provide all facilities to FAO to carry out its development projects in the district.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/171083-fao-strengthens-capacity-building-agricultural-extension-workers-support-buffalo-producers




Date: 06 February 2022
Title: Chief Justice Zidan and Special Adviser Ritscher commend the work of Iraqi Judges to hold ISIL members accountable for international crimes
Content: 06 February 2022
In a Ceremony at the Iraqi Supreme Judicial Council:
Baghdad, 6 February 2022 – During a ceremony organized by the Iraqi High Judicial Council and the United Nations Investigative Tea­­m to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Daesh/ISIL (UNITAD) in Baghdad today, Judge Faiq Zidan and Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Mr. Christian Ritscher congratulated Iraqi Judges who completed basic and advance courses in International Criminal Law and International Humanitarian Law.
The five-month online training course included forty lectures and was developed in cooperation with the Australian National University. It aimed to deepen the knowledge and expertise of members of the Iraqi judiciary in areas related to International Criminal Law and International Humanitarian Law.
These legal aspects are vital given the nature of ISIL’s crimes in Iraq, as international crimes. Such capacity building of the Iraqi Judiciary would open the door to prosecute ISIL perpetrators of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide in Iraq once an appropriate legal framework is adopted in Iraq.
Special Adviser Ritscher underlined the importance of this project saying “this capacity building project aims to establish a new class of Iraqi experts in international criminal law and humanitarian law that will not only benefit Iraq but the region as well. Members of the Iraqi judiciary, now vested with expertise in international criminal law and international humanitarian law, can play a pivotal role in holding ISIL perpetrators accountable for international crimes committed in Iraq, adding that seeing such trials take place in Iraq is our common objective”.
Speaking on behalf of the Council and the participating judges, the President of the Supreme Judicial Council Judge Faiq Zidan thanked UNITAD and the Australian National University for what they provided during this course, which contributes to developing the capacities of the judges. He further welcomed that more of these similar courses be organized.
As part of its mandate and commitment to capacity building in Iraq with the aim of supporting domestic efforts to hold ISIL accountable, UNITAD was pleased and proud to have assembled a group of international lecturers who are not only eminent experts but are all Arabic speakers. This was especially important during the inter–active discussion sessions that followed each lecture.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/171084-chief-justice-zidan-and-special-adviser-ritscher-commend-work-iraqi-judges-hold-isil-members




Date: 02 February 2022
Title: First Gender-Based Violence Strategic Plan launched in Iraq
Content: 02 February 2022
2 February 2022, Baghdad -- The Ministry of Health in Iraq, together with the World Health Organization (WHO), launched the first Gender-Based Violence (GBV) Strategic Plan 2022-2026 on 31 January 2022.
The plan will provide the strategic vision and the operational directions for better implementation and coordination of sustainable interventions related to the health system response to GBV to reduce its short and long health consequences.
Dr Rana Mohammad Ali, GBV Officer for WHO Iraq, indicated that the strategic plan aims to integrate comprehensive and well-coordinated GBV health services into health facilities at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels.
“The plan also intends to increase community awareness on the prevention of GBV and strives to fight stigmatization while strengthening the integration of GBV into the humanitarian and emergency health response,” she added.
The strategic plan is designed to gradually cover all provinces of Iraq, including the Kurdistan Region-Iraq (KR-I), with a flexible and ad-hoc plan tailored to each province's specific needs and situation.
“This strategy focuses on reducing the impact of gender-based violence by ensuring adequate physical and mental care is available and accessible for all GBV survivors,” said Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative in Iraq. “We will need to work collectively on correcting the root causes of the violence itself and ensuring that our girls and boys are educated correctly and sensitized on the respect for one another.”
Gender-based violence worsens during humanitarian crises as vulnerability increases, especially when accountability decreases. Furthermore, the pre-existing gender and social inequalities affecting women and girls were further exacerbated during the COVID-19 pandemic and increased different forms of GBV, particularly domestic violence.
The Minster of Health H.E Dr Hani Bader Al-Aqaby assured the importance of having a strategic plan for GBV as it is considered the main pillar through which we can provide curative, preventive, and psychological services to survivors of gender-based violence.
“Ministry of Health is committed to be an active part of an institutional change to approach GBV prevention and response in coordination with WHO and civil society organizations,” said H.E Dr Hani Bader Al-Aqaby.
In Iraq, some 1.32 million people are estimated to be at risk of different forms of GBV and more than 75% of them are women and adolescent girls. 77% of GBV incidents are linked to domestic violence. The recently-launched WHO global violence against women report estimates that a prevalence of 26% of lifetime intimate partner violence among ever-married/partnered women aged 15–49 in Iraq.
The United Nations defines violence against women as "any act of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual, or mental harm or suffering to women, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life."
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/170563-first-gender-based-violence-strategic-plan-launched-iraq




Date: 02 February 2022
Title: STATEMENT – Remnants of war are as deadly for children as war itself
Content: 02 February 2022
From Ms. Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq
BAGHDAD, 2 February 2022. – “4 children have died (3 boys and 1 girl) and 2 have been maimed over the last week, as a result of incidents related to explosive ordnances in two locations in Iraq. UNICEF expresses its deep sorrow and condolences to the children’s families, friends, and their communities.
“Tragically, as reported in a UNICEF statement last August, this is not an isolated loss of children’s lives - In 2021, 125 children were killed or maimed by explosive remnants of war (ERW) and unexploded ordnance, from which 52 children were killed and 73 were maimed.  Stronger concerted efforts are needed to reduce the increasing impact of these explosives, especially in boys, as the number of children casualties grew a 67 per cent compared to 2020 (79 children for that year, including 61 boys.
“These events, occurred in Babel province and Baghdad, and happened while children were doing daily chores, such as collecting wood. UNICEF reminds all stakeholders that the need to uphold child safety must remain the primary consideration in all contexts. ERW continue to be a primary reason for the civilian casualties, with children being especially vulnerable – their smaller size makes them more likely to receive the full impact of the blast, making it even more lethal.
“UNICEF continues to work on providing victim assistance, provide referral services to medical treatment and psychosocial support when needed.
“UNICEF urges all parties to accelerate every effort to clear existing mines and unexploded ordnance and promote victim assistance, and to uphold children’s right to a safe and protective environment.
“UNICEF also urges the Government of Iraq and the donor community to support the scale-up and provision of Explosive Ordnance Risk Education activities so that children and other community members receive explosive ordnance risk education in schools and communities in all areas previously affected by conflict in Iraq.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/170562-statement-%E2%80%93-remnants-war-are-deadly-children-war-itself




Date: 01 February 2022
Title: Catherine Russell assumes functions as new UNICEF Executive Director
Content: 01 February 2022
NEW YORK, 1 February 2022 – Catherine Russell took office today as UNICEF’s new Executive Director, becoming the fourth woman to lead the organization in its 75-year history.
“It is an honor and a privilege to join UNICEF and help lead its remarkable work for children at such a crucial moment,” said Russell. “At a time when millions of children globally are still reeling from the impact of the COVID pandemic and other crises, UNICEF is leading the call to protect their rights and their futures. I look forward to the work ahead."
From 2020 to 2022, Ms. Russell served in the US government as Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Office of Presidential Personnel. She previously served from 2013 to 2017 as Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women’s Issues at the U.S. Department of State. In that post, she integrated women’s issues across all elements of U.S. foreign policy, represented the United States in more than 45 countries, and worked with foreign governments, multilateral organizations and civil society. She was the principal architect of the ground-breaking “U.S. Global Strategy to Empower Adolescent Girls.”
Previously, Ms. Russell served as Deputy Assistant to the President at the White House under President Barack Obama, Senior Advisor on International Women’s Issues on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Associate Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice, and Staff Director of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Before re-entering government service in 2020, she taught at the Harvard Kennedy School as an Institute of Politics Fellow. She also served as the board co-chair of the Women’s Foreign Policy Group, as a board member of Women for Women International, as a member of the Sesame Street Advisory Board, as a member of the non-profit organization, KIVA Advisory Council, and as a member of the Thomson Reuters Foundation’s Trust Women initiative.
Ms. Russell holds a Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy, magna cum laude, from Boston College and a Juris Doctor degree from the George Washington University Law School.
She is the eighth Executive Director to lead the 20,000-person-strong agency.
For further information, please contact:
Najwa Mekki, UNICEF New York, +1 917 209 1804, nmekki@unicef.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/170177-catherine-russell-assumes-functions-new-unicef-executive-director




Date: 28 January 2022
Title: UNAMI statement on the recent attacks in Iraq
Content: 28 January 2022
Baghdad, 28 January 2022 - The United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) is deeply concerned by the current wave of attacks targeting political party offices, residences as well as businesses in Iraq, and most recently the rocket attack on Baghdad International Airport.
These despicable attacks have caused injuries and material damage, harming peaceful citizens whose only wish is to go about their daily lives without fear of attack or death.
Although strongly condemned across the political spectrum, the perpetrators and rogue groups behind these callous attacks appear to enjoy impunity, acting recklessly and exposing the country to disastrous consequences.
It is therefore essential that all stakeholders move beyond condemnations and swiftly pull together to expose those behind it. At the same time, dialogue must be intensified to find solutions to any political dispute.
Once again, all stakeholders are called upon to exercise restraint and avoid falling into the trap of creating chaos amid a critical yet delicate transitional period.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/169868-unami-statement-recent-attacks-iraq




Date: 27 January 2022
Title: France Contributes US$ 1,539 M for Women Protection Services through UNFPA Programmes in Iraq
Content: 27 January 2022
27 January 2022; Baghdad, Iraq - The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) in Iraq welcomes the French Government’s new contribution of US$ 1,539,000 to strengthen the prevention of and response to gender-based violence in Anbar, Baghdad, Basra, and Nineveh governorates.
The new commitment will focus on increasing access to services for gender-based violence survivors by establishing new women protection centres in Anbar, Basra and Mosul and refurbishing the existing women shelter in Baghdad.
The women protection centres and the shelter will provide women and girls in need with medical, psychosocial and legal support as well as livelihood sessions to support their reintegration into society or reconciliation with their families.
Speaking during the event, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Dr Adel Al-Rakabi, called on partners to support the Ministry in creating a solid infrastructure to protect and assist survivors of gender-based violence. He highlighted the need to establish similar centres in other governorates and have systems that address the root causes of gender-based violence.
For his part, the Ambassador of France to Iraq, Dr Eric Chevallier, said: “I set the issue of GBV at the top of my priorities. France has been working to find ways to support UNFPA’s programmes against gender-based violence in Baghdad and across the country, in partnership with dedicated local NGOs. I call on the new parliament and the future government to put this issue high on their agenda to ensure that women and girls have the opportunity to thrive and become stronger contributors to society”.
UNFPA Representative to Iraq, Dr Rita Columbia, thanked France for its trust in UNFPA and called the Government of Iraq to endorse legislation that protects women and girls from violence.
“We are grateful to the French Government, represented by the French embassy in Iraq, for supporting Iraqi women and girls to live lives free of violence. The establishment of women protection centres is a step forward in the path against gender-based violence in Iraq. They should become an integral part of the Government’s response to gender-based violence to make sure that women and girls have a safe haven to seek protection,” she added.
UNFPA will work closely with local authorities, the Women Empowerment Department and relevant ministries to support the implementation of the proper legal framework and standard operating procedures to ensure a survivor-centred approach when dealing with survivors.
The event was attended by the Governor of Nineveh, Mr Najm Al-Joubouri, and representatives of the Governors of Anbar and Basra, the Secretary-General of the Women Empowerment Department, Dr Yousra Al-Allak, and representatives of relevant ministries.
*******
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe, and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/169761-france-contributes-us-1539-m-women-protection-services-through-unfpa-programmes-iraq




Date: 27 January 2022
Title: UNDP Welcomes Romania as the Funding Facility for Stabilization’s 30th Funding Partner
Content: 27 January 2022
Baghdad, 27 January 2021 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq welcomes a EUR 50,000 (US$ 56,609) contribution from the Government of Romania to UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS), which implements fast-track initiatives to stabilize areas liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
Romania’s first contribution makes it the 30th partner to fund UNDP’s flagship stabilization programme. This important contribution will be utilized for critical projects in ISIL impacted areas that still require support to ensure returnees’ access basic services. To date, the FFS has completed over 3,000 projects in the areas liberated from ISIL, benefitting more than 6 million Iraqis.
“We welcome the Government of Romania as UNDP’s newest partner to the programme. Thanks to the generous and unwavering support of all our partners, the FFS can continue its critical work to improve conditions in the liberated areas and assist those who remain displaced to come home with dignity,” says UNDP Resident Representative for Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“This contribution illustrates our partners’ continued trust and confidence in UNDP’s ability to support the people of Iraq to address the residual stabilization needs in the areas liberated from ISIL,” adds Ms. Ali Ahmad.
FFS was established in 2015 at the request of the Government of Iraq with support from the member states of the Coalition to Defeat Da’esh (ISIL), to facilitate the safe and dignified return of displaced Iraqis. The programme focuses on rehabilitating critical services and infrastructure to ensure access to basic services, provide short and medium-term employment, provide capacity support for municipalities and foster social cohesion across the liberated areas of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk Ninewa and Salah Al Din.
The FFS continues to work very closely with the Government of Iraq and local stakeholders to ensure it is addressing the needs of the individuals impacted by the ISIL conflict.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/169758-undp-welcomes-romania-funding-facility-stabilization%E2%80%99s-30th-funding-partner




Date: 25 January 2022
Title: UN Security Council press statement on recent terrorist attack in Iraq
Content: 25 January 2022
The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the recent cowardly terrorist attack in Diyala province, Iraq, on Friday, 21 January 2022. The attack resulted in at least 11 deaths.
The members of the Security Council expressed their deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims and to the Government of Iraq, and they wished a speedy and full recovery of those who were injured.
The members of the Security Council reiterated their support for the independent, sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity, democratic process and prosperity of Iraq.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security.
The members of the Security Council underlined the need to hold perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism accountable and bring them to justice, and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Government of Iraq and all other relevant authorities in this regard.
The members of the Security Council reiterated that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed.  They reaffirmed the need for all States to combat by all mean, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and other obligations under international law, including international human rights law, international refugee law and international humanitarian law, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed their support for Iraq's security and the continued fight against terrorism, including against ISIL/Da'esh.

24 January 2022
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/169568-un-security-council-press-statement-recent-terrorist-attack-iraq




Date: 25 January 2022
Title: UN-Habitat and the Ministry of Planning launch Iraq Forum for Sustainable Development
Content: 25 January 2022
Baghdad, 25 January 2022 – The Ministry of Planning launched the Iraq Forum for Sustainable Development in close partnership with the United Nations Human Settlements Program (UN-Habitat).
The “Iraq Forum for Sustainable Development” project aims to support the effective implementation of the sustainable development goals (SDGs) by the Government of Iraq under the leadership of the Ministry of Planning. The implementation of the SDGs provides an opportunity to empower a wide range of national actors, including civil society organizations, universities and trade unions, and to promote dialogue and strengthen partnerships with various actors.
Referring to Iraq’s commitment to the 2030 National Sustainable Development Plan, the Ministry of Planning seeks to manage the Forum through its leadership of the National Committee for Sustainable Development.
On the occasion, Dr. Maher Hammad Johan, Deputy Minister of Planning for Technical Affairs, said: “In building this Forum, with its virtual and real wings, this step may have come late, in light of the grave circumstances and challenges that the country has faced over the past years, but we are finally here.”
He stressed that this platform will be important in raising awareness on the SDGs, and as a result contribute to building a positive society, in line with the real directions to achieve those goals, which aim at achieving a better life for the current generation, and for subsequent generations.
Dr. Maher also values the efforts made to establish this important platform, especially those of the joint team from the Ministry and UN-Habitat, calling on everyone to contribute to the effectiveness of the Iraq Forum for Sustainable Development.
Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary General, UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, said in her speech: “Iraq, despite the difficult circumstances it has gone through during the previous years, launched this important initiative represented by Iraq Forum for sustainable development. This was implemented in coordination with the Ministry of Planning, and it is the first step to work on the SDGs.”
She emphasized that this platform does not belong to the Ministry of Planning only, but to all ministries, local governments and society working together to achieve the goals of sustainable development in Iraq.
The Ministry plays a critical role in ensuring the success of this platform by providing data, forming specialized technical teams and media communication in coordination with the supporting authorities and working closely with UN-Habitat which worked on establishing the platform as well as providing logistic support, delivering technical training workshops and supplying equipment.
Mr Wael Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq, spoke about how the Forum will be instrumental in supporting the Ministry of Planning to assess results, recalibrate polices and investments, and preparation of Iraq’s National Voluntary Report on the progress towards the SDGs.
He also expressed his deepest appreciation for all the support the Iraq government has provided to UN-Habitat, and also all the partners who have worked on making this Forum a reality.
This project, funded by Iraq Trust Fund (ITF), is one of the fruits of the ministry’s tireless work in partnership and cooperation with UN-Habitat.
The Iraq Forum for Sustainable Development, launched on 24 January 2022, can be reached here.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/169570-un-habitat-and-ministry-planning-launch-iraq-forum-sustainable-development




Date: 24 January 2022
Title: Stabilizing Iraq top priority for Netherlands with new EUR 5 million contribution
Content: 24 January 2022
Baghdad, 24 January 2022– The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq welcomes a EUR 5 million (US$ 5.63 million) contribution from Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS), which finances fast-track initiatives to stabilize areas liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
This new commitment brings the Netherlands’ total contribution to FFS to US$ 107.45 million. The Netherlands is the third largest contributor among the Facility’s 30 funding partners. To date, FFS has supported the return of 4.93 million Iraqis displaced by the ISIL conflict.
“The impact of our stabilization efforts with generous support from key partners such as the Netherlands are clearly visible across Iraq. Schools are reopening, clean water is reaching homes, roads are connecting people, and homes are rehabilitated,” says UNDP Resident Representative in Iraq, Ms. Zena Ali Ahmad.
“Through this contribution, the Netherlands has prioritised the wellbeing and prosperity of Iraqi communities and I applaud them for their commitment and leadership,” adds Ms. Ali Ahmad.
“As one of the longstanding contributors to the FFS, the Netherlands values the fact that UNDP links its reconstruction and recovery efforts with stabilization activities focusing on, for instance, re-establishing social cohesion," H.E . Michel Rentenaar, the Netherlands Ambassador to Iraq.
At the request of the Government of Iraq, UNDP established the Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS) in June 2015 to facilitate the return of displaced Iraqis, lay the groundwork for reconstruction and recovery, and safeguard against the resurgence of violence and extremism.
FFS has completed over 3,000 projects in 31 liberated cities and districts, helping local authorities to quickly rehabilitate essential infrastructure across Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa and Salah Al-Din.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/169401-stabilizing-iraq-top-priority-netherlands-new-eur-5-million-contribution




Date: 24 January 2022
Title: Marking the International Day of Education, the Back-to-Learning Campaign from UNICEF, Germany and Canada, identifies 50,000 children and adolescents to return to school in Iraq
Content: 24 January 2022
In coordination with the Ministries of Education of Federal Iraq and Kurdistan Region, 14,000 children and adolescents have also been supported to get enrolled or re-enrolled in schools.
BAGHDAD, 24 January 2022. – As announced during International Day of Education, marked on January 24, 50,000 children and adolescents have been identified and more than 14,000 have been supported to get enrolled or re-enrolled in schools as result of the “Back-to-learning Campaign”, finalized by the end of 2021. The project, coordinated by UNICEF with the Ministries of Education of Federal Iraq and Kurdistan Region, and financed by Germany and Canada, identified these children and adolescents and facilitated their enrollment in formal and non-formal education through mobile teams.
“I dropped out from school due to health issues. Now, thanks to the campaign, I am back to school. This is great!”, said Dunya, a 13-year-old girl from Erbil, one of the girls who has been re-enrolled in school through this campaign.
Other identified children and adolescents who were not eligible to be enrolled in the formal schooling system have been supported to join the available informal education opportunities. In Iraq, thousands of children and adolescents are out of the education system, especially those most vulnerable. The pandemic has only exacerbated this trend, leaving thousands of children and adolescents more at the peril of capping their development. UNICEF is focusing efforts to increase access to basic education for dropped-out and out-of-school children in Iraq.
“This generation of children and youth cannot afford any more disruptions to their education. UNICEF will continue working with the Ministries of Education of Federal Iraq and of the Kurdistan Region to ensure that every child has education opportunities to develop and thrive and have access to a better future”, said Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq.
“Education is the basis to a self-actualized life. Children must be offered every chance to further their education and to learn everything they need to be able to take the future into their own hands. Germany is proud to support UNICEF towards creating safe and sanitary learning spaces for children in Iraq,” said Martin Jäger, Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany in Iraq.
“The compounding crises in Iraq, including the remaining impacts from the conflict as well as the COVID-19 pandemic, have disproportionately affected children and adolescents’ educational opportunities. Canada is pleased to support partners such as UNICEF in returning so many girls and boys back to learning. Safe, quality and inclusive education is a human right that all students are entitled to, regardless of where they live,” said James Christoff, Chargé d’Affaires a.i. in the Embassy of Canada to Iraq.
Through this intervention, UNICEF trained 330 teachers, social workers, and education staff in Duhok, Erbil, Kirkuk, Ninewa, Northern Diyala and Sulaimaniyah to work in their communities and support the return of children to schools through different practices such as community mapping, group discussions, door-to-door mobilization and one-to-one sessions.
“The Back to Learning Campaign was highly accepted by the population, especially among the low-income families and those who missed their opportunities due to conflicts and displacements in Ninewa; students were extremely happy to know that with the support from UNICEF, they would still have the opportunity. They even received the mobile teams with tea and sweets and let them in to their houses”, said Dr. Abeer Mufakker, the coordinator at Hadba Directorate of Education in Ninewa.
The teams were also able to identify cases that need special attention. Diman Wali, Social Worker in Erbil Directorate of Education, indicated: “During my visits, I met a mother who said her son has special needs and it is difficult to get him enrolled. Through this project, we were able to enroll him in school. They were very happy!”
UNICEF is supporting the Directorates of Education on implementing this method of mobilization networking, which enhances the linkage between the education system and communities, crucial to achieve better results. It also promotes a practice of community problem solving, in which the identified problems are addressed through the local institutions and community members themselves.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/169430-marking-international-day-education-back-learning-campaign-unicef-germany-and-canada




Date: 24 January 2022
Title: On International Day of Education, WFP and the Iraqi Ministry of Education launch expansion of school meals
Content: 24 January 2022
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and the Iraqi Ministry of Education today kicked off the expansion of the national School Feeding Programme on the International Day of Education. This programme is fully funded by the Government of Iraq and reflects the strong commitment of the government to supporting the education of Iraqi children.
This marks a new phase of the programme where the Ministry of Education begins to directly take over the implementation of the programme and provision of the school meals. Physical classroom learning had resumed in Iraq for the current academic year following a prolonged period of distance learning due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
This year, for the first time the Ministry of Education will be implementing the programme directly, supporting nearly 113,000 school children in Al-Sadr City in Baghdad, in addition to nearly 21,000 children in Thi-Qar and about 50,000 children in Basra. In addition to nutrition, health and hygiene education, WFP will provide technical advisory support and also help with procurement and logistics, drawing on its years of experience in delivering school feeding programmes.
Through ongoing collaboration with the Ministry of Education and Ministry of Health, WFP strengthened capacities to implement the programme in 13 governorates and provide school meals to 449,000 students this year. This comes after an agreement in 2021 to broaden school feeding activities to include 3.6 million Iraqi school children by the 2024/2025 academic year.
“WFP’s ongoing collaboration with the Government of Iraq on delivering school feeding is one of the most important pillars of our work,” says Ally Raza Qureshi, WFP Representative in Iraq. “The commitment of the Ministry of Education to deliver a successful school feeding programme, built on years of working together, is testament to the importance of continued education and achieving better prospects for the young children of Iraq in the future. It is also laying strong foundations for the government to deliver social protection programmes throughout the different phases of people’s lives.”
The School Feeding Programme aims to contribute to better learning outcomes through the provision of nutritional meals in school and to contribute towards children’s attendance and school completion. The programme was suspended in the previous academic year due to COVID-19 and is now being resumed.
The importance of school feeding programmes goes beyond the immediate effects of providing young children with healthy and nutritious meals and supporting their ongoing education and staying at school. These programmes also support mobilizing and strengthening local economies as the school meal items will be sourced from local enterprises and shops. The provision of school meals also aims to promote gender equality as both boys and girls are encouraged to attend and complete school.
Through supporting the Iraqi government to independently deliver the School Feeding Programme, WFP is achieving more in terms of building stable and reliable mechanisms for supporting social protection and safety nets in the country.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/169432-international-day-education-wfp-and-iraqi-ministry-education-launch-expansion-school-meals




Date: 23 January 2022
Title: WHO supports KR-I with over 20 tons of medical supplies to enhance the national response to COVID-19 health challenges
Content: 23 January 2022
Erbil, Iraq, 23 January 2022 – The World Health Organization (WHO) handed over more than 20 tons of urgently needed medical technologies to the Ministry of Health in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
The 117-pallet consignment contains a variety of emergency medical devices, mechanical and intensive care unit beds, personal protection equipment (PPEs), and in-kind medical furniture that will contribute to boosting the quality of medical care services and enhancing the local health authority’s preparedness to encounter a potential transmission of the Omicron variant in what is considered as the fourth wave of COVID-19 pandemic in Iraq.
“I am happy at the level of collaboration between the Ministry of Health in Kurdistan Region of Iraq and WHO and would like to thank all the hard efforts behind this continued support,” said Dr. Saman Barzangy, Minister of Health in KR-I. “This shipment of emergency medical supplies will surely make a difference in the quality and quantity of health care services delivered in our health institutions. Hundreds of thousands of people will now ensure better access to essential and emergency health care services including COVID-19 treatment,” H.E. Dr. Barzangy added.
After the significant decrease in COVID-19 infections in the last months of 2021, helped by the rise in numbers of vaccinated people across Iraq, the infection figures started to surge again recently alarming of a new wave of the pandemic in the country, which could relate to the detection of the Omicron variant in the northern city of Duhok in KR-I and the capital Baghdad on 6 January this year.
“This consignment complements the previous emergency and lifesaving support presented to enforce the local health authorities' response to the new surge in Omicron variant cases,” said Dr. Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq.
“We are concerned about the recent drive in case numbers which we see as a call for a collective action to promote the local prevention and vaccination efforts. WHO and the Ministry of Health on both the Central and Kurdistan Regional levels share the same goal of working to protect the Iraqis and save lives through accessible, sustainable, and affordable quality health care services across the country,” Dr. Zouiten added.
It is worth mentioning that in 2021, WHO Iraq supported the Ministry of Health in KR-I with medical equipment and pharmaceuticals worth of over US$2.5 million. The support assisted in augmenting the provision of essential and emergency health care services in the KR-I governorates and productively contributed to addressing the dire health needs of the region’s community which continues to host nearly a quarter of a million Syrian refugees and over 1 million internally displaced Iraqis.
The World Health Organization in Iraq would like to express its gratitude for the generous contribution from the People and Government of Germany, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), and the People and Government of Kuwait for assisting in funding this medical and lab support.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/169349-who-supports-kr-i-over-20-tons-medical-supplies-enhance-national-response-covid-19-health




Date: 23 January 2022
Title: Belgium Provides an Additional EUR 1,500,000 for UNMAS Activities in Iraq
Content: 23 January 2022
Baghdad, 23 January 2021 – The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) in Iraq welcomes an additional contribution of EUR 1.5 million (approximately USD 1.69 million) from the Government of Belgium to support the Government of Iraq in protecting civilians impacted by explosive ordnance and enabling humanitarian action, socio-economic development, and peacebuilding.
The legacy of successive conflicts – the recent conflict with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in particular – continue to substantially impact health, housing, public services, and livelihoods of Iraqis, including the displacement of millions since 2014, of which a million are still displaced today.
The Government of Belgium, through its generous contribution to UNMAS Iraq, will support the Government of Iraq to develop its nationally-led response to explosive ordnance, as well as support UNMAS Iraq in providing the necessary technical support (both theoretical and practical) to the national authorities to further enhance their capacity to lead the mine action sector in the near future.
UNMAS Iraq continues to prioritise the development of institutional capacity in Iraq, including through partnerships with the Directorate of Mine Action (DMA) and the Ministry of Interior (MoI), as well as the Iraqi Kurdistan Mine Action Agency (IKMAA), working to enhance their capabilities to implement and coordinate a targeted explosive ordnance response that responds to community needs, including the different needs for women, men, boys and girls.
Commenting on the contribution, Mr. Filip Vanden Bulcke, Ambassador of Belgium, stated: “Belgium is very happy to continue its longstanding partnership with UNMAS in support of Iraq’s national efforts on mine action as a part of Belgium’s lasting contribution to the stabilization efforts to ensure protection, safe return of IDPs and resilience for Iraqi conflict-affected communities. Much work remains to be done. The development of national capacity and ownership of this important sector is crucial, and we commend UNMAS’ and the Government of Iraq’s outstanding work in this regard”.
Mr. Pehr Lodhammar, UNMAS Iraq Chief Mine Action Programme, added: “Empowering Iraqi governmental institutions to lead the Iraqi mine action response will contribute to enhanced protection and human security and, in turn, boost the confidence of citizens in the government and enhance community trust.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/169138-belgium-provides-additional-eur-1500000-unmas-activities-iraq




Date: 23 January 2022
Title: WFP AND KURDISTAN REGIONAL STATISTICS OFFICE PARTNER ON RESEARCH TO SUPPORT VULNERABLE FAMILIES
Content: 23 January 2022
ERBIL – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and Kurdistan Regional Statistics Office (KRSO) signed a new agreement on research into food security, to support informed decision-making on efforts to support vulnerable families in the Kurdistan Region.
An important element of the partnership is training, and helping strengthen the skills and expertise of KRSO staff in food security monitoring. Building on WFP’s successful skills workshops with KRSO in the past, the agreement includes comprehensive training on food security and data analysis, including Kurdistan Region government staff from other departments. WFP experts will also deliver training on key digital solutions.
“Our joint assessments with WFP will help improve understanding of food insecurity among households in the Kurdistan Region,” said President of KRSO in Ministry of Planning of Kurdistan Region Government Serwan Mohamed. “The results will help us plan and provide the most effective food assistance required for vulnerable families.”
This is part of WFP’s ongoing support to the government of Iraq to help reform and enhance the social protection system, to best serve families’ needs. WFP and KRSO signed the Letter of Understanding (LoU) in a ceremony in Erbil. It formalises the collaboration between WFP and KRSO over the next three years.
“Iraq is at a critical time in its development journey, and helping build the social protection system in the Kurdistan Region is vital for families’ wellbeing,” said WFP Iraq Representative Ally-Raza Qureshi. “As a natural next step in our ongoing collaboration with KRSO, our new agreement supports quality research and analysis on food security, prioritising the needs of women, children and the elderly.”
The agreement includes financial support for assessments, thanks to WFP’s partners such as the European Union. Key digital tools, including hardware and software will be provided by WFP to help KRSO establish and improve its data infrastructure. In this way, the partners can maintain expert monitoring and analysis. The results will help support an early warning system, for quick response in the case of a crisis or shock.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/169134-wfp-and-kurdistan-regional-statistics-office-partner-research-support-vulnerable-families




Date: 21 January 2022
Title: UNHCR receives clothing donation from H&M for people forced to flee
Content: 21 January 2022
Erbil, 21 January 2022
In close collaboration with fashion retailer H&M, UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is delivering clothes to more than 250,000 displaced people in Iraq.
People who have been forced to leave everything behind are among the most vulnerable in the world, and the situation is only getting worse, with the added emergency of the on-going COVID-19 pandemic. Many refugees have suffered tremendously due to the crisis, and UNHCR reports an urgent need to assist.
In response, H&M has donated clothing to displaced communities in Iraq, to help families keep warm during the cold winter months. The country currently hosts nearly 290,000 refugees and asylum-seekers, as well as almost 1.2 million internally displaced persons (IDPs) and 4.9 million IDP returnees.
“We are immensely proud to partner with UNHCR to address the needs of displaced communities. I am very pleased with what we have accomplished so far and that we are able to contribute to displaced people in Iraq and other countries by donating these garments,” says Pascal Brun, Head of Sustainability at H&M.
For UNHCR’s operation in Iraq, this is one of the major donations of its kind in 2021. The project was developed in close cooperation with UNHCR to ensure that the right garments were collected and shipped to the right place, with respect to the needs on the ground.
Jean-Nicolas Beuze, Representative of UNHCR in Iraq, said: “This donation carries more than just warmth to the displaced people in Iraq during the winter. It also shows the solidarity the world has for those displaced by conflict and persecutions. It reminds them that they are not alone. We, at UNHCR Iraq, are very proud of this partnership with H&M as we know it makes a difference in the lives of thousands of vulnerable people.”
_________________________
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is a global organization dedicated to saving lives, protecting rights and building a better future for people forced to flee their homes because of conflict and persecution. We deliver life-saving assistance such as shelter, food and water, help safeguard fundamental human rights, and develop solutions that ensure people have a safe place to call home. We work in over 130 countries, using our expertise to protect and care for millions of people. For further information, visit unhcr.org.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/169001-unhcr-receives-clothing-donation%E2%80%AF-hm-people-forced-flee




Date: 20 January 2022
Title: The Government of Sweden Renews its support to explosive hazards management activities in Iraq
Content: 20 January 2022
Baghdad, 20 January 2022 - The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) welcomes the contribution of SEK 50 million (approximately USD 5.7 million) from the Government of Sweden, which will support the Government of Iraq with humanitarian, socio-economic, and reconstruction efforts while protecting vulnerable civilians from the threat posed by explosive ordnance.
Due to successive conflicts in Iraq from 1980 until 2017, as well as the most recent conflict waged by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), Iraq is one of the world’s most explosive ordnance-contaminated countries, with approximately 2,850 square kilometers of recorded contaminated areas.
The financial contribution from the Government of Sweden will bolster the efforts of UNMAS to support capacity development for a nationally led and implemented explosive ordnance response. The Swedish contribution will support clearance of explosive ordnance in the liberated areas and southern Iraq and will further support explosive ordnance risk education efforts to protect civilians, with messages and means tailored to reach women and children, as well as internally displaced person (IDPs) and vulnerable communities. The implementation of the project, which began in December 2021 and will run for 24 months, will assist UNMAS to    support the national mine action authorities through technical advice and training for effective management, regulation and coordination of mine action sector. Furthermore, it will build sustainable capacity of the national operators to independently deliver mine action activities.
His Excellency Mr. Jonas Loven, Ambassador of Sweden to Iraq, said: “Explosive ordnances continue to pose a serious threat to civilians all through Iraq. The widespread contamination is an obstacle for returns and access to basic social services that will require mine action for years to come. Sweden has had a long relationship with UNMAS Iraq and is proud to continue supporting their work including the increased focus on national capacity strengthening during this phase.”
“With this generous contribution, Sweden has supported UNMAS activities in Iraq with more than USD 14 million since 2018” commented Pehr Lodhammar, Chief Mine Action Programme of UNMAS in Iraq. “The Swedish support will greatly contribute to durable solutions by facilitating the safe return of IDPs to their places of origin, and enabling access to communities in need for humanitarian assistance.”

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/168893-government-sweden-renews-its-support-explosive-hazards-management-activities-iraq




Date: 19 January 2022
Title: Poland Reaffirms Partnership with UNDP to Support Vulnerable Iraqis
Content: 19 January 2022
Baghdad, 19 January 2022– The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq welcomes an additional PLN 1 million (approximately US$ 244,000) contribution from the Government of Poland to its flagship Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS).
This critical support will focus on stabilizing the five governorates liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) to facilitate the safe and dignified return of displaced Iraqis, lay the groundwork for recovery and safeguard communities from the resurgence of violent extremism.
This contribution to UNDP’s FFS, bringing Poland’s total support to over US$ 2.7 million, since the Facility was founded in 2015.
“This month marks four years since Iraq was officially liberated from ISIL. Yet over 1 million Iraqis remain displaced. Our support to Iraqi authorities and citizens is critical to meet the needs of internally displaced persons returning to their areas of origin,” says the UNDP Resident Representative for Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“We are extremely grateful to Poland for this critical additional contribution, and its unwavering support to stability in Iraq,” adds Ms. Ali-Ahmad.
“The Republic of Poland is committed to the process of restitution of stability, peace and welfare in the Republic of Iraq. Our commitment includes donations to programmes executed by the EU institutions, direct donations to aid organization from Poland as well as other EU countries running their programmes in Iraq and also projects rolled out by the Polish diplomatic missions directly on the ground. The donation within the partnership with UNDP in Iraq falls in the wider scope of activity of Poland in the Republic of Iraq and the Middle East,” Ambassador Marcin Kubiak, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Poland to the Republic of Iraq.
Based on stabilization priorities identified by national counterparts, FFS works to quickly restore essential public infrastructure, provides short-term employment opportunities, boost local livelihoods and economies, capacity support, and facilitates peaceful reconciliation in communities liberated from ISIL.
With the support of 30 partners, including Poland, FFS has completed over 3,000 stabilization projects in Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa and Salah al-Din, benefitting nearly 6.6 million people.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/168735-poland-reaffirms-partnership-undp-support-vulnerable-iraqis




Date: 18 January 2022
Title: UNDP and IOM facilitate a workshop with Iraqi government agencies and Anbar community leaders to encourage return and reintegration
Content: 18 January 2022
Erbil, 18 January 2022 – UNDP Iraq and IOM, in partnership with the Office of the National Security Advisory, and with participation from the Ministry of Migration and Displaced (MOMD), Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs (MOLSA), and other relevant government agencies, have brought together over 35 community and tribal leaders from Anbar in a workshop aimed at fostering acceptance and understanding among local leaders to facilitate the return and reintegration of displaced Iraqis back into their communities.
UNDP and IOM are working with the Government of Iraq to support the return and reintegration of displaced Iraqi families with perceived affiliation to ISIL, including those returning from Syria, in line with the government’s efforts to end protracted displacement through proactive measures to facilitate access to durable solutions.
The workshop participants discussed the details of the return process, the role of community leaders and local government in facilitating the reintegration of families, and the work which UNDP and IOM are undertaking to facilitate return and reintegration. The workshop generated recommendations to enhance community acceptance of returning families.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Ms. Zena Ali-Ahmad emphasizes, “Sustainable reintegration of displaced Iraqis back into their communities is a priority for UNDP, and community preparation is a key component of this important work. UNDP Iraq is committed to working with the government of Iraq, local community leaders, and UN partners to prepare communities for the return and reintegration of those who remain displaced and are facing challenges to return.”
According to Giorgi Gigauri, IOM’s Chief of Mission in Iraq, “Identifying durable solutions for displaced Iraqis facing complex obstacles to return, integration, or relocation—including those with perceived affiliation to ISIL—is a top priority for IOM Iraq. IOM is committed to supporting communities in addressing social divisions and other barriers to return of internally displaced persons, as part of our peacebuilding and stabilization portfolio.”
Dr. Saeed Al-Jiashi, Advisor, National Security Advisory, states, “Today’s meeting focused on the displaced returnees from Al Hol Camp who are originally from Anbar Governorate. We agreed on a timeline to facilitate the return of over 200 families and the issues related to the return of the families themselves, as well as within the areas of the return, including feedback from local government and community leaders.”
In 2020, UNDP Iraq launched a dedicated five-year Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq. The Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration Project supports the community readiness, return, and reintegration of families perceived to be affiliated with ISIL, who are often among the most marginalized and vulnerable, as well as supporting host families in areas of return.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/168689-undp-and-iom-facilitate-workshop-iraqi-government-agencies-and-anbar-community-leaders




Date: 14 January 2022
Title: STATEMENT - On child injured and a school damaged in Baghdad rocket attack
Content: 14 January 2022
From Ms. Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq
BAGHDAD, 14 January 2022. – “A child being hurt is a child too many.
“A child and a woman were injured, and a school was damaged, in a rocket attack last night in Baghdad.
“Children must be protected from attacks at all times. Schools and homes must be safe at all times.
“We wish the injured child and woman a speedy recovery. Nothing justifies attacks on civilians, including children and women. UNICEF calls on all parties to fulfil their obligation, under international law, to protect children at all times. All children in Iraq deserve to live their lives without the constant threat of violence.
“Schools should be protected. They are a place of sanctuary for children to learn and fulfil their potential. Attacks on schools and education facilities are one of the six grave violations against children. As per the Safe Schools Declaration, endorsed by Iraq in May 2015, attacks on schools expose students and education personnel to harm, deny large numbers of children and students their right to education and so deprive communities of the foundations on which to build their future”.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/168215-statement-child-injured-and-school-damaged-baghdad-rocket-attack




Date: 29 December 2021
Title: On gender-based violence against girls and their right to be safe
Content: 29 December 2021
Baghdad, 28 December 2021 - UNICEF is deeply concerned by the media reports on the sexual violence suffered by a seven-year-old girl child in Baghdad, along with the kidnapping of her younger brother.
UNICEF condemns all acts of violence against children and calls on all stakeholders and members of society, following Article 19 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), of which Iraq is a signatory, to protect children from all forms of physical or mental violence, including sexual abuse.  This commitment to protect children is reinforced by Article 30 of the Constitution of Iraq.
During the 16 Days of Activism, UNICEF, as part of the UN system in Iraq, stressed the need to continue working with the Government and local actors, to improve services for women and girl survivors of gender-based violence (GBV), including access to healthcare, survivor-centred case management and legal assistance. This case is a sad reminder that there is still much more to be done to protect children.
UNICEF commends action from the authorities to arrest the alleged perpetrator. UNICEF calls on the Government to strengthen concrete measures to bring perpetrators of such crimes to justice and safeguard the life of children. Children in Iraq need a safe environment, free from violence and conducive to the development of their full potential.
However, harm to children suffering from violence and GBV can be even more severe when their information is exposed. In this case, several social media channels and media outlets have shared private information of the girl, putting her at greater risk.
The CRC, on its Article 16, ensures that every child has the right to privacy. In the spirit of Article 16, UNICEF reiterates the need of all media and social media sites to respect children´s privacy and not publish the children's photos or any associated information to preserve their dignity and prevent any further damage.
UNICEF will continue to support the Governments in both Federal Iraq and the Kurdistan Region with a shared vision that by 2024 children, adolescents and women, especially the most vulnerable, are protected from violence, exploitation, abuse and neglect, in accordance with national legal and policy framework and international standards.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/167057-gender-based-violence-against-girls-and-their-right-be-safe




Date: 28 December 2021
Title: FAO Provides Veterinary Service Staff with Advanced Training on Animal Health
Content: 28 December 2021
“Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq”
Focused on Assessment of Veterinary Services and Disease Reporting Systems
The UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) organized an advanced and specialized training for 35 veterinarians from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) and KRG’s Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MoAWR) that serves their field of work, designed to strengthen the capabilities of the veterinary services to detect, diagnose and record animal diseases and enhance early warning systems and rapid response to control it through developing the participants' skills, and encouraging exchange of experiences within the activities of the project, “Improving Delivery of Animal Health Services and Disease Surveillance in Iraq”, implemented in coordination with the MoA and MoAWR, funded by the United States Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), where the training commenced in Erbil on Sunday,  December 19, 2021, and concluded on Thursday, October 23, 2021.
The Representative of the MoA, Magda Baddr Whaib, and the Representative of the KRG’S MoAWR, Councillor Rizgar Hama Khader, along with a number of veterinarians working in the sector from Kurdistan region and Iraqi governorates, participated and completed the training sessions, organized under direct supervision of FAOR in Iraq, D. Salah El Hajj Hassan, who characterized the interactive and participatory approach, as creating an opportunity for the participants to develop their tools and expertise.
D. Salah El Hajj Hassan opened the training session with thanking and greeting the participants and showed deep gratitude for the FAO-MoA-DTRA partnership. He added, “The importance of these workshops lies in the fact that they provide the possibility and create a real opportunity for exchanging expertise and increasing the capabilities of participants working in the field of disease surveillance through assessing of veterinary services and electronic reporting systems of animal diseases, in addition to enhancing skills related to detection, diagnosis and reporting, which has also included  supporting them with field and laboratory equipment, devices and materials, thus improving animal health services.
He also said that the organization will make more effort in the future towards completion of the ‘One Health’ system to gain the highest level of animal health by strengthening the collaboration between veterinary services and public health services.
The Representative of the MoA, Magda Baddr Whaib, classified the training as a success. She said in this regard: “The lectures presented were within the training title and the information was up-to-date and comprehensive, as it gave the trainees a good opportunity to understand the topics. The organization, timing and the number of days of the sessions were suitable for everyone”.
FAO International expert and lecturer for the training, D. Karim BenJebara, expressed his happiness while welcoming the participants. He emphasized on the effectiveness of these activities in strengthening the technical and scientific cooperation between MoA and FAO by improving the capabilities of the workers in the sector as part of its role and mission in adopting training as a way to achieve sustainable development goals.
This training is an implementation of the recommendations of the surveillance assessment conducted in the veterinary laboratories and surveillance and reporting centers late last year. The assessment highlighted capacity gaps across the surveillance systems at central level and in the targeted governorates.
Completion certificates presented at the conclusion of the program.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/166907-fao-provides-veterinary-service-staff-advanced-training-animal-health




Date: 27 December 2021
Title: Ministry of Planning, UNFPA launch results of the second Iraq Women Integrated Social and Health Survey
Content: 27 December 2021
27 December 2021; Baghdad, Iraq - The Ministry of Planning, the Central Statistical Organization and UNFPA launched today the results of the second Iraq Women Integrated Social and Health (IWISH) survey, conducted in collaboration with the Ministry of Planning at the Kurdistan Regional Government - Kurdistan Region Statistics Office and with funding from Sweden.
The survey addresses women issues throughout all ages and covers various sectors such as women empowerment, health, reproductive health, violence against women and other relevant social and health dimensions to establish a comprehensive database. It offers integrated data that identifies the progress made and the gaps in the economic, social, and health situation of women in Iraq in comparison to the results of IWISH I, conducted ten years ago.
Speaking at the event, Dr Maher Johan, Deputy Minister of Planning, emphasised the importance of data and statistics in programming and policy development, reiteration the Ministry’s determination to conduct the Population & Housing Census before the end of 2022: “Evidence-based policies are the only way for us to achieve our commitments to the International Conference on Population & Development in Nairobi and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals”.
Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative to Iraq, commented on the survey, saying: “UNFPA will continue to provide technical assistance in collecting, analysing and using reliable population data to ensure girls and women’s rights and needs are a priority for the Government of Iraq. The findings will enable the development of people-centred policies enabling women to have equal opportunities and exercise their reproductive rights”.
Highlights of the IWISH results can be found through this link and presentation in Arabic.
*******
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe, and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/166876-ministry-planning-unfpa-launch-results-second-iraq-women-integrated-social-and-health-survey




Date: 26 December 2021
Title: Once an ISIL Prison, today a safe space for young people; MOYS, UNFPA inaugurate Ramadi Youth Centre
Content: 26 December 2021
26 December 2022; Baghdad, Iraq - The Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Governorate of Anbar and UNFPA re-opened the Ramadi Youth Safe Space on 25 December. The Youth Safe Space serves as a place for girls and boys to receive life and leadership skills, peacebuilding and edutainment activities.
Originally this building was a House of Youth under the Ministry of Youth and Sports management. It was a special place for young people of Anbar and the community to build friendships and learn new skills in music, arts, science.
Back in 2014, the place was used as a prison by the Islamic States in Iraq and Levant (ISIL) during the war. The building was severely damaged.
After the liberation of the territories, young people in Anbar decided to bring the building back to its original purpose and make it a youth-friendly place. In 2018, UNFPA helped the youth rehabilitate two rooms for peace-building activities.
As the demand for youth services grew among communities and youth, UNFPA with support from Canada, the Governor of Anbar and UIMS, completed the rehabilitation of the Youth Safe Space. Young volunteers were the ones who led the process and made decisions about how to make the place more accessible for all young people in the surrounding communities, including the most vulnerable.
Once a space that reminded people of sorrow and pain, today is a place of hope and strength.
Speaking at the event, the Governor of Anbar, Mr Ali Farhan Al-Dulaimi, thanked UNFPA for the continuous support and investment in the young people in Anbar.
Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative in Iraq, highlighted the importance of empowering young people and engaging them in community life. She said: “I am very proud of the young volunteers who had a dream and made it a reality. Thanks to their determination and the support they received from UNFPA, Canada, the Anbar Directorate of Youth and Sports, the Governor of Anbar, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, this centre became a welcoming and truly youth-friendly space.”
The opening ceremony was attended by the Anbar Governor, the Kuwaiti Ambassador to Iraq, Salem Al-Zamanan, representatives of the Ministry of Youth & Sport, the Anbar Directorate of Youth and Sports, the UNFPA Representative, and representatives of the civil society and young people.
*******
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe, and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/166608-once-isil-prison-today-safe-space-young-people-moys-unfpa-inaugurate-ramadi-youth-centre




Date: 22 December 2021
Title: WFP PROVIDES IMMEDIATE FOOD ASSISTANCE TO FLOOD VICTIMS IN IRAQ
Content: 22 December 2021
BAGHDAD – As an immediate response to the flash floods that hit northern Iraq last week, the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and its partner World Vision International (WVI) have provided 235 flood-affected Syrian refugee families in Qushtapa camp in Erbil with emergency ready-to-eat food assistance.
On 16 December, torrential rains caused serious flooding in some areas of Erbil governorate. Qushtapa refugee camp was one of the heavily affected areas. Approximately 1400 Syrian refugees had their tents and homes severely damaged by the rains.
WFP is coordinating with the local Government of the Kurdistan region, other UN agencies, and humanitarian partners in the area to provide aid and support to camp residents affected by the natural disaster. So far, no fatalities or injuries have been reported in the camp following the event.
The water level rose to half a meter in the damaged areas, ruining food storges, refrigerators, electric heaters and other household items. Many families also discarded their clothes and carpets that were ruined by the water.
“We are here today to provide much needed humanitarian assistance to families affected by the floods,” said WFP Iraq’s Deputy Country Director, Asif Bhutto. “Providing food to vulnerable people in times of emergency, is at the core of WFP’s mandate and capacity.”
“This unfortunate event highlights the need to further build the capacities of the governments of Kurdistan Region and the Federal government of Iraq on emergency preparedness and response to ensure that relevant stakeholders are better equipped to deal with these events in the future,” he added.
WFP Iraq is scaling up its assistance to provide more support to vulnerable communities in Iraq, helping them build resilience against shocks including climate change in addition to enhancing the capacity of the Government of Iraq in social protection and other areas.
WFP continues to provide food and cash assistance to thousands of vulnerable displaced Iraqis and Syrian refugees across the country who rely on this assistance to meet their basic food needs.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/166252-wfp-provides-immediate-food-assistance-flood-victims-iraq




Date: 22 December 2021
Title: Finland Supports Youth with Disabilities in Mosul through UNFPA Interventions
Content: 22 December 2021
22 December 2021; Baghdad, Iraq -  The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) in Iraq welcomes the Government of Finland’s new contribution of EUR 1,475,000 to the UNFPA programme in support of adolescents and youth with disabilities in Nineveh governorate.
This initiative will empower adolescents and youth with disabilities, especially girls, to be active citizens and exercise their rights through education including life skills, livelihood and civic engagement.
Speaking at the signing ceremony, Ambassador of Finland to Iraq, HE Matti Lassila, said: “The Government of Finland and the Embassy in Baghdad are privileged to support the important work of UNFPA with this project,” reiterating the importance of not leaving anyone behind.
UNFPA Representative to Iraq, Dr Rita Columbia, highly appreciated the support of the Finnish Government for equal rights of young people with disabilities in Iraq. She said: “This initiative will provide adolescents and youth with disabilities in Mosul with unique opportunities to build their skills and be engaged in their communities as youth leaders, peer educators and social entrepreneurs.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/166343-finland-supports-youth-disabilities-mosul-through-unfpa-interventions




Date: 22 December 2021
Title: Germany and UNICEF support Kirkuk Governorate to provide 18,000 people with access to safe drinking water
Content: 22 December 2021
Kirkuk, 22 December 2021 – The Kirkuk Water Directorate and UNICEF held today the opening ceremony of the Maktab Khalid Water Treatment Plant in the Al Multaq sub-district of the Kirkuk Governorate. The ceremony was attended by local authorities, followed by a tour of the facility.
The Maktab Khalid Water Treatment Plant was originally established in 2012, benefiting 18,000 individuals, as the only water source providing safe drinking water to the four main villages in the district (Makhtab Khalid, Tal -Alwarad, Al-Obeter, and Al-Asalia).
The water treatment plant, with a production capacity of 400m3 per hour, had been out of service due to damages to the facility, and is now operational again through the rehabilitation implemented by UNICEF and Kirkuk Water Directorate, financed by Germany.
“These projects are considered among the most important vital projects that restore life to these areas, which encourages families to return to their homes after leaving them due to the conflict,” said Rakan Saeed Ali, Kirkuk Governor (OiC) at the opening event.
“The water treatment plant facilitates the dignified return of internally displaced populations. Children and their families will have safe drinking water and will help them rebuild their lives. UNICEF will continue to support the Government on critical water infrastructure, ensuring durable solutions for the most vulnerable children and their families” said Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq.
In addition, UNICEF is supporting water infrastructure in the area by extending transmission pipelines in four villages in Hawija district (Al-Mustafa Al-Abbasi, Talao, Tar-Fadhil and Al-Zab) and Al Sayada in Kirkuk district. These projects will ensure access to safe drinking water for around 13,820 individuals, including women and children.
Adequate and safe water supply ensures the survival and growth of children. Long-term sustainability of a water system positively impacts their health, nutrition, education and every other aspect of their lives, particularly girls, women and people living with disabilities.
#ForEveryChild, safe water
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/166350-germany-and-unicef-support-kirkuk-governorate-provide-18000-people-access-safe-drinking




Date: 21 December 2021
Title: Children, journalists and local organizations say “No to Child Labour” in Iraq’s Kurdistan region
Content: 21 December 2021
A nation-wide campaign is reaching communities most affected by the rise of child labour in Iraq.

Sulaimaniyah (ILO News) Young children at a school in Sulaymaniyah took part in awareness raising activities promoting education and highlighting the dangers of child labour in Iraq.

T-shirts, hats, balloons and leaflets were distributed among the young school children with the slogan “No to Child Labour”, to encourage them to better understand the dangers of child labour and the importance of staying at school.

Child labour has been on the rise in Iraq in recent years due to a combination of factors including armed conflict, displacement and economic challenges. The risk of children entering the workforce has been further compounded by COVID-19, which has forced a growing number of children to drop out of school. 

Located in an impoverished part of the city, the school brings together children from different socio-economic backgrounds, including those who have recently been pulled out of child labour and brought back to the classroom.
 
Najat, the school’s principle, explains that the main reason for school drop is largely linked to financial difficulties. “We have children who are doing well, and children who are extremely poor and who are often forced to drop out of school,” Najat said. “But in order for these children not to miss out on their rights to an education, we, along with social workers and teachers, go to their homes and try to bring them back to the classroom, because children need to go to school and their rights must be protected.”

The event at the school is part of broader activities taking place across the country to raise awareness on the dangers of child labour and promote the importance of education among communities most affected by child labour.

Led by the ILO, the nation-wide campaign is being implemented in collaboration with the Ministries of Labour and Social Affairs, as well as other national and social partners in Federal Iraq and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. It is being rolled out across major cities including Baghdad, Basra, Diyala, Dohuk, Kirkuk, al Najaf and Ninewa.

The campaign is targeting more than 10,000 children, their families and guardians, teachers, employers, and the media through a series of activities.

These include sessions for local journalists on national and international labour standards related to child labour and the role the media can play in shedding light on the plight of working children.  

“Reporting on child labour is truly a sensitive issue,” said local journalist Nora Loay who took part in one of the media workshops. “We are dealing with children, so when you start reporting on child labour and armed conflict, on trafficking and depriving children of their rights, it becomes extremely sensitive, but these are critical issues that need to be highlighted.”

The campaign also targets a wide spectrum of partners who are involved in the fight against child labour, including local NGOs and ILO’s implementing partners. 

“Child labour has many negative consequence on children’s personalities, such as their self-awareness, ambitions, self-confidence and lack of ability to make decisions,” said Niyan Namiq Sabir, a professor from the University of Sulaymaniyah, who presented a session at one of the workshops. “These factors contribute to psychological changes which will lead to further challenges in the future,” said explained.

While the campaign alone will not eliminate child labour, it aims to raise awareness among societies to ensure that child labour is unacceptable while at the same time, make it an urgent priority for authorities to address.

“We all lack some knowledge and information on this issue,” said Bezhan Qadir, a psychology researcher at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs’ General Directorate for Social Development,
who took part in the campaign in Sulaymaniyah. “Through such campaigns we are able to spread awareness among society and parents in particular, on the negative consequences of exploiting children for work.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/166222-children-journalists-and-local-organizations-say-%E2%80%9Cno-child-labour%E2%80%9D-iraq%E2%80%99s-kurdistan-region




Date: 21 December 2021
Title: Finland Renews Commitment to Stabilization With New Contribution
Content: 21 December 2021
Baghdad, 20 December 2021 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq welcomes an additional EUR 1.5 million (US$ 1.7 million) contribution from the Government of Finland to its flagship programme the Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS).
The critical support will bolster ongoing efforts to stabilize the five governorates liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Since 2015, the FFS has supported over 3,000 projects, restoring essential services, supporting livelihoods, building municipal capacity and fostering cohesion in areas liberated from ISIL.
“UNDP’s ability to deliver to the highest standard at speed and scale makes us the development partner of choice. This would not be possible without the continuous and generous support from international partners such as the Government of Finland,” says UNDP Resident Representative for Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmed.
“However, critical stabilization needs remain as over 1 million people are still internally displaced, including the hardest-to-return populations. The Government of Finland’s contribution  comes at an important time in Iraq’s recovery from years of conflict, as the country looks to safeguard the hard-won stabilization gains and prevent ISIL’s resurgence,” adds Ms. Ali Ahmad.
“Finland has been supporting the Facility since 2016 and we are proud to renew our commitment. UNDP and its partners have achieved many concrete results during these years, but Iraq still faces a multitude of challenges. Finland is a long-standing and solutions-oriented partner to Iraq,” says Ville Skinnari, Finland’s Minister for Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade.
To date, FFS projects are estimated to have benefitted more than 6 million individuals in the target areas with 17.5 million benefits accruing to them, mostly in Ninewa and Salah al-Din, and in sectors such as electricity, health and water.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/166099-finland-renews-commitment-stabilization-new-contribution




Date: 20 December 2021
Title: Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and ILO launch activities to combat child labour in Iraq
Content: 20 December 2021
Baghdad, Iraq, 19 December 2021 - The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the International Labour Organization kicked off a series of activities that support a nation-wide campaign to tackle the worst forms of child labour in the country.
The activities are part of a nation-wide campaign to tackle the worst forms of child labour in the country.
The campaign, which will target over 10,000 children, their families and guardians, teachers, employers, and the media, includes awareness raising sessions in schools and districts where child labour is widespread and school drop-out is common.
A team composed of representatives and experts from the Ministry has been established to undertake the activities in Baghdad and other cities across the country, in efforts to highlight the increasing dangers of child labour and the importance of education.
“The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, under the supervision of His Excellency Minister Adel Al-Rikabi, has launched this campaign to combat the worst forms of child labour, in collaboration with the ILO and which is being implemented jointly with various partners including civil society organizations,” said Raed Jabbar Bahedh Director General of the Department of Labour and Vocational Training at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. “We are ready to cooperate with all entities involved in this campaign to raise awareness on this important issue, among children and families but also among employers in sectors where child labour is most prevalent.”
The first visits took place at schools in Baghdad’s Sadr City, where leaflets, hats and T-shirts were distributed among young students and discussions were held to shed light on the importance of staying at school.
“In recent years, Iraq has witnessed an increase in child labour, including its worst forms, which has continued to interfere in children’s education, causing harm on many levels, including mental, physical and social,” said Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq. “For the ILO, tackling the worst forms of child labour is a critical priority in Iraq and joining forces with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and social partners in this campaign will ensure that we spread awareness on the dangers and consequence on child labour to the heart of communities most affected by the rise of child labour in Iraq.”
Other activities will include workshops with the media and stakeholders on national and labour standards and practices related to child labour, and the production of a series of videos, radio and TV programmes to raise awareness among students, teachers, parents, and the general public on the role they can play in addressing child labour.
Iraq has ratified the ILO Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138) and the ILO Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (No. 182), which are central to the fight against child labour. In December 2019, the ILO signed and launched a Decent Work Country Programme (DWCP) in Iraq in partnership with the Government and social partners for the period 2019-2023. Under the programme, the ILO is working with government, worker and employer organizations to support national initiatives on employment promotion, rights at work, social dialogue and social protection, including developing an effective framework to address child labour.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/166024-ministry-labour-and-social-affairs-and-ilo-launch-activities-combat-child-labour-iraq




Date: 20 December 2021
Title: IOM, NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR SIGN COOPERATION AGREEMENT TO PREVENT VIOLENT EXTREMISM IN IRAQ
Content: 20 December 2021
Baghdad – Four years after the military defeat of the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), preventing violent extremism (PVE) remains a key priority in Iraq’s post-conflict recovery and stabilization.
On 16 December 2021, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) signed a Cooperation Agreement with the Office of the National Security Advisor (ONSA) on the implementation of Iraq’s National Strategy for Combating Violent Extremism Conducive to Terrorism. The Agreement Ceremony was held at ONSA premises in Baghdad and attended by IOM Iraq Chief of Mission, Mr. Giorgi Gigauri, and the National Security Advisor, His Excellency Mr. Qassim al-Araji.
The agreement will underpin IOM’s stepped-up support to Iraq’s national efforts to prevent violent extremism. It recognizes and provides a framework for multiple areas of collaboration between IOM and the Government of Iraq, including support for policy development; capacity building; development of area-based Plans of Action (PoAs) for the implementation of the National PVE Strategy; and expert exchange on prevention of violent extremism in the MENA region and beyond.
The signing came on the heels of a two-day PVE workshop in Baghdad held jointly by IOM Iraq, the Committee for Dialogue and Community Peace in the Office of the Prime Minister and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, with support from the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. In a demonstration of the government’s commitment to addressing extremist ideological movements and promoting peace in Iraq, the Prime Minister, His Excellency Mr. Mustafa Al-Kadhimi, opened the conference to an audience of government officials, tribal heads and prominent clerics, who went on to discuss topics including the role of gender in violent extremism.
“In Iraq, we have seen some of the worst-case scenarios that violent extremism can produce,” said Mr. Gigauri. “IOM’s mission to assist vulnerable migrants, internally displaced persons and conflict-affected populations means not only meeting humanitarian needs in crises and facilitating access to durable solutions; it also means working to address underlying causes of irregular migration. PVE thus represents a crucial element of IOM’s partnership with the Government of Iraq and the Office of the National Security Advisor.”
During the signing ceremony, both parties stressed their commitment to ensuring that human rights and the principle of do-no-harm underpin all future cooperation. His Excellency Mr. Qassim al-Araji also recognized the importance of collaboration between the international community and the Government of Iraq to address the transnational challenge of violent extremism.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/166080-iom-national-security-advisor-sign-cooperation-agreement-prevent-violent-extremism-iraq




Date: 19 December 2021
Title: Even as Omicron variant takes hold, school closures must be a measure of last resort
Content: 19 December 2021
Statement by UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore
NEW YORK, 17 December 2021 – “COVID-19 cases are again spiking all over the world, fuelled, increasingly, by Omicron, a new variant of concern that public health experts and scientists are working hard to understand. Amid rising uncertainty, many governments are weighing whether to keep schools open. One thing we do know for certain: Another wave of widespread school closures would be disastrous for children.
“The evidence is clear: Prolonged, nationwide school closures; limited resources for students, teachers and parents; and lack of access to remote learning have wiped out decades of progress in education and rendered childhood unrecognizable. A shadow pandemic of child labour, child marriage and mental health issues has taken hold.
“Beyond lost learning, children have also lost the safety of school, daily in-person interactions with friends, access to healthcare, and, too often, their only nutritious meal of the day. This generation of schoolchildren could collectively lose US$ 17 trillion in potential lifetime earnings.
“That is why nationwide school closures should be avoided whenever possible. When COVID-19 community transmission increases and stringent public health measures become a necessity, schools must be the last places to close and the first to re-open.
“We know that mitigation measures in schools are effective. We must use this knowledge to do everything we can to keep schools open.
“We must also increase investments in digital connectivity to make sure that no child is left behind.
“2022 cannot be yet another year of disrupted learning. It needs to be the year that education, and the best interests of children, take precedence.”
###
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/165976-even-omicron-variant-takes-hold-school-closures-must-be-measure-last-resort




Date: 19 December 2021
Title: France expands its support to UN-Habitat to Help Communities supporting Recent Returnees
Content: 19 December 2021
The United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) welcomes an additional contribution of EUR 425,882 from the Government of France to provide support to internally displaced persons who have recently returned to their communities and struggling to rebuild their lives.
The proposed project aims to improve the rights and living conditions that contribute to sustainable return of families from Sinjar and Baaj Districts. Damage to infrastructure remains one of the primary obstacles that may prevent many internally displaced persons to return to their areas of origin. The timely contribution from France will be utilized to amplify support to approximately 27,000 people by providing legal assistance for 200 families and rehabilitating two schools. This initiative aims to also encourage other displaced families who may still be in camps, renting or living with relatives to return to their communities, knowing they will have access to education for their children. At the same time, families will also have access to legal assistance to file compensation claims for lost or damaged property.
Ambassador Eric Chevallier said that “France is proud to support this UN-Habitat project centered on basic services such as housing and education. Infrastructure rehabilitation is an essential condition for the return of displaced people, especially in Sinjar and Baaj. We are and will remain at the Iraqi people’s side in the reconstruction of areas liberated from Daesh”
“To ensure durable solutions, it is important to help people in their areas of return. UN-Habitat appreciates the continued support from France to expand our response in Ninewa,” said Wael Al-Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq County Programme.
UN-Habitat has been working in Sinjar since 2016 and in Ba’aj since 2020 with funding from the Japanese Government, the United States and the European Union to build core houses for those who have lost their homes, register their land claims, provide rehabilitation and upgrades to secondary infrastructure, public facilities, and public spaces, provide vocational training and job opportunities for unemployed youth, and provide legal assistance to those who have returned.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/165989-france-expands-its-support-un-habitat-help-communities-supporting-recent-returnees




Date: 17 December 2021
Title: UNFPA, MOI KRI launch SafeYou App, helping women and girls in Kurdistan be protected from gender-based violence
Content: 17 December 2021
17 December 2021; Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq - Today, the Ministry of Interior in the Kurdistan Regional Government, the General Directorate of Combatting Violence against Women and Families (DGCVAW) and UNFPA launched the SafeYou application in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
The SafeYou application helps prevent women from being subjected to violence and provides a forum where individuals can get advice about services on gender-based violence.
SafeYou connects women and girls who are at risk of violence, harassment, and abuse with skilled protection forces who can support survivors of gender-based violence. The application also educates them about their rights, health and life skills.
In addition, the application offers a Help button, which, when clicked, sends the user’s location to the trained police as well as the people who they trust and can turn to for help.  This service is free of charge and all information received through the app is confidential to secure the privacy of users.
Speaking at the press conference, the Minister of Interior at the Kurdistan Regional Government, Mr  Rebar Ahmed, expressed the Government’s determination to protect women and girls in Kurdistan: “The Kurdistan Regional Government has zero tolerance towards perpetrators of gender-based violence. We work with each and every relevant party in the Region to put an end to all forms of violence. The SafeYou application makes us one step closer to achieving a violence-free society, and we will not stop until we reach this goal.”
For her part, UNFPA Representative to Iraq, Dr Rita Columbia said: “The SafeYou application will help women and girls, and their families feel safe. It is a new and additional tool for protecting them from violence. The SafeYou application will be linked to the 119 helpline managed by the trained officers of GDCVAW.”
Commenting on the launch, Senior Advisor and Deputy Chief of Staff at the office of President Nechirvan Barzani, Mr Ahmed Oathman: ”Eliminating gender-based violence has been and will remain a top priority of Kurdistan Region President Nechirvan Barzani, and we commend UNFPA and KRG's Minister of Interior for providing a new way of reporting violence against females through SafeYou application.”
The conference was followed by a Q&A with Ms Kurdo Omer, Head of GDCVAW and Dr Columbia with the audience and media.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/165825-unfpa-moi-kri-launch-safeyou-app-helping-women-and-girls-kurdistan-be-protected-gender-based




Date: 17 December 2021
Title: International Migrants Day 2021: Statement from the UN Network on Migration in Iraq
Content: 17 December 2021
Baghdad — Every year, on 18 December, the United Nations observes International Migrants Day to highlight the contributions made by migrants, as well as the challenges that they may face.
Overwhelmingly, migration benefits individuals and societies — in countries of origin and destination. In spite of this, in recent years, several worrying trends confirm that too often, migration doesn’t happen under safe circumstances.
The public health crises caused by the COVID-19 pandemic have affected everything about how people live, work and travel. In Iraq, while a majority of the estimated six million people displaced by the ISIL crisis have returned to areas of origin, ongoing support is needed to help those who are mostly unable to return achieve durable solutions.
This year, the extremely difficult conditions facing migrants and refugees at the borders between Belarus and Poland and Lithuania – including several thousand Iraqis – highlighted the plight of those who don’t have access to legal means of migration and may put their lives in the hands of unscrupulous smugglers and traffickers.
“Both scenarios show that the promotion of safe migration – as called for by the Global Compact for Migration – is more crucial than ever,” said Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary General for Iraq, and Resident Coordinator. “As Iraq continues to experience complex migratory flows, including return migration from Europe and elsewhere, a focus on migration policies that prioritise respect for human rights and rule of law will be essential.”
In February of this year, the UN Network on Migration welcomed Iraq’s decision to express solidarity with the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration, and with the Network, in becoming a Champion country.
The Government of Iraq has made important strides towards improving migration policy, notably through the development of a National Migration Strategy. The UN Network on Migration will work to support the Government in implementing the Global Compact for Migration and expanding migration governance efforts.
The United Nations Network on Migration in Iraq is coordinated by the International Organization for Migration (IOM); and counts the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR); the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO); the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO); United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO); the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA); the International Labour Organization (ILO); the World Food Programme (WFP); the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC); the UN Population Fund (UNFPA); the UN Office for Project Services (UNOPS); the UN International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF); and the UN Development Programme (UNDP) as members.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/165822-international-migrants-day-2021-statement-un-network-migration-iraq




Date: 15 December 2021
Title: UNFPA, Australian Embassy, IADO celebrate persons with disabilities in Iraq: Laws must be enacted in support of rights of persons with disabilities
Content: 15 December 2021
14 December 2021; Baghdad, Iraq - Today, UNFPA with the Australian Embassy and the Iraqi Alliance of Disability (IADO) celebrated and recognised the rights of persons with disabilities in Iraq.
Persons with disabilities in Iraq have immeasurable potential and can largely contribute to the economy and society bringing compassion, innovation and resilience to their communities. At the same time, they are the ones who have been most impacted by the various crises that hit Iraq and continue to face significant barriers to be fully included and share equal rights.
The public event highlighted the achievements and the challenges faced by persons with disabilities on a daily basis through theatrical and musical performances by men and women and children with disabilities.
Speakers including Mr Adel Al-Rakabi, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Mwafaq Al-Khafaji, Head of IADO, Mr Hussein Arab, Member of Parliament, Ms Paula Ganly, Australian Ambassador to Iraq, and Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative,   highlighted the importance of endorsing and legislating laws that promote the rights of people with disabilities and their access to services, ensuring their effective participation in society. Messages insisted on joining efforts to end stigma and discrimination against all persons with disabilities and ensure their full inclusion.
On behalf of UNFPA, Dr Rita Columbia expressed a commitment to support persons with disabilities, especially women and young people, to receive essential services such as reproductive health, prevention of gender-based violence, and life-skills education.  She thanked IADO, local authorities and donor countries - Australia, Finland, Norway, and Sweden - for partnerships and strengthening disability inclusion in policy and programmes.
UNFPA works closely with the Government of Iraq, the Kurdistan Regional Government, civil society and the international community to promote the rights of women and young people with disabilities to enjoy equal opportunities, live a life free of gender-based violence and enjoy their sexual and reproductive health and rights.
The event ended with selecting disability ambassadors for 2022 and a handicrafts and painting exhibition by people with disabilities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/165217-unfpa-australian-embassy-iado-celebrate-persons-disabilities-iraq-laws-must-be-enacted




Date: 14 December 2021
Title: Project launched to promote inclusive economic growth and job creation in Iraq
Content: 14 December 2021
Baghdad, 14 December 2021 - A ceremony was held to formally launch the `Strengthening the agriculture and agri-food value chain and improving trade policy’ (SAAVI) project. The five-year project worth EUR 22.5 million is funded by the European Union and is being implemented by the International Trade Centre (ITC) in close collaboration with the Government of Iraq and other local partners.
Representatives from public and private sector, innovators, farmers, and development partners attended the event that served as an occasion to discuss opportunities and present solutions to build more inclusive agri-food value chains in the country.
A fast-paced business breakfast opened the day. ITC presented the key findings from the nation-wide market analysis for high potential agri-products. Private sector representatives shared their experiences in the Iraqi market offering ideas to improve the competitiveness of agribusinesses in the country.
A plenary session brought together private sector actors, innovators, farmers, and development partners to discuss opportunities and present solutions to build more inclusive agrifood value chains from ‘farm to fork’. Participants experienced unique flavours and a live ‘cooking demonstration’ using ingredients from the local cuisine by a renowned chef. This was followed by a technical session dedicated to climate change risks and opportunities in Iraqi agrifood value chains concluded the event before the closing remarks.
SAAVI seeks to enhance the competitiveness of agriculture and related activities and improve trade policy in Iraq.  It addresses farm and firm level challenges and strengthens the value chains in the agriculture sector. This is done through the elaboration of strategies for high potential products, by building productive and commercial agricultural value chain analysis, while introducing upgrades in the production and marketing systems through capacity building to farmers and firms, the provision of a wide range of business development services, and technical agriculture training, among others. By fostering more competitive food systems, SAAVI also makes a considerable difference in enhancing food security through the improvement of people’s access to sufficient, safe, and nutritious food.
SAAVI also builds the capacities of micro, small, and medium enterprises and broadens the knowledge and skills base for youth including training on entrepreneurship and business skills. Through SAAVI, technical and vocational skills programmes are also strengthened to better match the needs of the private sector.
Support is given to policymakers and key institutions involved in the WTO accession process, including capacity building on trade negotiation, policy formulation, and coordination.  WTO membership will help Iraq to complete domestic policy and reforms for the modernization of its business environment and achieve effective integration into global economy. Since the process of negotiation towards WTO accession is unique to each country, project activities will assist officials throughout the process.
Speaking at the ceremony, Ms. Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation, European Union Delegation to Iraq said "The EU is proud to support the Iraqi government and its people in the development of the agricultural sector. SAAVI is a very important project that will provide an example of how public and private sector can work together in order to successfully promote diversification in Iraq by supporting agricultural value chains."
Dr Mahdi Al Jubori, Iraq’s Deputy Minister for Agriculture and other high level government representatives participated in the launch ceremony.
Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano UN Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator also participated.
Ms. Pamela Coke Hamilton, Executive Director of the International Trade Centre in her message on the occasion said, “Together with the EU and the government of Iraq, ITC is excited to work with MSMEs in Iraq to increase their competitiveness. We see improved food production as a pathway to diversify the economy and create jobs. This can also support Iraq’s accession to the WTO. In this way, SAAVI is contributing to inclusive, sustainable, and resilient growth in Iraq.”
In his speech, Mr. Eric Buchot, who leads the SAAVI project highlighted that “SAAVI builds the capacities and brings together key economic and institutional actors across the agrifood industry to enable Iraqi producers and firms to compete and connect to their own market”.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/165133-project-launched-promote-inclusive-economic-growth-and-job-creation-iraq




Date: 14 December 2021
Title: Sustainable Living in Iraq: A Milestone 1,000 SMEs Financed Through IOM’s Enterprise Development Fund
Content: 14 December 2021
Baghdad – At the conclusion of Iraq’s devastating conflict with the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), small and medium enterprises (SMEs) found themselves without access to the finance necessary to rebuild in the wake of the war’s large-scale destruction.
In 2018, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Iraq launched the Enterprise Development Fund (EDF), a financing mechanism to provide SMEs with access to capital to stimulate their recovery and growth and increase their demand for workers.
Since then, the EDF has supported 1,000 Iraqi businesses across the country to help create 4,975 jobs for men and women, returnees and host community members alike, in key economic sectors. On 14 December 2021, IOM Iraq marked this achievement with a ceremony in Baghdad.
“In the face of wide-spread economic decline in Iraq, celebrating such progress supports momentum for economic recovery across the country, particularly in locations with large displaced and returnee populations,” said IOM Iraq Chief of Mission Giorgi Gigauri. “As 2021 ends, we can see many opportunities to support decent, sustainable work opportunities in Iraq’s private sector. IOM is thankful for the collaboration with the Government of Iraq and our partners to carry out this innovative and essential programming.”
The EDF uses a demand-driven, market-based approach to identify businesses with the greatest chance of success to grow and create jobs. Regular research allows IOM Iraq to continuously adapt and improve to target critical sectors – such as agriculture and renewable energy – and specific groups – such as women entrepreneurs and SMEs combatting the spread of COVID-19.
Jobs don’t just increase income and stimulate spending; they also give people a sense of purpose and dignity. The ability to make a sustainable living is also a key factor in decisions to migrate and return.
Since the programme’s start, EDF grantees have hired 753 women into full-time, paid employment; and 92% of people hired by EDF grantees were either unemployed (55%) or in unstable daily employment (37%) previously. Efforts also aim to protect workers by promoting employment contracts, minimum wages and a focus on safety in the workplace.
Interventions will continue to evolve to respond to emerging challenges and opportunities. The EDF program has been supported by the governments of the United States, Japan, Germany and the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and by the European Union and Korea International Cooperation Agency.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/165141-sustainable-living-iraq-milestone-1000-smes-financed-through-iom%E2%80%99s-enterprise-development




Date: 14 December 2021
Title: WFP and partners revive olive production in Iraq
Content: 14 December 2021
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and partners have inaugurated a new olive press machine as part of economic regeneration efforts for the local community in Bashiqa, Iraq. WFP, the Governor’s office, Mayor’s office, the Bashiqa Olive Association and Samaritan’s Purse’s aim is to bring this renowned olive-producing community back to the levels of production before conflict and connect producers to markets.
“It’s time for this community to bounce back and build on its enormous economic potential,” said Ally-Raza Qureshi, WFP Iraq Representative.
“Supporting the revival of olive production is part of WFP’s durable solutions, rural development work to ensure that the most vulnerable people are not left behind.”
WFP and Samaritan’s Purse organised training for 80 Olive Association leaders and farmers, on selecting the best olive tree varieties for optimum oil production, olive agroforestry systems, effective irrigation, harvesting and mechanisation, as well as olive oil extraction, with a focus on medicinal properties. WFP and partners also created new information sharing groups among local olive producers, so they can easily continue to share best practice and lessons learned.
The initiative also includes market linkages created by WFP and partners such that when products are ready to sell, the sales channels are also in place, creating a circle of sustainable supply and demand.
WFP and partners have planted nearly 13,000 olive, fig, pomegranate, pear trees and grape vines in the area, and are supporting people to start up small businesses in Bashiqa and across the country. WFP provides complementary support to communities across Iraq which are affected by conflict and climate change. Several women’s cooperatives have been set up and are successfully selling local products.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/165122-wfp-and-partners-revive-olive-production-iraq




Date: 14 December 2021
Title: With High Official and Popular Presence, FAO Organizes Various Activities in Baashiqa, FAOR Receives The Medal of Excellence
Content: 14 December 2021
FAO has ascended further through the intervention of the project “Support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh Governorate, Iraq”, funded by the European Union, hosting various activities with high official and popular participation in the Assyrian Cultural Center in Bashiqa district, on Thursday, 9-12-2021.
The events were attended by the Representative and Technical Undersecretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Mithaq Abdul-Hussein Obaid, FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan, the FAO Senior International Livestock Expert, Dr. Chedly Kayouli, and the Representative of Nineveh Governor and Director of Bashiqa district, Mr. Thanoun Younis, Deputy Director of Nineveh Directorate of Agriculture, Abdullah Saeed Hammo on behalf of the Director of Nineveh Agriculture, the President of the Local Union of Agricultural and Cooperative Societies - Nineveh Branch, Sheikh Abdul Hamid Fathi Al-Rashidi, and a number of extension cadres from the governorates of Najaf and Karbala, along with cadres of the Nineveh Agriculture Directorate, as well as a large number of FAO partners.
The Opening Ceremony set off with welcoming speech followed with Iraqi national anthem. Then Dr. Mithaq Abdul-Hussein conveyed to the attendees the greetings of the Minister of Agriculture, Muhammad Karim Al-Khafaji, saying “We, as the Ministry of Agriculture, salute everyone who contributed to this project, which began in Nineveh and will then move to the South. Nineveh was the nucleus of the project, which impressed everyone who witnessed its interventions on the ground”.
He showed appreciation to the efforts made by the successfull families through their participation in the training courses on new techniques. He also said that the adversities and obstacles the families of Nineveh and throughout the governorates faced, motivated the families to overcome them by developing quality products and upgrading the local products, which the Ministry of Agriculture has shown its willingness to support decisions that are in the interest of the Iraqi producer and the consumer at the same time.
“Finally, I say that today we are here to celebrate this success achieved by FAO with financial support from the European Union, and fully supported by Ministry of Agriculture staff”, he concluded his speech.
FAO Representative Dr. Salah, greeted the participants delivering his welcoming speech, commenting on the FAO project “There is no doubt that the interventions carried out within the Project, has resonated widely with the public, from local officials, farmers and livestock breeders in Nineveh and throughout Iraq. The remarkable achievements that covered a large segment of the farmers of Nineveh Governorate, especially the displaced returnee farmers to their areas, whom the project helped in settling them back into their lands, which changed their thinking to migrate out of the country and Nineveh Governorate in particular. The project contributed to improving income and supporting more than 4,000 producers.
The Representative of the Nineveh Governor, Mr. Thanoun Younis, the Director of Baashiqa district, praised the FAO experience, especially in the Nineveh Plains. He said to be fully aware of the achievements through his strong presence in Bashiqa, Bartella and Al-Hamdaniya districts and his direct contact with farmers and livestock breeders.
On behalf of the Director of Nineveh Agriculture, Mr. Abdullah Saeed Hamo, the Deputy Director of Nineveh Agriculture, pointed out the success of the FAO project that has had a clear impact on improving the agricultural reality, both plant and animal sectors.
FAO Senior International Livestock Expert, D. Chedly Kayouli said, “Today we celebrate together with extension cadres of the Nineveh Agriculture Directorate the distribution of sprinklers to the beneficiaries of the FAO-EU funded project. This especially appreciated with the drought hitting the region hard. We supported livestock breeders with sprinklers to increase the local production of fodder, as well as adopting economical system with irrigation water.
During his speech, The President of the Local Union of Agricultural and Cooperative Societies - Nineveh Branch, Sheikh Abdul Hamid Fathi Al-Rashidi stated, “We are pleased with the FAO support to the farmers, and for this reason, on behalf of the farmers, I present the Medal of Excellence to each of the official attendees from the Ministry of Agriculture and FAO Representatives, Dr. Salah Hajj Hassan and FAO Expert D. Chedly Kayouli”.
Afterwards, the attendees displayed their local products in the dairy exhibition held by them at the center.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/165183-high-official-and-popular-presence-fao-organizes-various-activities-baashiqa-faor-receives




Date: 13 December 2021
Title: Second Phase of the Return of Remains of Yazidi Victims of ISIL Concludes
Content: 13 December 2021
Remains of Yazidi Victims of ISIL Reunited with their Families in Kojo
Kojo, December 12, 2021 – Bringing a glimpse of solace to hundreds of Yazidi families and survivors, the Iraqi Government and the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) returned the remains of 41 Yazidi victims recovered from mass grave sites in Kojo.
The burial ceremony took place on 9 December 2021 and was attended by representatives of the Iraqi Federal Government, the Kurdistan Regional Government, local authorities and Special Adviser and Head of UNITAD Christian Ritscher.
The ceremony was joined by the families of the victims, Yazidi religious leaders, community representatives and thousands of Yazidi; many who traveled from abroad to give their loved ones a proper burial according to their religious and cultural tradition.
“Putting some soil on our beloved ones is a relief for us despite the hurt. Now we know what their destiny is, and where their grave is so we can visit and mourn” a relative of one identified Yazidi victim said.
Upon his arrival, Special Adviser Ritscher offered his condolences to Yazidi female survivors and families of the victims and assured them that UNITAD will continue to work in partnership with the Medical Legal Directorate and the Mass Graves Directorate to support the DNA-based identification of the victims remains and return them to their next of kin.
In his statement during the ceremony, Mr. Ritscher commended the work of all those who helped identify the victims, particularly the work of Iraqi federal authorities and authorities in the Kurdistan region. He reiterated UNITAD’s commitment to holding ISIL perpetrators accountable for the crimes committed against the Yazidi and all communities in Iraq.
“The resilience and determination of the Yazidi community, of Yazidi women and girls in particular are truly inspiring in their demand for justice and accountability for ISIL’s horrifying brutality” he added.
Mr. Ritscher acknowledged that the wheels of justice turn slowly but highlighted the significant progress UNITAD achieved this year. He recalled that the Team informed the United Nations Security Council last May that it had found, based on clear and convincing evidence, that genocide was committed by ISIL against the Yazidi as a religious group. He also highlighted how the recent conviction of an ISIL individual in Germany for the crime of genocide was “the first judgment in which these crimes against the Yazidi community are called what they are: genocide”.
“UNITAD will continue to build on this successful partnership with national authorities, you the impacted communities and non-governmental organizations so we can together overcome the many hurdles faced in delivering justice for ISIL crimes” the Special Adviser said.
Adorned with a photo of each victim and wrapped with the Iraqi flag, each coffin was carried to the burial area by Iraqi soldiers. Families were then able to say their final goodbyes before laying their loved ones to rest.
In response to the emotional and psychological toll such events are expected to take on the families and the survivors, psychosocial support was provided on site – facilitated by UNITAD and led by the International Organization for Migration (IOM), Yazda, Emma Organization, Free Yezidi Foundation, Nadia’s Initiative and Norwegian Christian Aid.
This funeral and commemorative ceremony held in Kojo, Sinjar on 9 December 2021 is the second phase of returning the human remains of ISIL victims for dignified burial, by their relatives and community. The first ceremony was held in February of this year. It follows large-scale excavations of mass graves, including the Solagh mass grave which is often referred to as the mothers’ grave.
The identification of the victims’ remains happens through a series of campaigns that encourage the families of the victims to register their missing relatives with the national authorities and provide information as well as DNA reference samples for identification. The Medical Legal Directorate is organizing a campaign in Kojo between 10 and 15 December 2021. All relatives with missing persons are encouraged to take the opportunity to participate in these campaigns to accelerate the identification of more victims, especially relatives who have travelled from overseas. UNITAD is also planning to support a similar campaign among the Yazidi community in Berlin, in cooperation with the Iraqi authorities.
Besides being an important moment on the path to healing for the families of the victims, the identification of remains help build forensic evidence that links the crimes committed against those victims to the ISIL perpetrators, and thus help in turning the tide from impunity to justice.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/164917-second-phase-return-remains-yazidi-victims-isil-concludes




Date: 13 December 2021
Title: UNFPA opens Two New Family Planning Centres of Excellence and One-Stop Assistance Centre
Content: 13 December 2021
13 December 2021; Baghdad, Iraq - UNFPA, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs opened this month a one-stop assistance centre (OSAC) in Kirkuk with support from Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA).
The Centre is integrated at a primary health care facility and provides comprehensive gender-based violence services including referrals for women and girls. UNFPA will continue building skills and expertise of service providers on integrated protection and gender-based violence services in Kirkuk using the established facility and connecting communities to OSAC.
“I cannot imagine what it is like for internally displaced persons, returnees, refugees and host communities to be going through these conditions away from their homes and families in the middle of the Pandemic. I hope that they get over all the difficulties they suffer and live a life they dream of, with this One-Stop Assistance Centre,” said KOICA Iraq County Director, Mr Cho Hyeong Lae.
In addition, two family planning centres of excellence were established in Erbil and Kirkuk by the Ministry of Health and Environment and the Ministry of Health, in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and UNFPA with support from Sweden and the UK and will open three more in Duhok, Sulaymaniyah and Basra by the end of 2021.
The opening of such centres is one of the essential steps towards universal access to high-quality family planning services for families and women. The centres will serve as a capacity development platform for health providers in governorates, an innovative lab on family planning and a place where women can receive an integrated package of health services including high-quality family planning services.
In 2022, with support from the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FDCO), UNFPA will open five more family planning centres of excellence in line with the National Birth Spacing and Family Planning Strategy.
Commenting on the initiative, the British Ambassador to Iraq, HE Mark Bryson-Richardson, said: “The UK is excited to support the implementation of Iraq’s Family Planning Strategy and to see local communities, particularly women and girls, have access to quality health care provision.”
For her part, UNFPA Representative to Iraq, Dr Rita Columbia said: “All women and girls in Iraq have a right to be protected and have access to good quality health services. Relying on human rights and survivor-centred approaches, these centres will offer families, women and girls the information and services they need on health, including reproductive health and on how to gender-based violence prevention and response.”
*******
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe, and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/164975-unfpa-opens-two-new-family-planning-centres-excellence-and-one-stop-assistance-centre




Date: 13 December 2021
Title: UNHCR and AsiaHawala launch partnership and winter fundraising campaign to support displaced people and refugees in Iraq
Content: 13 December 2021
IRAQ ,12 December 2021 - Today, Adel Essam Hameed, Deputy CEO of AsiaHawala and Jean-Nicolas Beuze, Representative of UNHCR in Iraq, signed a partnership agreement to launch fundraising campaigns to support Syrian and other refugees and Iraqi families displaced by armed violence in the past in Iraq.
AsiaHawala and UNHCR announced the launch of the winter fundraising campaign, the first of a series of seasonal campaigns, throughout Iraq. All received donations will be used to provide essential cash assistance to the most vulnerable displaced families in the country. With this financial assistance, families will be able to pay their rent, buy food or medicines and keep warm during the winter months by buying extra clothes or kerosene.
“This partnership shows the contribution of the private sector to the humanitarian response in Iraq. By joining hands, we can help more displaced families to go through their current dire living conditions. We all need to stand together to give warmth to those trying to survive the cold winter,” said Jean-Nicolas.
“AsiaHawala is proud to partner with UNHCR to assist the most vulnerable refugees and displaced people during the winter season. This partnership comes as part of AsiaHawala's efforts to stand by the most vulnerable,” said Adel.
As winter closes in, over 1.2 million IDPs and 290,000 refugees in Iraq suffer from the extremely cold weather, with many not having the financial resources for basic items like kerosene or winter clothes to keep their homes and families warm. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively and heavily impacted the economic situation of IDP and refugee families in Iraq, leaving many in debt and in desperate need of humanitarian support.
-End-
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/164919-unhcr-and-asiahawala-launch-partnership-and-winter-fundraising-campaign-support-displaced




Date: 13 December 2021
Title: UNICEF and the College of Education for Women commemorate the International Children’s Day and UNICEF’s 75 anniversary – Research for investing in children - the future of Iraq
Content: 13 December 2021
The two institutions celebrate together their first academic conference to shed light on the threatening effects of wars, crises, and the pandemic on child’s wellbeing and poverty
Baghdad, 12 December 2021 – UNICEF and College of Education for Women (CoEduW) of the University of Baghdad (UoB) will be holding together their first joint scientific conference titled “Childhood and Sustainable Development: Investing in the Future of Iraq” on Sunday, 12 December 2021, at 9:30 am at Al-Mustafa Hall in CoEduW in Jadiriya campus to celebrate the International Children’s day and 75th UNICEF anniversary, thanks to the support of the Government of Germany.
As part of the event, the UNICEF OiC Representative, Paula Bulancea, the President of University of Baghdad, Prof. Dr. Muneer Hameed Al-Sa’ady, and Dean of College of Education for Women, Prof. Dr. Isaac S. Al-Akaam, will be in attendance. The conference will aim to (1) shed light on the threatening effects of wars, crises, and the pandemic on children wellbeing and poverty; (2) present the nature of the relationship between poverty, multiple deprivations, marginalization and ensuring every child’s rights to survive and thrive; (3) determine the impact of the demographic, health, environment, and educational background on the quality and sustainability of children’s life; (4) bridge the gap between research and institutions by providing decision makers with recommendations and proposals that will help to contribute to the alleviation of child poverty and improving their quality of life in the society.
This is the first event following the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed on 28 September by both institutions, by which UNICEF partnered with the CoEduW to support the generation of evidence and research and to institutionalize capacity development for the graduates and the workforce engaged in the social sectors focused on children.
UNICEF is offering technical expertise and logistical support to Iraqi scientific and educational institutions to build sustainable think tanks and training curriculum needed by decision makers and institutions to support national policies, future budgeting and programming for the country in key sectors relevant for children including social protection, health, child protection, and education.
###
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org.
Follow UNICEF on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/164923-unicef-and-college-education-women-commemorate-international-children%E2%80%99s-day-and-unicef%E2%80%99s-75




Date: 13 December 2021
Title: WFP collaborates with Iraqi universities to improve resilience as part of Zero Hunger efforts
Content: 13 December 2021
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) is collaborating with Iraqi academic institutions including the University of Basra, the University of Mosul and the University of Sulaymaniyah on activities aimed at reducing the risk of food insecurity in vulnerable communities through resilience building and climate change adaptation. The collaboration is part of efforts to make progress towards Strategic Development Goal (SDG) 2 “Zero Hunger.”
WFP signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the College of Agriculture – University of Basra focusing on creating opportunities for new graduates through capacity strengthening and training sessions for youth, with an aim to improve people’s food security. Together, WFP and the University of Basra launched a business incubator project to encourage youth to carve a path in entrepreneurship.
“The business incubator project launched by the University of Basra, in collaboration with WFP is an important first step towards utilising youth energies,” said the Dean of University of Basra, Dr. Sajid al-Noor. “The absence of work opportunities for fresh graduates for a number of years is a true waste of their potential and this project to fund graduate projects and create jobs is one of our innovative solutions.”
In parallel, WFP signed an MoU with the University of Mosul, to improve focusing resilience-building interventions on the most vulnerable groups, including those affected by climate change, and tailoring efforts to match the evolving needs of people who returned home after years of displacement. The University of Mosul is also assisting WFP via facilitating and supporting discussions with academic institutions all over the world, highlighting on the global level the needs of Iraqis in and around Mosul.
“We are engaging the power of Iraqi academia in our programming, to improve and streamline our assistance to families most in need,” said WFP Iraq Representative, Ally-Raza Qureshi. “Iraq is by tradition an academically rich country, and we hope that our partnerships with universities will yield results that best meet the needs of vulnerable communities, through work opportunities, help to confront climate change, all paving the way for more active collaboration with academic institutions.”
In the Kurdistan Region, WFP continues to collaborate closely with the University of Sulaymaniyah on the ‘Empowerment in Action’ (EMPACT): digital skills and English training youth project. Since 2017, WFP has been able to support tens of thousands of vulnerable youths and their families through skills development, building young people’s confidence and enabling them to access work opportunities online. Sulaymaniyah is one of several locations where WFP and partners run the EMPACT initiative, including Anbar, Baghdad, Duhok, Erbil and Mosul.
WFP intends to continue such productive collaboration with the academic sector and harness the existing capacities of institutions in Iraq, working to enhance them, and partner towards achieving food security in the country and ultimately Zero Hunger.
#                 #                   #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Iraq @wfp_mena @wfpgovts
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/164916-wfp-collaborates-iraqi-universities-improve-resilience-part-zero-hunger-efforts




Date: 10 December 2021
Title: UNFPA, UN Women and WED joint conference “ Let’s Talk: Ending gender-based violence in Iraq” raised commitments of stakeholders to protect, prevent and respond to GBV
Content: 10 December 2021
9 December 2021; Baghdad, Iraq - “Let’s Talk: Ending gender-based violence in Iraq” conference brought the attention of the policymakers, civil society, activities, academia, donors, and the private sector to the outstanding issues of violence against women and women’s rights in Iraq.
Despite the progress made in Iraq, including the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, gender-based violence is still increasing in the country amid the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic crisis:  the situation requires new and ambitious solutions, agreed the panellists and attendees.
The dialogue between the officials, donors, female activists, young people, academia, business and media representatives highlighted the successful practices and potential new solutions for preventing any form of violence against women in society. Everybody agreed on the significant role of education and value system that forms gender sensitivity and norms among the young generation and families; men and boys engagement was mentioned as one of the key factors of eliminating gender-based violence, and a need for stronger partnership between public and private sectors when it comes to gender-based violence elimination.
Freedom from violence will help women and girls reach their educational and professional goals; achieve economic independence; build careers, and contribute to the development of their communities and society at large.
Finding solutions to reduce and respond to gender-based violence is not only vital to the lives and well-being of women and girls, and societies, but to the successful implementation of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals in this  Decade of Action.
At the end of the event, change-makers, innovators, influencers, teachers, youth leaders, as role models in the society, made commitments to change and take action within the communities.
The “Let’s Talk Conference” was conducted within the 16 Days of Activism Violence against women, creating an opportunity to bring the voices from Iraq into the global stream of conversations about rights, choices and women empowerment.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/164637-unfpa-un-women-and-wed-joint-conference-%E2%80%9C-let%E2%80%99s-talk-ending-gender-based-violence-iraq%E2%80%9D




Date: 10 December 2021
Title: Together to end impunity for violence committed against women and girls in Iraq
Content: 10 December 2021
Baghdad, 10 December 2021 – To mark the end of this year’s campaign of 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence, on 6 December, the Iraqi Women Network, Iraqi al Amal Association and the Human Rights Office of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq brought together Iraqis from a broad range of professions, united by the common objective to end gender-based violence.
Participants emphasized the importance of community engagement working towards the common goal to end violence against women and girls, and the need for collective actions to advocate for the enactment of legislation to criminalize domestic-violence and to ensure accountability for crimes committed based on gender-based violence.
In addition, there is a need to increase the awareness raising activities to end violence against women and girls and criminalize domestic violence already ongoing reaching all parts of Iraq society by women rights activists, including with the support of the United Nations, and judges, doctors, lawyers, academics, journalists, religious leaders, tribal elders, and civil society activists. They have been at the forefront of advocacy campaigns to sensitize the public, members of parliament, government, justice institutions, and the security sector to the prevalence of this violation and the importance of providing redress to victims.
The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly exacerbated all the risk factors for violence against women and girls, including unemployment and poverty, and has reinforced many of the root causes of such violence, such as negative gender stereotypes and harmful social norms.
This new reality of enhanced risk reinforces the urgent need to criminalize domestic violence, to hold perpetrators accountable, and strengthen the support system for survivors.
Consistent with the principles of the global campaign and recognizing the commendable efforts by the Government to address gender-based violence, we re-affirm our commitment to:
Progress can only be achieved through a collective and mutually reinforcing effort by government institutions and civil society to: adopt national laws and mechanisms that protect women and girls from gender-based violence; end impunity; empower women; and enhance their participation in peacebuilding, societal cohesion, and sustainable development programs.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/164636-together-end-impunity-violence-committed-against-women-and-girls-iraq




Date: 09 December 2021
Title: Security Council Press Statement on Recent Terrorist Attacks in Iraq
Content: 09 December 2021
The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the recent cowardly terrorist attacks in Iraq.  The members of the Security Council condemned the terrorist attack in Basra, Iraq, on Tuesday, 7 December 2021.
The attack resulted in at least four deaths and at least 20 injured.  The members of the Security Council also condemned the terrorist attack in northern Iraq, on Friday, 3 December 2021. The attack, which was claimed by Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL/Da’esh), resulted in at least 13 deaths.
The members of the Security Council expressed their deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims and to the Government of Iraq, and they wished a speedy and full recovery to those who were injured.
The members of the Security Council reiterated their support for the independence, sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity, democratic process and prosperity of Iraq.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security.
The members of the Security Council underlined the need to hold perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism accountable and bring them to justice, and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Government of Iraq and all other relevant authorities in this regard.
The members of the Security Council reiterated that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed.  They reaffirmed the need for all States to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and other obligations under international law, including international human rights law, international refugee law and international humanitarian law, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed their support for Iraq’s security and the continued fight against terrorism, including against ISIL/Da’esh.

8 December 2021

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/164198-security-council-press-statement-recent-terrorist-attacks-iraq




Date: 09 December 2021
Title: Joint efforts to combat corruption in Iraq
Content: 09 December 2021
9 December 2021, Baghdad, Iraq –The fight against corruption requires collective action with the full participation of public authorities, the private sector, civil society, the media, and all citizens. It will be essential all actors coordinate and synergize their efforts to enhance effectiveness and achieve significant results for the country.
International Anti-Corruption Day is observed annually on 9 December since the General Assembly adopted the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) in 2003. Attitudes on corruption are changing, as people worldwide stand publicly against corruption as never before.
Corruption affects all segments of society. Combatting corruption underpins progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals, helps protect the environment, creates jobs and inclusive growth, increases gender equality, and supports access to essential, basic services such as education and healthcare.
The 2021 International Anti-Corruption Day seeks to highlight the obligations and responsibilities of all stakeholders – including states, government officials, law enforcement officers, media representatives, the private sector, civil society, academia, citizens, and youth – in tackling corruption. The theme of the International Anti-Corruption Day 2021 is "Your right, your role: say no to corruption" to raise awareness about the effects of corruption in times of crisis and stress that recovery can only be obtained with integrity and accountability.
This year, the European Union Delegation to Iraq, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Iraqi federal and Kurdistan regional institutions united their efforts in the joint initiative entitled “Fostering justice to curb corruption and promote arbitration in Iraq” which was officially launched in May 2021. This project aims to bolster transparency and public accountability, supports Iraq to deliver on its national and international commitments concerning the fight against corruption, enhance the Iraqi legislative and strategic core for combatting corruption, support the justice sector to better process corruption offences, and foster and empower Iraqi civil society to take a more active role.
The Ambassador of the European Union to Iraq, H.E. Ville Varjola, affirms: “Accountable government lies at the heart of the European Union and our values. Today, on the International Anti-Corruption Day, we stand united with the Iraqi people in its demand for transparency and good governance. Through this EU-funded initiative, we are working closely with the Iraqi government to respond to this call for change. To ensure the success of this project, I count on the strong ownership and engagement of the Iraqi state institutions and civil society alike.”
“Anti-corruption efforts, alongside the promotion of more sustainable, inclusive forms of economic growth, are overwhelming public demands: by heeding these calls, Iraqi political leaders can help build lasting solutions for unrest and conflict,” said the Deputy Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq, Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator, Irena Vojáčkova-Sollorano.
UNDP Resident Representative for Iraq, Ms Zena Ali Ahmed stressed: “We are encouraged that federal and KRI authorities have initiated measures to improve the public transparency of state institutions by opening discussion on federal and regional access to information legislations. The right to know is crucial in enabling citizens to actively take part in the fight against corruption.”

Background:
International Anti-Corruption Day
The UN General Assembly designated 9 December as International Anti-Corruption Day to raise awareness of corruption and the Convention's role in combating and preventing it. The Convention entered into force in December 2005.
The Support to justice initiatives curbing corruption and promoting commercial dispute resolution Project (hereinafter, Anti-Corruption & Arbitration in Iraq, ACAI) is EU-funded and builds on Iraq's national efforts to improve transparency and accountability across state institutions and supports Iraq to deliver to its national and international commitments regarding the fight against corruption, to support the Iraqi institutions in the revision of national anti-corruption laws, promote their alignment with international standards, and provide specialised on-demand training and mentorship opportunities for corruption investigators and integrity judges.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/164214-joint-efforts-combat-corruption-iraq




Date: 08 December 2021
Title: Iraq’s first National Youth Volunteering Platform is Launched
Content: 08 December 2021
The online platform will be a key tool for youth to access equal and inclusive opportunities in their communities, while improving their skills and potentials.
BAGHDAD, 8 December 2021- The launch of the National Youth Volunteering Platform (NYVP), a new innovative tool that allows young people in Iraq to be matched to volunteer opportunities, was announced today by the Ministry of Youth and Sports in Federal Iraq, the Ministry of Culture and Youth in Kurdistan Region of Iraq, and UNICEF, in collaboration with United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme, thanks to the support of the Government of Germany.
The National Youth Volunteering Platform will establish for the first time in Iraq a structured volunteering program and will give young people a chance to register, search and apply for volunteer activities in line with their skills and interests. These opportunities will be provided by various partners and organizations, including private companies, non-governmental organizations, and institutions. UNICEF will manage the operationalization of the platform, with the support of the two ministries, and UNV will conduct capacity building and skills development program for youth volunteers.
“Volunteering is about giving, sharing, standing with others and supporting important issues in society in order to achieve building a better future for all. Volunteer work is one of the most vital mechanisms in achieving social, environmental, economic, sports transformation and institutional work, and young volunteers become active agents of change and equal partners to achieve local, national and international progress towards sustainable human development and global peace”, said Adnan Darjal, Minister of Youth and Sports.
“This platform is a decisive step to ensure young people can engage with their communities in the most effective way possible to bring social change while also equipping them with skills that will improve their chances to access the labor market”, said Paula Bulancea, OiC UNICEF Representative in Iraq.
“The National Youth Volunteering Platform opens doors for young Iraqis to engage in serving their community, contribute to achieving lasting peace and localizing SDGs. Besides, this platform aims at building youth volunteers capacities to equip them with necessary soft skills for successful assignment and which also prepares them for the post assignment period”, said Ahmed Alsultan, UNV Country Coordinator.
Following the celebration on December 5 of the International Volunteering Day 2021, under the theme “Volunteer now for our common future”, the platform promotes volunteering, encourages governments to support volunteering efforts and recognizes these contributions to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
This platform will target mainly Iraqi youth, boys and girls, between the ages of 15 and 24 years, including UNICEF-supported youth groups, with a focus on the most vulnerable and marginalized groups, such as youth who are not in employment, education or training (NEET), youth affected by conflict and violence, and youth with disabilities.
Furthermore, youth volunteerism largely contributes to the transition of societies by leading action that addresses challenges at the grassroots, providing an opportunity for youth to have a pivotal role to play in peacebuilding and social cohesion efforts.
UNICEF works in Iraq with the Government and other key national partners to accelerate a bold results-driven youth agenda in the country by creating an enabling environment, providing access to skills-building and engagement opportunities, as well as youth inclusion in decision-making processes.
###
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children and young people. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
Follow UNICEF on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.
###
About the United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme
The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme is the UN organization which contributes to peace and development through volunteerism worldwide. Volunteerism is a powerful means of engaging people in tackling development challenges, and it can transform the pace and nature of development. UNV is administered by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/164146-iraq%E2%80%99s-first-national-youth-volunteering-platform-launched




Date: 08 December 2021
Title: Infrastructure projects for socio-economic development in Iraq accelerated with partnership renewal between UNDP Iraq and JICA
Content: 08 December 2021
Baghdad, 07 December 2021 – UNDP Iraq and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) have signed a renewed partnership agreement to monitor and support acceleration of the implementation of socio-economic infrastructure projects in Iraq. The projects are implemented by the Government of Iraq (GoI) with loan assistance from JICA with the aim of improving the economic recovery and living conditions of Iraqi communities.
Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq Zena Ali Ahmad emphasizes, “This 11th renewal of JICA – UNDP partnership agreement is a demonstration of confidence and strong partnership showing the solid commitment of the Government and People of Japan. UNDP and JICA will work together to support the Government of Iraq in achieving and laying the foundation for growth in key service sectors, with focus on electricity infrastructure, water and sanitation, oil, transportation, and health.”
JICA Chief Representative Kei Toyama states, “Since 2009, UNDP has been an important partner for JICA in Iraq. JICA and UNDP had jointly supported for the enhancement of the project management capacity of our Iraqi counterparts to overcome many challenges by close monitoring and various trainings.  We look forward that our partnership will further contribute to the acceleration of the implementation of GoI’s projects under our joint support in this 11th agreement.”
Despite the challenges imposed by COVID-19, two major Official Development Assistance Loan projects in electricity and fertilizer production sectors were completed during the first half of 2021 with support from JICA, adding 330 Megawatts from Al-Mussayab Thermal Power Plant in Babil governorate to the national grid and an increased  annual output of 300,000 tons of urea fertilizer from the rehabilitation of one production line against the previous two-lines production of 180,000 tons from the South Fertilizer Company in Khor Al-Zubair, Basra Governorate, feeding reliable supply of urea fertilizer to 50% of local market demand.
Through signing this agreement, the GoI, JICA and UNDP reaffirm their commitment to improve the state of national infrastructure, public services, and private sector development, advancing Iraq closer to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/164141-infrastructure-projects-socio-economic-development-iraq-accelerated-partnership-renewal




Date: 07 December 2021
Title: Germany Increases Support to Boost Employment Opportunities in Iraq with New EUR 18m Contribution
Content: 07 December 2021
Baghdad, 07 December 2021: Germany and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have today signed a EUR 18.29 million agreement (US$ 21.78 million) to boost employment and economic opportunities for vulnerable communities in Iraq.
The generous contribution is the second provided to the Building Resilience through Employment Promotion (BREP) project that focuses on strengthening the resilience of vulnerable communities by enhancing their economic empowerment. The project prioritizes vulnerable areas within Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa and Salah Al-Din.
This contribution brings Germany’s total support for the BREP project to EUR 48.29 million (US$ 57.07 million). The contribution is made available by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) with financing provided through Germany’s KfW Development Bank. With this renewed support, Germany has committed more than EUR 543 million to various UNDP-led reconstruction programmes in Iraq over the last six years.
“We are extremely grateful to Germany, one of our longest-standing partners, for this important contribution. This support is vital in ensuring we leave no one behind. Through this funding, at UNDP, we will bolster our efforts towards building resilience by creating sustainable livelihood opportunities for internally displaced persons, returnees and host communities. We hope to provide Iraqis with the opportunity to build forward better after suffering from years of conflict and instability,” said Zena Ali-Ahmad, UNDP Iraq Resident Representative.
German Chargé d’Affaires Peter Felten stated, “The creation of economic perspectives and employment opportunities is a prerequisite for sustainable recovery and resilience. Through our support to the successful BREP programme in close cooperation with UNDP, Germany helps to provide economic opportunities for people who have been severely affected by conflict. I trust that our engagement will help to create success stories that can be replicated by our Iraqi partners and serve as a blueprint for strengthening resilience of communities and promoting inclusive growth.
“We are very pleased that based on the funding by the German government, KfW is able to provide this grant of 18.3M EUR for BREP. With this additional amount, we will continue to strengthen the resilience of vulnerable communities by enhancing their economic empowerment and the reconstruction of conflict affected regions of Iraq,” Dr. Anna-Christine Janke, Director of KfW Office Iraq, added.
Through BREP, the support from Germany will provide Iraqis with short and medium-term employment opportunities, enhancing skills in economically promising sectors such as construction and agriculture and strengthening the private sector through boosting small and medium enterprises.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/163896-germany-increases-support-boost-employment-opportunities-iraq-new-eur-18m-contribution




Date: 07 December 2021
Title: UNICEF launches globally a US$9.4 billion emergency funding appeal for children affected by conflict, the climate crisis and COVID-19
Content: 07 December 2021
In Iraq, funds would support essential programs for 1 million people, almost 780,000 of them children, through 2022
Baghdad, 7 December 2021 – UNICEF launched today a record US$9.4 billion emergency funding appeal to reach more than 327 million people – including 177 million children – affected by humanitarian crises and the COVID-19 pandemic worldwide.
The appeal is 31 per cent larger than last year’s as humanitarian needs continue to grow.
“Millions of children around the world are suffering from the impacts of conflict, extreme weather events and the climate crisis,” said UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore. “As the COVID-19 pandemic approaches its third year, the plight of these children is made even worse with faltering economies, growing poverty and rising inequality. As always, it is the children already living through crises who are the hardest hit. They need urgent help.”
In Iraq, as part of the appeal, UNICEF is requesting US$ 52.2 million in 2022 to meet the critical and acute humanitarian needs of vulnerable children and families affected by a combination of humanitarian situations, including protracted crisis due to conflict, political instability and the COVID-19 situation.
In addition, as part of the Syrian Refugees Appeal, UNICEF is requesting US$11,664,429 for 2022 and the same amount for 2023 to respond to the most immediate needs of Syrian refugees and vulnerable host communities in Iraq, while helping to mitigate the ongoing negative effects of COVID-19. The appeal would serve to reach 115,113 Syrian refugees in Iraq, 72,669 of them children.
This year’s funding appeal, UNICEF’s largest ever, also comes as escalating conflicts have pushed millions more children and their communities to the brink. Attacks on children living in countries in conflict, including attacks on civilian infrastructure critical for children’s survival, are continuing at an alarming rate. Close to 24,000 grave violations against children were confirmed last year, or 72 violations a day.
Climate change is worsening the scale and intensity of emergencies. The number of climate-related disasters has tripled in the last 30 years. Today, over 400 million children live in areas of high, or extremely high, water vulnerability.
As part of its Humanitarian Action for Children which sets out the agency’s 2022 appeal, UNICEF plans to reach:
With support from partners, key results in 2021 included:
This year’s Humanitarian Action for Children Report is launched as part of CY21, a Global Forum for Children and Youth bringing together leaders, experts, change makers and influencers, along with children and youth. The forum aims to accelerate proven and new solutions, inspire commitments to create change, and mobilize knowledge and resources to advance child rights to meet the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030.

###

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
Follow UNICEF on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/163897-unicef-launches-globally-us94-billion-emergency-funding-appeal-children-affected-conflict




Date: 07 December 2021
Title: Chaldean Catholic Archbishop teams up with FAO to support returnees dependent on agricultural livelihoods in the Nineveh Plains
Content: 07 December 2021
“FAO's interventions helped many returnees to their areas and villages – including many Christians”
4 December 2021: A FAO Iraq delegation visited the Chaldean Catholic Cleric and current Archbishop of Erbil, His Eminence Bashar Matti Warda, headed by Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, together with a number of female farmers and milk producers from Bartella and Hamdaniya districts, as well as agricultural extension cadres from the Nineveh Agriculture Directorate.
With financial support from the European Union, FAO is implementing a agricultural livelihoods project for returnees and rural and peri-urban communities in Nineveh Governorate. One of the very successful components is the development of the livestock and milk production chain of the project, implemented in close cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture. The meeting included a mini-exhibition of dairy products produced at the headquarters of the Archdiocese in Ainkawa, Erbil.
During his conversation with the Archbishop, Dr Salah explained the importance of FAO's interventions: “There is no doubt that the interventions carried out within the Project, has resonated widely with the public, from local officials, farmers and livestock breeders in Nineveh and throughout Iraq. The project has supported more than 4,000 families through introduction of new technologies, equipment, other inputs (e.g. seeds, fertilizer, sprinkler irrigation), and training. Also, 35 milk collection and processing centers were rehabilitated that support a total of 1,500 rural women.
Clear evidence has emerged that recently displaced farmers have returned to their area of origin and has given them a reason to stay and farm. The Archbishop thanked FAO and the EU for their support in providing so many families with a secure livelihood. “This is a good example of a project that I - and others – have been asking for since the liberation of Nineveh. Support to families reestablishing themselves is essential to help them return.” He said that about 2,600 Christian families have not yet returned and more needs to be done from the government side to support economic growth. He offered to help by promoting local fresh dairy products with the people in Ainkawa.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/163895-chaldean-catholic-archbishop-teams-fao-support-returnees-dependent-agricultural-livelihoods




Date: 03 December 2021
Title: Special Adviser Ritscher: Potential turning point in efforts to hold ISIL accountable before competent courts
Content: 03 December 2021
Baghdad, 2 December 2021 – In his first briefing to the UN Security Council on the work of the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD), Special Adviser Christian Ritscher emphasized that a potential turning point was being reached in efforts to deliver justice for the victims of ISIL crimes.
“If we strengthen our unity in addressing the inherent challenges that the scale of ISIL criminality presents, I believe we have the opportunity to turn the tide from impunity to justice”, Special Adviser Ritscher said, after reflecting on the progress made by the Investigative Team in the last six months, in cooperation with Iraqi authorities.
He stated that it is now possible to envision a new landscape where criminals who previously believed themselves to be out of reach of justice could be held accountable in a court of law. Thanks to the use of advanced technology to build structural case-briefs and detailed casefiles against ISIL members that link those individuals to specific international crimes.
Mr. Ritscher announced that conclusions had been reached in a key line of investigation into the mass killing of prisoners at Badush Central Prison, with the Team finding that these attacks constituted war crimes and crimes against humanity.  A structural case-brief finalized by the Team could now be used to support domestic prosecutions for these crimes.
The Special Adviser also outlined to Council members that forensic analysis of battlefield evidence collected by the Team showed that ISIL’s development and deployment of chemical weapons reflected a strategic priority implemented in line with a long-term plan.  He noted that more than 3,000 individuals impacted by ISIL chemical weapons attacks had been identified, with local medical records showing children admitted for burns leading to death and longer-term health impacts on communities.  He added that he will present a comprehensive case-brief that details the Team’s findings and legal characterization of ISIL’s chemical weapons programme in his next report to the Council.
He informed the Council that the Team have uncovered the inner workings of the central department responsible for the collection, storage, management, and movement of ISIL treasury. He further confirmed that the Team has been working closely with Iraqi authorities to support the prosecutions of those responsible for ISIL financial crimes.
The Special Adviser underlined the critical nature of the ongoing cooperation between UNITAD and the Government of Iraq in the work of the Team, stressing that he would look to deepen collaboration as a priority in his time as Head of the Team.
“To deliver on the promise made through Security Council resolution 2379 (2017) we must put this evidence to work before competent courts”, he said, and clarified that effective cooperation meant the sharing of evidence must be done in a manner which feeds into competent courts to bring justice to victims and hold perpetrators accountable for their international crimes, in accordance with UNITAD’s Terms of Reference and the principles of the United Nations.
The full report of Special Adviser Ritscher to the Security Council can be accessed here.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/161493-special-adviser-ritscher-potential-turning-point-efforts-hold-isil-accountable-competent




Date: 02 December 2021
Title: Iraq receives almost 3 million doses of the COVID-19 vaccine through COVAX
Content: 02 December 2021
Baghdad, 1 December 2021 – Over 2.9 million doses of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine arrived in Iraq this month, bringing the total vaccines procured for this country through the COVAX Facility to over 6 million doses.
Vaccination rates in Iraq have recently been a priority of national health authorities, the World Health Organization (WHO), UNICEF and other health partners. As of 1 November, the vaccination services were significantly expanded across the country where over 120 external vaccination sites were set out Iraq-wide to target 12 million people including children aged 12 years and above. The local health authorities, WHO, UNICEF, and other health actors are collaborating on efforts to rapidly increase COVID-19 vaccination coverage by end of this year.
“The Ministry of Health of Iraq affirms the continuity of its efforts to provide vaccines procured through the COVAX Facility, of which Iraq is a partner, and to increase the number of  outlets to increase vaccine uptake in the shortest possible period. The Ministry would like to thank all our local and international partners for their efforts to make the vaccine accessible to all eligible recipients in Iraq,” said Iraqi Acting Minister of Health and Environment, Hani Mousa Badr Al-Akabi.
UNICEF, WHO and the Iraqi Ministry of Health have, moreover, intensified the vaccine uptake activities in the past few months, by building the capacity of the local delivery system in Iraq and engaging communities in the COVID-19 vaccination rollout process. Collaborative work on the timely procurement and delivery of COVID-19 vaccines is also ongoing, and more doses of WHO-approved vaccines are expected to arrive over the next few months.
“We welcome the arrival of these vaccines as they arrive at a time where Iraq is stepping up efforts to contain the pandemic. This shipment is an important part of the continuing fight against COVID-19 in Iraq,” said UNICEF Representative in Iraq, Sheema Sen Gupta.
“We cannot end the pandemic without the vaccine. However, vaccines alone do not replace the need for public health and social measures; they complement them,” said Dr. Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq. “These recent vaccine shipments from COVAX are a step in the right direction in our joint quest to increase population immunity against COVID-19 in Iraq,” Dr. Zouiten added.
The COVAX Facility is co-led by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi and the World Health Organization (WHO), alongside key delivery partner UNICEF. Its aim is to accelerate the development and manufacture of COVID-19 vaccines, and to guarantee fair and equitable access for every country in the world. It is the only global initiative that is working with governments and manufacturers to ensure COVID-19 vaccines are available worldwide.
These deliveries of BioNTech Pfizer vaccines to Iraq are another milestone towards the COVAX Facility’s goal on access. In addition to ensuring sufficient vaccine supply, partner agencies are working to ensure community awareness and provide support to vaccine administration by local health authorities. WHO, UNICEF, and other key health contributors are striving to end this pandemic in Iraq, and globally, as quickly as possible.

#  #  #
About UNICEF
UNICEF promotes the rights and wellbeing of every child; in everything we do. Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit https://www.unicef.org/iraq/, Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook

About WHO
Founded in 1948, WHO is the United Nations agency that connects nations, partners and people to promote health, keep the world safe and serve the vulnerable – so everyone, everywhere can attain the highest level of health.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/161292-iraq-receives-almost-3-million-doses-covid-19-vaccine-through-covax




Date: 01 December 2021
Title: Republic of Korea contributes additional US$ 3 million to stabilization in Iraq
Content: 01 December 2021
Baghdad, 01 December 2021: The Republic of Korea has contributed an additional US$ 3 million to UNDP’s flagship programme the Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS), which has been implementing critical  initiatives to stabilize areas liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
This is Korea’s seventh contribution to the FFS since 2015, bringing its total contribution to US$27 million. With this additional funding, UNDP will be able to support more essential services such as housing, and the rehabilitation of critical infrastructure in the sectors of electricity, water and education ensuring the delivery of basic services to return communities.
“The impact of our collective stabilization efforts with generous support from the FFS from key partners such as the Republic of Korea are clearly visible across Iraq. Schools are reopening, clean water is reaching homes, roads are connecting people, and homes are rehabilitated,” says UNDP Resident Representative Zena Ali Ahmad.
“However, critical stabilization needs remain as 1 million people are still internally displaced, including the hardest-to-return populations. The Republic of Korea’s contribution  comes at a critical period for Iraq, as the international community looks to safeguard the hard-won stabilization gains and prevent ISIL’s resurgence,” she adds.
“I am very pleased that the Republic of Korea has provided contributions to FFS for seven consecutive years since its launch in 2015. I hope this year’s contribution can help facilitate the implementation of UNDP’s stabilization programme to provide returnees and local communities with housing and public infrastructure rehabilitation and livelihood opportunities,” says Jang Kyung-Wook, Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to Iraq.
“We appreciate the hard work of UNDP and its partners to rebuild the lives of internally displaced persons and returnees in areas liberated from ISIL, and we hope to further strengthen our long-standing partnership with UNDP and make joint efforts toward achieving stabilization in Iraq,” adds Jang Khyung-Wook.
At the request of the Government of Iraq, UNDP established the FFS in June 2015 to facilitate the return of displaced Iraqis, lay the groundwork for reconstruction and recovery, and safeguard against the resurgence of violence and extremism. The mandate was extended to 2023 due to the scale of urgent remaining stabilization needs and the request from partners to continue our interventions.
In 2021, the FFS is placing greater emphasis on utilizing an integrated approach that includes promoting sustainable livelihood and employment opportunities by rehabilitating supportive infrastructure for productive sectors, such as agriculture and small industries.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/161238-republic-korea-contributes-additional-us-3-million-stabilization-iraq




Date: 01 December 2021
Title: As Iraq joins Paris Agreement, UN calls for further support to help the country adapt
Content: 01 December 2021
1 December 2021; Baghdad - As Iraq becomes a Party to the Paris Agreement, the United Nations in Iraq is calling for solidarity with and support to people in Iraq in their efforts to confront climate change.
Traditionally known as “the land between two rivers” or Mesopotamia, lush and fertile, Iraq is increasingly experiencing extreme climate events, compounding environmental fragility and water scarcity. The river basin has seen the second lowest rainfall in 40 years, with effects being felt across the region. With dams being built in neighbouring countries, the water flow in the Tigris and Euphrates rivers in Iraq has dropped by 29% and 73% respectively. The harsh impact of climate change threatens food security, the loss of livelihoods and progress on gender equality. It poses a threat to the full enjoyment of human rights, in particular for groups and persons in the most vulnerable situations. The impact of climate change also contributes to driving internal displacement and precarious migration. Women, children and young people are bearing the brunt in this worsening situation.
Following COP26 and furthering its commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, Iraq is taking steps to shift towards a greener economy, including by bolstering investment in natural gases and allocating 12 gigawatts of renewable energy. The Government of Iraq, with UNDP support, finalised its Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) report that addresses mitigation and climate change adaptation. Under the NDC – the umbrella policy for climate change work in the country – Iraq will voluntarily cut 1-2% CO2-equivalent emissions from industry, and open a window for US$100 billion investment in green economy, from both the private and public sectors over the next 10 years. At COP26, Iraq focused on the NDC to promote sustainable development and ensure environmental integrity and transparency.
Such developments are positive, but the world’s continued support is still needed. For the coming 2021-22 crop season, drier conditions are again foreseen for most of the region, consistent with the patterns of La Niña. The Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture estimated that wheat and barley production in northern parts of the country – which are mainly rainfall dependent – could be 70% lower. In October 2021, in line with these predictions, the Ministry of Agriculture decided to reduce the annual areas for planting by 50%, in consultation with the Ministry of Water Resources.
The destruction of households and livelihoods, and the loss of livestock and crops due to water scarcity, have become a reality for those communities that are the hardest hit by climate change. Limited access to markets due to intermittent movement restrictions imposed in relation to COVID-19, higher fodder and equipment prices since the 18% devaluation of the Iraqi dinar, and low rainfall are also affecting livestock farmers due to reduced grazing areas and availability of fodder crops.
In the northern governorates of Ninewa and Salah al-Din, which are the worst-affected by lack of rainfall, WFP’s analysis identifies that the levels of insufficient food consumption and the use of negative coping strategies such as borrowing money or eating less food among households, are almost double the national average. The two governorates are home to 2.5 million people who returned home after years of displacement: constituting more than half the returnees in Iraq.
A recent study by IOM highlights the climate-induced migration of rural, agricultural populations to the southern city of Basra in search of other work opportunities. Further challenges are facing those migrating in the context of climate change and trying to settle into complex new environments with potentially limited financial and social capital, which may impact their ability to access services and claim their rights. The southern cities continue to struggle with economic security and governance and may not be well prepared to absorb influxes of migrants.
A population analysis report by UNFPA shows that ongoing migration has led to an imbalanced population distribution with nearly 70% of people living in urban areas, which negatively affects the agricultural development. Women and girls are expected to travel longer distances to collect water, exposing them to higher risks of gender-based violence. The loss of livelihoods can lead to increases in child marriage and teenage pregnancies, and disputes between communities. According to UNICEF’s Children’s Climate Risk Index, children and young people are at medium-high climate risk in Iraq, with groups in vulnerable situations and certain areas of the country at higher risk.
Iraq has the highest annual population growth rate in the region at 2.8% and a working-age population of 57%. Now is the time for the international community to support Iraq in harnessing its potential for sustainable growth, advancing progress toward the Sustainable Development Goals, tackling the climate crisis, upholding its human rights obligations to prevent the foreseeable adverse effects of climate change – and to adapt to those that are already happening - on all of Iraq’s diverse communities, and providing a decent life for its population.
Both before and following COP26, the UN is supporting Iraq in mitigating and adapting to climate change, through the design of sustainable projects that focus on livelihoods creation and medium and long-term development, that promote investments in efficient water and wastewater infrastructure, irrigation and the management of water consumption, as well as the use of renewable energy such as solar power. The UN is also working with the government on training, skills development and strengthening capacity to tackle climate change. Advocacy efforts are raising public awareness on the topics of water consumption and sustainable water management.
Yet the country’s economic situation remains unstable. For communities in vulnerable situations, a vast majority of whom rely on agriculture, fishing and livestock to subsist, climate change is one more layer of stress they cannot afford to bear alone.
Galvanized by the Paris Agreement, the government and humanitarian-development community need to respond now and in collaboration with public and private partners, civil society, women, youth, migrants, displaced people and affected communities, to invest in solutions and improve prospects for long-term food security, prevent the magnification of socioeconomic challenges, and by using a human rights-based approach, ensure that the impact of climate change on people in Iraq, particularly those in the most vulnerable situations, can be cushioned. We must support the country to continue to take action to manage its own natural resources, starting with water, investment in technological innovation such as the use of renewable energy and allocating sufficient resources to sustainable solutions.

Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq
Dr Salah ElHajjHassan, FAO Representative, Iraq
George Gigauri, IOM Chief of Mission, Iraq
Danielle Bell, Representative, OHCHR, Iraq
Zena Ali Ahmad, UNDP Resident Representative, Iraq
Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative, Iraq
Sheema Sen Gupta, UNICEF Representative, Iraq
Ally-Raza Qureshi, WFP Representative, Iraq
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/161240-iraq-joins-paris-agreement-un-calls-further-support-help-country-adapt




Date: 30 November 2021
Title: ILO, IOM Collaborate to Improve Business Development Services for Small Enterprises in Iraq
Content: 30 November 2021
Under the new collaboration, the ILO has introduced its advanced entrepreneurship and business management training programme, Start and Improve Your Business (SIYB), to selected staff of IOM, to enable them to deliver the programme to IOM-supported existing and potential entrepreneurs
Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq (ILO News) The International Labour Organization (ILO) and the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Iraq are collaborating to support the development of existing national small-scale enterprises and potential entrepreneurs from displaced and host communities in Iraq through entrepreneurship skills training.
Under the new collaboration, the ILO has introduced its advanced entrepreneurship and business management training programme, Start and Improve Your Business (SIYB), to selected staff from IOM to enable them to deliver the programme to IOM-supported existing and potential entrepreneurs.
This will provide entrepreneurs with quality support services that will allow them to start or enhance the performance of businesses and, in turn, create employment opportunities for internally displaced and host communities.
SIYB is made up of a comprehensive set of training materials and tools for various target groups in the small and medium-sized business sector to help them develop and strengthen their basic management skills. It is structured into three separate training packages that are designed to respond to the progressive stages of business development, including “Generate Your Business Idea,” “Start Your Business,” and “Improve Your Business.”
In Iraq, the global training package was recently adapted to the country’s context, including sector-specific exercises and case studies, under another ILO project, supported by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) and in partnership with the German Agency for International Cooperation (GIZ), entitled “Improved BDS and Entrepreneurship Education targeting MSMEs and youth for decent work creation in the KRI”. In addition, the project embarked on adapting SIYB material to reflect regional and national legal, economic, and cultural aspects, including linguistic differences. As a result, SIYB is now available in Arabic, Kurdish Sorani and Badini languages to ensure widespread outreach in Iraq.
As part of the programme’s activities, a two-week Training of Trainers workshop took place in Erbil to build the capacity of some 50 IOM trainers on the programme. The training focused on a number of topics related to market research, generating a business idea and business plan, productivity and costing. A key element of the training was the development of action plans by the participants for the next steps of the Training of Trainers’ cycle.
Following the completion of the Training of Trainers’ workshop, each trainer will train 25 women and men on the entire SIYB programme by conducting IOM Trainings of Entrepreneurs and Trainings of Potential Entrepreneurs to fulfil their requirements as certified trainers. This will also be complemented with follow-up services for the targeted small enterprises.
“The Training of Trainers’ methodology will ensure the sustainability of the programme in the longer-term, by creating a capable pool of national trainers from IOM, who will continue to deliver this package to potential and existing entrepreneurs beyond the project’s duration,” said Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq.
The SIYB programme has been introduced in over 100 countries and adapted to meet specific national and regional needs. In Iraq, the ILO has rolled out the package through various projects that have introduced the training to national Business Development Services (BDS) providers and which support young refugees, internally displaced people and vulnerable host community members who are interested in setting up their own small business or improving existing ones.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/160871-ilo-iom-collaborate-improve-business-development-services-small-enterprises-iraq




Date: 30 November 2021
Title: UNITAD Special Adviser Christian Ritscher Welcomes Landmark Genocide Conviction of ISIL Member
Content: 30 November 2021
Baghdad, 30 November 2021 – Special Adviser and Head of the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da'esh/ISIL (UNITAD) Mr. Christian Ritscher today welcomed the landmark conviction of ISIL member Taha Al-J in Frankfurt for the crime of genocide.
“This conviction marks a significant moment in global efforts to deliver accountability for international crimes committed by ISIL, and in particular to achieving justice for the victims and survivors of the horrific acts they carried out against the Yazidi community. For the first time in a judicial judgement, we see these crimes called what they were: genocide. Victims have already waited so long but this provides hope of what can be achieved. I commend the work of the Office of the German Federal Prosecutor General, and all national prosecutors working towards this ultimate goal of pursuing accountability and achieving justice” Special Adviser Ritscher stated.
Mr. Al-J was found guilty of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide by the Higher Regional Court following a 19-month trial in Frankfurt, Germany. This follows the conviction of his German wife, Jennifer W, for crimes against humanity in Munich earlier this year. In these proceedings, the court heard of Mr. Al-J’s role in the enslavement of a Yazidi female and her daughter in Falluja, and the subsequent death of the young girl as a result of Mr. Al-J tying her up outside in over 50oC temperatures.
UNITAD has recently concluded a structural investigation into crimes against the Yazidi community in Sinjar, with its initial findings presented to the Security Council in May 2021 confirming that the Team had found clear and convincing evidence that the crimes committed against the Yazidis constituted genocide, as also reflected in today’s judgement.
In the Taha Al-J case, UNITAD supported German prosecutors by engaging with witnesses in Iraq and was able to help confirm that documentation purportedly indicating the deceased Yazidi girl had survived were fraudulent.
The Special Adviser added: “I am pleased that this conviction was achieved with the support of UNITAD, particularly given my involvement in this case in my previous role as a German national prosecutor. This outcome demonstrates that through partnerships across national authorities, UNITAD, impacted communities and non-governmental organizations we can overcome the many hurdles faced in delivering justice for ISIL crimes”.
Mr. Ritscher further emphasized that the role played by UNITAD in this case represented a vindication of the vision and global leadership demonstrated by the Government of Iraq in establishing the Investigative Team and supporting its work. UNITAD will continue to work with Iraqi authorities in order to support further prosecutions of ISIL members in a manner that reflects the profound impact their crimes had on so many communities in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/160883-unitad-special-adviser-christian-ritscher-welcomes-landmark-genocide-conviction-isil-member




Date: 30 November 2021
Title: Netherlands supports UNESCO Iraq to enhance the safety of journalists
Content: 30 November 2021
BAGHDAD, 28 November 2021 – The UNESCO Iraq Office welcomes a new generous contribution from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
The Netherlands Ambassador Michel Rentenaar and the director of UNESCO Iraq Office, Paolo Fontani, signed today the project agreement of the phase two of "Breaking the Silence: Enhance Accountability and Prosecution for Safety of Journalists and Fighting Impunity". The funding will help among others to establish the National Safety Mechanism for journalists.
The Netherlands support aims to improve the safety of journalists and their access to justice. The project will  build capacity and trust among journalists, civil society, government officials, security forces and the judicial system in the country.
The project will assist the Iraqi National Committee of Safety of Journalists and Issues of Impunity in training and assisting judges, police officers and prosecutors in dealing professionally with criminal cases of crimes committed against journalists, as well as producing integrated annual reports containing investigative and judicial information,
The new contribution will allow UNESCO to better support journalists across the country, through the National Safety Mechanism, and improve legal assistance for journalists and their families in need. The project will provide special support to female journalists.
Since 2016, the Netherlands has been a generous partner of UNESCO. This partnership grew to include support for the protection of journalists, the establishment of a Special Investigation Unit on crimes against journalists, and assistance to female journalists.
The UNESCO Iraq Office in Baghdad has been spearheading the implementation of the UN Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity, in close cooperation with the Iraqi authorities, media representatives, as well as national and international specialized NGOs. UNESCO has a global mandate to monitor and report on the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/160854-netherlands-supports-unesco-iraq-enhance-safety-journalists




Date: 30 November 2021
Title: UNDP and WHO support the Iraqi Ministry of Health and National Security Advisory to provide Mental Health and Psychosocial Support training toward reintegration
Content: 30 November 2021
Baghdad, 30 November 2021 – Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) services for IDPs and returnees will be reinforced thanks to a new training workshop organized by the United Nations Development Programme in Iraq (UNDP), the World Health Organization in Iraq (WHO), the Iraqi Ministry of Health and the National Security Advisory.
Experts from the World Health Organization and Ministry of Health developed and delivered the specialized training at a workshop in Baghdad from 14-16 November for 25 members of Iraqi government ministries. Sessions focused on the context of mental health in Iraq, understanding psychological first aid, mental health in the face of crises, understanding adversity and stress, and effective communication skills.
Trained representatives will provide Mental Health and Psychosocial Support to returnees to support their smooth reintegration back into their communities, building on UNDP Iraq’s community-based reconciliation and reintegration programming that aims to ensure the safe and dignified return and reintegration of Iraqis displaced by the conflict with the Islamic State and the Levant (ISIL).
“UNDP is committed to ensuring no one is left behind in Iraq. Supporting the mental health of both returnees and members of communities of return is a vital part of our programming to implement durable solutions for return and reintegration towards peace and social cohesion in Iraq,” says UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad.
WHO representative Dr. Ahmed Zouiten states that, “Mental health is an integral part of health, and surely Universal Health Coverage will never be achieved without special attention to mental health issues. In Iraq, the demand for mental health services is on the rise amid the COVID-19 pandemic and due to the displacement crises and the subsequent humanitarian situations impacting some areas of the country. This joined training is a step in the right direction to scale up mental health and psychosocial support where it is most needed.”
Saaed Al Jayashi, Strategic Advisor, Office of the National Security Advisor, emphasizes, “This training targets the team that is formed from different government entities, based on the direction of the prime minister. We are optimistic that this training will increase the skills and understanding of team members and build their capacities to offer MHPSS to both returnees and displaced families.”
Dr. Emad Abdulrazzaq, National Advisor for Mental Health, Iraqi Ministry of Health, states, “This training is important to capacitate this team and provide quality assurance for mental health and psychosocial support services for those who will return to their communities. Government ministries need to provide support to this stigmatized population so they can return to their places of origin and regain well-being.”
In 2020, UNDP Iraq launched a dedicated five-year Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq, supported by the governments of Denmark, Germany, Japan, and the Netherlands.

Media contact:
Miriam Pineau, Media & Advocacy Project Specialist| miriam.pineau@undp.org | +964 790 110 1982
Ajyal Sultany, WHO Communications Officer, +964 7740 892 878, sultanya@who.int
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/160885-undp-and-who-support-iraqi-ministry-health-and-national-security-advisory-provide-mental




Date: 29 November 2021
Title: The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and the Government of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRG) address threats posed by foreign terrorist fighters (FTFs) through technical assistance to law enforcement, corrections, and justice sector
Content: 29 November 2021
Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq - 29 November 2021
With the participation of His Excellency KRG’s Minister of Interior Rebar Ahmed, Her Excellency Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Ms. Kwestan Mohamed, and Director General of the Social Reformatory Department of KRG Mr. Ahmed Najmaddin, as well as Consul General of the United States of America in Erbil Mr. Robert Palladino, and UNODC International Programme Coordinators, as well as several high-profile international experts; UNODC-Iraq Launched the first Training workshop on the “Risks and Needs Assessment (RNA) Protocols in Prisons and the Related Sentence Planning, and Developing policies and protocols for the implementation and operation of a specified risk and needs assessment for terrorist and FTF prisoners” for the managers and staff of the prisons and reform centers under the jurisdiction of the Kurdistan Regional Government. This workshop is within the Framework of the Returning Foreign Terrorist Fighter Detention Programme (FTF) implemented by the UNODC Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa (ROMENA).
In his opening remarks, Mr. Ali El-Bereir, Senior Programme Coordinator and Head of UNODC Office in Iraq, warmly welcomed the Senior government officials, USA Consul General, participants as well as experts and stated that “The main purpose of this programme is to enhance capacities of partner government Ministries and Departments to manage threats posed by foreign terrorist fighters (FTFs) through providing technical assistance to the sector of Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice. He added that UNODC is working very closely with the Federal Government in Baghdad and also the Kurdistan Regional Government, and has established strong cooperation based on shared objectives, priorities and mutual trust to implement this programme successfully across Iraq” and thanked the United States for their generous funding to this programme. Mr. EL-Bereir, highlighted the programme’s aim to develop tailored and gender-sensitive strategies to address and counter-terrorist narratives within the prison system, consistent with national priorities, international humanitarian law and human rights law, as applicable and in accordance with relevant international law such as United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, known as (the Nelson Mandela Rules).
On behalf of the Kurdistan Regional Government, His Excellency, Mr. Rebar Ahmed, Minister of Interior expressed gratitude to UNODC and USA for this much needed support to strengthen relevant government departments’ capacities to manage and mitigate the threats posed by the terrorist prisoners.  Mr. Ahmed highlighted the difficulties and challenges posed by terrorist prisoners and the need for violent extremism prevention strategies and policies at prisons and reform centres. Minister Rebar expressed the government’s full cooperation and openness to bring in international best practices and to benefit from the UNODC’s technical expertise to enhance prison management systems in Kurdistan in line with the human rights laws and standards.
Furthermore, Ms. Kwestan Mohamed, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs delivered a remark and thanked UNODC for this initiative and technical assistance to the prisons and reform centres under her Ministry’s mandate. The Minister stated that the purpose of prisons needs to be changed from detention and punishment centres to rehabilitation and reform centres to help the offenders to heal and reintegrate into society after completion of their sentences.
“An integral part of the international community’s efforts to counter terrorism and stop the flow of foreign terrorist fighters is bringing perpetrators of terrorist acts to justice and holding them to account for their actions, in accordance with the rule of law and human rights”, said Mr. Robert Palladino, Consul General of the United States in Erbil in his address to the audience and he added that since 2011, the United States has supported partners around the world by increasing awareness of humane terrorist prisoner management practices and helping them to institute reforms to address further radicalization of terrorists in prisons. This week’s workshop is the first in a series of events designed to help Iraq manage and mitigate the security risk posed by terrorist and foreign terrorist fighter prisoners and to prevent radicalization to violence of other prisoners in its prison systems.
Mr. Torben Adams, UNODC International Programme Coordinator presented an overview about the objectives of the RNA and highlighted that in April this year, the United Nations system as a whole has developed and adopted a Common Position on Incarceration, with a common framework for UN support to the Member States on incarceration-related matters. The Common Position reiterates that prison systems around the globe continue to face fundamental challenges that undermine the ultimate purpose of a prison sentence. Instead of protecting society from crime and preventing re-offending by preparing prisoners for their social reintegration upon release, over-incarceration, prison overcrowding, neglect and abuse rather reinforce inequalities, exclusion and marginalization in many countries. He stated, “The Common Position firmly positions prison reform and the treatment of offenders as urgent justice and rule of law priorities, and as an integral part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development’s commitment to “leave no-one behind”.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/160769-united-nations-office-drugs-and-crime-unodc-and-government-kurdistan-region-iraq-krg-address




Date: 29 November 2021
Title: Germany, IOM Reaffirm Partnership to Support Economic Recovery in Iraq
Content: 29 November 2021
These economic difficulties, combined with the impacts of dramatic environmental degradation across the country, underscore the need to support Iraqi workers and small and medium businesses on the path toward socioeconomic recovery.
The German Government, via KfW Development Bank, is supporting the International Organization for Migration’s continued efforts to boost economic recovery and sustainable job creation in Iraq by providing further funding for November 2021 through November 2025. This is the fourth such grant presented by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) with financing provided through KfW; from the first grant in 2018, BMZ has now committed a total of EUR 86 million to IOM Iraq through KfW.
“The German Government and KfW’s continued generous support recognizes the link between migration and economic development in working toward durable solutions to displacement,” said IOM Iraq Chief of Mission Giorgi Gigauri. “This continued partnership and additional funding will allow IOM to expand its support for livelihoods and job creation in collaboration with the Government of Iraq and local communities.”
The new project, “Contribute to the economic recovery of Iraq through employment creation and revitalization of local economies – Phase IV”, will build upon the experience of previous phases, particularly targeting vulnerable groups including Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), returnees and other conflict-affected populations. Phase IV will also have a broad geographical reach to include more diverse Iraqi populations.
“We are very pleased that with this additional grant of 30 mio. EUR we are able to continue contributing to employment creation and the revitalization of local economies for vulnerable groups in Iraq,” said Dr. Anna-Christine Janke, Director of Kfw Office Iraq.
With this funding from the German Government through KfW, IOM Iraq will increase support to the SME sector through the Enterprise Development Fund (EDF) mechanism, which contributes to sustainable job creation and private sector revitalization. IOM will also support efforts to increase women’s economic opportunity and participation and assist individuals to improve their employability through vocational training and the provision of business support packages for the establishment or expansion of micro-enterprises. Additionally, the funding will allow for continued rapid cash injections into communities in need via Cash-for-Work programmes, which also support reconstruction in communities still rebuilding after the ISIL conflict. Finally, IOM will rehabilitate key community infrastructure to enhance businesses consolidation and growth.
Since December 2018, the Government of Germany and IOM Iraq have supported a total of 369 SMEs through EDF grants, leading to the creation of 1,941 jobs. A further 3,146 individuals received microenterprise support packages or vocational training, 1,891 individuals have taken part in CfW activities aimed at improving their financial security, and 25 community-based economic infrastructure facilities have been rehabilitated.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/160719-germany-iom-reaffirm-partnership-support-economic-recovery-iraq




Date: 27 November 2021
Title: New report identifies drivers of informality in Iraq’s labour market
Content: 27 November 2021
The report was developed in partnership between the Government, ILO, UNDP, IOM, UN Women, the European Union, the Fafo Institute for Labour and Social Research and the Cash and Livelihoods Consortium for Iraq.
Baghdad, Iraq – November 27, 2021 A new diagnostic report examining the drivers of informality in Iraq’s labour market highlights the multiple and wide-ranging factors contributing to informality and the burdens imposed on the formalisation of enterprises and workers in the country.
Iraq’s private sector, which accounts to roughly 40 per cent to 50 per cent of employment, is mainly informal. Compared to the public sector, employment in the private sector has lower average wages, job security, benefits, and often lacks formal contracts.
Some of the barriers identified in the report include gaps in the legal framework for employment and enterprises, in terms of labour and social security coverage and protection, barriers related to the structure of the labour market and macro-economic conditions, limited awareness among workers and enterprises of their rights and obligations, and the lack of incentives by workers and employers to formalise. The report also highlights a gap in up-to-date and representative data on the labour market that can feed into decision-making processes.
The report was launched in Baghdad on Saturday (November 27), during an event which brought together key stakeholders, including representatives from the Government and social partners, UN and development partners, and civil society organisations.
“The formalisation process is a long road, which requires all of society’s efforts. With all the resources, both financial and human resources in Iraq, we are confident that this will be a successful road,” said Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, UN Deputy Special Representative and Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, during the event.
Findings from a second assessment examining more specifically the state of small-scale enterprises and vulnerable workers eight months into the COVID-19 pandemic were also presented, further highlighting the significant vulnerabilities resulting from high levels of informality in Iraq. It found that the vast majority of surveyed enterprises were economically and operationally affected by the pandemic and relevant containment measures, with many closing down and others being forced to adapt. This also had a direct effect on workers themselves: indeed a significant share of surveyed workers had faced temporary or permanent unemployment, a fall in their income, and a reduction in working hours. The high level of informality entails that most of these affected enterprises and workers were not able to access government support to weather the economic impact of COVID, including due to the lack of social security coverage.
Both reports were developed in partnership between the Government, the International Labour Organization (ILO), and in collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the International Organization for Migration (IOM), UN Women, the European Union (EU), the Fafo Institute for Labour and Social Research (Fafo) and the Cash and Livelihoods Consortium for Iraq (CLCI), which is comprised of the Danish Refugee Council (DRC), the International Rescue Committee (IRC), Mercy Corps, the Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) and Oxfam.
They are part of efforts to promote a transition from the informal to the formal economy in Iraq.
“The evolving impact of the COVID-19 crisis on Iraq’s labour market has highlighted the critical need to adequately address the underlying challenges faced by informal enterprises and workers in the economy,” said the partners in a joint statement. “Through this collaboration, we seek to address the root causes of these challenges and find practical solutions that would pave the way for a transition to greater formality, which will ultimately lead to better working and living conditions for workers and their families.”
For workers, this means providing them with adequate labour and social protection, which would involve extending legal coverage to those excluded or insufficiently covered and providing them with an adequate level of legal protection. For employers, it includes the extension of the scope of labour and social security regulation as well as laws relating to economic units, the registration of enterprises, and their compliance with legal requirements.
The report also presents a National Framework, in line with ILO’s Transition from the Informal to the Formal Economy Recommendation, 2015 (No. 204).
“This report highlights the need for a National Framework for the transition to the formal economy, which provides a road map for a national strategy that would guide the Government and its partners to promote decent work and strength the formal economy,” said Mr. Raed Jabbar Bahedh, Director General of the Department of Labour and Vocational Training at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
The informality diagnostic report lays out a set of recommendations to address barriers to formalization and promote the transition to formality. They focus on four key aspects, namely mainstreaming data collection on informality; strengthening governance and coordination between government ministries, agencies and programmes to promote an integrated approach to formalization; reducing barriers to formalization; and strengthening incentives to formalize, such as through providing better access to services that promote decent jobs and business development.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/160608-new-report-identifies-drivers-informality-iraq%E2%80%99s-labour-market




Date: 26 November 2021
Title: Iraqi Officials and UNITAD Announce a New Ceremony for the Return of Yazidi Remains, Call on Families to Provide DNA Samples to Increase Victim Identifications
Content: 26 November 2021
Dohuk, 26 November 2021 – Iraqi representatives and members from the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da'esh/ISIL (UNITAD) met with Yazidi community and civil society members to announce that the second return of identified remains will take place in Kojo on December 9, 2021.
“This second return of remains to Kojo helps to bring us one step closer to providing some closure to families of victims of ISIL international crimes. UNITAD remains committed to investigate these crimes to support holding ISIL perpetrators accountable”, underlined Gerald Casey, UNITAD Chief of Staff.
Sagvan Murad Jundi, general director in the Iraqi presidency said that President Barham Saleh stands ready to support the Yazidi community, recalling his tribute to the first group of identified victims who were returned to Kojo in February 2021. He also stressed the president’s active role in the Parliament’s adoption of the Yazidi Female Survivors law in March of the same year, adding that the law is we be implemented through the formation of a general directorate for it.
NCC representative and Kurdistan Regional Governmental (KRG) coordinator for international advocacy Dr. Dindar Zebari thanked UNITAD for organizing the outreach event and reiterated that the KRG will continue to provide utmost support to the process of identifying victims. He added that the upcoming return of remains ceremony will hopefully be a closure to the families of the victims, adding that all efforts should be intensified to support the rapid identification of more victims.
The outreach event, which was facilitated by UNITAD, aimed to engage with the community on the planning for the return of identified Yazidis to Kojo. UNITAD appreciated the opportunity to hear directly and learn from affected community members their concerns and needs. Family members unable to attend in person were able to join the event remotely and pose their questions to officials who took part in the event.
The process of mass graves excavations and identifying and returning the remains of the victims is crucial for the communities that suffered from ISIL crimes, who stand at the heart of the work of Iraqi officials and UNITAD.
Director of MLD, Dr. Zeid Abbas announced that a five-day ante mortem campaign will follow the second return of remains ceremony and will run from 10 – 15 December in Kojo. He called on Yazidi families attending the ceremony to “make use of this opportunity while in Kojo to give their DNA samples, as collecting larger number of DNA samples is critical to increasing the number of identifications.”
Lead Clinical Psychologist Dr. Nenna Ndukwe, who was present at the event, emphasized the trauma-informed approach to all of UNITAD’s activities in support of the return of the remains, which is likely to carry a heavy emotional toll on affected families. Psychosocial support will therefore be provided on-site at the ceremony through a coordinated response with relevant NGOs.
Director of Mass Graves Directorate Mr. Dhiya Al-Saiidi added “the process of returning the remains to their families is one of the most important goals referred to in the Mass Graves Law No. 5 of 2006 and is a major step towards determining the fate of the missing victims and helping to end the suffering of their families.”
The process of returning identified human remains to the next of kin constitutes an important step towards granting families of victims some form of closure with the chance to lay their loved ones to rest in a dignified manner. A parallel track also exists where the DNA-based identification of the human remains of persons, whose fate was previously unknown, provides robust forensic evidence that can be used in building cases to hold members of ISIL accountable for their crimes.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/160599-iraqi-officials-and-unitad-announce-new-ceremony-return-yazidi-remains-call-families-provide




Date: 25 November 2021
Title: United Nations Meets with Donors to Discuss Development Strategy for Iraq
Content: 25 November 2021
Baghdad, November 23, 2021 - A high-level meeting between the United Nations and international donors took place in Baghdad to discuss the United Nations’ updated development strategy for Iraq. The meeting focused on the 2020-2024 United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF), which was signed by the Government of Iraq in September.
The UN was represented by the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary General, Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, who also serves at the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator. Also present were representatives of the United Nations Country Team (UNCT) in Iraq, which consists of 22 agencies, funds, and programs. The donor community was represented by several Ambassadors and high-level representatives from embassies in Iraq, including Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, European Union, Finland, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Romania, Sweden, United Kingdom, and the United States.
The UNSDCF is the consolidated strategy for the UNCT to support the Government in meeting the needs of Iraqi people in economic growth, basic services, social protection, and the environment. The updated UNSDCF also has a new focus on durable solutions for internally displaced persons (IDPs) so that families displaced by the war against Daesh (ISIL) can return to their areas of origin or integrate into new communities.
“This is the time where we have to come together to support Iraq to emerge from this pandemic stronger, achieve safe durable solutions to displacement and accelerate progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals and towards a peaceful and prosperous society for all Iraqis. Together with the Iraqi society let us all harness resources and assets to make it happen,” said Ms. Vojáčková-Sollorano.
In the meeting, the UN agencies highlighted key interventions and efforts in supporting Iraq’s development priorities and Iraqis’ needs through 2024 while discussing the donors' critical role in supporting this joint effort.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/160240-united-nations-meets-donors-discuss-development-strategy-iraq




Date: 25 November 2021
Title: ILO and UNICEF joint initiative supports young engineers to play a key role in promoting Green Works in Iraq
Content: 25 November 2021
With the support of the Government of the Netherlands, the ILO and UNICEF are working together to build the capacities of selected youth to engage in Employment Intensive Investment Programme (EIIP) interventions aimed at improving the local environment and infrastructure.
Dohuk, Kurdistan Region of Iraq (November 25, 2021) – Youth from forcibly displaced and host communities in Iraq will be trained to support and monitor green jobs initiatives, that aim to restore and protect their local environment.
Supported by the Government of the Netherlands under PROSPECTS, the initiative is part of an on-going collaboration between the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the International Labour Organization (ILO) to help youth  in their transition from training to decent employment.
Under the unique collaboration, young women and men who have completed a UNICEF-supported life skills and entrepreneurship training programme, are being referred to ILO’s employment intensive investment programme (EIIP) interventions in Dohuk for further training and capacity building to further their employability skills.
EIIP links infrastructure development with employment creation, poverty reduction and local economic and social development. It uses local labour and resources to create much needed employment and income and increase the capacity of local institutions. In Iraq, EIIP interventions under PROSPECTS focus on infrastructure improvement and Green Works, which aim to improve water irrigation systems on farms, promote sustainable waste management and promote forest restoration.
“One of the greatest opportunities in Iraq is to invest in future changemakers – young people. They have the potential to contribute to peace and stability and to expand economic opportunities. Our ongoing partnership with the ILO contributes to boosting social inclusion of young people, benefitting entire communities” said Mads Sorensen, Chief Adolescent Development and Participation for UNICEF Iraq.
“Building on UNICEF’s life skills training, the ILO will engage the young engineers from Duhok Governorate at its EIIP interventions, which will allow them to learn these labour-based approaches and skills at the workplace that will support their transition to decent employment,” said Shaza Al Jondi, Chief Technical Advisor for ILO PROSPECTS for Jordan, Lebanon and Iraq.
The youth, many of whom come from engineering backgrounds, will be given theoretical and on-the-job training in project management, Occupational Safety and Health, Decent Work principles, and specialised technical training in EIIP related to water irrigation, waste management and forest restoration.
Following the completion of the training, some of the youth will have the opportunity to become team leaders in specific EIIP interventions, providing technical support to new partners and organizations to help mainstream Employment Intensive Approaches into planned infrastructural improvement.
The collaboration between the two agencies is being carried out under the partnership for improving prospects for forcibly displaced persons and host communities (PROSPECTS), a four-year global partnership between the Netherlands, the ILO, UNICEF, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) and the World Bank. PROSPECTS operates in eight countries across the East and the Horn of Africa and the Middle East to support education, employment and protection in the context of forced displacement.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/160277-ilo-and-unicef-joint-initiative-supports-young-engineers-play-key-role-promoting-green-works




Date: 24 November 2021
Title: Facilitating Iraq’s WTO Accession process in collaboration with Iraq’s National Committee on WTO Accession.
Content: 24 November 2021
Baghdad –Iraq’s National Committee on WTO Accession participated in a technical session organised in Baghdad on 23rd November.
The session  provided a comprehensive overview of the accession process and highlighted the crucial role of  the National Committee on WTO Accession in this process.
Iraq initiated its process to WTO Accession in 2004 but due to political and economic instability this was stalled until 2017 when Iraq expressed interest to reinstate their determination to join the WTO. Since then, Iraq has made considerable progress in this front including the recent submission of key technical documents to the WTO secretariat.
Representatives from various government institutions from Baghdad and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq including officials from the Ministry of Trade, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Industry participated in the session. Various private sector institutions also attended.
The workshop was organized by the International Trade Centre (ITC) a joint agency of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and United Nations (UN), through the “Strengthening the Agriculture and Agri-food Value Chain and Improving trade policy in Iraq“ (SAAVI) project.
Funded by the European Union (EU), the project is contributing to inclusive economic growth and job creation, particularly for youth, by improving Iraq’s agriculture competitiveness and supporting trade development. It is also particularly focuses on providing support to Iraq in the process of acceding to the WTO.
Mr. Adel Al-Masoodi, Director General, Foreign Economic Relations Department, Ministry of Trade opened the day and reaffirmed Iraq’s commitment to the accession to the WTO and assured the support of his team to the SAAVI project. In his opening remarks, Mr Al-Masoodi also recognised and congratulated the progress that has been made in Iraq’s Accession progress through ITC’s SAAVI project.
The delegation of the European Union to Iraq was also present at the event and was represented by Mr. Mauro Gioe, who stated that “becoming a member of the WTO will result in a reduction of trade barriers, predictability and transparency of international trade rules, and increased competitiveness, all of which will increase trade for Iraq” adding that  “the advantages gained by a new WTO member are always greater than the potential losses that some economic actors may initially face. Overall, the whole country wins”.
On behalf of ITC, Mr. Rajesh Aggarwal, the Director of the Division of Market Development opened the session. In his remarks, Mr. Aggarwal focused on the importance of a strong National Committee in place to progress on WTO Accession. The National Committee provides a platform for both the public and private sector to come together and to take key  decisions in line with national priorities  and domestic policy reform,” he said.
The workshop provided an opportunity to reassemble members of the National Committee on WTO accession, created 2004 through a ministerial order. Participants were updated by the Ministry of Trade of Iraq about the recent development which occurred in relation to Iraq’s accession process to the WTO. This was followed by a number of technical sessions aimed at building a common understanding of all members with respect to substantive and procedural matters of immediate relevance for Iraq’s accession to the WTO.
This session is part of a series of capacity building sessions that will be organised through the SAAVI project to support Iraq to accede to the WTO.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/160036-facilitating-iraq%E2%80%99s-wto-accession-process-collaboration-iraq%E2%80%99s-national-committee-wto




Date: 24 November 2021
Title: 16 Days of Activism: UN calls for justice for women and girls survivors of gender-based violence
Content: 24 November 2021
24 November 2021; Baghdad, Iraq - As we mark the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, and the launch of 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence (GBV), we are reminded that GBV harms women and girls’ health and well-being.
According to the latest estimates, nearly 1 in 3 women aged 15 years and older around the globe, at least once in their lifetime have experienced a form of sexual and gender-based violence indicating that levels of violence against women and girls have remained largely unchanged over the last decade. Furthermore, the COVID-19 pandemic increased the risks for women and girls to undergo violence and abuse during the lockdown.
In Iraq, the Government and local actors, with support from the United Nations, are working to improve services for survivors, including access to healthcare, survivor-centred case management and legal assistance. Yet, more needs to be done.
GBV disproportionately harms women and girls because of their lesser socio-economic political power in relation to men and the discrimination they suffer to enter the labour market. Vulnerable groups like internally displaced persons, returnees, as well as Syrian and other refugees also face increased risks of sexual violence and exploitation.
We urge the Parliament to endorse the Anti-Domestic Violence law aimed at improving the judicial response to prosecuting GBV cases and ensuring that perpetrators are held accountable for their actions. Survivors of violence need protective spaces and environments to feel safe and empowered to thrive.
Countering impunity for perpetrators; providing survivor-centred care; improving services for survivors, economically empowering women through providing decent job opportunities and promoting culturally sensitive approaches to social change and positive behaviours of men and boys can help create conditions for women and girls to participate in societies free from violence and harassment, including in the workplace. The engagement of boys and men as allies to end gender-based violence is equally needed to create a safer society for women and girls.
We must stand together, speak up and take action against all forms of violence against women and girls in Iraq. We will continue our joint efforts to support the implementation of UNSCR 1325 advocating for women’s political participation and protecting women and girls from GBV.
Freedom from violence will help women and girls reach their educational and professional goals; achieve economic independence; build careers and contribute to the development of their communities and society at large.
Together, let’s End Violence Against Women Now!

Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq
Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative, Iraq
Dina Zorba, UN Women Representative, Iraq and Yemen
Zena Ali Ahmad, UNDP Resident Representative, Iraq
Sheema Sen Gupta, UNICEF Representative, Iraq
Ally-Raza Qureshi, WFP Representative, Iraq
Jean-Nicolas Beuze, UNHCR Representative, Iraq
George Gigauri, IOM Chief of Mission, Iraq
Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator, Iraq
Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative, Iraq
Muhammad Usman Akram, Director,  UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman
Danielle Bell, Representative, OHCHR, Iraq
Paolo Fontani, UNESCO Director and Representative, Iraq
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/160109-16-days-activism-un-calls-justice-women-and-girls-survivors-gender-based-violence




Date: 23 November 2021
Title: The United States supports WFP’s assistance to vulnerable families in Iraq
Content: 23 November 2021
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) welcomes a timely and generous contribution of US$19.24 million from the U.S. Agency for International Development’s Bureau for Humanitarian Assistance (USAID-BHA). The funding will help provide life-saving assistance to 181,000 displaced Iraqis and 72,000 Syrian refugees in the form of cash transfers that support their immediate food needs.
The U.S. support is helping ensure that people can meet basic food and nutrition needs during and in the aftermath of crises – including post-conflict and through the COVID-19 pandemic. This will also enable them to withdraw the money they are entitled to at their convenience without being limited to one location, encouraging a streamlined and efficient process of humanitarian assistance delivery and social distancing.
“With an estimated 1.2 million people in Iraq who remain displaced and 90,000 Syrian refugees in camps, the United States continues its support to WFP's life-saving efforts to address acute humanitarian needs,” said USAID/Iraq Mission Director John Cardenas. "This contribution will also aim to further digitalize the Public Distribution System (PDS), which is a critical step to strengthening the Government of Iraq's social protection system to address citizens' needs."
In addition to helping WFP provide vital food assistance to displaced Iraqi families and Syrian refugees, this new contribution will allow WFP to better support millions of Iraqis all over the country through the digitalization of the PDS system with the Ministry of Trade, which allows for more accurate and timely assistance of actual people in need with monthly food rations provided by the Government of Iraq.
“We are thankful for the steadfast support of the US government and people of the United States in providing assistance to vulnerable displaced Iraqis and Syrian refugees as well as in enhancing social protection, through the reform of the PDS and strengthening the capacities of the Iraqi government,” said WFP Representative in Iraq Ally-Raza Qureshi. “The contribution will ensure that progress made in improving the food security of displaced families and refugees is maintained, and that essential technical support to the Government of Iraq for digitalizing the largest public distribution system which supports millions of Iraqis, continues.”
Since 2010, USAID has been a consistent partner to WFP’s emergency operation in Iraq. This collaboration expanded to support social protection initiatives in 2019. WFP and the Ministry of Trade continue to roll out the ‘Tamwini’ (‘My Food Ration’) smartphone application to families in Najaf governorate and are in the process of scaling up to include people in 15 other governorates. The app enables households to easily and quickly update their data on their phone, such as a birth or a marriage, saving time and enhancing accuracy.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/159774-united-states-supports-wfp%E2%80%99s-assistance-vulnerable-families-iraq




Date: 19 November 2021
Title: Under the patronage of His Excellency the Minister of Agriculture Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations Holds a workshop on:  Exchange of Experiences and Training Program Between Peers in the Livestock Sector in Al-Najaf Al-Ashraf & Holy
Content: 19 November 2021
November 16, 2021 / Najaf Al-Ashraf - Under the patronage of the Minister of Agriculture, Eng. Muhammad Al-Khafaji, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) held a workshop on the exchange of experiences and training between counterparts in the livestock sector in the governorates of Najaf and Karbala, in the presence of Dr. Hadi Hashem Hussein - representative of the Agriculture Minister, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, and large number of experts, veterinarians, and local livestock extension staff.

In his opening speech, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, stressed the organization's interest in supporting the rural agricultural sectors and in close cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and local governments in order to improve the agricultural sector and support farmers with all available efforts.
While Dr. Hadi Hashem conveyed the greetings of the Minister to the participants in the workshop and his keenness to provide the necessary support that serves this important and vital sector. He also praised the successes achieved by the organization, especially the Nineveh project on livelihood support funded by the European Union and implemented in cooperation and partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture “Nineveh Agriculture”.
During the workshop, good practices and ways to serve the development of the livestock sector were discussed, in addition to preparation to implement a number of interventions that include capacity building for rural women, farmers and extension workers in livestock related activities.
The FAO Senior International Livestock Expert, Dr. Chedly Kayouli and Eng: Hayder Nasser AlSammak, Chief Engineer (Nineveh Agriculture Directorate), gave presentations and detailed explanations of the successful interventions in Nineveh Governorate, which will be transferred and implemented, as they include improving animal nutrition through qualitative forage crops and utilization of local nutritional supplements that will increase local feed availability, in addition to improving the productivity and marketing of milk and dairy products. The International Livestock Expert, Dr. Chedly Kayouli, insisted that a participatory and similar approach will be applied in the two targeted governorates, with extension officers who will be supported by their Peers from Nineveh Project.
Moreover, working teams were formed from the participants in the workshop to take field steps with the aim of reviewing the conditions of the farmers who will be targeted through the executive activities to determine their needs and move forward with implementing the steps that would support and assist these farmers and improve their capacity.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/159313-under-patronage-his-excellency-minister-agriculture-food-and-agriculture-organization-united




Date: 19 November 2021
Title: More than 72,000 young people raise their voice – U-Report is officially launched in Iraq
Content: 19 November 2021
UNICEF, jointly with the Ministry of Youth and Sports, launches officially U-Report, a social messaging platform, encouraging young people in Iraq to speak out on the issues that matter to them.
Baghdad, 18 November 2021 –The Ministry of Youth and Sports of Iraq, jointly with UNICEF, launched today U-Report, a youth social messaging platform, following the regional launch with the Kurdistan Regional Government in 2019.
This platform is possible thanks to the support of the Governments of Germany, New Zealand and Czech Republic to the digital engagement of youth in Iraq.
In Iraq, approximately 50 per cent of the population is under 18 and 70 per cent under 24 years of age. However, following decades of conflict, the potential of young people has been largely overlooked and needs have been overly unmet, leading to high levels of frustration and resentment.
To date, over 72,000 young people have joined U-Report Iraq, taking part in polls and receiving life-saving and life-changing information. With this partnership, UNICEF is supporting the Ministry of Youth and Sports of Iraq to increase the number of participants un youth engagement across the country and scale up the capacity of the platform to grow into a sustainable tool to address young people’s needs.
The launch was opened by Mr. Adnan Derjal, Ministry of Youth and Sports. In his greeting remarks, addressing the more than 50 young people in the crowd, said: “young people are the leaders of the future and they will help Iraq to achieve SDGs. U-Report will help us to communicate better with young people and listen to their needs”.
Ms. Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq also expressed her views, “U-Report is an empowering tool for young people. I would like to encourage the youth of Iraq to join the platform as the best way to amplify their voices and express their opinions”.
Young people can join the platform through a number of ways, including Telegram, Viber, Facebook Messenger and by soon by phone message, to ensure that regardless of the background or the situation of young people, they have ways to express their voice.
So far, the youth of Iraq has expressed their views in issues ranging from why young people migrate from one country to another topics focused on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, like which has been its influence in violence against children and gener based violence.
U-Report Iraq is managed by a Steering Committee with representation from young people. In addition to serving as U-Reporters, young people, along with other members of the steering committee, make sure that poll questions asked to U-Reporters are relevant, suitable and beneficial.
For 10 years, U-Report has allowed youths to amplify their voices and take part in decisions that matter to them, currently connecting over 18 million young people in more than 90 countries and growing.
How it works
U-Report allows young people to speak out via SMS and other social media platforms such as Facebook, Viber, and Telegram through polls and guided feedback features – on what is happening in their communities. It provides a forum to amplify their voices through local and national media and acts as a citizen-sourced, real-time data point for key stakeholders, service providers and decision-makers about the issues being faced in communities. The platform feeds back useful information to the U-Reporters (users that opt into U-Report), so that they are empowered to work for change and improvements in their localities themselves.
Managed and led by UNICEF, partnerships have been developed with NGOs and the Ministry of Youth and Sports to maximize the existing and potential reach for young people and adult community members in Iraq to access information, express their opinions on key social issues and have that information amplified up to service providers, government and other key stakeholders.
Actioning the Data
U-Report Iraq is used as an office wide tool to support UNICEF Iraq programme interventions in real time to disseminate information, enhance engagement and monitor the implementation of activities. Integration to programmes, such as U-Report being used to support this year’s winterization campaign, allows continued civic engagement and demand creation among young and community members to enhance accountability. Through the U-Report Working Group (consisting of focal points from each programme section), programme sections also utilise U-Report Iraq for programme insights and pulse checks on information they want to disseminate to or solicit from young people.
U-Report relies on volunteer U-Reporters to take an active role and provide critical information to decision makers on issues affecting their communities through polls. It is also a valuable tool for sharing information through message alerts.
To become a U-Reporter, young people only need to log into their Facebook accounts, look for the U-Report Iraq page, open the messenger app, and click “JOIN.” Upon joining, U-Reporters can start participating in polls and send reports.
Learn more about U-Report here.
Join U-Report from the links below:
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/159263-more-72000-young-people-raise-their-voice-%E2%80%93-u-report-officially-launched-iraq




Date: 18 November 2021
Title: Finland Commits New Funding to UNITAD in Support of Witness Protection in Iraq
Content: 18 November 2021
Baghdad, 17 November 2021 – The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Finland and the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) announced today the signing of a Contribution Agreement for the support and protection of vulnerable witnesses of ISIL crimes in Iraq.
This contribution, which amounts to €300,000, is critical for the continuation of psychosocial activities and assistance to UNITAD investigations. A substantial part of this contribution will allow UNITAD to broaden the implementation of its psychosocial capacity-building activities for Iraqi judicial and investigative authorities, and other relevant national entities with respect to support and sensitivity to the needs of victims and witnesses.
The capacity building activities primarily focus on training to strengthen technical knowledge and skills, including access to clinical supervision and mentoring for staff who work on mental health and medical needs of survivors of ISIL crimes.
Moreover, in support of the protection of vulnerable witnesses, UNITAD is committed to ensuring the psychological safety of victims, survivors and witnesses of ISIL crimes so that they can testify in an emotionally safe environment to reduce the risk of re-traumatization. The contribution would enable vital psychological support to be maintained to assist witnesses, while also enhancing the professional capacities of Iraqi mental health service providers who offer specialist aftercare to witnesses.
"Finland values highly the work carried out by the UNITAD in helping bring ISIL perpetrators to justice. Promoting accountability is among the key priorities of the Finnish foreign policy. On this basis, we are very happy to support the witness protection work of the Investigative Team. Finland is a strong proponent of multilateralism and the rules based international order. We therefore look forward to deepening further our cooperation with the UNITAD, too,” says Ms. Kaija Suvanto, Director General of the Legal Service of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Finland.
Pursuant to UNITAD’s mandate, the Team will utilize this new funding by Finland to continue to support domestic efforts to hold ISIL accountable for international crimes committed by ISIL in Iraq, to the highest possible standards, to ensure the broadest possible use before national courts.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/159106-finland-commits-new-funding-unitad-support-witness-protection-iraq




Date: 17 November 2021
Title: PepsiCo Partners with the UN World Food Programme in Iraq to support farmers affected by conflict, displacement, and climate change
Content: 17 November 2021
From production to purchasing, combined efforts prove agriculture can play an impactful role in the sustainable economy of Iraq
Erbil (November 17, 2021) -- Today, PepsiCo Inc and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) announced a new partnership to support farmers in Iraq impacted by conflict and climate change and help build a more sustainable agricultural supply chain in the region, particularly for potato crops. This partnership supports the Government of Iraq to reach its Zero Hunger goal as part of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
A USD 250,000 grant from PepsiCo Foundation, the philanthropic arm of PepsiCo, will enable WFP to expand its ongoing resilience-building program in Iraq, ‘Food Assistance for Assets,’ that strives to help rural communities become self-reliant and withstand shocks such as climate change. The program has garnered support from high-ranking government officials in Iraq and the U.S.- Iraq Business Council.
The collaboration will empower Iraqi smallholder farmers to establish reliable market linkages, gain access to much-needed finance, increase crop quality and yields, and progress towards internationally recognized food and safety standards for sustainable agriculture. Through PepsiCo Foundation’s support, WFP will provide farmers with training and technical expertise, and share agricultural best practices, such as the targeted use of irrigation and fertilizer. PepsiCo will purchase potatoes from the farmers to use in food production, helping build the farmers’ livelihoods.
“We are honored to join hands with the World Food Programme to help support Iraq’s agricultural sector and build sustainable livelihoods, while contributing towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, focusing on Zero Hunger and a better and more sustainable future for all. This partnership is a great example of how the public and private sector can work together to address a pressing global issue – food insecurity – and will have a significant impact on tens of thousands in local communities,” said Wael Ismail, Vice President for Corporate Affairs, Middle East, North Africa and Pakistan as well as Sustainable Packaging Lead for Africa, Middle East, North Africa and South Asia (AMESA).
The partnership is part of PepsiCo’s positive (Pep+) agriculture strategy which focuses on regenerative farming practices and empowering farming communities to improve the livelihoods of more than 250,000 people in its agricultural supply chain, and sustainably source 100% of the company’s key ingredients by 2030. Over 32,000 of PepsiCo’s AMESA farmers are part of its Sustainable Farming Program focused on promoting responsible agricultural practices that can boost crop yields, improve farmer livelihoods, advance respect for human rights and protect the local environment and natural resources.
“We welcome this new partnership with PepsiCo, especially now as the COVID-19 pandemic has had a grave impact on the livelihoods and food security of vulnerable communities. By sharing expertise and resources with WFP and communities in Iraq, PepsiCo is helping to build a more sustainable food system, providing solutions for vulnerable farmers to increase the productivity of their land, and improve their income through better market linkages – ultimately changing their lives,” said Ally-Raza Qureshi, WFP Iraq Representative. “Working together towards this common goal highlights the significant impact of private sector engagement in the region.”
The PepsiCo Foundation has been a long-standing partner and supporter of the UN World Food Programme. Since 2006, the Foundation has supported WFP's mission and programs with more than USD 12.2 million in funding, including grants and employees’ donations. This program is part of ‘Food for Good,’ PepsiCo’s global commitment to advance food security in communities where the company operates, harnessing the power of collaboration with leading local partners.

###

About PepsiCo
PepsiCo products are enjoyed by consumers more than one billion times a day in more than 200 countries and territories around the world. PepsiCo generated more than $70 billion in net revenue in 2020, driven by a complementary food and beverage portfolio that includes Frito-Lay, Gatorade, Pepsi-Cola, Quaker, and Tropicana. PepsiCo's product portfolio includes a wide range of enjoyable foods and beverages, including 23 brands that generate more than $1 billion each in estimated annual retail sales.
Guiding PepsiCo is our vision to Be the Global Leader in Convenient Foods and Beverages by Winning with Purpose. "Winning with Purpose" reflects our ambition to win sustainably in the marketplace and embed purpose into all aspects of the business. For more information, visit www.pepsico.com

About The PepsiCo Foundation
Established in 1962, The PepsiCo Foundation, the philanthropic arm of PepsiCo, invests in the essential elements of a sustainable food system with a mission to support thriving communities. Working with non-profits and experts around the globe, we're focused on helping communities obtain access to food security, safe water, and economic opportunity. We strive for tangible impact in the places where we live and work—collaborating with industry peers, local and international organizations, and our employees to affect large-scale change on the issues that matter to us and are of global importance. Learn more at www.pepsico.com/sustainability/philanthropy.

About The United Nations World Food Programme
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
WFP has been present in Iraq since 1968 and is currently carrying out programmes in all 18 governorates of the country. Activities include food assistance to IDPs and refugees, resilience-building and livelihoods activities (Food for Assets and youth training through Empowerment in Action! – EMPACT), school feeding, and the digitalization of the Public Distribution System for food rations (PDS). WFP's Country Office is located in Baghdad, with Area/Field Offices in Baghdad, Erbil, Duhok, Sulaymaniyah and Basra.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/159041-pepsico-partners-un-world-food-programme-iraq-support-farmers-affected-conflict-displacement




Date: 17 November 2021
Title: UNITAD Welcomes Hungary’s New Support for Investigations of ISIL Crimes
Content: 17 November 2021
Baghdad, November 17, 2021 – The United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) welcomes Hungary’s contribution of 18 million Hungarian Forint ($61,382 USD) to ongoing investigations into ISIL crimes, specifically crimes committed against the Christian community in Iraq.
This support will help ongoing investigative activities being conducted by UNITAD’s investigative unit that focuses on ISIL crimes that targeted the Christian community and will include investigations into the destruction of Christian cultural heritage between 2014 and 2017.
Additionally, Hungary’s commitment to the UNITAD and to the people and government of Iraq will help UNITAD continue its work to deliver on its promise of justice and accountability for all communities in Iraq regardless of their faith or ethnicity.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade of Hungary notes that “Hungary is committed to supporting multilateral efforts that aim to improve local livelihoods and foster sustainable development. In this regard, especially in conflict-affected regions, justice and accountability are essential pillars forming the backbone of long-term, peaceful development amongst communities. We therefore support UNITAD’s efforts in promoting justice and accountability for all, thereby aiming to heal divisions and foster partnerships on the local, regional and international level.”.
UNITAD was established pursuant to Security Council resolution 2379 (2017) to support domestic efforts to hold ISIL accountable by collecting, preserving, and storing evidence of acts that may amount to war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide committed by ISIL in Iraq, to the highest possible standards, to ensure the broadest possible use before national courts.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/159042-unitad-welcomes-hungary%E2%80%99s-new-support-investigations-isil-crimes




Date: 17 November 2021
Title: The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) Restores Hope to Rural Women in the Traditional Dairy Processing in Nineveh Governorate
Content: 17 November 2021
As part of its efforts to develop and diversify livelihoods, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) is working to empower rural women and restore hope to returnees through the project “Support to livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Ninewa Governorate, Iraq, funded by the European Union and implemented in close cooperation with Ministry of Agriculture (Nineveh Directorate of Agriculture).
It aims to develop the value chain of milk production, processing, and marketing of traditional dairy at the home level within the framework of practical training courses that will last for a period of six months to involve 50 women groups (1,000 women) from all project target sites in Nineveh Governorate, The project organized training courses entitled "Improving the Processing and Marketing of Traditional Dairy Products" from 7 to 11 November 2021, in the presence of 50 women from Bartella and Al-Hamdaniya Districts. Participants gained techniques on good practices of handling and processing dairy, while implementing an illustrative practical demonstration for making traditional dairy products (Laban, cheese, butter, ghee, labneh).
This introduction of new techniques on how to make different types of cheese, to get healthy and safe dairy products along with ideas for making great products that can be competitive in the market. Also, participants received training on the correct milking methods for cows and buffaloes and how to follow the steps of milk hygiene and animal health standards.
During the training period, which lasted for five days, the FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan praised the efforts made in the training and stressed the active participation of women's groups and their keenness on the courses, expressing that this comes among the priorities of the organization to find a real partnership for these groups, and that these practical courses will improve the capacity of the private sector in the dairy industry. Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan also highlighted that the priorities of the FAO are to seek a real partnership with these groups and empower them to support their families independently, emphasizing the need to activate their role. Furthermore, adding that these courses will improve the competitiveness of the sector and contribute to the local development process and the development of the quality of the dairy products.
While the FAO International Livestock Expert, Dr. Chedly Kayouli, the supervisor and trainer in these courses, said that the practical training on the processing of new cheeses, are delivered in a participatory and interactive approach, this is what reflects the spirit of teamwork and self-development. Also, it contributes to the introduction of expertise to produce new types of cheese produced for the first time by rural women at home level in Nineveh, such as the manufacture of Akkawi cheese, Halloumi, Mozzarella, Double cream, Ricotta and Labneh. The attendance and interaction during the workshops were very fruitful and encouraging, and the participants showed great interest in learning basic and new ideas and practices in dairy processing, while a family atmosphere prevailed during the trainings.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/158856-food-and-agriculture-organization-united-nations-fao-restores-hope-rural-women-traditional




Date: 16 November 2021
Title: Flagship Workshop for Persons with Disabilities Makes History in Iraq, MENA Region
Content: 16 November 2021
Erbil — Iraq has one of the largest populations of persons with disabilities in the world. Persons with disabilities and their representative organisations in Iraq are increasingly being asked to advocate for their rights to their government and humanitarian and development agencies. Yet, there has been limited opportunities for persons with disabilities from various governorates in Iraq to develop a strong and comprehensive understanding of their rights.
In partnership with the International Disability Alliance (IDA), the Iraqi Alliance of Disability Organizations (IADO), and the Arab Organization of Persons with Disabilities, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) organized the Bridge CRP-SDGs* Module 1 training in Erbil from 9-16 November – the first Iraq-specific training of its kind, and the first national Bridge workshop in the Middle East and North Africa region (MENA).
Bridge CRPD-SDGs* is a three-module, intensive capacity building initiative. It supports persons with disabilities to comprehensively advocate for the realization of all human rights for all persons with disabilities.
“After waiting for years to find donors to support the implementation of Bridge in Iraq, finally our dream came true! 108 candidates with different types of disabilities applied from across Iraq,” said Mwafaq Al-Khafaji, Head of IADO. “Bridge is a great opportunity to improve advocacy skills of persons with disabilities in Iraq.”
23 participants with diverse disabilities and experiences were selected, representing 12 Governorates across Iraq. Global Bridge Quality Criteria were followed to ensure that representatives of underrepresented groups, including people with intellectual disabilities, Deaf people, people with psychosocial disabilities, autistic people, women with disabilities, youth with disabilities, older people, Yazidis with disabilities and internally displaced people with disabilities were included in the training.
Accessible and inclusive facilitation included sign language interpreters; illustrators drawing concepts for participants with specific visual learning styles; personal assistants; translators; and accessible training materials. Arabic speaking trainers with disabilities from the MENA Region (including Iraq) facilitated the module.
“This training is very useful and relevant; I’m benefiting a lot,” said Yadgar Kareem, a Bridge participant and Head of Kurdistan Union for the Blind and People with Low Vision, during the first week of the session. “Such trainings [help empower] members of Organisations of persons with disabilities members to defend their rights.”
Globally, IOM is committed to reducing and addressing barriers facing people with disabilities. In December 2019, the IOM Iraq Disability Inclusion Strategy 2019—2021 was launched to help the government develop programmes that support the needs of migrants with disabilities. In 2021 IOM has been mapping and collaborating with Organisations of Persons with Disabilities; working towards making IOM community cen­tres accessible; and developing guidance for staff to implement disability inclusive programming.
“It is significant to see the Bridge training hosted for the first time in Iraq, developed and led by persons with disabilities,” said IOM Iraq Chief of Mission Giorgi Gigauri. “They are best placed to speak about their barriers, and their perspectives must be considered first when developing inclusive programming. We thank our partners for their hard work organizing this workshop, and we thank the Government Australia for the ongoing support of IOM’s disability inclusion efforts.”
Bridge Module 1 is funded by the Government of Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) under the project “Supporting Durable Solutions, Social Cohesion and Reintegration in Iraq”, with additional contributions from CBM Global and IDA.
*CRPD = UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, SDGs = Sustainable Development Goals.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/158764-flagship-workshop-persons-disabilities-makes-history-iraq-mena-region




Date: 14 November 2021
Title: As COP26 negotiations conclude, call for urgent climate action in Iraq is louder than ever
Content: 14 November 2021
Baghdad, 14 November 2021 – The United Nations in Iraq has welcomed commitments made at COP26 in Glasgow but stresses the need for urgent action on these promises to limit climate change’s adverse impacts on human rights and sustainable development in Iraq.
Commitments made at the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) conference – attended by a Government of Iraq high-level delegation from representatives of the ministries of Environment, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Higher Education, Industry and Oil, as well we representatives from the private sector – include:
Additionally, the Glasgow Climate Pact cites several areas of cooperation relevant to Iraq, including the need to boost funding for diverse climate technologies and a stronger commitment to capacity building.
"Iraq is a country vulnerable to the negative impacts of climate change – one of the most vulnerable in the region and indeed the world. We are grateful to the United Nations Development Programme in Iraq for its ongoing support to climate action in Iraq, and for supporting the delegation to this important conference,” says Iraq’s Acting Minister for Environment, Dr Jassem Al-Falahi.
The United Nations Secretary-General’s Deputy Special Representative for Iraq and Resident Coordinator Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano emphasises the UN in Iraq’s commitment to urgent action on climate change.
“Climate Change in Iraq is a severe threat to fundamental human rights and creates barriers to sustainable development. Across the UN system in Iraq, we are working on the key components of climate action – from awareness-raising and adapting to climate change, to mitigating its risks. With COP26 now done, we urge all leaders to make good on their promises, many of which are critical to supporting a cleaner, safer, and greener Iraq,” she says.
Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad acknowledged UNDP’s role in supporting the COP26 delegation and Iraq’s formal submission of its Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) – the country’s central policy for driving climate action.
“UNDP Iraq was proud to support the Government of Iraq’s formal submission of its NDCs, as well assisting the delegation to COP26 to ensure Iraq’s needs were firmly placed on the global agenda. Our support to the country’s fight against climate change does not end with COP26, and we look forward to continuing our work with the Government, UN partners, the international community and others to implement Iraq’s NDCs and turn the conference outcomes into tangible actions,” she says.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/158447-cop26-negotiations-conclude-call-urgent-climate-action-iraq-louder-ever




Date: 12 November 2021
Title: Ministry of Youth, UNFPA, FBA Hold Organizational Development Leadership Training for the Youth, Peace, Security Coalition
Content: 12 November 2021
11 November 2021; Baghdad, Iraq - The Folke Bernadotte Academy (FBA) and UNFPA, in collaboration with the Ministry of Youth & Sports, held the first Organizational Development Leadership training for the Iraqi Coalition on Youth, Peace, Security (YPS).
During the five-day training, experts on the YPS agenda provided insights on the UN Security Council Resolution 2250 (UNSCR 2250) to the 25 Iraqi YPS Coalition members. The training focused on providing a common understanding of the core functions and responsibilities of the Coalition vis-à-vis the government, society and the international community.
The young women and men discussed the strategic direction of the Coalition and drafted work plans for the implementation of the YPS agenda and the way forward as a group.
Speaking after the training, Mr Taleb Sobeh, Project Manager for Iraq at the Folke Bernadotte Academy, said: “Young Iraqis are leading the way for peace and trying to change the present and their futures for the better. In light of this, implementing the Youth, Peace and Security Agenda and its guiding principles has never been as important for our societies as today. The Folke Bernadotte Academy is committed to supporting the implementation of the YSP agenda in Iraq, enriching the partnerships that we have established so far, and building new ones with our Iraqi counterparts.”
Ms Joanna Broumana, Process Lead for Youth, Peace and Security at the Folke Bernadotte Academy, added: “Since the Iraqi YPS Coalition launch in December 2020, FBA has worked closely with the Ministry of Youth and Sports, UNFPA and a group of young peacebuilders to support the implementation process of the UNSCR 2250 in Iraq. We hope that this Coalition will become a platform for youth leadership, partnerships and advocacy for the operationalization of the YPS agenda in the country while keeping meaningful youth participation at the very heart of such efforts.”
Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative to Iraq, said: “UNFPA will continue to support Iraq to implement UNSCR 2250, putting the interest and rights of young people at the centre of national priorities and strengthening youth participation in peace-building in Iraq. It is our utmost priority to recognise that women and girls’ participation in conflict resolution and mediation efforts is an enormous force for good”.
UNFPA & FBA trust that the Iraqi YPS Coalition will bring all Iraqi youth together to agree on a vision, advance their ideas and create a movement that will materialize and translate young people’s vision into actions.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/158098-ministry-youth-unfpa-fba-hold-organizational-development-leadership-training-youth-peace




Date: 11 November 2021
Title: Workshop: National Employment Policy to facilitate job creation and decent work in Iraq
Content: 11 November 2021
Government officials, social partners and other relevant stakeholders discuss development of a national employment policy for Iraq, with ILO support.
Amman, Jordan (ILO News) A committee, composed of government officials, social partners and other relevant stakeholders met in Amman to discuss the development of a comprehensive national employment policy for Iraq that will facilitate job creation, decent work and social protection for all workers in the country.

Organised by ILO, the week-long event brought together representatives of various ministries, including His Excellency Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Adel Al-Rikabi. It was also attended by representatives of the General Federation of Iraqi Trade Unions and academics.

“One of our main challenges in Iraq is unemployment and the lack of clear plans to address these challenges,” said Minister Al-Rikabi. “It is important to ensure not only the development of a modern policy for employment but also its implementation, based on your visions and ideas.”

The event focused on the employment policy-making process; elements of a policy implementation strategy; relevant monitoring and evaluation systems and impact assessment techniques. It examined some of the major challenges facing Iraq and the role of social dialogue in improving labour market conditions and promoting decent work for all.

“The participation from multiple sectoral stakeholders and the dialogue process will be critical to ensuring national ownership of the employment policy. Having the tripartite inter-ministerial committee present with us here today is the right start,” said Acting Decent Work Team Director and Senior Employment Policy Specialist at the ILO Regional Office for Arab States, Tariq Haq.

The ILO is providing technical support, including policy advice and capacity building to the Government of Iraq and its social partners across the different phases of the process; from the design and implementation to the monitoring and evaluation of the national policy. It is also working with the Central Statistical Organization and the Kurdistan Statistical Organization on the development of a national Labour Force Survey, the first to be implemented in over a decade.

The survey results will feed into the development of the national employment policy, focusing on the immediate needs of livelihoods and employment creation in addition to the longer- term structural and decent work needs of Iraq’s labour market.

“The national employment policy will be based on a clear understanding of the strengths, challenges and needs of Iraq’s labour market, to promote employment, especially among women and youth,” said ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq, Maha Kattaa. “The national Labour Force Survey will provide the basis to formulating this employment policy.”

The development of the national employment policy is part of broader efforts being implemented under the Iraq Decent Work Country Programme,  in partnership between the ILO, the Government and social partners. The programme focuses on supporting private sector development and job creation; strengthening social protection and addressing child labour; and strengthening labour governance and social dialogue.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/157991-workshop-national-employment-policy-facilitate-job-creation-and-decent-work-iraq




Date: 10 November 2021
Title: Targeted Support Crucial for Displaced Persons in Informal Sites: IOM Iraq
Content: 10 November 2021
10 November 2021 Erbil — During the conflict with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), more than 6 million Iraqis were displaced from their homes. Nearly four years after the official end of the ISIL conflict, hundreds of thousands of families have returned to their areas of origin; however, an estimated 1.2 million individuals remain displacement.
Over 103,000 internally displaced persons (IDPs) live in 477 informal sites – locations outside of formal camps that are typically not integrated within the surrounding communities and excluded from public services. Families remaining in displacement in informal sites across Iraq will continue to face significant barriers to resolving their displacement — through returning home, local integration or relocating permanently to a new location — with basic services, agreements on land use and livelihood opportunities increasingly difficult to access.
 
Targeted research and programming are required to support this highly vulnerable population. The International Organization for Migration (IOM) commends the Camp Coordination and Camp Management (CCCM) Cluster for publishing an Informal Sites Overview — presenting key information on the number of informal sites and population by governorate; district; shelter type; and urban/rural location breakdown.
 
The Overview summarizes the data contained in the CCCM Cluster’s Informal Sites Masterlist published in September 2021, including analysis of notable informal site population changes at governorate level over the last year. The Masterlist comprises data compiled from informal sites identified by the IOM’s Displacement Tracking Matrix (DTM) between May-July 2021, as well as sites reported by CCCM partners in 2021. The CCCM Cluster also published this data on an Interactive Dashboard, where it can be filtered by governorate, district, and shelter and location type.
 
Complementary data produced by IOM DTM’s Integrated Location Assessment (ILA 6) in July 2021, and analysed in a recently published report, provides an overview of living conditions of IDPs and returnees in informal sites and highlights that the number of informal sites in which IDPs are unable to meet their basic needs has nearly doubled between 2020-2021.
 
For various reasons including remoteness, access and visibility, the populations living in informal sites often receive limited humanitarian or government assistance. IOM Iraq has been providing humanitarian assistance to some of these sites across Anbar, Baghdad, Salah al-Din and Ninewa governorates, including in some sites which had not received any form of support since the end of the ISIL conflict. However, the needs in informal sites remain significant and will require strategic interventions from humanitarian and durable solutions agencies and donors in the coming year, in an effort to improve living conditions and resolve factors contributing to protracted displacement.
 
This data collection is an important step toward recognizing the scale and complexity of needs of displaced populations living in informal sites across Iraq; it should allow for better-informed humanitarian response and advocacy.
 
The CCCM Cluster is an Inter-Agency Standing Committee coordination mechanism that supports people affected by natural disasters and IDPs affected by conflict with the means to live in safe, dignified and appropriate settings. IOM is co-coordinator of the CCCM Cluster in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/157698-targeted-support-crucial-displaced-persons-informal-sites-iom-iraq




Date: 08 November 2021
Title: Iraq launches nationwide vaccination campaign to scale up immunity against COVID-19
Content: 08 November 2021
Baghdad, Iraq, 8 November 2021: The World Health Organization (WHO), in partnership with the Iraqi Ministry of Health, today launched a national COVID-19 mass vaccination campaign covering all Iraq including the Kurdistan Region and targeting over 12 million people with children 12 years old and above.
The campaign which commenced today will last until December 31st 2021, and will certainly give momentum to the vaccine rollout process in Iraq to reach up to 40% vaccination covertage rate among the general population by end of this year.
“COVID 19 continues to be the biggest challenge of our time and we must all unite to overcome this devastating public health threat as no one is safe until we are all safe,” said Dr. Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq.
“WHO and the Ministry of Health in Iraq raised the challenge to vaccinate the maximum number of people possible to control the COVID19 Pandemic as soon as possible, under the theme of “COVID19 Vaccine is a gateway to a normal life”. Vaccination has today come in a new outfit and will be delivered in easy-to-access sites, open for long working hours extending to the evening. There will be a lifesaving dose of immunity against this vicious disease for every Iraqi, no one should be left behind” Dr. Zouiten added.
This new external vaccination setting will witness the opening of more than 100 external mass vaccination sites distributed to the 18 Iraqi governorates based on the demographic situation, health indicators, and capacity of each governorate. The sites will further be supported by more than 225 vaccination and direct registration teams deployed with the required daily supply of vaccine doses.
This new COVID 19 inoculation arrangement will support the health system in Iraq to maintain the routine immunization program which was significantly affected by the designation of the health facilities to the delivery of COVID 19 health care services in 2020-2021.
“The Ministry of Health in Iraq and WHO are happy to announce the launch of a massive COVID 19 vaccination campaign today,” said Dr. Riyadh Al Hilfy, Director General of the Public Health Directorate in the Iraqi Ministry of Health. “The campaign will target a vast majority of the vaccine eligible population in Iraq through external vaccination outlets with on-spot registration. Our short-term goal is to vaccinate a minimum of 40% of our people including our children aged 12yrs upwards.”
“Vaccines are now available, and we urge our citizens to go get their jabs. Let’s stand by each other to overcome the difficulties resulting from this disease and bring life back to normal with our determination and the support of our partners,” Dr. Alhilfy added.
The vaccine rollout process in Iraq started in March this year accessing 15.1% of the total population with the first dose and only 9.0% with the two vaccine doses as of 6 November 2021. Committed to WHO global vision of scaling the vaccination coverage in all world’s countries to 40% by end of this year, the coverage rates in Iraq have raised the concern of the health authorities and WHO in Iraq and necessitated an urgent action to intensify the vaccination activities in an innovative and accessible to all approach.
“WHO would like to reiterate that we cannot end the pandemic without COVID-19 vaccines. We will stop this pandemic only when the majority of people in Iraq take the vaccine,” but vaccines should be complemented by public health and social measures. WHO calls upon citizens to seize the opportunity of direct vaccine administration to stay safe and keep our loved ones safe,” explained Dr. Zouiten.
WHO Iraq would like to express its gratitude to the German People and Government for their generous financial contribution which enabled the planning and the implementation of this remarkable event, the first of the kind in the region so far.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/157219-iraq-launches-nationwide-vaccination-campaign-scale-immunity-against-covid-19




Date: 08 November 2021
Title: UN Security Council Press Statemen | Condemning the November 7 Assassination Attempt against Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi
Content: 08 November 2021
The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the 7 November 2021 assassination attempt against Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi.
The members of the Security Council expressed their relief that the Prime Minister was not injured in the attack.
The members of the Security Council reiterated their support for the independence, sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity, democratic process and prosperity of Iraq.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security.
The members of the Security Council underlined the need to hold perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism accountable and bring them to justice, and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Government of Iraq and all other relevant authorities in this regard.
The members of the Security Council reiterated that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed.  They reaffirmed the need for all States to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and other obligations under international law, including international human rights law, international refugee law and international humanitarian law, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
8 November 2021
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/157333-un-security-council-press-statemen-condemning-november-7-assassination-attempt-against-iraqi




Date: 08 November 2021
Title: Anbar, Second Governorate to open a Women Protection Centre with UNFPA
Content: 08 November 2021
8 November 2021; Anbar, Iraq - The Governorate of Anbar, with support from UNFPA and funding from Canada and Sweden, opened today a women protection centre in Heet district.
The centre will cover the entire governorate and provide psychosocial and legal assistance, medical counselling, referral to reproductive health services and protection for survivors of gender-based violence. Women and girls will also benefit from education programmes focused on life skills, livelihood and civic engagement.
The inauguration was attended by Mr Mohannad Zebar, Mayor of Heet, Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative to Iraq, and representatives from the civil society and women-led organisations.
In his speech, Mr Zebar said: "I want to thank UNFPA for their support to women and girls in Anbar. We are grateful to have such a centre for the first time in Anbar, and in particular in Heet. Women are essential members of our society and their protection and empowerment is key to the development of Anbar. This centre will ensure that survivors of gender-based violence are receiving proper services, have the opportunity to start over again and not be left behind."
Dr Columbia addressed the audience, emphasising the role of women and girls in the development: “Women and girls are the core of every society. They are the power that drives the communities upwards. UNFPA will strengthen its support to the local authorities in Anbar to ensure that the needs and the rights of women and girls are fulfilled, and they are well protected from any form of gender-based violence.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/157308-anbar-second-governorate-open-women-protection-centre-unfpa




Date: 07 November 2021
Title: UNAMI strongly condemns assassination attempt on Iraqi Prime Minister
Content: 07 November 2021
Baghdad, 7 November 2021 - The United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) condemns in the strongest terms the assassination attempt against Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi. The Mission expresses its relief that the Prime Minister was not hurt in the drone attack on his residence in Baghdad.
Terrorism, violence and unlawful acts must not be allowed to undermine Iraq’s stability and derail its democratic process.
The Mission joins the Prime Minister in calling for calm and urging restraint. Moreover, UNAMI strongly encourages all sides to take responsibility for de-escalation and to engage in dialogue to ease political tensions, upholding the national interest of Iraq.
The United Nations stands by all Iraqis who long for peace and stability; they deserve nothing less.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/157094-unami-strongly-condemns-assassination-attempt-iraqi-prime-minister




Date: 07 November 2021
Title: UNFPA, Anbar Governorate Sign Framework to Enhance Services to Women and Girls
Content: 07 November 2021
7 November 2021; Anbar, Iraq - UNFPA Representative to Iraq, Dr Rita Columbia, and the Governor of Anbar, Mr Ali Farhan Al-Dulaimi, signed a Joint Cooperation Framework on Sunday to increase access to services responding to gender-based violence and protecting women and girls in Anbar.
The agreement will be translated into establishing a women protection centre in Heet district, which will serve the entire governorate. UNFPA will ensure that the centre can provide survivor-centred quality services to women and girls survivors of violence.
Speaking to the press, Mr Farhan, said: "I thank UNFPA for prioritising women and girls in Anbar. The Governorate will ensure that women and girls have access to services they desperately need. We promise to expand our collaboration with the partners to support women empowerment in Anbar."
For her part, Dr Columbia thanked the Governor for his support to women and girls’ empowerment in Anbar: “This cooperation framework will help to expand services to women and girls in the Governorate and ensure service providers are equipped with survivor-centred approaches that respect human rights.”
The cooperation agreement between UNFPA and the Governorate is within the UNFPA 2020-2024 Country Programme Document and the Memorandum of Understanding between UNFPA & the Government of Iraq, through the Ministry of Planning.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/157187-unfpa-anbar-governorate-sign-framework-enhance-services-women-and-girls




Date: 07 November 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Iraq
Content: 07 November 2021
The Secretary-General strongly condemns the assassination attempt against Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi earlier today. He calls for the perpetrators of this crime to be held accountable.
The Secretary-General calls on all Iraqis to exercise utmost restraint and reject all violence and any attempts to destabilize Iraq. He urges all political actors to uphold the constitutional order and resolve differences through peaceful and inclusive dialogue.
The United Nations will continue to stand with the people and Government of Iraq as they strive for a better future.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 7 November 2021
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/157332-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-iraq




Date: 04 November 2021
Title: New training programme empowers NGOs in Iraq to contribute to Prevention of Violent Extremism
Content: 04 November 2021
Erbil, 04 November 2021 – The United Nations Development Programme in Iraq (UNDP) and the NGO Directorate at the Council of Ministers Secretariat (COMSEC) have launched a capacity building programme for 60 representatives of local non-government organizations (NGOs) to support them in the design and implementation of programmes and initiatives to prevent violent extremism.
The programme, which commenced with a series of workshops from 13-18 October, targets participants across Iraq including Anbar, Baghdad, Basra, Dhi Qar, Diwaniyah, Diyala, Karbala, Kirkuk, Maysan, Muthana, Najaf, Ninewa, Salah al-Din, and Wasit, and includes sessions on youth radicalization in the digital area, promoting gender equality and women’s empowerment, inter-faith initiatives, digital hate speech and conflict analysis on root causes of violence.
These workshops build on UNDP Iraq’s support to the Government of Iraq in combating and preventing violent extremism through an integrated society-centered approach including civil society, which has a vital role in peaceful coexistence and stabilization.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad emphasizes, “Supporting the Prevention of Violent Extremism is a key priority for UNDP in strengthening the social fabric for recovery in Iraq. This partnership with the NGO Directorate reinforces our community-based approach to addressing drivers of violent extremism at the root and promoting inclusivity and tolerance in Iraq.”
The Director General of the NGO Directorate, General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Ashraf al-Dahan, states, “A joint effort is required between national and international partners to work towards the prevention of violent extremism through a comprehensive civil society approach, to promote social cohesion and address the root causes of extremism. We look forward to continuing our work together towards stability and prosperity in Iraq.”
In 2020, UNDP Iraq launched a dedicated five-year Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq, supported by the governments of Denmark, Germany, Japan, and the Netherlands.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/156779-new-training-programme-empowers-ngos-iraq-contribute-prevention-violent-extremism




Date: 03 November 2021
Title: The Republic of Korea supports vulnerable families in Iraq to put food on the table
Content: 03 November 2021
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) has received a US$1 million contribution from the Republic of Korea to support WFP’s food assistance for up to 327,000 internally displaced people (IDPs) and Syrian refugees until the end of the year, who are living in camps.
“Through the persistent pandemic and given that many families are still unable to return home, or are suffering in displacement for the second time or more, the Republic of Korea contribution will help us ensure these families are not left behind,” said WFP Representative in Iraq Ally-Raza Qureshi. “Our sincere thanks to the people and government of Korea for this generous support. The Republic of Korea is WFP’s long-standing partner in Iraq, helping families through this critical time.”
The COVID-19 pandemic continues to disrupt the lives of families, alongside rises in food prices, which makes this contribution even more timely.
“With more than 2.4. million people, including IDPs, refugees, returnees and host communities, still being in acute need of humanitarian assistance in Iraq, the Republic of Korea is making continued efforts to support its partners in addressing these requirements,” said Jang Kyung-Wook, Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to Iraq. “WFP plays a critical humanitarian role in Iraq by providing emergency food assistance to those in need, and it is my sincere hope that Korea’s contribution this year will help WFP continue its life-saving operations to meet the food security needs of IDPs and refugees living in camps.”
In addition, WFP launched in July monthly cash assistance to displaced families who recently left camps, or who are no longer in formal camp settings. WFP assessments found that these families cannot afford the minimum food needs and are resorting to negative coping strategies such as eating less or going into debt and, hence, need continued support outside formal camp settings.
WFP’s out-of-camp response is working to support 18,000 people. In parallel and as part of the UN’s ‘durable solutions’ approach, WFP is expanding livelihoods activities dedicated for 22,000 out-of-camp IDPs and host communities in Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa and Salah al-Din governorates, over 13 months.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/156618-republic-korea-supports-vulnerable-families-iraq-put-food-table




Date: 01 November 2021
Title: UNICEF calls for urgent action to address water scarcity and its impact on children and young people’s lives in Iraq ahead of COP26
Content: 01 November 2021
BAGHDAD, 01 November 2021 – Children and young people in Iraq are the most at risk of the impacts of climate change especially water scarcity, threatening their health, education, and protection, and exposing them to deadly diseases. Ahead of COP26, UNICEF calls for urgent action to address water scarcity and its impact on children’s and young people’s lives in Iraq.
According to UNICEF’s Children’s Climate Risk Index, released in August this year, Iraq ranks 42nd among the most water stressed countries globally. Projections for 2030 and 2040 in a Business as Usual Scenario suggest an extremely high-water stress index score worsening the situation of children in the country.
Children and young people are at medium-high climate risk in Iraq, with vulnerable groups and certain regions of the country at a higher risk. The climate crisis is a child rights crisis. It poses an unprecedented threat to the development, survival, and potential of all children and young people, everywhere in Iraq. It represents an absolute injustice to the next generation.
Ambitious, comprehensive, and urgent action is needed for every girl and boy in Iraq to have a chance at a better future unhindered by the violence of climate change.
UNICEF is encouraged that a high level delegation from the Government of Iraq, including representatives from young people, will participate at COP26 and pledges support for action beyond this meeting to put in place tangible measures to address the multiple threats posed by climate change in Iraq.
UNICEF is therefore calling on the federal and regional governments, businesses and relevant duty bearers in Iraq to:

About UNICEF
UNICEF promotes the rights and wellbeing of every child; in everything we do. Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit https://www.unicef.org/iraq/, Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/156319-unicef-calls-urgent-action-address-water-scarcity-and-its-impact-children-and-young-people%E2%80%99s




Date: 29 October 2021
Title: UNFPA & Governorate Inaugurate of the First Women Protection Centre in Diwaniyah
Content: 29 October 2021
28 October 2021; Baghdad, Iraq - The Governorate of Diwaniyah and UNFPA inaugurated today the first Women Protection Centre in the Governorate, with funding from Canada and Sweden.
The Centre will offer psychosocial and legal assistance,  medical counselling and protection for survivors of gender-based violence. Women and girls will be able to benefit from special programmes on empowerment, life skills and livelihood education.
The inauguration was attended by Mr Zuhair Ali Al-Shaalan, Governor of Diwaniyah,  Dr Yousra Al-Allak, Head of Women Empowerment Department and Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative to Iraq, as well as representatives from the civil society and women-led organisations.
Speaking at the event, the Governor highlighted the centre’s importance to women and girls in Diwaniyah: “Women play an important role in our society. Diwaniyah is proud to establish a centre that provides a comprehensive package of services for survivors of gender-based violence. When women are protected and provided with the right tools, they can thrive.”
For his part, Dr Yousra Al-Allak reiterated: “Establishing a Protection Women Centre is a very good first step. However, to ensure the proper development of Iraq, we need legislation that protects women and girls from gender-based violence and ensures their rights are preserved”.
In her speech, Dr Columbia emphasised the importance of safe spaces for women and girls survivors of any form of violence. She thanked the local authorities, Women Empowerment Department and civil society for their efforts to prevent and respond to GBV.  She called on other governorates to follow this example to take concrete steps towards eliminating gender-based violence in Iraq. ”.
Speeches also called the Parliament to adopt the Anti-Domestic Violence Law and endorse the legal framework for gender-based violence service provision and protection of women.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/156021-unfpa-governorate-inaugurate-first-women-protection-centre-diwaniyah




Date: 28 October 2021
Title: ILO strengthens capacity of Iraqi inspectors on effective labour inspection procedures
Content: 28 October 2021
A training workshop for labour and OSH inspectors of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in Baghdad aimed to strengthen the capacity of inspections in promoting labour regulations and procedures in Iraq.
Baghdad, Iraq (ILO News) The International Labour Organization (ILO) organised a week-long training for thirty-five labour and occupational safety and health (OSH) inspectors of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in Baghdad, to strengthen their capacity in the promotion and enforcement of labour regulations and procedures in Iraq.

The training, which is part of a wider capacity building training programme designed for the ministry’s staff and inspectors, is the first step towards the establishment of a labour inspection training center within the premises of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in Baghdad.

These efforts are being implemented with the support of the European Union (EU) through ILO’s “Enhancing labour governance, inspection and working conditions in response to COVID-19, ” which seeks to strengthen the labour inspection system and improve OSH in line with international labour standards, through policy development and capacity building.

“This training was an opportunity to introduce labour inspectors to international good practices in relation to innovative strategies related to inspection, as part of our efforts to lay the ground for the establishment of the labour inspection training center that will promote a stronger and more effective labour inspection system in the country,” said Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq.

The training, conducted jointly with the International Training Centre,  the training arm of the ILO, covered key aspects related to labour administration and inspection; inspection visits; working conditions; and designing strategies for promoting compliance. It also covered a wide range of areas of work in line with international labour standards related to labour inspection, such as child labour, forced labour, employment conditions, and gender-related issues.

It aimed to strengthen the capacity of inspectors to apply key principles in the preparation, implementation, and follow-up of inspection visits; identify key issues related to the planning and implementation of labour inspection policies; and identify various compliance strategies.

“Under the direct guidance of His Excellency the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, the ministry has previously conducted nation-wide inspection campaigns, and we will continue with these inspection campaigns as they contribute positively to workers,” said Raed Jabbar Bahedh, Director General of the Department of Labour and Vocational Training at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. “These training workshops organized by the ILO further enhance the capabilities and expertise of labour and occupational health and safety inspectors. The ministry is collaborating with the ILO on several initiatives which seek to raise the awareness of workers and employers on the Iraqi Labour Law No. 37, and these trainings which target labour and occupational safety and health inspectors are of great importance as it is necessary to ensure the full application of the labour law by inspectors through equipping them with the knowledge on mechanisms and modern inspection procedures.”

Rajaa Tahseen, from the Department of Labour and Vocational Training at the ministry, who took part in the training, said: “This workshop was very useful, as it covered modern concepts (in relation to inspection). It also provided in-depth discussions on issues related to the labour law, child labour and legal procedures which need to be followed by inspectors during inspection visits. We also discussed several important topics, some of which were not fully familiar to us, such as those related to leave, working hours and wages. We hope that such training sessions will continue to take place as they greatly contribute to raising the awareness of the inspectors, and reflect positively on their work.”

A series of capacity building workshops will continue to take place throughout 2021 and early 2022.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/155821-ilo-strengthens-capacity-iraqi-inspectors-effective-labour-inspection-procedures




Date: 27 October 2021
Title: UNAMI condemns Diyala attacks, urges unity
Content: 27 October 2021
Baghdad, 27 October 2021 – The United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) strongly condemns the heinous attacks in Diyala on Tuesday night, which caused many deaths and injuries. The Mission extends its sincere condolences to the victims’ families and wishes the injured a speedy recovery.
UNAMI calls on the authorities to fully investigate the attacks and exert every effort to ensure the safety and security of all citizens.
To fight continued threats of terrorism and violence that undermine Iraq's stability, national unity is key. Those who seek to harm and divide cannot do so if Iraqis stand together as one.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/155793-unami-condemns-diyala-attacks-urges-unity




Date: 27 October 2021
Title: FAO launches Peer-to-Peer training Program for Ministry of Agriculture Extension Officers
Content: 27 October 2021
Under the patronage of His Excellency the Minister of Agriculture, Engineer, Muhammad Karim Al-Khafaji, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) launched an innovative Peer-to-Peer training Program for Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) Extension Officers on Monday, October 2021 in Erbil. The program had been designed for 12 MOA staff from the southern governorates of Maysan, Dhi Qar and Basra and was supported by 30 extension officers and female dairy producers from Ninewa Governorate.
The opening ceremony was attended by Dr. Hadi Hashem Hussein - representative of the Agriculture Minister and FAO-MOA Coordinator; D. Rabie Youssef Elias - Director of Ninewa Directorate of Agriculture; and Dr. Salah Al-Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, and other staff from the EU-funded project “Support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Ninewa Governorate, Iraq.”
Dr. Hadi Hashem Hussein said that the project implemented in Ninewa also achieved its remarkable results by introducing additional innovative technologies with forage crops and complementary feeding. Producing more milk products –and of higher quality (including better hygiene practices) have led to increased incomes. Dr Hadi stressed that the Ministry of Agriculture gives great importance to this project and encourages the transfer of its methods and new practices to be sahred and rolled out to other Iraqi governorates as well.
Dr. Rabea Yousef Elias said he was very happy with the capacity building his extension staff of the Ninewa Agriculture Directorate had been exposed to, and he also appreciated the important role played by his staff in various implementation steps of the project supporting the beneficiary farmers in the field. In total, more than 30 extension officers had been able to develop their skills and capabilities through FAO training in innovative technologies, especially related to livestock (early weaning practices) and green fodder production.
Dr. Salah Al-Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq, thanked the Ministry of Agriculture with all its staff, for the strong support of all FAO projects implemented in cooperation with the Ministry and for the approach followed to involve extension staff in the implementation of projects. He said that the involvement ensures the sustainability of interventions through strengthening of the farmer support services. Dr Salah further said that these well-trained extension workers can now also contribute to capacity development of their colleagues in other governorates. This workshop is a first opportunity to train colleagues from southern governorates to become district-level lead trainers or Trainer-of-Trainers and Farmer Field School facilitators (FFS). He was grateful that the extension team in Ninewa was supportive of the transfer of expertise between peers.
Dr. Salah Hajj Hassan also announced that a first opportunity has arisen with new funding received from the EU for the project: "Restoration and Strengthening the Resilience of Agri-Food Systems in Southern Iraq”, implemented by FAO in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Water Resources and local authorities in the Governorates of Maysan, Dhi Qar and Basra.
This emphasis on capacity development of technical and extension workers through peer-to-peer training fits the broader agenda of the GoI and the related United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for Iraq. Dr Kayouli Chedly - FAO Senior International Livestock Expert, was leading and supervising the training exercise, with support from the respective Directors of the Ninewa Agriculture Directorate and southern governorates.
He The FAO expert stressed that the main output is to have trained 12 MOA extension staff from the target districts and sub-districts in Southern Governorates in Ninewa Governorate through peer-to-peer training to help FAO to implement project activities in livestock, fodder and feeding. At the end of the training, the extension staff will be considered fully trained as district-based leading trainers (TOT) and FFSs facilitators.
On the sidelines of the meeting, dairy products made by project beneficiaries within the Ninewa project were presented and consumed with great appreciation. New markets are sought in places like Erbil to market the new dairy products such as cheese, qaymar, and cream. And by the reaction from visitors to the venue this will be successful.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/155514-fao-launches-peer-peer-training-program-ministry-agriculture-extension-officers




Date: 27 October 2021
Title: UNFPA launches Social Responsibility Skills for Young Entrepreneurs Project
Content: 27 October 2021
28 October 2021; Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq - UNFPA and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs with the Ministry of Culture and Youth in the Kurdistan Regional Government launched the Social Responsibility Skills for Young Entrepreneurs project in Erbil. The project was based on the success story of the “Orange Corners Erbil Programme” implemented by MSelect with support from the Kingdom of Netherlands.
For the next two months, 20 young women and men will receive mentorship and training in leadership skills, entrepreneurship and financial management focusing on the social responsibility aspect of the businesses. The participants will benefit from sessions on gender equality, prevention of gender-based violence and reproductive health rights.
During the event, Mr Himyar Abdulmoghni, UNFPA Iraq Deputy Representative, highlighted the importance of investing in youth, especially girls,  to harness the Demographic Dividend in Iraq: “Currently, young people represent 41% of the population in Iraq. It is crucial to empower them to become independent, entrepreneurial and socially responsible citizens. Only when young people are healthy and well educated, can they take the country upwards in development”.
Mr Hawre Jabbar Hamad, Deputy Director of Funds [to support small projects for youth] at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs said: “We are happy to announce the launch of this important project along with the Ministry of Culture and Youth and UNFPA. The project will help young people gain much-needed employability and entrepreneurial skills focusing on gender equality and giving back to their communities. We hope to extend the project to other youth centres across the country to reach the maximum number of young people who can make a difference.”
To support social entrepreneurship and young people empowerment, UNFPA will provide seed money to selected start-up proposals demonstrating sustainable social impact.  Furthermore, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will offer participants short-term loans to help them launch their businesses based on specific eligibility criteria.
UNFPA is strongly committed to supporting and empowering adolescents and youth, especially girls, in their quest to be heard and build the future of Iraq. UNFPA strategy to achieve the 2030 vision for Sustainable Development puts youth at the centre of scaling up the global, regional and national needs of young people.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/155771-unfpa-launches-social-responsibility-skills-young-entrepreneurs-project




Date: 26 October 2021
Title: Germany Renews its Support to UNITAD with a New €1 Million Contribution to Investigate Financing of ISIL Crimes
Content: 26 October 2021
Baghdad, 26 October 2021 – Germany has renewed its support to the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) by recommitting an additional €1 million for investigations into the financial dimensions of ISIL crimes.
This support is central to UNITAD’s overall investigative efforts, as it seeks to uncover the financial mechanisms that supported or enabled perpetrators to profit from ISIL’s grave violations of international humanitarian law and international human rights law.
“Accountability for the crimes committed by ISIL must include identifying and prosecuting those who enabled and profited from these acts, and Germany’s contributions will be crucial in supporting UNITAD’s efforts in pursuing accountability for such crimes”, noted Sareta Ashraph, UNITAD Director of Investigations.
Building on this renewed support, as well as the strong collaboration already established with the Iraqi judiciary in this field, the dedicated unit investigating ISIL financial crimes will broaden its focus to cover the economic aspects of ISIL crimes.
UNITAD will also continue to investigate the role of ISIL’s financial support network and expand its investigations to also focus on those ISIL elements that were engaged in the persecution of ethnic and religious groups through theft and widespread pillage across Iraq.
German Ambassador to Iraq, Mr. Martin Jäger, underlined that Germany remains committed to supporting the important work of UNITAD in Iraq. “Only by exposing the roots of the financial sources of Da’esh, we will be able to overcome the threat of Da’esh and achieve long-lasting stability in Iraq”, Ambassador Jäger emphasized.
This renewed contribution will empower UNITAD to provide greater support to domestic authorities, taking forward legal proceedings in relation to ISIL’s financiers and administrators. Cooperation with Iraqi and international partners in the banking and private sector, as well as law enforcement and prosecutorial entities, remains instrumental to accountability efforts for those who financially supported ISIL and facilitated the crimes committed by its members in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/153203-germany-renews-its-support-unitad-new-%E2%82%AC1-million-contribution-investigate-financing-isil




Date: 25 October 2021
Title: Climate Change Awareness Raising Workshop
Content: 25 October 2021
Erbil, 24 October 2021- UNEP-Iraq in partnership with UNDP and Ministry of Environment conducted a two-day training workshop in Erbil on Climate Change within the implementation of the Iraq National Adaptation Plan Project (NAP) aiming at “building the institutional capacity to advance the National Adaptation Plan process in Iraq” to raise awareness of stakeholders (including vulnerable groups and the private sector) on current and future climate change scenarios, socio-economic and environmental impacts, priority actions and investment opportunities to increase resilience to climate change across Iraq.
Representatives from Ministry of Environment and Directorate of Environment of Kurdistan, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Higher Education, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Health and civil society organizations participated in the awareness raising workshop. In the opening session, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Environment, Dr. Kamran, has stressed on the importance of the UNEP workshop to raise awareness of key stakeholders of the alarming impacts of climate change in Iraq and the need to mobilize efforts and resources to address these impacts. “This workshop is the first in a serious of planned workshops to showcase the serious implications of climate change for the country”. The Deputy Ministry expressed.
Mr. Issa, Director General of the Technical Department, thanked UNEP for supporting this workshop, and he confirmed that Ministry of Environment will continue working closely with UNEP on the campaign targeting other governorates in Iraq to address the impacts of climate change in the country. “Rising temperatures, intense droughts, declining precipitation, desertification, salinization, and the increasing prevalence of dust storms are evident incidents we already started to experience”. Mr. Isaa added.
The training provided presentations on climate risk and early warning systems followed by a presentation on the use of GIS to support adaptation measures. A presentation on the impacts of climate change on health, agriculture, water resources, biodiversity and human settlements was also facilitated. This was followed by hands-on group exercises on identifying extreme weather events and developing climate scenarios and priority actions to increase resilience to climate change. The workshop also included discussions and reflections on the priority sectors most affected by the climate change in the country and the necessity to develop short and medium strategies to address these impacts. It also created space for discussion on current civil society lead climate adaptation initiatives.
UNEP National Officer and a National Consultant in Iraq participated in the preparation of lectures, training and discussions, whether by attendance or through zoom applications.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/153070-climate-change-awareness-raising-workshop




Date: 22 October 2021
Title: Security Council Press Statement | United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI)
Content: 22 October 2021
The members of the Security Council congratulated the Iraqi people and the Government of Iraq on the occasion of their latest elections, held on 10 October 2021. The members of the Security Council welcomed interim reports that the elections proceeded smoothly and featured significant technical and procedural improvements from previous Iraqi elections.
The members of the Security Council commended the Independent High Electoral Commission (IHEC) for conducting a technically sound election. They commended the Government of Iraq for its election preparations and for preventing violence on election day.
The members of the Security Council commended the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) for providing IHEC the technical assistance and international monitoring team the Government of Iraq requested to strengthen the electoral process and promote transparency. The members of the Security Council thanked UNAMI for its assistance, and commended UNAMI for demonstrating objectivity in its efforts to support Iraq throughout the election process. They welcomed IHEC’s and UNAMI’s efforts to promote women’s political participation.
The members of the Security Council also welcomed the efforts of member states and other international organizations to observe the elections, notably the European Union long-term Election Observation Mission, the Arab League, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and others, as well as domestic organisations.
The members of the Security Council deplored the recent threats of violence against UNAMI, IHEC personnel, and others.
The members of the Security Council reiterated the Secretary-General’s call for all stakeholders to show patience and respect for the electoral timeline. The members of the Security Council stressed that any electoral disputes that may arise should be resolved peacefully through established legal channels. Once the results are ratified, the members of the Security Council look forward to the peaceful formation of an inclusive government that reflects the will of the Iraqi people and their call for a stronger democracy.
The members of the Security Council reiterated their support for the Government of Iraq and their commitment to Iraq’s independence, sovereignty, unity, and territorial integrity. The members of the Security Council reiterated their support for the Government of Iraq’s efforts to deliver meaningful reforms and advance inclusive political dialogue aimed at meeting the Iraqi people’s legitimate demands to address corruption, provide essential and basic services, diversify the economy, create jobs, improve governance, and strengthen viable and responsive state institutions.
22 October 2021
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/152761-security-council-press-statement-united-nations-assistance-mission-iraq-unami




Date: 21 October 2021
Title: Realities of Climate-Induced Migration in Iraq’s Southern Cities: New IOM Report
Content: 21 October 2021
Basra – Environmental degradation over the last 10 years has severely damaged Iraq’s agricultural sector. Worsening water scarcity and quality has left the sector unable to support sufficient and sustainable livelihoods, particularly in rural areas, where it has long been the main workforce employer.
This has directly contributed to the migration of rural populations in search of other opportunities. However, climate-induced migrants are attempting to settle into complex new environments with potentially limited financial and social capital, which may impact their ability to access services and rights.
In July and August 2021, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and Social Inquiry conducted a survey of 802 local and migrant residents in the southern city of Basra to identify key issues hindering climate migrants’ ability to integrate into already fragile urban settings. The southern cities of Iraq already struggle with economic security and governance, and may not be well prepared to absorb influxes of migrants.
The study, Migration into a Fragile Setting: Responding to Climate-Induced Informal Urbanization and Inequality in Basra, Iraq, found that migrants arriving in Basra tend to cluster in neighbourhoods suffering from multiple social problems related to economic security, access to rights and safety, with many moving into eviction-prone shelters and taking up low-wage jobs in the informal sector.
According to the study, over half of migrant households reported that they cannot afford enough food or basic items, and 53 per cent do not have access to a financial safety net. Migrants also tend to report higher levels of exclusion from access to public services and other rights, which may include employment support, policing and formal dispute resolution and guarantees on property rights.
This contrasts with the situation of local households, which mostly rely on government employment and report better affordability status and financial safety nets. However, a weak private sector coupled with the waning ability of the state to expand public employment limits the economic prospects of all residents and increases their risk of falling into poverty.
Based on data from IOM’s Displacement Tracking Matrix, there are few internally displaced persons (IDPs) still in Basra due to the ISIL conflict. Most migrants are originally from the neighbouring governorates and districts and key indicators suggest that movements are not seasonal but permanent.
The consequences of Iraq’s climate challenges, particularly those related to water scarcity, are far-reaching and urgent, requiring coordinated action to mitigate needs, avoid further displacement and prevent the magnification of existing social problems.
“This report points to the need for a two-pronged approach to strengthen the capacity of areas receiving an influx of population to adapt, while also supporting rural districts from which families are migrating due to extreme environmental degradation and an absence of diversified economic opportunities,” said Clémentine Favier, head of the Returns and Recovery Unit.
This study was made possible with support from the US Department of State, Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration (PRM).
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/152542-realities-climate-induced-migration-iraq%E2%80%99s-southern-cities-new-iom-report




Date: 16 October 2021
Title: Amid water shortages in Iraq, FAO, IFAD and WFP call for action on World Food Day to help communities confront climate change
Content: 16 October 2021
16 October 2021, Baghdad – Today on World Food Day, the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) renew their commitment to help reform food systems in Iraq, calling for action to tackle water shortages and climate change.
Building on this year’s theme for World Food Day, “Our actions are our future- Better production, better nutrition, a better environment and a better life,” the UN partners and World Bank’s latest research highlights the impact of lower rainfall on people’s food security.
“The impact of water shortages in Iraq is becoming evident through the lower crop yields for 2021. Urgent action is required to confront climate change, working together to address the root causes,” said FAO Representative in Iraq Dr Salah El Hajj Hassan, WFP Iraq Representative Ally-Raza Qureshi, and IFAD Lead Economist Alessandra Garbero in a joint statement. “Reforming food systems will also help the most vulnerable communities in Iraq withstand future shocks. Resilient, modern food systems are important for long term food security and the sustainable economic growth of Iraq.”
Water shortages have resulted in below-normal development of vegetation and are affecting crop yields. According to estimates from FAO, by the end of the season, wheat production will be 70% lower and barley production negligible. The lower levels of rainfall this season are having a knock-on effect on smallholder farmers who have already been dealing with challenges in accessing markets due to higher prices.
In Ninewa and Salah al-Din governorates, which are worst-affected by lack of rainfall, WFP’s analysis identifies that insufficient food consumption and use of negative coping strategies such as borrowing money or eating less food among households, are almost double the national average.
Vulnerable communities, a vast majority of whom rely on agriculture, fishing, and livestock, who contribute the least to the climate crisis bear the brunt of the impacts with limited means to cushion the blow. Urgent action is required to address the water shortages in Iraq and climate change, as focus shifts to the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26).
Download copies of the latest report in Arabic and English at: https://bit.ly/2YKINTT
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/151933-amid-water-shortages-iraq-fao-ifad-and-wfp-call-action-world-food-day-help-communities




Date: 14 October 2021
Title: IOM assessments highlight evolving economic needs under unprecedented impacts of COVID-19 in Iraq
Content: 14 October 2021
Thursday, October 14, 2021 Baghdad – Necessary measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 combined with volatile oil prices and a decrease in the value of the Iraqi dinar brought an end to two years of sustained economic growth in Iraq, heavily impacting individuals and communities affected by conflict and displacement.
To ensure that livelihood programming continues to be responsive to the evolving needs of Iraqi communities, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) conducted 29 Labour Market Assessments (LMAs) – studies involving individual interviews and focus group discussions to help IOM Iraq teams better understand the realities of local markets; the hiring preferences of employers; and the skills, needs and goals of jobseekers, consumers and others.
The results of these assessments have been published alongside LMA reports from 2020 and 2019 in a collection titled Labour Market Opportunities and Challenges. They highlight the considerable livelihood needs remaining as communities recover from the ongoing impacts of COVID-19 and years of conflict.
“As conditions evolve, so must our response. Together with our community consultation process, the LMA findings help us understand how we can adjust how we provide livelihoods programming to have the greatest impact, with an eye to inclusivity and sustainability,” said Clementine Favier, Head of IOM Iraq’s Returns and Recovery Unit.
The LMA findings identified the types of vocational training, on-the-job training and business support packages that would be most beneficial in each surveyed district, information that is already being used to focus funding and plan interventions.
The LMAs showed that 74 per cent of jobseekers preferred cash over voucher or in-kind livelihood assistance. The assessments also suggested a preference for entrepreneurship, with about 70 per cent of jobseekers preferring to run their own business over being employed in the private sector. These findings emphasize the instability of the private sector, where price hikes and informal working conditions are common.
It is estimated that Iraq’s economy shrunk by 10.4 per cent in 2020, the largest contraction since 2003. This deterioration demands a robust, targeted response, particularly in areas previously occupied by the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, which continue to suffer from a lack of services and extensive damage to infrastructure.
Market assessments and thematic reports are also conducted for IOM’s Enterprise Development Fund to further analyse emerging opportunities and challenges facing the Iraqi economy.
IOM Iraq carries out LMAs with support from the U.S Agency for International Development (USAID); KfW, the German Development Bank; and the U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration (PRM).
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/151599-iom-assessments-highlight-evolving-economic-needs-under-unprecedented-impacts-covid-19-iraq




Date: 11 October 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General on Iraq’s parliamentary elections
Content: 11 October 2021
The Secretary-General commends the women and men of Iraq for their determination to make their voices heard through the ballot box on 10 October.
He notes the extensive efforts made by the relevant electoral and security bodies to ensure the largely peaceful conduct of the early parliamentary elections, called for by the people of Iraq in their quest for reform, accountability and a better future.
The Secretary-General urges all stakeholders to show patience and respect for the electoral timeline while the Independent High Electoral Commission (IHEC) tabulates the results, to resolve any electoral disputes that may arise through established legal channels, and to complete the electoral process by forming a government as soon as possible.
The Secretary-General reaffirms that the United Nations remains fully committed to supporting the Government and people of Iraq.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 11 October 2021
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/150980-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-iraq%E2%80%99s-parliamentary-elections




Date: 11 October 2021
Title: Statement by the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq, on the Iraqi elections
Content: 11 October 2021
The 10th of October was a day for all Iraqis. We are pleased to note that the elections proceeded smoothly and featured significant technical and procedural improvements, although the turnout was disappointing to many.
It is also important to recognize the significance of yesterday’s elections: the realization of a demand that Iraqis have consistently voiced for two years, and the fifth elections in the history of Iraq’s young democracy. The United Nations stood by all Iraqis, in advance of and on Election Day, and will continue to do so in the days ahead.
The Independent High Electoral Commission (IHEC) deserves credit for working hard to organize yesterday’s elections. We also commend the great efforts of Iraq’s security forces on polling day.
As we have repeatedly emphasized, elections are not an objective in and of themselves. They are a means to an end, and that end is improved governance. The Iraqi people deserve nothing less. Time is of the essence.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/150985-statement-united-nations-assistance-mission-iraq-iraqi-elections




Date: 07 October 2021
Title: FAO supports corn silage production in Kirkuk
Content: 07 October 2021
Kirkuk, 3 October 2021 - Within the framework of the EU funded project Support to livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Ninewa Governorate, Iraq, a high-level meeting on processing and marketing of corn silageto support the production of fodder crops in Iraq was held in Kirkuk Agriculture Directorate.
The meeting was attended by Mrs. Ahlam Fakhreddin, Assistant Director of Agriculture, and a delegation from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq, headed by Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan, FAO Representative, including FAO experts and five extension project supervisors division cadres in Kirkuk Directorate and representative from the private sector.
The meeting provided an excellent opportunity to discuss the organization plans to support the agricultural sector in Iraq and the main achievements of FAO work in Ninewa Governorate, in particular in the field of fodder production and dairy processing.
Dr. Salah highlighted that the purpose of the visit is to study and improve the reality of agriculture in Kirkuk governorate. He presented FAO plans to replicate the successful experience of Ninewa in Kirkuk governorate, main area for cultivation of yellow corn in Iraq, indicating the opportunities to process and market yellow corn silage to supply livestock breeders throughout Iraq, where corn silage is considered a high quality feed.
The FAO Representative congratulated the pioneering initiatives of the private sector to investment in the production and processing of corn silage, also a priority of FAO as main solution to improving the financial returns of livestock breeders.
The visit also included a field observation to the silage plant in the village of Al-Bdeir in the Dibis district, where, for the first time in Iraq, 3000 dunums of corn will be harvested for making silage.
The FAO team emphasized on the follow-up of the silage manufacturing process and the commitment to technically support this initiative.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/150488-fao-supports-corn-silage-production-kirkuk




Date: 07 October 2021
Title: Iraqi Authorities, in Cooperation with UNITAD, Complete the Excavation of a Mass Grave Site of ISIL Victims in Anbar
Content: 07 October 2021
Baghdad, 7 October 2021 – Iraqi authorities completed the excavation of a mass grave site in Bir Mantiqa al-Halwat, Anbar Governorate left by ISIL in October 2014. These efforts were done in cooperation with the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD). The site of the mass grave excavation was selected according with the Joint Mass Graves Investigations Strategy adopted by Iraqi authorities and UNITAD in September 2020.
In parallel, the Iraqi authorities also concluded a campaign to enable the relatives of the victims to register their family members as missing and provide DNA samples to identify the human remains.
Specialists from Iraq’s Mass Graves Directorate (MGD), Medico-Legal Directorate (MLD) and UNITAD, under the supervision and support of the National Coordinating Committee, with the help of the Ministry of Environment’s Directorate of Mine Action, all worked closely together to ensure the human remains, and evidence are collected in line with international standards. The joint endeavor between Iraqi authorities and UNITAD is critical to the success of excavation and investigation of mass graves left by ISIL.
“The marriage of expertise, training and mentoring in the application of innovative techniques and equipment such as 3D laser scanning, deep rooted knowledge of ISIL crimes committed in the context of Iraq, understanding of the complexity of mass grave crime scenes and outreach and engagement with local communities, contribute to establishing the evidence-based narrative of the crimes committed and support the scientific effort to establish the identity of victims” said Caroline Barker, Head of UNITAD’s Forensic Anthropology and Archaeology Unit.
The campaign to collect DNA samples from families of ISIL victims was conducted in tandem with excavation activities and organized by the MLD in cooperation with MGD. A general invite was sent out to the families of the victims of Al-Bu Nimr tribe from the District of Hit to attend the Anbar Health Directorate center, from the period of September 21 – 28. The Iraqi authorities are committed to receiving all information on family members missing as a result of ISIL crimes. The collection of evidentiary material, be it the forensic evidence excavated in the field at the mass grave site, or the DNA samples collected at the Anbar Health Directorate are indispensable to gathering concrete evidence and piecing together the narrative around the atrocities ISIL committed in Al-Bu Nimr.
According to Mr. Dia’ Sa’idi, Director of MGD: “the excavations resulted in documenting all which is related to the crime scene, as well as all the evidence that will be transmitted according to the original records of seizure and disclosure to the relevant courts to enable the judiciary to identify and hold the perpetrators accountable and provide redress to the families of the victims”.
The identification of the remains, and their return to their families is also important to bringing a sense of peace or closure to family members who lost their loved ones at the hands of ISIL members. Ultimately, the remains of these victims will be returned to their families where they would receive proper and dignified burial according to traditions and beliefs.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/150487-iraqi-authorities-cooperation-unitad-complete-excavation-mass-grave-site-isil-victims-anbar




Date: 05 October 2021
Title: The Netherlands Commits New Funding to UNITAD  in Support of Witness Protection in Iraq
Content: 05 October 2021
Baghdad, 5 September 2021 – The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands renewed its support to the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da’esh/ISIL (UNITAD) with additional funding for the support and protection of vulnerable witnesses of ISIL crimes in Iraq.
This timely contribution is critical to continue strengthening UNITAD’s survivor-centered approach to investigations, through which vulnerable witnesses are provided psychosocial guidance and support before, during and after their interviews, to reduce the risk of re-traumatization while giving their testimonies. The Netherlands is a longstanding supporter of UNITAD’s Witness Protection and Support Unit (WPSU) which ensures that victims and witnesses of ISIL’s crimes in Iraq can testify in a confidential setting in safe and emotionally reassuring environments with access to appropriate support.
Additionally, this contribution will allow UNITAD’s clinical psychologists to continue organizing capacity building trainings for national service providers working in the field of mental health on appropriate protection and specialist intervention measures to support witnesses, victims, and survivors.
Moreover, UNITAD will continue to work closely with the Iraqi authorities to extend technical assistance in the field of witness protection and psychosocial support to witnesses and survivors.
“UNITAD has played and is playing a key role in ensuring both accountability and support for the survivors of ISIL in Iraq and the Netherlands is a proud supporter of its work”, said Yoka Brandt, Permanent Representative of the Netherlands to the United Nations in New York.
This support continues to be fundamental for the Investigative Team’s efforts to uphold international standards in collecting evidence of crimes committed by ISIL members in Iraq that amount to war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide to support accountability measures in national courts.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/150069-netherlands-commits-new-funding-unitad-support-witness-protection-iraq




Date: 03 October 2021
Title: Water Accounting and Water Productivity Assessment Training workshop
Content: 03 October 2021
Erbil, Iraq 29 September: FAO-Iraq conducted a two-day training workshop in Erbil on Water Accounting and Water Productivity assessment within the implementation of an FAO project aiming at agricultural Water Resource Management Improvement, Water accounting with a baseline water productivity assessment” to demonstrate the value of water accounting (WA) and water productivity (WP) assessment and to build capacity among stakeholders in agriculture and water sectors.
Representatives from Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Higher Education and Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources of Kurdistan were participated in the training workshop. In the opening session, FAO Representative in Iraq Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan has stressed on the importance of the FAO training workshop in improving of water productivity and efficiency, sustainability and improvement of agricultural water resource management. “The timing of the workshop is critical since Iraq has recently experienced sever dry season”. FAO Representative expressed.
He thanked the participants, the stakeholders of agriculture and water resources  and he confirmed that FAO commitments to make all possible efforts to support communities, and national authorities to develop feasible and adaptable measure to overcome the impacts of water scarcity, lower rain precipitation,  an increase in the frequency and severity of droughts and climatic changes that affect the country.
The training provided presentations on WA definition, important concepts in WA, and analysis methods, followed by hands-on group exercises on various analyses/skills used in WA, such as water budgeting, supply-demand gap analysis, water use fraction analysis, and perceptual model development. The training also introduced different kinds of WP, interpretation of WP data, field data collection approaches, and utilization of FAO’s WaPOR (online data portal). In addition, participants practiced calculation/estimation of yields, different types of WP, and WP gap with example data through a group exercise.
FAO`s experts in Iraq and from the regional office in Cairo participated in the preparation of lectures, training and discussions, whether by attendance or through zoom applications.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/149786-water-accounting-and-water-productivity-assessment-training-workshop




Date: 01 October 2021
Title: HEAD OF UN MISSION TO TRAVEL TO SOUTHERN IRAQ TO DISCUSS IMPORTANCE OF 10/10 ELECTIONS
Content: 01 October 2021
Baghdad, 1 October 2021 – The Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq and Head of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI), Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, will travel tomorrow to Basra and Nasiriyah.
While in southern Iraq, she plans to meet with a wide range of Iraqi interlocutors, including government officials and members of civil society. The goal of her visit will be to hear voters’ views on the upcoming elections and explain how the United Nations is supporting the electoral process.
The Special Representative will also stress the importance of casting one’s vote, as a vote not cast could in fact help those to whom one may be opposed.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/149647-head-un-mission-travel-southern-iraq-discuss-importance-1010-elections




Date: 30 September 2021
Title: Economic recovery is slow for SMEs in Iraq during the second year of COVID-19
Content: 30 September 2021
Erbil — To measure the impact of COVID-19 on small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Iraq, the International Organization for Migration (IOM), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), and the International Trade Center (ITC) conducted a panel study of 716 SMEs, covering June 2020 to June 2021.
IOM, FAO and ITC have now released the Panel Study IV: Impact of COVID-19 on Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises in Iraq report. The study found that recovery from the economic slowdown produced by the COVID-19 virus has been sluggish in the surveyed SMEs. Roughly 25 per cent of the businesses was “very concerned” about recovery from the COVID-19 crisis.
The 716 surveyed firms are located in 15 governorates with activities spanning 16 economic sectors, mainly in the food and agriculture sectors. The study assessed the impact on these firms when compared with non-agricultural businesses.
The first case of COVID-19 was confirmed in Iraq in February 2020; since then, almost two million cases have been recorded. The new report presents the findings from four rounds of data, collected between June 2020 and June 2021, covering the effect of border closures and lockdowns on revenue, production, and employment; accessibility of resources or ability to sell products; and mechanisms adopted to cope with the crisis.
Almost all firms reported reductions in revenue in the early months of the pandemic, on average of 23 per cent between February and November 2020. By October 2020, revenue began to slowly recover. However, by the end of the study period in June 2021, the SMEs’ average monthly revenues hovered at around 60 per cent of pre-COVID-19 levels.
Between December 2020 and June 2021, 80 per cent of the SME owners who indicated they had taken on debt had done so due to the COVID-19 crisis. Most of those SMEs did so via informal means, such as borrowing money from friends and family.
On average, SME owners had lost two employees from their workforce between February, when lockdowns began as measure to control the public health crisis, and June 2020. However, by June 2021, over a year into the pandemic, SME owners had only one less employee compared to February 2020 meaning they were able to either re-hire staff or recruit new employees.
The ratio of male to female workers fluctuated throughout the pandemic. In February 2020, the SMEs in the study averaged one woman per 14 men. This ratio peaked in August 2020 at one woman per 20 men, suggesting a widening of the gender gap during this period.
The study was supported by the U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM) and the European Union.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/146750-economic-recovery-slow-smes-iraq-during-second-year-covid-19




Date: 29 September 2021
Title: Ministers of Labour and Social Affairs and social partners meet with ILO to discuss joint activities to advance decent work in Iraq, with support of the European Union
Content: 29 September 2021
The meeting focused on efforts being implemented by the ILO and its partners to improve working conditions through various interventions and policy development in the areas of labour inspection and occupational safety and health. It was followed by a consultation session with stakeholders on the development of a National Employment Policy aimed at facilitating job creation and improving working conditions.
Baghdad, Iraq, 29 September 2021 - A Steering Committee, represented by ILO’s tripartite partners, held its first meeting to discuss progress made in the implementation of a project, supported by the European Union, aimed at enhancing labour governance, inspection and decent working conditions in Iraq, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The meeting brought together high level officials, including Iraq’s Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Adel Al-Rikabi and his counterpart in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Kwestan Mohammed, in addition to other Government officials, employers' and workers' representatives, EU Head of Cooperation to Iraq, Barbara Egger and ILO Country Coordinator for Iraq, Maha Kattaa.
“The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs signed the Decent Work Country Programme with the ILO in December 2019, and we have repeatedly stressed the need to improve working conditions in all areas of work, especially in labour inspection and Occupational Safety and Health. In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, there needs to be more focus on the requirements of the labour market and the return of employers to their workplace. We applaud this first steering committee meeting. Collaboration between the various ministries is crucial in helping develop strategies that aim to facilitate job opportunities, and activate a national employment policy which is responsive to the realities on the ground. We look to (promoting) decent work opportunities, a responsive private sector, and safe social protection, in collaboration with our social partners and the ILO,” said Minister Al-Rikabi.
The EU-supported project addresses some of the challenges imposed by the pandemic, as well as the longer-term decent work priorities of Iraq. Implemented by the ILO and its partners, the project seeks to strengthen labour inspection, occupational safety and health (OSH) in line with International Labour Standards and advance employment in compliance with decent work principles.
“On behalf of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, we would like to thank the ILO for all its efforts and support under the framework of this project, which addresses Occupational Safety and Health and labour inspection for workers in the Kurdistan Region, especially in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. We hope that this steering committee meeting, which is the first to take place, will address both areas of Occupational Safety and Health and labour inspection, covering our needs, and those of workers in the Kurdistan Region. In addition, we hope (these efforts will) strength the labour market through improving employability skills that will contribute to enhancing employment opportunities aiming at activating the national employment policy. Finally, we truly wish the best of luck for this project and the meeting,” added Minister Mohammed.
Following the meeting, the workforce planning committee also met and discussed the development of a National Employment Policy aimed at facilitating job creation, improving working conditions and promoting social and economic development. The National Employment Policy will help guide labour market policies in the country and ensure synergies between relevant stakeholders in addressing the labour market needs of Iraq.
The ILO is currently working with the Central Statistical Organization (CSO) and Kurdistan Region Statistics Office (KRSO) in the development of a national Labour Force Survey. The results of the survey will feed into the formulation of the National Employment Policy.
“The steering committee meeting is important in facilitating the implementation of the project's activities in a manner that achieves its objectives and desired results,” said ILO Country Coordinator Kattaa. “We look forward to the development of strategies supporting job creation, that will prepare the ground for a comprehensive national employment policy which will address the immediate livelihoods needs of workers and their families, while also focusing on the longer term structural labour market changes required to address the decent work needs of women and men.”
“Access to decent work is the main route out of poverty. At the same time, employment must be safe for all members of society, including women and people with disabilities.  The Covid-19 pandemic has further illustrated the need for a joint strong effort to ensure the quality and safety of work.  This project contributes to this crucial objective by promoting compliance with labour standards and enhanced social dialogue.  I am also pleased with the discussions taking place on developing a national employment policy which is urgently needed to address the structural deficiencies of the labour market in Iraq”, said EU Head of Cooperation, Barbara Egger.
The Iraq Decent Work Country Programme, which was signed in 2019, focuses on three key areas of priority: job creation and private sector development; social protection and addressing child labour; and labour market governance and social dialogue.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/146645-ministers-labour-and-social-affairs-and-social-partners-meet-ilo-discuss-joint-activities




Date: 29 September 2021
Title: ILO holds training workshop on Occupational Safety and Health for social partners in Iraq
Content: 29 September 2021
Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq, 27 September 2021 - The ILO held a four-day workshop in Erbil to build the capacities of representatives of employers’ and workers’ organizations of the Federal of Iraq and Kurdistan Region of Iraq on Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) mechanisms, as part of wider efforts to promote decent work, in line with national legislation and international labour standards.
The training, which was conducted in collaboration with the Peace and Freedom Organization, took place between September 24-27, bringing together 30 workers’ and employers’ representatives from across Iraq including the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. ILO’s efforts to strengthen the labour inspection and OSH systems in Iraq falls under the framework of a project entitled “Enhancing labour governance, inspection and working conditions in response to COVID-19 ” which is supported by the European Union .
The training familiarised participants on basic concepts, principles and guidelines related to OSH and focused on different potential occupational safety and health hazards associated with the workplace, especially in light of COVID-19. It also highlighted key areas related to guidelines on OSH management systems, as well as the role and responsibilities of authorities, including OSH inspectors in promoting health and safety in the workplace. It also addressed the legislative framework for Occupational Safety and Health in Iraq and the Kurdistan Region and discussed ways to develop related policies and procedures.
During the sessions, Dr. Amin Alwreidat, the ILO Regional Advisor on Labour Inspection and OSH, spoke about the fundamental principles and rights at work and the International Labour Standards on OSH and highlighted relevant good practices in the Arab region. He also spoke about work-related diseases and epidemics, including COVID-19, highlighting their causes, modes of transmission, workplace effects, means of control and prevention and relevant responsibilities of governments and workers’ and employers’ organizations.
Abdullah Khalid, Director of the Peace and Freedom Organization, said: “There are challenges faced in terms of occupational safety and health which we addressed this week with representatives of workers and employers organizations (…) Through this workshop, participants gained new knowledge, which can help them analyse the reality on the ground and suggested ways to promote OSH in Iraq and KRI.”
“These workshops are always useful as they enlighten us with modern knowledge,” said Sadiq Ramadan Hassan, a member of the Kurdistan United Workers Union and labour inspector who attended the workshop. “The workshop used a modern approach which allowed everyone to play a proactive part, and it was not merely a lecture, which we listened to. It also helped us in broadening our understanding of international standards, which will help us in our field of work.”
In addition, the EU-supported project is developing a national OSH policy and programme, which will include reviewing, updating and validating the national labour inspection and OSH policies.
“Improving the working conditions of agricultural workers is a key priority for the ILO in Iraq,” said Racha Elassy, ILO Chief Technical Advisor. “We are working with our stakeholders to pilot interventions on specific farms that will promote decent working conditions and improve compliance with national legislation and International Labour Standards. The plan is to afterward facilitate coordination between labour and OSH inspectors, employers’ and workers’ organizations through establishing and operationalizing national tripartite committees on labour inspection and OSH and which will actively involve workers’ and employers’ organizations.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/146444-ilo-holds-training-workshop-occupational-safety-and-health-social-partners-iraq




Date: 27 September 2021
Title: Czech Republic, Estonia, and Slovakia Contribute More than USD 334,041 to Humanitarian Mine Action in Iraq
Content: 27 September 2021
Baghdad, 27 September 2021 – Unexploded artilery shells, grenades, missiles and improvised explosive devices left behind by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), threaten the lives of civilians, and children in particular, in many parts of Iraq.
As a result, the continued threat of destabilization is substantially heightened through the presence of explosive ordnance in residential and rural communities. This ensures that a continued “de facto battle” exists, resulting in lives lost with no enemy in sight. The legacy of ISIL will continue to be a problem as long as explosive ordnance are scattered in houses, neighbourhoods, and across communities, posing a threat to civilians set on rebuilding their lives post-ISIL occupation.
The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) continues to clear these hazards with generous support from many governments. UNMAS thanks the Governments of the Czech Republic, Estonia and the Slovak Republic for their contributions to this life-saving work. These contributions make it possible for UNMAS to ensure that technical support, explosive ordnance risk education, and explosive hazard management advance in 2021/2022.
This contribution from the three generous donors will enable UNMAS to assist the Government of Iraq in achieving the vision of an Iraq free from explosive ordnance.
"Reconstruction, stability and security of Iraq remains one of the key priorities of the Czech Government in the entire Middle East region. We are therefore happy to contribute to achieving this ultimate goal through such concrete, visible and tangible activities as the UNMAS demining projects have proven to be", said Chargé d'Affaires a.i of the Czech Embassy in Baghdad.
"For Estonia, mine action is a priority area in our Government's Strategy for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance. Therefore, we are proud to continue with our contribution to UNMAS to support the Mine Action programmes in Iraq," stated a representative of the Government of Estonia.
Mr. Marian Majer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic: “Mines are a terrible legacy of war. People fall victim to them every day - often long after the actual fighting has ended. The affected countries need our support and that is why Slovakia financially supports the UNMAS´s essential role in Iraq. Slovakia is committed to mine action in all its aspects and we commend UNMAS efforts that contributes to safe return of Iraqi people to their homes and to the socioeconomic reconstruction of communities.”
Commenting on the contribution, Pehr Lodhammar, UNMAS Iraq Senior Programme Manager, stated: “The presence of explosive ordnance will continue to impede the safe and dignified return of displaced communities and the resumption of livelihoods until cleared. UNMAS is committed to facilitating a safe environment for Iraqis to live their lives unimpeded, and without fear.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/146209-czech-republic-estonia-and-slovakia-contribute-more-usd-334041-humanitarian-mine-action-iraq




Date: 27 September 2021
Title: UNDP welcomes Greece as the Funding Facility for Stabilization’s 29th funding partner
Content: 27 September 2021
Baghdad, 29 September 2021 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq welcomes a € 50,000 (US$ 59,400) contribution from the Government of Greece to UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS), which implements fast-track initiatives to stabilize areas liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
Greece’s first contribution makes it the 29th partner to fund UNDP’s flagship stabilization programme. This important contribution will be utilized for critical projects in ISIL impacted areas that still require support to ensure returnees’ access to basic services. To date, the FFS has completed over 2,900 projects in the areas liberated from ISIL, benefitting more than 14.7 million Iraqis.
“We welcome the Government of Greece as UNDP’s newest partner to the programme. Thanks to the generous and unwavering support of all our partners, the FFS can continue its critical work to improve conditions in the liberated areas and assist those who remain displaced to come home with dignity,” says UNDP Resident Representative Zena Ali Ahmad.
“This contribution illustrates our partners’ continued trust and confidence in the FFS’ ability to support the people of Iraq to address the residual stabilization needs in the areas liberated from ISIL,” adds Ms. Ali Ahmad.
UNDP Iraq’s FFS was established in 2015 at the request of the Government of Iraq with support from the member states of the Coalition to Defeat Da’esh (ISIL), to facilitate the return of displaced persons by rehabilitating critical services and infrastructure to ensure access to basic services, provide short and medium-term employment, provide capacity support for municipalities and foster social cohesion across the liberated areas of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk Ninewa and Salah Al Din. The FFS continues to work very closely with the Government of Iraq and local stakeholders to ensure it is addressing the needs of the individuals impacted by the ISIL conflict.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/146204-undp-welcomes-greece-funding-facility-stabilization%E2%80%99s-29th-funding-partner




Date: 24 September 2021
Title: Milestone achieved for developing poultry and tomato sector strategies in Iraq
Content: 24 September 2021
Baghdad: Under the auspice of the Ministry of Agriculture, the International Trade Centre is facilitating the elaboration of the poultry and tomato sector strategies within the framework of the European Union-funded project, “Strengthening the agriculture and agri-food value chain and improving trade policy in Iraq” (SAAVI) under the leadership of the Government of Iraq.
National consultations to support the process of sustainable and inclusive development in the poultry and tomato value chains in Iraq, were held in Baghdad on 13 September 2021.
These national consultations are a milestone towards the elaboration of national strategies for the poultry and tomato sectors.
Building on a series of more than 20 consultations and assessments at the district and governorate levels with public and private sector stakeholders, domestic market research analysis and the results of implementation of surveys to over 600 farmers and SMEs, the national consultations are instrumental in elaborating strategies for the two sectors.
The strategy design process will produce two endorsed, coherent and comprehensive documents that will serve as a compass for the government, private sector and development partners to improve the competitiveness of farmers and small and medium enterprises in these two sectors, contributing to the national pathway towards sustainable food systems, inclusive growth and job creation for Iraq citizens.
Aligned with national planning frameworks, the strategies will specify clear priorities eventually producing a concrete five-year plan of action (2022-2026) that will not only define roles for implementing institutions but also provide an implementation management framework.
Public sector and private sector representatives, civil society and development partners participated in the consultation sessions. They discussed the current situation and the future opportunities in developing the tomato and poultry value chains. The sessions provided a platform for engaging into realistic priority setting based on understanding market trends and requirements, and for defining realistic and achievable plans for action for expanding sector performance.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/145876-milestone-achieved-developing-poultry-and-tomato-sector-strategies-iraq




Date: 24 September 2021
Title: UNICEF Statement on Violence Against Children
Content: 24 September 2021
Baghdad, 24 September 2021. - UNICEF is gravely concerned about the video recently circulated in social media in Iraq, portraying a child brutally mistreated by a family member. This video is a horrific reminder of the scourge of violence against children that must end.
UNICEF commends the rapid reaction of the authorities to this case and encourages anyone aware of such cases to report it to the hotline 497 facilitated by the Community Police.
Nothing ever justifies violence against a child, and it is preventable. However, according to the Multiple Indicator Survey (MICS6) 2018, still 4 out of 5 children in Iraq experience violence at home or in school. UNICEF condemns all acts of violence against children and call for society to protect them from such behaviors.
UNICEF calls on government authorities to strengthen mechanisms to bring perpetrators of such crimes to justice and safeguard the life of the child. Children in Iraq need a safe environment, free of violence and conducive to allow them to develop their full potential.
In order to ensure children´s right to privacy and dignity, UNICEF calls for everyone in society to protect children by preventing the distribution of materials online in which they are subject to violence, bullied or vilified. This content should be only shared with relevant authorities to support the legal prosecution of crimes against children.
UNICEF will continue to support the Governments in both Federal Iraq and the Kurdistan Region with a shared vision that by 2024 children, adolescents and women, especially the most vulnerable, are protected from violence, exploitation, abuse and neglect, in accordance with national legal and policy framework and international standards.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/145933-unicef-statement-violence-against-children




Date: 22 September 2021
Title: The KRG Minister of Interior and UNHCR Lay the Foundation Stone of the New Registration Centre in Baharka
Content: 22 September 2021
Erbil - IRAQ - UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, and the Ministry of Interior, the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) today laid the foundation stone of the new Registration Centre in Baharka, Erbil, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI).
His Excellency, Reber Ahmed, KRG Minister of Interior, his Excellency, Omed Khoshnaw, the Governor of Erbil and Ms. Nicole Epting, UNHCR Representative a.i., together laid the foundation stone for the new registration centre that will serve and benefit thousands of refugees and asylum-seekers residing in urban, peri-urban, and rural areas in Erbil Governorate.
In addition to UNHCR registration offices, the centre will house governmental departments that are an integral part of the registration process, allowing the whole process to be completed in one visit. The centre will function as a one-stop-shop for protection and assistance services for refugees and asylum-seekers while also providing counselling and support to internally displaced persons living in Erbil.
The construction of the registration centre is funded through a generous contribution by The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED). Over the past five years, KFAED has contributed more than USD 12.5 Million to help improve living conditions and increase access to services for Syrian refugees in Iraq by supporting shelter construction, road rehabilitation, installation of solar streetlights, and water infrastructure projects.
“The new centre will facilitate access to registration services for refugees and asylum-seekers who live in Erbil Governorate, for whom registration is essential as a basis for protection and the first step to accessing basic services, including education, livelihoods, and healthcare,” said Nicole Epting.
“The Kurdistan region has faced several crises during the past years, including the COVID 19 pandemic. I thank the state of Kuwait for supporting this important project and I take this opportunity to appreciate the support of UNHCR and also call for the international community to continue to assist the KRG in addressing the needs of refugees and internally displaced,” said Reber Ahmed, KRG Minister of Interior.
UNHCR currently runs three registration centres in the KRI, supporting over 263,000 refugees and asylum-seekers.

Additional resources:
Photos available here.
Video available here.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/145514-krg-minister-interior-and-unhcr-lay-foundation-stone-new-registration-centre-baharka




Date: 21 September 2021
Title: The Government of Iraq, UNICEF, WFP and ILO partner to reform social protection with support from the European Union
Content: 21 September 2021
Together with the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and the Ministry of Trade, the three UN agencies are spearheading efforts on the reform of social protection. Vulnerable families in Iraq will be supported through the social protection programmes funded by the project, aiming to build a more sustainable and inclusive system.
Baghdad, 21 September 2021 – A new Social Protection Programme was launched today by the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and the Ministry of Trade of Iraq, along with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), and the International Labour Organization (ILO), to reform the social protection system and the effectiveness of its response to ongoing socio-economic shocks. The European Union (EU) has contributed 30 million euro towards the new four-year Social Protection Programme, which aims to build a sustainable and more inclusive system for those in need.
The Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and Ministry of Trade, lead work on the Poverty Reduction Strategy and the COVID-19 Response Plan as well as reforms at the programme implementation level, focusing on Social Safety Nets, the Public Distribution System for food rations (PDS) and Social Security.
To support these efforts, UNICEF, ILO and WFP worked closely with the three Ministries to develop a Joint Programme to accelerate social protection reform. Under this programme, first and largest of its kind in Iraq, UNICEF, ILO, and WFP will support the Ministries over 2021-2025 to build Iraq’s strategy for social protection and implement a reform roadmap, roll-out and scale up child-focused and employment-related social protection schemes, and build up a unified national registry underpinned by the PDS.
The Social Protection Programme also aims to develop a national strategy and roadmap to expand social security coverage to include informal workers, while supporting the most vulnerable workers in the informal economy and alleviating the effects of COVID-19. The programme hopes to achieve comprehensive, efficient, and effective social protection coverage of vulnerable groups and to offer pathways for vulnerable people for human development, economic inclusion, and enhanced resilience by 2025.
The most vulnerable groups prioritized include children, youth, women, the elderly, people with disabilities, displaced persons and workers in the informal sector. Cash transfer programmes for children and pregnant women are also being developed, with linkages to key services. Underpinning all initiatives is the digitalisation of the PDS, which is enabling better citizen data systems and the establishment of a single registry for eligible people.
“We are grateful for the support from the EU, UNICEF, WFP and ILO. Our Ministries are committed to these reforms, and we will work together to improve the lives of the most vulnerable Iraqis under this programme,” said the representatives of the three Ministries Mr. Maher Johan, Ms. Abeer AlChalabi and Mr. Waleed Al-Mosawi, in a joint statement.
“The COVID-19 pandemic has led to a significant loss of jobs and income, making it even more difficult for vulnerable families to afford basic needs such as food and to access health care, education and vital public services, leading to further risks of exclusion. Reforming social protection helps address poverty and vulnerability, as well as support people during shocks, from childhood to old age,” said UNICEF Iraq Representative Sheema Sen Gupta, WFP Iraq Representative Ally-Raza Qureshi, ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq Maha Kattaa, and EU Ambassador to Iraq Ville Varjola, in a joint statement.
The three UN agencies will support the Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and Ministry of Trade in evidence generation including assessment and mapping of social protection, public expenditure review of government spending on social protection, and analysis of multidimensional poverty, food insecurity, the labour force, and household access to social protection. The Social Protection Programme therefore creates the base to build an evidence-based approach to reforming social protection, that is supported by policies, enhanced institutional capacities, and effective coordination. Such reforms are especially vital in the context of the pandemic.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/145309-government-iraq-unicef-wfp-and-ilo-partner-reform-social-protection-support-european-union




Date: 20 September 2021
Title: First steering committee meeting of SAAVI project held in Baghdad
Content: 20 September 2021
Baghdad: Representatives of the government, private sector and UN agencies participated in the first steering committee meeting for “Strengthening the Agriculture and Agri-food Value Chain and Improving trade policy in Iraq” (SAAVI) project today.
The steering committee is led by the Ministry of Planning and co-chaired by the European Union Delegation. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Trade will chair Technical Working Groups, respectively on agribusiness development and on trade policy.
The meeting reviewed the progress of ongoing project activities and discussed ways for timely implementation of future SAAVI initiatives. Project objectives and activities with focus on the work plan and priorities for 2022 were also examined in detail.
This was also an opportunity for obtaining feedback from the Iraqi government on the progress to ensure that the project catered to the immediate national development priorities.
The steering committee was held at the Ministry of Planning premises in Baghdad and chaired by Dr. Saher Abdulkhaduim Mahdi.
Eric Buchot, who leads the International Trade Centre project in Iraq said, “We are grateful for the opportunity to hear from representatives of the government and of the private sector. The insights received today will help us and our partners in ensuring that our strategic approach caters to the most immediate needs of the agriculture sector and those associated with it.”
Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation for the EU Delegation, said “The EU is committed to supporting efforts to increase economic opportunities across Iraq. Agriculture value chains have the potential to provide decent work to many young Iraqis, men and women. At the same time, the project will support the Iraqi government as it develops its trade policy and progresses towards the country’s accession to WTO, which is a key component of economic development and job creation. I am therefore pleased that ITC is working closely with the Government while also coordinating with partners and the private sector.” The meeting endorsed the project governance structure, as well as the work plan for the upcoming year. PSC meetings will be held annually.
Project steering committee members expressed their strong commitment to support the project and thanked the European Union for their ongoing support to private sector development and job creation.
All members renewed their commitment to contribute to the discussions and agreed that cooperation and coordination among all actors are key for successful project implementation.
SAAVI contributes to inclusive economic growth and job creation, particularly for youth in Iraq, by improving the country's agriculture competitiveness and supporting trade development. 
The project is funded by the European Union (EU) and forms part of the overall EU Special Measure 2019 for Iraq which aims at supporting stabilization and governance through building the capacities of key Iraqi institutions to deliver public services, as well as sustainable job creation through the development of human capital and the private sector.
As such, SAAVI is fully aligned with the activities of FAO, IOM, ILO, UNESCO, and GIZ in the domain of private sector engagement and agricultural development.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/145197-first-steering-committee-meeting-saavi-project-held-baghdad




Date: 16 September 2021
Title: The European Union supports UN-Habitat to expand basic services to poor neighbourhoods in Basra City
Content: 16 September 2021
Basra, Iraq – 13 September 2021
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a profound effect on poor communities.
The last 18 months have highlighted the importance of access to safe potable water, sanitation, waste management, and hygienic conditions to prevent and protect human health during disease outbreaks. Nearly 1.8 billion people world-wide live in inadequate housing, in overcrowded conditions with lack of access to clean water. The absence of basic services leaves families with increased exposure to disease outbreaks, including COVID-19.
On 13 September, UN-Habitat, in cooperation with the European Union, brought together the Governor’s Assistant for Administrative Affairs, Governor’s Assistant for Labor and Social Affairs Departments and Head of DOLSA, the Head of Basra Municipality and representatives from the directorates of Water, Sewage, Planning, Physical Planning, Electricity, Labour and Social Affairs, Health and Environment to discuss upgrading under-serviced neighbourhoods in Basra city, within which some of the poorest families in Basra live as well as provide vocational training and waste management solutions. The purpose of the meeting was to confirm two of the three neighbourhoods within which UN-Habitat will work for the coming three years. The committee has agreed on the general approach to the project and two of the three locations, Al-Ehrar and Al-Kubyah neighbourhoods, and a third will soon be identified.
Mr. Arab Al-Jabri, Governor’s Assistant for Labor and Social Affairs Departments and Head of DOLSA said in his opening remarks, “With the help of this organisation, we can find solutions for these crises, creating work opportunities, in addition to other problems.  We are calling on the local authorities, and Water, Municipality, Environment, Health, to help them move forward in their aim.  We wish them success in elevating the problems, most important the unemployment among the young, the housing crises, and infrastructure. We hope all Directorates respond to their needs.”
In her opening remarks, Ms. Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation for the European Union Delegation to Iraq, said, “Through this project, the European Union is providing critical urban planning support to help the governorate of Basra, in consultation with the people of Basra, to oversee, prioritize, plan and implement priority interventions for improved service delivery and generation of employment. The ownership and leadership of the Basra Governorate, Basra municipality and various technical directorates is key, and we continue to count on sustained close collaboration. We look forward to the next steps in implementation and to the continued focus on sustainability and community engagement.’’
UN-Habitat has worked in Basra for many years, both through normative and operational projects. In 2007, UN-Habitat supported the development and implementation of new laws, policies and programme for solid waste management. More recently, in 2019, UN-Habitat implemented a pilot project in Al Qibla informal settlement to improve living conditions and in 2020, conducted a comprehensive urban assessment of Basra City and published the Basra Urban Profile. One of the key findings of the Basra Urban Profile shows that upgrading of basic services in Basra would considerably reduce environmental problems faced in the city.
“Under this project, UN-Habitat will implement a number of activities that contributes to improve the overall living conditions and environment in Basra city. We very much look forward to working very closely with our counterparts in Basra Governorate, Municipality, and relevant Directorates and count on your support to ensure success of this very important project,” said Mr. Wael Al-Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq, during the meeting.
Mr. Moeen Saleh Al-Hassan, Governor’s Assistant for Administrative Affairs, said at the close of the meeting, “I reiterate my appreciate to the European Union for their time and effort and welcome any project by the European Union.  We thank the European Union for working in Basra, and we will work together to ensure the success of the project.”
The United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) would like to thank the European Union for supporting the project titled “Increasing Access to Employment Opportunities for Vulnerable Urban Population in Basra City in Response to the COVID-19 Crisis”. This project will provide support for vulnerable populations in underserviced neighbourhoods in Basra City which aim to increase access to employment opportunities in basic services and waste management sectors for unemployed youth, women and vulnerable urban population.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/144665-european-union-supports-un-habitat-expand-basic-services-poor-neighbourhoods-basra-city




Date: 16 September 2021
Title: Statement on COVID-19 by WHO’s Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean
Content: 16 September 2021
Dear colleagues,
As of 12 September 2021, the Eastern Mediterranean Region has reported more than 15 million confirmed COVID-19 cases and more than 278,000 deaths.
Over the past few weeks, we have seen the overall number of cases and deaths in our Region decline, but the situation remains fragile and unpredictable. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have seen the trends evolve in waves, so despite recent decline in our Region over recent weeks, this pandemic is still far from over.
Five of 22 countries in our Region -- Egypt, the occupied Palestinian territory, Somalia, the Syrian Arab Republic, and Yemen -- are currently reporting significant surges in COVID-19 cases and deaths. Looking closely at the epidemiological curve, there is a need to speed up the vaccination process and continue to respect all public health and social measures in all countries.
Low vaccination coverage in several countries, especially low- and lower-middle income countries is also of concern due to limited deployment capacities. Unfortunately, this means that nine countries are far from achieving WHO’s global target of 10% vaccination coverage by September 2021.
Variants of concerns continue to pose further challenges to our response. To date, 21 countries have officially reported the detection of circulating variants of concern, and the Delta variant is most likely the main variant currently circulating in our Region.
Based on evolving trends over the past months, we have seen that countries with a high vaccination coverage and adequate implementation of public health and social measures report shorter waves of COVID-19 and fewer cases.
There are no shortcuts. We can break the chain of COVID-19 transmission only when we apply all available measures at once. We must quickly and effectively scale up vaccination coverage and simultaneously apply all other preventative health and social measures, including maintaining physical distancing, handwashing, avoiding crowded and closed spaces, and mask-wearing.
Ahead of potential COVID-19 surges, we continue to work closely with countries in the Region to upgrade their surveillance, sequencing, and testing mechanisms to prevent and better respond to these surges.
We call for solidarity and equitable access to vaccines, to move towards the target of all countries protecting 10% of their population by September, 40% by the end of this year and 70% by mid of next year.  While we know that the targets for 2021 will not be met in all countries, we must do our absolute best to come as close as possible and then to accelerate our efforts further in the months ahead.
Under WHO’s goal of Universal Health Coverage, the most vulnerable people, including migrants, refugees, and other displaced populations, must have access to vaccines. Many countries have included these vulnerable groups in their national vaccination plans, and we urge the international community to scale up support to host countries so that they can provide equitable access to COVID-19 care and vaccines.
Thanks to the COVAX facility, the Region has received 51.54 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines out of 89 million doses allocated to countries so far. To increase coverage further, we urge high-income countries, donors and partners to spare no effort to increase vaccine supplies for lower-income countries.
COVID-19 has caused much grief and loss. It has placed unprecedented challenges on the capacity of humanitarian agencies and countries. It is now more crucial than ever to work collaboratively, utilize all resources, and implement all available preventative tools so we do not lose more chances to defeat this pandemic.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/144636-statement-covid-19-who%E2%80%99s-regional-director-eastern-mediterranean




Date: 15 September 2021
Title: UNDP restores essential services in western Anbar
Content: 15 September 2021
Haditha, 15 September 2021 – Six new facilities providing basic services to 230,000 residents in western Anbar have officially opened thanks to a partnership between the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq, the Governorate of Anbar, and the international community.
The facilities, completed under UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS), were inaugurated as part of a UNDP Iraq visit to Heet, Haditha, Anah, Rawa, Qaim and Rummanah led by Resident Representative Ms. Zena Ali Ahmad. They included:
The mission commenced with a meeting between UNDP and Anbar Governor H.E Ali Farhan to discuss UNDP’s support to the province as well as remaining needs. Visits to other completed projects under FFS including Haditha Public library (funded by the Government of Iraq), Anah Municipality Building (funded by the Government of Finland), and Al Qaim Vocational Training Centre (funded by the Government of Canada) and an oasis agricultural project (also funded by Canada) were also included.
Additionally, a meeting with the Al Qaim Local Peace Committee supported by UNDP Iraq under its Social Cohesion programme was held, with discussions focusing on the sustainable reintegration of returned IDPs including families with a perceived affiliation to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
Future areas of collaboration were also explored, with a site visit to discuss potential livelihood projects in the productive sector on land owned by Haditha’s Department of Agriculture, and a stop by the Haditha Women’s Cultural Centre to better understand the specific needs of local women. The mission concluded with a visit to an ongoing livelihood project funded by Canada which employs 200 workers – including women – to plant 15,000 olive seedlings (high olive oil trees), 2,000 palm seedlings (Zahddi trees) and build five wells.
“It’s great to see cities in western Anbar so lively again. Essential services are up and running, shops and traders are open for business and people are out and about. The area was one of the first to be taken by ISIL and the last to be liberated, and I am proud that UNDP Iraq, in partnership with the Government of Iraq and the international community has completed 200 stabilization projects in the area, collectively benefiting more than 800,000 Iraqis,” says Ms. Ali Ahmad.
“Western Anbar has always been a priority area for UNDP and will continue to be as we work tirelessly alongside the Anbar Governorate and local community leaders to support the return of remaining IDPs. I’d like to extend my deepest appreciation to our donors – particularly our longstanding partners USAID who funded five out of the six new facilities we inaugurated. USAID has made generous contributions to western Anbar, and to stabilization in Iraq generally. I would also like to express my gratitude for the strong partnership with the federal government and local authorities, which enables us to implement projects and ensure their sustainability in the most effective way,” she added.
UNDP Iraq’s FFS was established in 2015 at the request of the Government of Iraq with support from the member states of the Coalition to Defeat Da’esh (ISIL), to facilitate the return of displaced persons by rehabilitating critical services and infrastructure, provide short and medium-term employment, provide capacity support for municipalities and foster social cohesion across the liberated areas of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk Ninewa and Salah Al Din.
To date, $1.4 billion has been mobilized from the international community, with 2,944 projects completed, supporting more than 14 million Iraqis. Another 563 projects are currently underway.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/144508-undp-restores-essential-services-western-anbar




Date: 15 September 2021
Title: UNICEF and the University of Baghdad join hands to generate more evidence and research to support child rights in Iraq
Content: 15 September 2021
The University of Baghdad - College of Education for Women and UNICEF strengthen its collaboration to fulfill children’s rights in Iraq by signing a new Memorandum of Understanding.
Baghdad, 15 September 2021 – A new Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed today by the University of Baghdad - College of Education for Women (UoB/CoEduW) and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) as part of UNICEF efforts to strengthen relations and developing partnerships with Iraqi universities and scientific and educational institutions. In a spirit of enhanced cooperation and collaboration, both UNICEF and UoB/CEduW agree to implement joint activities aimed at enhancing knowledge and capacities in the field of Child Rights in Iraq. UNICEF will contribute with technical expertise and improve collaboration with Iraqi scientific and educational institutions to increase knowledge and capacities fulfilling children’s rights in Iraq.
The University of Baghdad – College of Education for Women and UNICEF will cooperate to promote children’s rights in the following strategic areas: (1) produce research papers on the rights and development of children, adolescents, and youth; (2) organize seminars and conferences about issues of children’s rights and development; (3) prepare, present and institutionalize training courses for researchers and students in areas related to child development.
To implement these 3 strategic areas, UNICEF and University of Baghdad worked closely and developed an implementation action plan for this year and next year.
On his part, the Dean of the College of Education for Women/ University of Baghdad, Prof. Dr. Ishaq Saleh Al-Akkam, expressed his pleasure to open the horizons of scientific and knowledge cooperation between the Iraqi educational institutions and UNICEF, to enhance the frameworks of interaction and integration in the fields of scientific research, dialogue and capacity building in line with the horizons of transformation in the fields of knowledge. “This relationship constitutes a more comprehensive framework for cooperation in the fields of childhood and achieving human security for society,” stated Prof. Dr. Ishaq Saleh Al-Akkam.
“UNICEF is happy to work hand by hand with the College of Education for Women to jointly generate evidence and research that will support the strengthening of child rights in Iraq” stated UNICEF Iraq Deputy Representative, Ms. Paula Bulancea.
This MoU and collaboration between UNICEF and University of Baghdad will support Educational and Scientific Institutions in evidence generation, building their capacities to support national programmes and international organizations with national expertise and research to inform national policies and strategies.
###
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
Follow UNICEF on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/144503-unicef-and-university-baghdad-join-hands-generate-more-evidence-and-research-support-child




Date: 14 September 2021
Title: UNFPA, Diwaniyah Governorate Sign Agreement to Support Women in the Governorate
Content: 14 September 2021
14 September 2021; Baghdad, Iraq - UNFPA & Diwaniyah Governorate signed a cooperation agreement today to scale up the support to girls and women in the governorate.
The agreement signed by Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative, and Mr Zuhair Ali Al-Shaalan, the Governor of Diwaniyah will ensure that women and girls have access to protection and proper services to respond to gender-based violence. In addition, it will provide the Directorates of Health, Labour and Social Affairs, and Interior (Family Protection Unit) with the opportunity to strengthen their expertise on service delivery to survivors to deal with gender-based violence.
Speaking during the ceremony, Mr Al-Shaalan emphasised the governorate’s full support to work with UNFPA to ensure the success of the project to provide quality service to women and girls. He also reiterated the governorate’s efforts to enhance the role of women and girls, increase equality in leadership roles and become a unique model for active communities to contribute to the development process.
Dr Columbia thanked the Governor for supporting the needs and rights of women and girls in Diwaniyah: “On behalf of UNFPA Iraq, I welcome this initiative and look forward to our joint actions to protect women and girls from violence and provide them with so much needed services.”
The cooperation agreement between UNFPA and the Governorate is within the UNFPA 2020-2024 Country Programme Document and the Memorandum of Understanding between UNFPA & the Government of Iraq, through the Ministry of Planning.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/144289-unfpa-diwaniyah-governorate-sign-agreement-support-women-governorate




Date: 13 September 2021
Title: Iraq received 100,800 COVID-19 vaccine doses donated by Italy through COVAX
Content: 13 September 2021
As part of its pledge to deliver 15 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines, the first doses donated by Italy have been delivered to Iraq.
Baghdad, 12 September 2021 – 100.800 of the AstraZeneca (AZ) vaccine have arrived to Iraq, as the first delivery from a pledge of 15 million doses to be donated to COVAX by Italy. This donation of doses to COVAX comes on top of the USD 470 million Italy has pledged to the Gavi COVAX Advance Market Commitment (Gavi COVAX AMC).
In May this year, as chair of the G20, Italy hosted The Global Health Summit alongside the European Commission, which saw seven European countries pledge to share over 100 million vaccine doses to priority countries like Iraq, boosting short-term supplies.
This donation by Italy allows COVAX to deliver more vaccines in the third quarter of this year, before supply from COVAX purchase agreements increases in Q4, meaning that more people will be able to access vaccines now, at a time when variants are a major threat to global health and stability.
“Italy stands by Iraq and supports its efforts in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic” said the Ambassador of Italy, H. E. Mr. Bruno Pasquino, attending the delivery of the vaccines at the Baghdad International Airport. “This donation is a tangible sign of the solidarity and friendship ties between Italy and Iraq, with a view to contributing to economic, social and sanitary recovery.”
“In continuation of the efforts of the Ministry of Health to provide vaccines from various solid global origins, and with the support of the World Health Organization and UNICEF, the Ministry of Health is happy to receive a plane loaded with more than one hundred thousand doses of the anti-Coronavirus vaccine thanks to a donation of the Italian Government through the COVAX Global Facility,” stated Dr. Riyadh Al-Hilfi, Director General of the Public Health Directorate of the Ministry of Health.
“UNICEF thanks the Government of Italy for its donation of vaccines to Iraq through the COVAX facility. We look forward to more vaccines becoming available in the country as other COVAX partners share their doses of vaccines and help secure full funding for the global initiative and more vaccines,“ stated Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq.
“In WHO, we believe that we are only safe when we all are safe, and we will control this pandemic only when all people eligible for the vaccine have been vaccinated. The Iraqi government and its partners have deployed tremendous efforts in securing safe and effective vaccines for Iraqi people and through this type of solidarity demonstrated today by the Italian people, we are a step closer to achieving our goals.” Dr Ahmed Zoutine WHO Iraq Representative.
These doses donated by Italy are produced by the AstraZeneca manufacturing network. Donating through COVAX helps to increase vaccine coverage, and helps to bring an end to the acute phase of the pandemic.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/144065-iraq-received-100800-covid-19-vaccine-doses-donated-italy-through-covax




Date: 12 September 2021
Title: New study to help strengthen Iraq’s private sector
Content: 12 September 2021
Baghdad, 12 September 2021 - The Ministry of Planning’s Central Statistical Organization (CSO) in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and with funding from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has today launched a study on Micro, Small, and Medium-Enterprises (MSMEs) in Iraq.
The study provides an evidence base to inform policies and strategies aimed at creating sustainable livelihoods, including through MSMEs’ development.
Funded by USAID, the Mixed Formal and Informal Micro, Small, and Medium-sized Enterprises Survey covered the three governorates of Baghdad, Basra, and Nineveh. It is designed to build a comprehensive analysis on the MSMEs structures, trends, business dynamics, challenges and opportunities through up-to-date, reliable, relevant market information and analysis.
Some of the main findings of the survey highlight the low participation of females in MSME ownership (5%); the increasing challenges faced by MSMEs due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; and the weak networking structures and business clustering of MSMEs.
The Minister of Planning, Dr. Khalid Battal Al-Najm reiterated his support for the initiative.
“In light of the directions of the Iraqi government, represented by the Ministry of Planning to address and reform the economy, activate the private sector, and enable it to actively contribute to the economy in all its sectors, it was necessary to identify the size of this sector and its needs, and the level of small and medium enterprises for workers in the informal sector,” says Dr. Al-Najm
"In cooperation with UNDP and with funding from USAID, the CSO carried out a survey covering individuals working in the private sector with the aim of providing economic indicators that will guide planning for the advancement of the private sector and development of MSMEs. The study covered multiple areas, including financing and challenges faced with regards to loans and the use of modern technology, as understanding the participation rate of women entrepreneurs," adds Dr. Al-Najm.
His Excellency valued the great support provided by UNDP Iraq and USAID, in implementing and the completion of this important study, which it is hoped to include all governorates in the next stage, and expressed his will for further cooperation, in various fields.
John Cardenas, Mission Director of USAID Iraq emphasized the critical role MSMEs play in building local enonomies. “MSMEs are the lifeblood of any healthy economy. They also offer untapped opportunities for youth, women, and vulnerable populations to actively participate in the market and contribute to the country's economic growth and long-term stability. We are proud to be partnering with our Iraqi government counterparts and the private sector to enact critical initiatives and reform projects that empower MSME growth and elevate their role in the Iraqi economy,” says Mr. Cardenas.
“MSMEs in Iraq face significant challenges. As we continue to grapple with the social and economic impacts of COVID-19 in Iraq, this study once again highlights the importance of the private sector in Iraq to create much-needed sustainable employment opportunities, especially for vulnerable groups. This critical work could not have been possible without our strong partnership with the Ministry of Planning, and the generous support from our longstanding partner USAID,” added Zena Ali Ahmad, Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq.
The survey is part of UNDP Iraq’s Funding Facility for Economic Reform programme – designed by UNDP Iraq to promote sustainable poverty-centered economic reform in the country, and with the generous support of the American people through USAID.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/144001-new-study-help-strengthen-iraq%E2%80%99s-private-sector




Date: 10 September 2021
Title: Senior Government and UN officials attend an Inception Workshop of FAO’s Project: “Restoration and strengthening the resilience of agri-food systems in Southern Iraq”
Content: 10 September 2021
Baghdad 9 September 2021 - In the presence of H.E Eng. Mohammed Kareem AlKhafaji, Minister of Agriculture and other senior government and UN officials, The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Iraq organized an Inception Workshop for the EU -funded project: “Restoration and strengthening the resilience of agri-food systems in Southern Iraq”.
This project aims at contributing to the Iraqi economy by improving the agriculture sector in southern Iraq, creating sustainable job opportunities to the rural poor households and achieving a more resilient food system. More specifically, the project targets poor smallholder farmers and landless rural households in Basra, Missan and Thi-Qar Governorates and improve their agricultural productivity and income generation in priority value chains such as vegetables, dairy (buffalo), animal fodder, and date palm while enhancing land and water resources and bio-diversity. The project is managed and implemented by FAO in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Health and Environment and Ministry of Planning and local authorities.
Dr. Salah ElHajj Hassan - FAO Representative to Iraq – said: “I’m pleased to see more attention for the south, which is traditionally the poorest part of Iraq. Based on our work undertaken during the start-up phase, we see great potentials for economic growth and greater prosperity among farmers and micro enterprises. Let me take this opportunity to thank the EU for its generous financial support for turning these ideas into reality and to thank the line ministries partners in this project as well as local governments of the three-targeted governorates”. Dr. Salah confirmed that FAO will make all possible efforts with all partners to make real positive changes in the livelihoods of the targeted rural families, create more dynamics with the public and private sectors and enhance climate resilience by promoting sustainable value chain development practices.
After an initial project launch in Basra earlier this year, this workshop provides an opportunity for greater awareness among stakeholders of the proposed outputs and an opportunity to strengthen partnerships, and discuss complementarity with other projects that aim to strengthen agri-food systems in the country.
This project is part of the “EU Action Document for Support to Governance and Sustainable Job creation in Iraq.” Several international partners (FAO, GIZ, ILO, IOM, ITC, and UNESCO) are collaborating to improve selected value chains more holistically.
The Head of Cooperation at the EU Delegation to Iraq, Ms. Barbara Egger, said: ”Addressing diversification of the economy and reducing unemployment are key priorities of the EU intervention in Iraq. This project is part of a wider EU programme approach that addresses several constraints along the agricultural value chain. With this approach, we will target key Iraqi institutions to improve their capacity to deliver public services, and also target the supply and demand dimension of sustainable job creation. the EU is proud to support the agricultural sector in the South of Iraq, and in particular the rural areas where unemployment is even higher than in urban areas and our support is dearly needed. ”.
Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, the United Nations Secretary-General’s Deputy Special Representative for Iraq and Resident Coordinator, noted that she had recently met two Iraqi farmers – a husband and wife – in Basra. “Before, Ahmed and Zahraa were not able to produce tomatoes because of droughts and a lack of water. But now, thanks to this EU-funded FAO project, which uses greenhouses and new technology, they can produce enough tomatoes for their entire village.” She added, “The UN has increased its footprint in the south, because we recognize the region’s pressing needs. And we’re ready to step up and do even more.”
The workshop was followed by the Project Steering Committee endorsement of the work plan.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/144066-senior-government-and-un-officials-attend-inception-workshop-fao%E2%80%99s-project-%E2%80%9Crestoration-and




Date: 09 September 2021
Title: Honoring the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in Iraq
Content: 09 September 2021
Baghdad, 9 September 2021: His Excellency the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Muhammad Karim Al- Khafaji honored Dr Salah El-hajj Hassan FAO Representative in Iraq and his team of experts in appreciation of their distinguished and outstanding efforts supporting farmers’ livelihoods in Iraq.
During the inauguration of an inception workshop of the EU-funded FAO project: “Restoration and strengthening the resilience of agri-food systems in Southern Iraq”, organized on 9 September 2021 in Baghdad, the Minister honored the successful work undertaken by FAO in Ninewa Governorate and handed over certificates of appreciation. The Minister said he valued the efforts made by FAO to help smallholder farmers, especially in the liberated areas after ISIS was defeated, and stressed the great role played by the organization in order to advance the reality of the targeted governorates and improve livelihoods, food and water security by supporting agriculture, both animal and plant sectors.
H.E Mr. Al-Khafaji said: “These efforts help raise the capacity of smallholder breeders and farmers and develop their skills through inputs capacity-building and providing the necessary support to improve their livelihoods with their efforts and experience and to achieve self-sufficiency with continuous work and concerted efforts”.
The special ceremony was further attended by senior officials, including Dr Jasim AL-Falahi, Minister of Environment; Ms Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano - Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq and Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator; Ms Barbara Egger - Head of Cooperation at the EU Delegation to the Republic of Iraq;; and Mr. Fadel Mozan, representative of the Ministry of Water Resources.
A number of Ninawa farmers and beneficiaries of the EU-funded project in Ninewa were present and offered a taste of their high-quality dairy products. The lessons learned in Ninewa will be replicated in southern Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/144069-honoring-food-and-agriculture-organization-fao-iraq




Date: 09 September 2021
Title: Ministry of Planning, UNFPA conduct workshop on national priorities for population development and policy in Iraq
Content: 09 September 2021
Sulaymaniyah, Kurdistan Region of Iraq - UNFPA and the Ministry of Planning concluded today a two-day workshop focused on national priorities for population development.
The National Committee on Population and Development members discussed the current population trends and interventions undertaken by the Ministry of Planning and line ministries to strengthen human capital development in Iraq. They also went over the existing gaps in the national population policy.
Presentations highlighted the thematic areas of the 2014 National Population Policy, progress with its implementation and challenges. The Committee also highlighted key changes that should take place during the revision of the Policy. Discussions also tackled the demographic dividend and the indicators that will help achieve sustainable development.
Speaking at the event, the Minister of Planning, Dr Khalid Battal Al-Najim, spoke about the importance of evidence-based policies and reaffirmed the commitment of the Iraqi Government to holding the National Housing & Population Census, calling for a joint effort in revising the population policies: "The population policy should be inclusive. All ministries should collaborate in revising the policy to ensure commitment - including financial, engagement and proper implementation".
Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative to Iraq, emphasised the need for the revised population policy to increase investments in human capital, focusing on young people and women, facilitate youth and women’s access to financial resources and jobs, and improve conditions for women to be able to work and take care of their families.
The workshop was concluded successfully by presenting a plan of action for revising and updating the national population policy 2014.
Participating at the workshop were director generals from and representatives from the Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Women Empowerment Department of Council of Ministers, Ministry of Health & Environment, Ministry of Labor & Social Affairs, Ministry of Displacement & Migration, Ministry of Education, Awkaf representatives, governmental partners and civil society representatives.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/143988-ministry-planning-unfpa-conduct-workshop-national-priorities-population-development-and




Date: 09 September 2021
Title: Minister of Migration and Displaced and UNDP Iraq Resident Representative sign MoU on community reintegration at Anbar Interfaith Religious Conference
Content: 09 September 2021
Erbil, 08 September 2021 – The United Nations Development Programme in Iraq (UNDP) and the Iraqi Ministry of Migration and Displaced (MOMD) have today signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that strengthens the partnership between the two parties to support the return and reintegration of displaced people in Iraq. The three-year agreement emphasizes cooperation between the parties, including support to programmes and provision of technical advice and knowledge, in line with national plans and policies to support reintegration of the displaced and an enabling environment for stabilization in Iraq.
The agreement was signed at a conference held in Erbil that convened 84 religious leaders from Anbar Governorate under the auspices of the Minister of MOMD, the Council of Ministers Secretariat, and the Governor of Anbar. The two-day conference is the third in a series of conferences held for religious leaders in governorates liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), aiming at creating an interfaith dialogue platform and building the capacities of religious leaders to enhance their role in encouraging community coexistence and advancing the return and reintegration process for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in partnership with local and national authorities.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad emphasizes, “We are pleased to sign this MoU with the MOMD, a partnership that will strengthen our efforts for the return and reintegration of many displaced and vulnerable Iraqis back to their communities. Our conference today is part of these efforts, supported by the Governments of Denmark and Germany, aiming to bring religious leaders together to encourage solidarity in spreading messages of peace and supporting returns and sustainable reintegration.”
The Minister of Migration and Displaced, Her Excellency Mrs. Ivan Faiek Jabru, states, “This coordination between the federal government represented by MOMD and UNDP has had a positive impact on reinforcing community peace and coexistence. We look forward to continued collaboration on initiatives to prevent extremism and encourage reintegration.”
The Deputy Secretary General of Council of Ministers Secretariat, His Excellency Mr. Jasim Alhalbousi, emphasizes, “Through this strong partnership between UNDP and COMSEC we will we continue our work to promote peace and security within Iraq’s communities.”
The Governor of Anbar, His Excellency Mr. Ali Farhan states, “This meeting presents an important opportunity to hear from Anbar’s religious leaders. Our focus is to use this discussion platform to implement a plan that combats extremist ideas and encourages moderate religious discourse.”
In 2020, UNDP Iraq launched a dedicated five-year Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/143618-minister-migration-and-displaced-and-undp-iraq-resident-representative-sign-mou-community




Date: 07 September 2021
Title: UNDP partners with Toyota to support youth employment and sustainable development in Iraq
Content: 07 September 2021
Erbil, 7 September 2021 - A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed today between Toyota and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq to support youth employment and advance the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The three-year MoU focuses on supporting vulnerable communities affected by crisis including internally displaced persons, returnees, refugees and host communities.
Through the partnership, Toyota Iraq will provide vocational training, including apprenticeships and on-the-job training, followed by an opportunity for employment with Toyota Iraq. The training will advance the skills of young people and develop their professional capacity in three fields – auto-technician development, warehouse management and customer relations.
The collaboration is also designed to advance the implementation and mainstreaming of Iraq’s 2030 agenda and its SDGs at both national and sub-national levels, and promote active engagement of young people, women, and people with disabilities in the development process, in partnership with the private sector.
“Today’s MoU signing reaffirms our commitment to supporting young Iraqis and other vulnerable communities who, due to multiple crises, including decades of conflict and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, have missed out on critical opportunities for long-term, sustainable employment. It also signifies a crucial step forward for achieving Agenda 2030 in Iraq. We're extremely grateful to Toyota for our ongoing partnership and its continued support to empowering young people and building a peaceful and prosperous Iraq,” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“This is part of our participation in the activity for Sustainable Development Goals and Corporate Social Responsibility,  not only to share our expertise and technology with Iraq youth, so that they can gain equal opportunities for employment, but also to add more area of collaboration to serve Iraqi society”, said Toyota Iraq CEO, Yutaka Ezaki.
This MoU is framed under UNDP Iraq’s Stabilization pillar through its Iraq Crisis Response and Resilience Programme (ICRRP).
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/143339-undp-partners-toyota-support-youth-employment-and-sustainable-development-iraq




Date: 07 September 2021
Title: Japan and UNOPS restore access to critical community services in Diyala
Content: 07 September 2021
Baghdad, 7 September 2021 – Together with the representatives from the Government of Iraq, Al Mansouriah Municipality, and local community leaders, UNOPS marked the successful completion of the “Restoring Access to Critical Community Services in Diyala Governorate” project which aimed at improving the living conditions of the returnees in the Diyala governorate.
Funded by the Government of Japan and implemented by UNOPS, the project rehabilitated 12 internal roads and installed 200 new solar streetlights to restore access to public facilities and schools and improve safety and security of the communities. UNOPS delivered 582 garbage containers in support of the municipality’s capacity to manage solid waste, and carried out a specialized training for municipal staff on effective use of resources in waste management.
Congratulating on the successful completion of the project, H.E. Mr. SUZUKI Kotaro, Ambassador of Japan to Iraq, said “With regard to IDP issues, Japan always puts its importance on durable solutions through improving the living conditions of the returnees. I sincerely hope that the project will pave a solid path for stable and prosperous lives for the returnees in the Diyala Governorate. I praise UNOPS’s tireless efforts to support IDPs for their safe and satisfactory returns.”
Mr. Juma’a Salman Al Jabouri, Director of Al Mansouriah Municipality, delivered a speech on behalf of the Directorate of Municipalities of Diyala: “The people, particularly the returnees, have suffered for a long period of time from lack of access to basic municipal services. The deteriorated transport infrastructure and solid waste management are some of the main basic services that are urgently in need of improvement. We reiterate our gratitude to the government and people of Japan and to UNOPS for their support”.
“Through our continued partnership with Japan, UNOPS has delivered projects that have addressed critical infrastructure needs across Iraq. We are so proud to benefit over 100,000 men, women, girls and boys living in and returning to Diyala through interventions that facilitate improved access to basic services, such as transport, waste management, and protection”, said UNOPS Director of Multi-Country Office, Mr. Muhammad Usman Akram.
UNOPS has been active in Iraq since 2004, delivering close to 122 projects worth USD 330 million, in support of Iraq’s humanitarian aid and development priorities. Since 2016, UNOPS partnership with the Government of Japan has supported Iraq’s recovery efforts in the areas of critical infrastructure, security, and capacity building.
The “Restoring Access to Critical Community Services in Diyala Governorate” project supported Iraq’s efforts towards the realization of Agenda 2030, contributing to the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 7: Affordable and Clean Energy and SDG 9: Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/143302-japan-and-unops-restore-access-critical-community-services-diyala




Date: 06 September 2021
Title: WFP resilience projects respond to water shortages in Iraq
Content: 06 September 2021
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) has expanded its resilience-building programme across Salah al-Din governorate north of Baghdad, to respond to growing concerns about the lower than usual rainfall in Iraq. This year has seen the second lowest rainfall in 40 years in the country.
WFP’s livelihoods work, implemented with local communities, the Government of Iraq and NGO partners, is helping over 130,000 vulnerable people across the country in Salah al-Din and also Anbar, Basra, Maysan, Ninewa and Thi-Qar.
“Climate change is affecting Iraq, which already has a heavy post-conflict burden and is also grappling with the effects of COVID-19 pandemic. Together with the Government of Iraq and our partners, WFP is working to help affected communities become self-sufficient, so that everyone can meet their food needs,” said WFP Iraq’s Representative Ally-Raza Qureshi. “Our partnership in areas such as rural Salah al-Din is helping vulnerable families secure sustainable incomes by developing key skills and providing them with the necessary tools. This helps them get through times of hardship.”
Traditionally, Iraq – “the land between two rivers” – had been able to meet its water needs, so the current water shortage is of particular concern. Temperatures are also hitting record highs; last year saw Baghdad’s highest temperature ever of 52 degrees Celsius. WFP’s assessments revealed that the 2021 rainfall season has been below average, particularly in the northern governorates and Kurdistan Region. This could impact the final yield of the two major crops; wheat and barley.
WFP’s May surveys noted that 8 percent of people in Ninewa and Kirkuk governorates have insufficient food consumption, twice as many as the 4 percent national average. Similarly, 13.4 percent of people in Ninewa reported employing negative coping strategies – such as borrowing money or eating less food – above the 7.5 percent national average. WFP continues to monitor the situation closely, particularly the impact on food security.
Last month, Qureshi presented his credentials to H.E. Dr Ali Shamran, Head of the Protocol Department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Baghdad. Qureshi joins the Iraq team following a long career in development and also the private sector. He is passionate about combating climate change.
Both Shamran and Qureshi reaffirmed WFP’s and the Government of Iraq’s commitment to Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 2: Zero Hunger through effective social protection, and durable solutions including resilience-building and livelihoods for vulnerable families, working together for Iraq’s development.
#                    #                   #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Iraq @wfp_mena @wfpgovts

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/143251-wfp-resilience-projects-respond-water-shortages-iraq




Date: 05 September 2021
Title: UN and Government of Iraq sign the updated Cooperation Framework for Sustainable Development to support prosperity and development
Content: 05 September 2021
Sunday, 5 September 2021: The Government of Iraq and the United Nations have signed the updated version of the Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2020-2024, which will guide the work of the UN system in Iraq.
The signing ceremony for the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) was held in the Ministry of Planning and signed by Dr. Khaled Battal Al-Najm, Minister of Planning on behalf of the Government of Iraq, and Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, United Nations Resident Coordinator, on behalf of the UN in Iraq.
The UNSDCF was developed in close cooperation with the Government, following a consultation process with NGOs, the private sector, civil society and academia. It will assist the Government to accelerate developmental and social transformation across Iraq as outlined in the National Development Plan (2018-2022), Iraq Vision 2030, UN Socio-Economic Response Plan to COVID-19, the National Plan on Displacement in Iraq, and the White Paper for Economic Reform.
The UNSDCF was updated to include the impact COVID-19 and the increased need for durable solutions in order to end displacement.
“The fruitful partnership between the Government and the United Nations Country Team is formalized with the signing of the UNSDCF and is an acknowledgment of the UN’s efforts in supporting Iraq’s development priorities and efforts to ensure that those who are most vulnerable are not left behind,” said Ms. Vojáčková-Sollorano.
The revised UNSDCF works towards the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals through its five strategic priority areas:
In all its work, UN agencies will put greater emphasis on respect for human rights, gender equality and inclusion, empowerment of women and girls, as well as of marginalized and vulnerable populations, including displaced and refugee populations. These outcomes will only be achieved through close partnership with the government and other key stakeholders.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/143166-un-and-government-iraq-sign-updated-cooperation-framework-sustainable-development-support




Date: 31 August 2021
Title: Emmanuel Macron, President of France visits UNESCO works in Mosul
Content: 31 August 2021
August 31, 2021: President Macron's visit to the city of Mosul carries an important message of support and hope for Moslawis who suffered through a violent and oppressive occupation for four years that nearly ripped the soul from a city that has been a cultural and religious crossroads for centuries. Mosul is among the larger and more historically significant cities of the Arab World.
Macron was welcomed by Paolo Fontani, UNESCO Representative to Iraq, Fr. Olivier Poquillon O.P., in charge of Our Lady of the Hour, Najm al-Jubouri, Governor of Nineveh, Fuad Hussein, Iraqi Minister of Foreign Affairs, Monseigneur Najib Mikhael Moussa O.P., Archbishop of Mosul, Saad Kambash, President of the Sunni Waqf of Iraq, Monseigneur Raed Adel, in charge of the Syriac Catholic Churches in Mosul, local government, and SBAH, actively involved in the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the historic landmarks of Mosul.
The French President toured the Al-Nouri Mosque Complex being rebuilt by UNESCO with Rakan Al-Allaff, Senior Culture Officer, and witnessed first hand the progress that has taken place on site. He was impressed by the beauty of the mosque and was touched by the damage that struck the Al-Hadba Minaret. During the tour, Macron entered the warehouse in which all the historical fragments were collected and was impressed by the huge amount of work done by UNESCO in such a short period.
During his tour in Our Lady of the Hour, Dominican Convent, being rehabilitated by UNESCO, Fr. Olivier Poquillon O.P., in charge of Our Lady of the Hour, gave President Macron details about the church and convent built in the 19th century. He witnessed the progress that has taken place on site, in the framework of the UNESCO project to Revive the Spirit of Mosul, supported by the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Macron highlighted the need to act on the reconstruction of education and cultural landmarks. In this spirit, he commended the work of UNESCO on the ground as a key accelerator for stability and cohesion in the country.
“We will be with you in order to help rebuild monuments, churches, schools, mosques, minarets, and so on, but we will help as well to build economic opportunities, I am here a few years after the city was destroyed, which witnessed the reconstruction thanks to UNESCO, which I greet”.
Emmanuel Macron, President of France
The battle for Mosul left behind an estimated 8 million tons of rubble and destroyed prominent historical landmarks. Al-Nouri Mosque was destroyed and Our Lady of the Hour, Dominican Convent was damaged.
UNESCO set forth on a path of reconstruction and reconciliation to bring this rich and diverse city, with its pluralistic history at the crossroads of cultures and religions of the Middle East, back to its former glory. At the Kuwait International Conference for the reconstruction of Iraq, in February 2018, UNESCO Director-General, Audrey Azoulay, announced the launch of the Organization's flagship initiative, "Revive the Spirit of Mosul".
“It is through education and culture that Iraqis, men and women alike, will be able to regain control of their destiny and become actors in the renewal of their country”.
Audrey Azoulay, UNESCO Director-General
At its heart, “Revive the Spirit of Mosul” is UNESCO's response for the recovery of Mosul by empowering the population as agents of change involved in the process of rebuilding their city through three main axes: heritage, education and cultural life. The Initiative was born to carry a strong message of hope and resistance to Iraq and to the world: a message that an inclusive, cohesive and equitable society is the future that Iraqis deserve.
As a first major step towards the recovery of Mosul, UNESCO is working on the rehabilitation of Al-Nouri Mosque and its famous Al Hadba leaning minaret, Al-Tahera Church and Our Lady of the Hour, Dominican Convent, funded by the United Arab Emirates. Other donors of the Initiative include the European Union, the Flanders, The Netherlands, Canada, Japan, Sweden, Italy, Latvia and Germany. Beyond the rehabilitation of architectural landmarks, the initiative includes on the-job training for young professionals, strengthening the capacities of craftspeople, job-creation opportunities and technical and vocational education.
For more: https://en.unesco.org/fieldoffice/baghdad/revivemosul
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/142474-emmanuel-macron-president-france-visits-unesco-works-mosul




Date: 29 August 2021
Title: Running Dry: water scarcity threatens lives and development in Iraq
Content: 29 August 2021
As we mark World Water Week, over 2 million children and their families will face significant lack of water by 2030 if now action is taken now
Baghdad, 29 August 2021- Nearly 3 out of 5 children in Iraq have no access to safely managed water services and less than half of all schools in the country have access to basic water risking children’s health, nutrition, cognitive development, and future livelihoods.
The MENA region is reported to be the most water-scarce region in the world. Nearly 66 million people in the region lack basic sanitation and very low proportions of wastewater are adequately treated according to a new UNICEF report titled ‘Running Dry: the impact of water scarcity on children in the Middle East and North Africa’.
The report, released during World Water Week, highlights key drivers behind water scarcity in the region and Iraq including rising agricultural demand and the expansion of irrigated land using aquifers. While globally, agriculture accounts for an average of 70 per cent of water use, it is more than 80 per cent in the region.
“In Iraq, the level of water scarcity is alarming, children cannot develop and thrive to their full potential without water,” said Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. “It is time to take action on climate change and guarantee access to safe water for every child” she added.
Rising food demand, urbanisation, poor water management as well as climate change have combined to threaten children, the poor and the marginalised.
While not the sole reason for water scarcity, climate change results in less rain for agriculture and the deterioration of the quality of freshwater reserves due to the backflow of saline water coming from the Arabian Gulf into freshwater aquifers and increased pollution concentrations.
In Iraq, the 2020-2021 rainfall season was the second driest in last 40 years, caused reduction of water flow in Tigris and Euphrates by 29% and 73% respectively.
UNICEF will continue to support the federal and regional governments, local partners, civil society, and the private sector to address the vulnerability of water resources in the Middle East and North Africa, including to:
• Create a robust enabling environment with strong national policy and regulatory systems that address scarcity, including over-extraction of groundwater, water accounting and data analysis.
• Work with civil society, especially youth as agents of change, on the value of water and water conservation.
• Initiate climate change response plans, incorporate water scarcity as a priority component and allocate sufficient national budget to address water scarcity.
• Create coordination groups between key stakeholders such as municipalities, water, environment, health, agriculture, energy, and finance), national academic institutions, sectoral actors including international community representatives to support on policy revisions, and increase of technical capacity
• Support capacity building of key water sector actors, including regulatory bodies water utilities in provision of clean drinking water especially to highly impacted communities through upgrading ageing infrastructure, developing sustainable operation, and reducing water wastage.
###
About UNICEF
UNICEF promotes the rights and wellbeing of every child; in everything we do. Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit https://www.unicef.org/iraq/, Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/142207-running-dry-water-scarcity-threatens-lives-and-development-iraq




Date: 29 August 2021
Title: FAO – First Opening of Village Dairy Centers for Milk collection, Processing and Marketing in Nineveh Governorate – Iraq
Content: 29 August 2021
FAOR in Iraq, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan with Om Ali (Safa), a widow from remote village Tal-Abiyadh (Hammam Al-Alil Sub-district) supporting her seven children from collecting milk, processing and marketing.
She is processing Kashwa for three days to reach approximately nine kilograms, she gets up early morning carrying her products and walks 4 km using rocky rural path to join the main road, to reach with public transport the city of Mosul, for selling her Kashwa in Al Yabsat Market, where the price of a kilogram is 5 USD.
Om Ali is just one of 2 000 women including large number of widows and divorcees, who are benefitting from this EU-funded project to improve traditional processing of dairy products while rebuilding their livelihood.
Nineveh: 25-26/08/2021
For the purpose to complement the humanitarian efforts carried out by the United Nations in Nineveh Governorate, and within the framework of supporting income generation for returning families and local communities, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has opened new small/medium-scale village milk centers for collection, cooling, processing and marketing dairy products.  Such activities are part of the project Support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh Governorate, Iraq, funded by the European Union and implemented in close cooperation with Ministry of Agriculture (Nineveh Directorate of Agriculture). FAO project team and cadres of Nineveh Directorate participated to this event and in the presence of a large number of producers, milk collectors and local authorities.
FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan, inaugurated, under the patronage of His Excellency the Minister of Agriculture, 8 new small/medium-scale village milk centers for collection, cooling, processing and marketing dairy products in areas of: 1) Tal Afar district (Zummar Sub-District,  Al-Amaleh village), 2) Tal Kaif district (Al-Qusyat village) and 3) Mosul District (Hammam Al-Alil sub-district: Hammam Al-Alil Center, Tal Abyadh and Qabar Al-Abd villages). Dr Salah during the ceremony explained that the project is a good example of using a holistic approach to value chain development in the livestock sector and job creation within the small-scale private sector and real empowerment of rural women, by contributing to improved milk productivity, hygiene and overall food safety.
At the end of the opening ceremonies, a meeting was held with large number of farmers in Hammam Al-Alil sub-district, in which the notables of the district, local authorities and representatives from the Ministry of Agriculture (Nineveh Directorate) discussed challenges facing the agricultural sector in their region in terms of crop/vegetable and livestock sectors. The FAO team also reviewed all the interventions that the organization undertakes in the region to support small farmers and upgrading the agricultural sector for better productivity and profitability.
Finally and on the sidelines of the meeting, the President of the Local Union of Agricultural and Cooperative Societies – Hammam Al-Alil Branch, thanked FAO and the EU for the support provided to improve the agriculture sector by restoring agricultural systems, increasing agricultural growth and generating employment opportunities; then he presented shields on behalf of farmers to FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El Hajj Hassan and FAO International Experts Dr. Chedly Kayouli and Dr. Nakd Khamis.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/142221-fao-%E2%80%93-first-opening-village-dairy-centers-milk-collection-processing-and-marketing-nineveh




Date: 27 August 2021
Title: FAO following up the progress in rehabilitation of Aljazeera water project
Content: 27 August 2021
The Representative of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan, and FAO team, conducted a field mission on Wednesday, 25 August 2021, to the Northern Aljazeera irrigation project (MADAD), implemented by FAO in coordination with the Ministry of Water Resources and funded by the European Union.
During the visit, FAO met the Director of Rabiaa district in Nineveh Governorate, who praised the efforts of the organization in supporting the agricultural sector and rehabilitating the irrigation project, which will restore life to the entire region.
FAO rehabilitated several parts of Al-Jazeera Irrigation System, including the construction of seven bridges and civil work repairs to the pumping station.  Additionally, canals cleaning and removing of debris (84.6 Km), through Cash for Work (CFW), provided income to the most affected and vulnerable community members in the target areas. These canals constitute phases I and II of Aljazeera irrigation system and cover 47 villages in Rabea sub-district of Ninewa.
The entire works will be completed and ready to operate in November this year; spare parts will maintain the currently suspended linear irrigation systems.
During the visit, Dr. Salah said “water is currently running into phase I of the irrigation system which has enabled farmers to plant their land and produce a variety of crops including wheat, barley, tomato, potato among others”.  He stressed that FAO will continue supporting farmers to increase agricultural production and improve farmers' income in order to reduce poverty and provide a better life. It is expected that the direct and indirect beneficiaries of this project will reach 40 000.
Many of the local staff of both Ministries of Water Resources and Agriculture participated in the mission with a number of FAO experts.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/141934-fao-following-progress-rehabilitation-aljazeera-water-project




Date: 27 August 2021
Title: Ground Breaking Ceremony of physical infrastructure of Beautiful Missan
Content: 27 August 2021
Missan, 25th of August 2021: Funded by the European Union (EU), in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), ‘Beautiful Missan’ will improve local service provision, working together with communities and local authorities.
Today a ceremony that marks the beginning of a new construction site took place under the auspices of the Governor of Missan. The project advances urban revival, also using renewable energy sources.
This project is implemented in partnership between the Governorate of Missan, UNDP, and Oxfam in Iraq under the framework of the Supporting Recovery and Stability in Iraq Through Local Development programme, funded by the EU. The choice of the location came after a series of consultations among the stakeholders, the community, and local institutions in addition to a thorough assessment that identified pressing priorities for Missan Governorate.
The governor of Missan Mr. Ali Dawi said: “This project was suggested based on the strategies of the governorate of Missan and its annual plans and is to be executed by UNDP and Oxfam to improve and rehabilitate areas with importance in the service, tourism and entertainment sectors in Amarah. This will be the first step in Beautiful Missan which will expand to other areas in the governorate. This project comes as a reassurance to the importance and validity of the partnership between the governorate of Missan and the United Nations Development Programme in Iraq, and in coordination with local organizations, residents and the community.”
The Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq Zena Ali Ahmad added: “Today marks the beginning of key rehabilitation work in support to Missan’s Governorate local plans, starting with the road near the Sabean temple. As part of the process of the beautification of Missan, this will enhance the touristic environment, support local communities through job creation in facilities supported by the project, with focus on youth and women. We would like to thank the EU for its partnership to advance local development in Missan governorate.”
The Head of Cooperation of the European Union Delegation to Iraq, Ms. Barbara Egger mentioned: “Today’s ceremony is an important milestone in the European Union support to the governorate of Missan. Local ownership of this work is crucial, we are appreciative of the close cooperation and look forward to a swift completion, towards the benefit of the people of Missan.’’
Oxfam in Iraq’s Advocacy Manager, Matthew Hemsley said: “We are privileged to have the support and trust of the people of Missan in this endeavour, as well as the involvement of many residents who will be able to take advantage of the employment opportunities it generates. We also want to work to ensure that women and young people can fully benefit from this space. It’s an honour to collaborate with the Missan governor’s office and UNDP on this project and we look forward to sharing in the benefits with the communities of Missan in the future.”
The reconstruction of the road is estimated to directly benefit the area’s residents and visitors in addition to more than four hundred youth and women through trainings on business management and Small Medium Enterprises. This includes skilled and unskilled workers working on this construction, and Small Medium Enterprises (SME) grants recipients.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/141931-ground-breaking-ceremony-physical-infrastructure-beautiful-missan




Date: 26 August 2021
Title: Germany supports WFP’s critical assistance to displaced and refugee families in Iraq
Content: 26 August 2021
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) has received a €6 million contribution from the German Federal Foreign Office (GFFO) to support WFP’s monthly food assistance to hundreds of thousands of internally displaced people (IDPs) and Syrian refugees living in Iraq.
WFP monthly food assistance to displaced families and refugees has become more critical with the rise in food prices and the devaluation of the Iraqi currency as the country grapples with the COVID-19 pandemic and its socio-economic effects.
This contribution is part of the Germany’s multi-year commitment to WFP to ensure no one is left behind.
“We share a common responsibility to support those in need, especially refugees and the displaced, and we value that Iraq and in particular the communities in Duhok and Sulaymaniyah have taken in so many families who had to leave their homes,” said Chargé d’Affairs a.i. of the German Embassy in Baghdad Annika Bolten-Drutschmann. ““We consider WFP’s cash transfers a flexible means of assistance that also benefits the host community and small businesses through buying locally.”
WFP provides most of its monthly assistance to vulnerable families through cash transfers, through practical ‘mobile money’ solutions – where families receive cash assistance via mobile phone and can also use it electronically at local stores or – in the case of people living in camps – through electronic vouchers that can be redeemed in camp food shops. When such electronic solutions are not possible, for instance in areas where there is no network coverage, WFP provides through its partners direct cash assistance.
In addition, WFP distributes ready-to-eat food parcels for families who have to be quarantined as part of COVID-19 measures. These rations have also been useful in the past months following tragic fires which occurred in camps in Duhok and Sulaymaniyah.
“Germany continues to be a key partner for WFP in Iraq,” said WFP Representative in Iraq Ally-Raza Qureshi. “As one of WFP’s few partners to make multi-year contributions, Germany’s leading example enables WFP to plan its assistance this and next year, to best meet the food requirements of families in need. We thank the German government and people for their support at this critical time.”
Alongside ongoing emergency operations, WFP is expanding resilience-building and livelihoods activities across the country, to help conflict-affected families and communities create and sustain work opportunities. These are particularly needed as families continue to return home from camps, or settle in new areas. Germany is also a staunch supporter of these endeavours, through its Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ).
# # #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate. We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Iraq @wfp_mena @wfpgovts

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/141766-germany-supports-wfp%E2%80%99s-critical-assistance-displaced-and-refugee-families-iraq




Date: 26 August 2021
Title: Children under attack – For an Iraq free of explosive remnants of war
Content: 26 August 2021
Statement attributable to Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq
Baghdad, 26 August 2021 - “UNICEF is deeply concerned after the reported deaths of a 10-year-old child on 24 August in Diyala by the detonation of an explosive remnant of war (ERW) and of a 11-year-old child on 25 August in Muradiya Village, South of Baquba, due to an IED. UNICEF expresses its deep sorrow and condolences to the children’s families, friends and their communities.
“Sadly, these are not isolated losses of innocent lives. UNICEF expresses its alarm over the increase in child deaths and injuries due to landmines and ERW in Iraq in recent months. Between January and August 2021, the UN has recorded the loss of the lives of 35 children from ERW across the country and 41 more were maimed. This represents an alarming increase in child casualties compared to 2020, when the UN verified the killing of 6 children and maiming of 12 children for the same period as a result of ERW and landmines.
“Child safety must remain as the primary consideration in all contexts. Landmines and ERW often result in civilian casualties, with children being the most vulnerable. Since children are smaller than adults, they are more likely to take the full impact of the blast and are therefore more likely to suffer death or serious injuries.
“UNICEF urges all parties to accelerate every effort to clear existing mines and unexploded ordnance and promote victim assistance and to uphold children’s right to a safe and protective environment.
“UNICEF also urges the Government of Iraq and the donor community to support the scale up and provision of Explosive Ordnance Risk Education activities so that children and other community members receive explosive ordnance risk education in schools and communities in all areas previously affected by conflict in Iraq.”
End
###
About UNICEF
UNICEF promotes the rights and wellbeing of every child; in everything we do. Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit https://www.unicef.org/iraq/, Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/141765-children-under-attack-%E2%80%93-iraq-free-explosive-remnants-war




Date: 24 August 2021
Title: Restoration and strengthening the resilience of agri-food systems in Southern Iraq
Content: 24 August 2021
Key Findings of Rapid Needs Assessment and Identification of Key-Value Chains challenges and Interventions in Basra-Missan –Thi-Qar.
FAO Office Basra-Iraq: 21 / 08 / 2021
The project ‘Restoration and strengthening the resilience of agri-food systems in Southern Iraq’ (GCP/IRQ/004/EC) funded by the European Union (EU) and implemented by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture, aims to empower poor smallholder farmers, improve agricultural productivity to strengthen farmers' income and create job opportunities.
As part of the project, FAO organized, in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture in Basra, a workshop to present the findings of the Rapid Needs Assessment on the main value chains development and to agree on interventions in the targeted areas of Basra - Missan - Thi Qar.
The Rapid Needs Assessment targeted 15,739 households distributed over 530 villages from 18 districts. The main objectives were to identify potential livestock and crops value chains with economic opportunity for income generation and employment, design project intervention priorities and decide on transparent criteria for the selection of beneficiaries to be targeted.
The main challenges for livestock producers identified during the assessment in the south are:
• Very poor milk quality and hygiene standards i.e., due to the absence of cold/cooling milk chain centers, which in turn causes a difficulty to market the milk for remote rural areas, causing a high rate of post-harvest milk and dairy losses mainly during the summer.
• Home processing practiced under unhygienic conditions - i.e., throughout the project areas, home processing of traditional milk products (for family consumption and for sale) is practiced under unhygienic conditions using unsanitary equipment and often with no milk pasteurization.
• Poor feeding system and malnutrition i.e., due to absence of practicing fodder crops, poor quality of grazing and fodders, shortage, and high prices of feedstuffs.
• Poor technical knowledge and skills of farmers and extension workers.
The main challenges faced for crop value chains, mainly date palm and tomato producers are:
• Low crop productivity, especially tomatoes and date palms
• Lack of infrastructure, poor post-harvest management practices and weak marketing mechanisms e.g., cold stores, marketing services and poor post-harvest management practices.
• Water availability and quality, incl. irrigation challenges with water availability and quality, traditional irrigation practises, and poor on farm water use management knowledge.
• Poor technical practices in the production of vegetable crop seedlings and date palm shoots using greenhouses and tissue culture technology.
• The need for capacity development and raising awareness of good agriculture practices among farmers.
The results of the study identified the problems and challenges facing farmers, considering the existing conditions in the country and the region. This provided a basis to review the activities and interventions.
This included discussions on the selection conditions for direct beneficiaries, identifying and approval, which will achieve effective value chains for farmers and contribute to strengthening rural resilience and improving livelihood conditions.
The workshop moderated by Dr. Salah ElHajj Hassan, FAO Representative in Iraq and presented by FAO international experts, Dr. Nakd Khamis and Dr. Chedly Kayouli, contributed to the development of a road map to achieve effective value chains for farmers and contribute to strengthening rural resilience and improving livelihood conditions in the targeted governorates.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/141481-restoration-and-strengthening-resilience-agri-food-systems-southern-iraq




Date: 20 August 2021
Title: UN Security Council Press Statement on ISIL/Da’esh
Content: 20 August 2021
The following Security Council press statement was issued today by Council President S. Jaishankar (India):
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/140961-un-security-council-press-statement-isilda%E2%80%99esh




Date: 19 August 2021
Title: Statement by the Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano on World Humanitarian Day
Content: 19 August 2021
(Baghdad, 19 August 2021) We once again commemorate World Humanitarian Day.  This annual tribute honors all humanitarian aid workers who provide life-saving support and protection to those most in need, despite the odds.
This year, the theme of World Humanitarian Day is #TheHumanRace, drawing attention to the climate emergency, which is causing global damage on an unforeseen scale. We see firsthand in Iraq that extreme temperatures and water scarcity are impacting people's health and livelihoods, and we know that climate change is one of the largest risk factors for future humanitarian crises.
I look forward to continuing to work with the Government of Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government over the coming year to assess how we can collectively mitigate the impact of the climate emergency on vulnerable Iraqis, while we continue our ongoing work serving Iraqis in need of humanitarian assistance.
I also take the opportunity to memorialize today those United Nations staff who lost their lives during the attack on the Canal Hotel in Baghdad on 19 August 2003.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/140936-statement-humanitarian-coordinator-iraq-irena-voj%C3%A1%C4%8Dkov%C3%A1-sollorano-world-humanitarian-day




Date: 19 August 2021
Title: UN condemns loss of life in Ninewa airstrike, calls for investigation
Content: 19 August 2021
Baghdad, 19 August 2021 – The United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) is following with grave concern the serious security developments in the north of Iraq, which, regrettably, have led to loss of life and many injuries in Sinjar town and Sheniya village.
Necessary precautions must be taken during military operations, including airstrikes, to protect and minimize harm to civilians who often suffer the consequences of such attacks.
It is equally important to promptly and fully investigate such incidents, establishing accountability for civilian deaths and injuries.
Meanwhile, the long-beleaguered local population bears the brunt of this violence, as one conflict replaces another.
UNAMI calls on all relevant parties to put the interests of citizens first, exercising restraint to avoid a dangerous escalation. Peace and stability are essential preconditions for reconstruction and the return of internally displaced people. The Sinjar Agreement therefore needs to be implemented without delay.
UNAMI continues to support dialogue and urges all parties to respect the principles of state sovereignty and territorial integrity.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/140850-un-condemns-loss-life-ninewa-airstrike-calls-investigation




Date: 18 August 2021
Title: UNDP Iraq supports the Iraqi Government to prepare communities for reintegration of returnees from Al-Hol Camp
Content: 18 August 2021
Erbil, 18 August 2021 – UNDP Iraq in partnership with the Ministry of Migration and Displaced (MOMD) and National Security Advisory, with participation of several government officials, has brought together 74 community and tribal leaders from Anbar, Ninewa, Salah al-Din, and Diyala governorates in a workshop aimed at fostering acceptance and understanding among local leaders to facilitate the return and reintegration of displaced Iraqis back into their communities.
Focusing on families returning from Al Hol camp, the comprehensive workshop builds on UNDP Iraq’s community-based reconciliation and reintegration programming to ensure the safe and dignified return and reintegration of Iraqis displaced by the conflict with the Islamic State and the Levant (ISIL). The workshop included discussion of the government efforts on the return of IDPs from the camp and the role of community leaders and local government in facilitating the reintegration of those IDPs in their original areas.
In May, 94 families staying in Al-Hol camp were transferred to Al-Jada’a Rehabilitation Camp in Ninewa Governorate. UNDP Iraq is working with the Iraqi Government to ensure community readiness for acceptance of these families and more that will follow, in line with the Iraqi Government’s priority to ensure displaced Iraqis return to their places of origin. Among the unanimous recommendations, attendees agreed to support the government's plan to return displaced Iraqis, including commitment of the government to perform background checks on the returnees and provide necessary services and compensations to those who have been affected by the conflict with ISIL.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Ms. Zena Ali-Ahmad emphasizes, “Ensuring communities are prepared to accept families who return home following displacement is vital to sustainable reintegration. UNDP Iraq is committed to preparing communities for this transition to implement durable solutions for peace and social cohesion in Iraq.”
The Deputy Minister of Migration and Displaced, Mr. Karim Hussein Ali Al-Nuri states, “This meeting was very important because we heard from the local leaders and tribes regarding their support for the return of IDPs who have no security issues. We would like to continue this dialogue and discussion to facilitate the return of IDPs.”
According to Dr. Saeed Al-Jiashi, Advisor, National Security Advisory, “We achieved good progress during this meeting and reached a conclusion, including that we organize visits to the Al-Jada’a Rehabilitation Camp, and proceed to move families back to their areas of origin.”
In 2020, UNDP Iraq launched a dedicated five-year Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq. The Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration Project supports the community readiness, return, and reintegration of families perceived to be affiliated with ISIL, who are often the most marginalized and vulnerable.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/140583-undp-iraq-supports-iraqi-government-prepare-communities-reintegration-returnees-al-hol-camp




Date: 17 August 2021
Title: European Union contributes EUR 1.3M for emergency reproductive health services in Iraq
Content: 17 August 2021
17 August 2021; Baghdad, Iraq - The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) received EUR 1.3 million euros from the European Union (EU) towards supporting emergency reproductive health services in hard-to-reach and secondary displacement areas in Iraq.
Women and girls of reproductive age, including women with disabilities, in Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Nineveh and Salahuddin governorates will benefit from the reproductive health services provided by UNFPA, such as gynaecological consultations, Emergency Obstetric and Neonatal Care (EmONC), family planning, maternal health and clinical management of rape.
“The need for health services in the country have increased due to the ongoing movement of population and the pandemic, especially for woman and girls. This contribution is crucial. It provides life-saving reproductive health services to conflict-affected women in more than one governorate in Iraq,” said Christophe Reltien, the EU Humanitarian Aid Head of Office in Iraq.
UNFPA Representative, Dr Rita Columbia, expressed her appreciation for the recent contribution: “We are extremely grateful for this renewed contribution from the EU. Women and girls in Iraq continue to face many challenges especially in terms of access to reproductive health services. The new funding will allow us to reach the most vulnerable communities in the rural areas and displaced communities, despite the exacerbated humanitarian crisis due to the COVID-19 pandemic.”
The EU is a long-standing partner of UNFPA in Iraq and a strong advocate for the reproductive health and rights of women and girls. Since 2015, the EU has contributed EUR 19.7 million in support of UNFPA’s humanitarian interventions in camps and host communities and secondary displacement areas in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/140448-european-union-contributes-eur-13m-emergency-reproductive-health-services-iraq




Date: 17 August 2021
Title: Ministry of Health and Environment, Ministry of Planning, UNFPA begin the fieldwork for the second Iraq Women Integrated Social and Health Survey (I-WISH II)
Content: 17 August 2021
17 August 2021, Baghdad Iraq – The Central Statistical Organization (CSO) at the Ministry of Planning, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and Environment and UNFPA, began this week the fieldwork for the second Iraq Women Integrated Social and Health Survey (I-WISH II).
The survey, which covers all governorates in the Central South and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, will offer reliable data on women’s health, roles in society and families, and their economic and political empowerment.
The integrated data will identify the progress made and the gaps in the economic, social, and health situation of women in Iraq in comparison to the results of I-WISH I, conducted in 2011. The survey findings will enable the development of more effective and people-centred policies aimed at the elimination of gender-based violence and fulfilment of girls and women rights in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/140450-ministry-health-and-environment-ministry-planning-unfpa-begin-fieldwork-second-iraq-women




Date: 16 August 2021
Title: The Republic of Korea donates US$800,000 towards health, water, sanitation, education, and protection interventions for the most vulnerable children in Iraq
Content: 16 August 2021
Baghdad, 16 August 2021 – The Republic of Korea has donated US$ 800,000 towards UNICEF’s Humanitarian Action for Children Appeal (HAC) in Iraq.
This contribution will support the water, sanitation, education, and child protection services provided by UNICEF for thousands of children in Iraq especially the most vulnerable who have been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.
“The children in Iraq continue to suffer from the effects of the past conflict and current the hardships imposed by the current COVID-19 global pandemic and economic hardship,” says UNICEF Representative in Iraq, Ms. Sheema Sen Gupta. “Thanks to this generous support, from the Republic of Korea, UNICEF can continue to provide key services for the most vulnerable children in Iraq, reaching them with protection wherever they are and nurturing their learning.”
This support will go a long way in advancing UNICEF’s work across the country and providing children, young people, and their families with access to quality education, water, sanitation, and protection services which are vital as Iraq recovers from decades of conflict and the current pandemic.
End
####
About UNICEF
UNICEF promotes the rights and wellbeing of every child; in everything we do. Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit https://www.unicef.org/iraq/, Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/140295-republic-korea-donates-us800000-towards-health-water-sanitation-education-and-protection




Date: 12 August 2021
Title: KOICA, UNFPA; US$ 3 million to assist survivors of gender-based violence in Nineveh and Kirkuk Governorates
Content: 12 August 2021
12 August 2021; Baghdad, Iraq - The Country Director of Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) in Iraq, Mr Lee Dong Hyun and UNFPA Representative to Iraq, Dr Rita Columbia, signed a two-year agreement of 3 million dollars, in partnership with the Ministry of Health and Environment and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
This new grant will go towards assisting survivors of gender-based violence (GBV), in particular, those affected by conflict-related sexual violence, in Kirkuk and Nineveh Governorates through the increase of access to comprehensive mental health and psychosocial support and other GBV related services.
The launch of the project was attended by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Dr Adel Al-Rakabi, the  Acting Minister of Health and Environment, Dr Hani Mousa Badr,  the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea in Iraq, HE Jang Kyungwook as well as representatives from KOICA and UNFPA.
Speaking at the event, He Al-Rakabi highlighted the needs of survivors of violence and the need to further bolster the GBV response, referrals and follow-up. He welcomed the new contribution and called the international community to increase its support for women affairs in Iraq.
For his part, Dr Badr thanked Korea, and KOICA in particular, for their continued assistance to the health system in Iraq and the capacity development of medical staff; a support that is much appreciated especially as the country battles the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Korean Ambassador said: “The project launched today will give hope and recovery to women living in the northern part of Iraq. The beneficiaries will know that Korean international community and the government of Iraq are supporting them closely. All of us should regard the voice of the beneficiaries as the highest priority, so that the result of the project may actually change the lives of the people.”
UNFPA Representative expressed gratitude to KOICA: “With thanks to KOICA funding, UNFPA with the Ministry of Labour & Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health & Environment will reach more girls and women with GBV and Mental Health and Psychosocial support services. Together, we will strengthen the capacity of service providers in Nineveh and Kirkuk to allow comprehensive service delivery to survivors and build the capacity of the government medical staff for a coordinated multi-sectoral response to GBV prevention and response services.”
The speeches were followed by two presentations from KOICA & UNFPA on the project implementation and expected results.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/139897-koica-unfpa-us-3-million-assist-survivors-gender-based-violence-nineveh-and-kirkuk




Date: 12 August 2021
Title: International Youth Day 2021 Youth-led action for climate resilience
Content: 12 August 2021
Young people take the lead to tackle climate change and protect their environment in Iraq
Baghdad 12 August 2021-The 12th of August marks the International Youth Day every year, a day to celebrate and mainstream young peoples’ voices, actions, and initiatives, as well as their meaningful, universal, and equitable engagement.
This year’s theme, “Transforming Food Systems: Youth Innovation for Human and Planetary Health”, highlights the success of global efforts through the meaningful participation of young people.
In the region, Euphrates & Tigris rivers are currently experiencing drought conditions, resulting in lower river flow, and affecting dam storage. The current season is the second driest in 40 years. Iraq is anticipating a serious drought this summer following a particularly dry winter and reduced river flow caused by upstream damming programs by riparian countries.
Climate change has potential impacts on food security such as reduction in wheat production, decrease in surface water storage, drying of shallower wells due to insufficient groundwater recharge, and an increase in the cost of water. If the dry conditions continue, and the water reservoirs are not replenished, the population will face an acute water shortage for irrigation of the next cropping season.
To mark the occasion, young people, the change-makers for a better future, converged and led the discussion on issues around food security in their communities in Fallujah, Anbar district. The event was attended by Anbar’s Governor, Dr. Ai Farhan AlDulaimy, and UNICEF Iraq Representative, Sheema SenGupta. An online discussion event on youth engagement in food security led by young people also took place in Duhok governorate.
“As we celebrate young people together with our partners, we must ensure they are heard and included in the decision-making process, by highlighting solutions developed by them to address food security challenges,” said Sheema SenGupta, UNICEF Representative to Iraq during the event.
Zain provided entertainment and distributed some promotional materials. The agencies commended all their partners including Zain for being allies to young people in Iraq
UNICEF and UNV are working closely with the Ministry of Youth and Sports to mainstream civic engagement and volunteering among young people across Iraq for sustainable development, including for environmental and climate change. A new national innovative initiative is being jointly set up, with the aim of providing young people with access to a wide range of engagement opportunities in different sectors.
The two UN agencies reiterate calls for an inclusive mechanism that ensures support from decision-makers to address the youth’s needs to overcome the situations and work together in bringing change to their community. We must come together and show our commitment by dedicating resources to young people to achieve sustainable development for all.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/139898-international-youth-day-2021-youth-led-action-climate-resilience




Date: 07 August 2021
Title: Ministry of Youth & Sports, UNFPA celebrate Youth in Iraq
Content: 07 August 2021
Cyclists of all ages, young girls and boys from communities, and youth activists joined the race to show their solidarity in supporting youth and their inclusion in the sustainable development of Iraq.
Mr Adnan Darjal, Minister of Youth and Sports, Ms. Evan Faek Jabro, Minister of Migration and Displacement, and Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative in Iraq, launched the race followed by more than 200 cyclists, girls and boys.
The celebration continued with a performance of a musical band of young people with disabilities and a presentation of handicrafts produced by local women-led organisations.
UNFPA supports young people of Iraq, girls and boys, to have equal opportunities to develop their full potential and contribute to their communities.
****
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe, and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/139142-ministry-youth-sports-unfpa-celebrate-youth-iraq




Date: 03 August 2021
Title: Iraq: Ending torture through accountability, compliance and prevention – UN
Content: 03 August 2021
BAGHDAD (3 August 2021) – Full implementation of Iraq’s protective legal framework will help prevent torture and ill-treatment, thereby building public trust in the criminal justice system, notes a UN report published on Tuesday.
The report of the UN Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) and the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), entitled “Human Rights in the Administration of Justice in Iraq: legal conditions and procedural safeguards to prevent torture and ill-treatment,” seeks to prevent torture in places of detention in Iraq, including the Kurdistan region, by identifying and reducing risk factors and eliminating possible causes.
“No circumstances, however exceptional, justify torture or any form of impunity”, said Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, Special Representative for Iraq of the United Nations Secretary-General. “I encourage increased efforts towards prevention and accountability, in line with Iraq’s obligations under international and domestic law”, she added.
The report covers the period of 1 July 2019 through 30 April 2021 and is based on interviews with 235 persons deprived of their liberty.  More than half of all detainees interviewed by UNAMI/OHCHR for this report provided credible and reliable accounts of torture – consistent with patterns and trends documented in the past by UNAMI and other organisations.
The findings show that most legal conditions and procedural safeguards which could prevent torture were routinely not respected.  Concern is raised about the lack of effective legal oversight to address the realities of interrogation rooms and places of detention, which perpetuates a cycle of acquiescence and denial. The report notes a pervasive lack of access to defence; insufficient medical screening; lack of transparency concerning security entities with official powers of detention; and interrogations aimed at eliciting confession; coupled with concern that the existing mechanisms to address complaints of torture appear ineffective.
“The enactment of an effective legal framework criminalizing torture and implementation of independent national mechanisms for prevention and investigation, as set out in Iraq’s five-year Human Rights National Action Plan, would help address the persistent lack of accountability for perpetrators of torture,” said Danielle Bell, Chief of UNAMI’s Human Rights Office and the Representative for OHCHR in Iraq. “Compliance with legal obligations and procedural safeguards and the provision of effective remedies to victims of torture will promote change and build trust in the Iraqi legal system,” she added.
The report provides concrete recommendations concerning compliance with the protective framework set out in international and Iraqi law, training and review of the legal and policy framework, including interrogation rules and practices.
The report reflects ongoing UN engagement with the Government of Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government to promote and protect human rights in the administration of justice in Iraq.
Download the report here: English / Arabic

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/138505-iraq-ending-torture-through-accountability-compliance-and-prevention-%E2%80%93-un




Date: 03 August 2021
Title: PREMIERE: Seven Years on from Sinjar Massacre, VR Film Honours Victims and Advocates for the Yazidi Community’s Recovery
Content: 03 August 2021
August 3rd, 2021 marks the seventh anniversary of the Sinjar Massacre. The Islamic State, also known as ISIS or Da’esh, systematically targeted ethnoreligious minorities residing in Sinjar and the Nineveh Plains.
Soon after capturing those areas, ISIS committed a pattern of premeditated atrocities against the Yazidi people. UNITAD established “clear and convincing evidence that the crimes against the Yazidi people clearly constituted genocide.”
Seven years on, much still needs to be done to support the Yazidi community’s recovery. Genocide prevention and meaningful reconciliation require education, awareness-raising and advocacy, but due to frequent exposure, traditional forms of advocacy are reportedly losing their impact. In response, a multi-disciplinary team came together in 2019 to develop the ‘Nobody’s Listening’ virtual reality (VR) exhibition, an innovative advocacy tool using VR technology to present, educate and remind people of the magnitude of the Yazidi genocide.
In late 2020 and early 2021, the VR exhibition was presented in five cities across Iraq, engaging over 120 attendees. Today we are pleased to present a short film capturing that experience and a report that investigates the impact of the VR exhibition (Arabic and Kurdish versions of the report will be available at the same link soon).
August 3rd is a day to stand in solidarity with communities in Sinjar and honour the victims of the massacre. Continued advocacy is necessary to address the outstanding needs of the Yazidi people and promote efforts towards justice and reparations; administration and security governance issues must be resolved; and dedicated support is vital for the area’s returnees. Humanitarian assistance must continue for Yazidis still in displacement — for those unwilling or unable to return, alternative durable solutions must be explored.
Projections of the ‘Nobody’s Listening’ VR film were organized by IOM Iraq and Yazda, with financial support from USAID. The Nobody’s Listening team wish to thank the Digital Cultural Heritage Research Group at the Sulaimani Polytechnic and its Nahrein Network partner; the UNESCO Chair on Genocide Prevention Studies – University of Baghdad; the Cultural Factory in Sulaimani; Erbil Polytechnic University; and the University of Duhok.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/138510-premiere-seven-years-sinjar-massacre-vr-film-honours-victims-and-advocates-yazidi-community




Date: 03 August 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson of the Secretary-General - on the anniversary of the 2014 ISIL attacks on Yazidis and other communities in Iraq
Content: 03 August 2021
Today marks seven years since the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) brutally targeted the Yazidis in northern Iraq.
Thousands of Yazidis were subjected to unimaginable violence on account of their identity, and until today, many remain in displacement camps or are still missing. These heinous acts committed by ISIL may amount to war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. Full accountability of their perpetrators remains essential.
Supporting the Iraqi Government’s efforts to ensure accountability and protect human rights remains a priority of the United Nations, in accordance with the collective responsibility to protect communities from the most serious crimes under international law.
Recognizing the pain and courage of the Yazidis, recovery and rehabilitation remain a priority. The Secretary-General therefore commends the recent enactment of the Yazidi Survivors Law by the Government of Iraq and its recognition of the crimes committed by ISIL against the Yazidis and other communities. He encourages its swift and full implementation.
On this somber anniversary, the United Nations remains fully committed to supporting all efforts to achieve accountability and justice.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 3 August 2021
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/138509-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-anniversary-2014-isil-attacks-yazidis




Date: 03 August 2021
Title: USA Contributes USD 53.3 Million to UNHCR Operations, Supporting the Internally Displaced and Refugees in Iraq
Content: 03 August 2021
3 August 2021: UNHCR welcomes the generous contribution of USD 53.3 million by the Government of the United States of America (USA) towards UNHCR’s protection and assistance programmes to support vulnerable displaced persons (IDPs) and Syrian refugees in Iraq.
This contribution brings the total USA contribution to UNHCR Iraq in 2021 to USD 88 million. Thus far, the UNHCR operation in Iraq is 35% funded.
There are over 247,000 Syrian refugees and 1.2 million IDPs currently living in Iraq. For these vulnerable families living through protracted displacement under dire living conditions, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic downturn has been remarkably severe.
This timely donation will enable UNHCR to support the refugees and IDPs with life-saving services. The services include, among others, protection interventions covering legal protection and registration services, child protection, the prevention of gender-based violence, and community-based protection, in addition to camp management, education support, and the rehabilitation of infrastructure, schools, and health facilities.
“The U.S. Mission in Iraq is proud of its long-standing support of UNHCR in Iraq. Our contributions to UNHCR reinforce our commitment to the Iraqi people for voluntary, sustainable, long-term solutions for those citizens who suffered under ISIS and now seek to return home and rebuild their lives,” said U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Matthew H. Tueller.
“The tough economic situation had significantly impacted the lives of refugee and IDP families. However, the continuous and reliable support from the USA helps us continue providing life-saving assistance, which can be a lifeline for these families”, said Nicole Epting, UNHCR Representative a.i.
UNHCR is grateful for the generous and long-standing support of the United States to UNHCR globally. This support means that UNHCR can continue to offer protection and pursue durable solutions for internally displaced people and refugees in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/138470-usa-contributes-usd-533-million-unhcr-operations-supporting-internally-displaced-and




Date: 02 August 2021
Title: Finland, UNFPA visit youth centres piloted for youth with disabilities inclusion
Content: 02 August 2021
2 August 2021; Mosul, Iraq - The Finnish Ambassador to Iraq, Mr Vesa Häkkinen, and UNFPA Representative to Iraq, Dr Rita Columbia, met today with civil society representatives and young people with disabilities in Mosul.
During the meeting, they spoke on engaging young people, especially the most vulnerable and those living in hard-to-reach areas in Nineveh Governorate, in youth volunteerism and providing them with access to reproductive health and gender-based violence services. They also discussed with young people with disabilities their challenges and needs.
Commenting on the visit, Mr Häkkinen emphasised that Finland’s number one priority in development policy is to strengthen the rights and position of women, girls and the most vulnerable. “In Iraq, our goal is to support the work in Nineveh. Nineveh is one of the areas that suffered the most from the terrorism of the Islamic States in Iraq and the Levant. An example of our intervention is the opening of an honorary consulate in the Governorate in March. For us, Nineveh represents the rebirth of Iraq and we will remain committed to supporting the most in need”.
Speaking to young people who attended the meeting, Dr Columbia said: “Youth are the drivers of the country development. We will continue to advocate for the rights of young people, including adolescents and youth with disabilities. We strongly believe that they should have equal rights and opportunities for personal and professional growth”.
The Finnish Ambassador’s visit comes as UNFPA & Finland team up to strengthen the technical capacity of youth centres to provide student-centred educational services, including life skills and civic engagement education for adolescents with disabilities.
UNFPA plans to scale up its interventions focusing on the needs and rights of the most vulnerable youth to be educated, engaged and empowered as leaders. Young people targetted in this project include young people with disabilities, girls and boys from impoverished areas, refugees and internally displaced young people.
*******
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe, and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/138319-finland-unfpa-visit-youth-centres-piloted-youth-disabilities-inclusion




Date: 02 August 2021
Title: UN signs financing agreement with Japan to support UN electoral assistance to Iraq
Content: 02 August 2021
Baghdad, 2 August 2021 - The United Nations in Iraq welcomes the contribution of 216 million JPY (about 2 million USD) from Japan to a UN-led project to support and assist capacity-building within the Iraqi Independent High Electoral Commission (IHEC).
The Japanese funding will support IHEC as it prepares for the October 2021 Parliamentary election.
"The election is the most fundamental occasion to translate Iraqi people's will and aspirations into national politics. I hope that the assistance from the Government and people of Japan will help strengthen IHEC’s IT capacities and implementation of COVID-19 preventive measures. I believe that our assistance contributes to the Iraqi Government’s effort in ensuring transparency and credibility of the upcoming elections" said SUZUKI Kotaro, Ambassador of Japan to Iraq.
On behalf of UNAMI, UNDP signed an agreement with Japan to manage the financing and administration of the project. The United Nations thanks Japan for its contribution, which strengthens support to the process of holding credible and transparent elections in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/138277-un-signs-financing-agreement-japan-support-un-electoral-assistance-iraq




Date: 02 August 2021
Title: “Breastfeeding acts as a baby’s first vaccine, providing critical protection from diseases and death” - UNICEF
Content: 02 August 2021
On the launch of the 2021 World Breastfeeding Week, UNICEF reiterates the need to protect and promote good breastfeeding practices during the COVID-19 pandemic
Baghdad, 2 August 2021- Today marks the launch of the World Breastfeeding Week (WBW), an awareness-raising campaign to remind everyone that breastfeeding is every baby’s best source of nutrition, bolstering brain development and with lifelong benefits for mother and baby. Breastfeeding is a cornerstone of infant and young child survival, nutrition, growth and development, and of maternal health. The week will promote use of digital materials with information on best practices on breastfeeding and other related content for mothers and families.
Under the theme of WBW 2021, “Protect breastfeeding, a shared responsibility”, UNICEF is calling on governments to protect and promote women’s access to skilled breastfeeding counselling, a critical component of breastfeeding support, and to ensure safe spaces conducive to breastfeeding in homes, communities and workplaces alike.
In Iraq, barely 1 out of every 3 children[1] receive breastfeeding within the first hour of life, a key indicator of support for breastfeeding that is associated with successful establishment of breastfeeding and child survival. The statistics are even worse on the other key indicator on breastfeeding, with only one in four Iraqi children breastfeeding exclusively for the first 6 months of life[2] (based on the 2018 Iraq Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey).
UNICEF recommends exclusive breastfeeding for the first 6 months of life, followed by continued breastfeeding with appropriate complementary foods up to age 2 years and beyond, as a powerful line of defence against all forms of childhood malnutrition and many communicable diseases, and consolidating the mother-child bond.
Breastfeeding provides every child with the best possible start in life. It delivers health, nutritional and emotional benefits to both children and mothers and it is part of a sustainable food system. But while breastfeeding is a natural process, it is not always easy. Mothers need support from their families and all involved stakeholders, both to get started and to sustain breastfeeding especially, during the COVID-19 pandemic with its associated social upheaval and changes in healthcare and work practices.
Vaccine effectiveness is expected to be similar in lactating women as in other adults. UNICEF recommends vaccination in lactating women as in other adults and does not recommend to discontinue breastfeeding because of vaccination.
In addition, UNICEF recommends that mothers with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 should be encouraged to initiate or continue to breastfeed. Mothers should be counselled that the numerous benefits of breastfeeding substantially outweigh the potential risks for transmission to the new-born or young infant, who are very rarely affected by the virus.
“During this terrible pandemic, it is our shared responsibility more than ever, through our commitment, strong action and joint work to ensure that all mothers have access to skilled breastfeeding support and counselling, empowering them to give every baby everywhere the best possible start in life” said Sheema Sen Gupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq.
UNICEF works in Iraq to strengthen breastfeeding-related policies, supporting the government to align national policies and guidelines with international standards. UNICEF is supporting the Ministry of Health on the implementation of the baby-friendly hospitals initiative and considering infant and young children feeding practice as a cornerstone in early childhood development, key to ensure full brain development. Furthermore, UNICEF is advocating to strengthen the application in Iraq of the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes; this Code was endorsed by the Iraqi Parliament in 2015.
UNICEF will continue to support the Government of Iraq, the private sector and civil society to protect breastfeeding and ensure that all babies in Iraq can develop at their maximum potential.
[1] 32%, according to MICS 2018 – available at: https://www.unicef.org/iraq/media/481/file/MICS6.pdf
[1] 26%, according to MICS 2018 – ibid.
#####
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org.
Follow UNICEF on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/138311-%E2%80%9Cbreastfeeding-acts-baby%E2%80%99s-first-vaccine-providing-critical-protection-diseases-and-death%E2%80%9D




Date: 29 July 2021
Title: UN Network on Migration in Iraq Joins Call for Improved Efforts to Combat Trafficking in Persons
Content: 29 July 2021
Baghdad — World Day Against Trafficking in Persons is observed every year on 30 July to “raise awareness of the situation of victims of human trafficking and for the promotion and protection of their rights.” The United Nations Network on Migration in Iraq joins the global call to end the scourge of trafficking in persons (TiP).
This year’s theme — Victims’ Voices Lead the Way — highlights the importance of listening to and learning from survivors of human trafficking. Survivors are key actors in the fight against human trafficking. As such, they play a crucial role in establishing effective measures to prevent this crime, identify and rescue victims and support them on their road to rehabilitation.
Two important reports released this year provide an overview of the global scale of the problem. The latest UNODC Global Trafficking in Persons report underscores the fact that victims are targeted when they are vulnerable or marginalized, while the U.S. Department of State’s 2020 Trafficking in Persons Report notes that the COVID-19 pandemic created conditions “that increased the number of people who experienced vulnerabilities to human trafficking and interrupted existing and planned anti-trafficking interventions”, as governments around the world diverted increasingly stretched resources towards the public health crisis.
As the extent of COVID-19’s impact on the global economy is revealed, rising unemployment rates are likely to lead to an increase in instances of trafficking as vulnerable individuals get targeted for forced labour.
The State Department report classified Iraq as a Tier 2 Country – one that is making significant efforts to comply with the standards of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 — and recommended measures to:
The report also highlighted successes, including the Government of Iraq’s efforts to convict more traffickers and bolster the Ministry of Interior’s anti-trafficking directorate with additional funding and staff; and the Kurdistan Regional Government’s establishment of specialized anti-trafficking police units in each of its governates.
“The UN Network on Migration supports the international community’s overall efforts towards the implementation of the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration (GCM),” said Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary General for Iraq, and Resident Coordinator. “Under the GCM, which is the first inter-governmentally negotiated agreement covering all dimensions of international migration, Objective 10 focuses specifically on prevention and eradication of trafficking in persons. The Network will continue to support and encourage all progress towards this objective in Iraq.”
In recent years the Government of Iraq has made important strides towards improving its migration policy framework, notably through the development of a National Migration Strategy that sets out recommendations to address areas of migration policy and governance that are lacking. Strong policies, victim-centred approaches and institutionalised victim protection measures will be vital in the fight against trafficking in persons.
The Network in Iraq is coordinated by the International Organization for Migration (IOM); and counts the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR); the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO); the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO); United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO); the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA); the International Labour Organization (ILO); the World Food Programme (WFP); the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC); the UN Population Fund (UNFPA); the UN Office for Project Services (UNOPS); the UN International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF); and the UN Development Programme (UNDP) as members. It will meet regularly with representatives from the Government of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/137936-un-network-migration-iraq-joins-call-improved-efforts-combat-trafficking-persons




Date: 29 July 2021
Title: Delta variant sparks current COVID-19 surge in the Eastern Mediterranean Region amid low vaccination coverage
Content: 29 July 2021
Cairo, 29 July 2021 – The circulation of the Delta variant is fuelling the surge in COVID-19 cases and deaths in an increasing number of countries in WHO’s Eastern Mediterranean Region. It is now being reported in 15 out of the 22 countries of the Region.
The Delta variant is becoming the dominant strain of the virus in several of these countries, with infections mostly being reported among people who have yet to be vaccinated. It is more transmissible than the original virus and other detected variants of concern.
The Region has also reported a substantial increase in the number of COVID-19 cases and deaths over the past month, especially in the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Tunisia and Libya. Over 310 000 new cases and 3500 deaths have been reported on average on a weekly basis during the last 4 weeks, which is a 55% and 15% increase in the number of cases and deaths, respectively, compared to the previous month. Admission and hospitalization rates have increased in the last few weeks, and some referral hospitals are reaching full capacity and facing a shortage of intensive care beds and oxygen supplies.
“The rapid spread of the Delta variant across the Eastern Mediterranean Region and all other WHO regions is a major cause for concern. The number of new cases and deaths has increased in recent weeks. Most of the new cases and hospitalized patients are unvaccinated people.  We are now in the fourth wave of COVID-19 across the Region. By applying effective use of all public and social health measures we will make sure that this is the last wave,” said Dr Ahmed Al-Mandhari, WHO Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean.
To date, the Region has documented over 12.3 million COVID-19 cases and nearly 233 088 deaths.  The increasing transmissibility of new variants, increased social mixing, poor enforcement and adherence to public health and social measures, and inequitable vaccine rollout allow COVID-19 to continue spreading, infecting and killing people in the Region and beyond.
COVID-19 vaccines are effective in preventing severe outcomes from the Delta and other variants, but for vaccination to have an impact on the dynamic of the pandemic, we not only need a vaccine that is highly effective against infection but high vaccination coverage. As of the last week in July, only 41 million people, or 5.5%, of the Region’s population, had been fully vaccinated. Forty percent (40%) of the vaccine doses administered in the Region have been administered in high-income countries, which account for only 8% of the Region’s population. Until and unless vaccination coverage is increased equitably for everybody, everywhere, the virus will continue to circulate and mutate to produce new variants.
“The fight against COVID-19 is not yet over. Variants of concern are currently winning the race as vaccines are not being distributed equitably. WHO encourages countries to boost vaccination coverage and address the disinformation and vaccine hesitancy that prevent people from accepting vaccines,’’ Dr Al-Mandhari stressed. “The response to the COVID-19 pandemic is WHO’s largest emergency operation in history and our colleagues are working on every front against the virus. Similarly, we commend frontline health workers across the Region who have been working courageously and effectively over the past 18 months. They deserve our utmost gratitude and support. As a demonstration of solidarity, each of us must continue to do his or her part to control the pandemic – we have all the tools to defeat this virus; we just need to apply them vigilantly and consistently.”
Given the global shortages and grossly inequitable distribution of vaccines, WHO encourages higher income countries to donate doses to low- and lower middle-income countries. WHO has set a target for 10% of the population of all countries to be fully vaccinated by September, 40% by the end of 2021, and 70% by mid-2022, but this target will not be achieved unless high-income countries, many of which have already exceeded these targets, are willing to donate vaccines.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/137907-delta-variant-sparks-current-covid-19-surge-eastern-mediterranean-region-amid-low




Date: 29 July 2021
Title: UN signs financing agreement with France to support UN election monitoring of the 10 October 2021 Iraq Council of Representatives elections
Content: 29 July 2021
Baghdad, 26 July 2021 - The United Nations in Iraq welcomes the contribution of 500,000 Euro from France to a UN-led project to monitor the upcoming 10 October 2021 Iraq Council of Representatives elections. The French funding will support the deployment of UN electoral monitors pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 2576 of 2021.
“The international community has positively answered to the request made by the Government of Iraq to monitor the upcoming legislative elections. France is deeply committed to support free, fair and credible elections in Iraq in response to aspirations, rule of law and reforms expressed by the Iraqi citizens,” said Bruno Aubert, Ambassador of France to Iraq.
On behalf of UNAMI, UNOPS signed an agreement with France to manage the financing and administration of the project. The United Nations thanks France for its contribution, which strengthens support to the process of holding credible and transparent elections in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/137867-un-signs-financing-agreement-france-support-un-election-monitoring-10-october-2021-iraq




Date: 29 July 2021
Title: Norway renews commitment to women and girls with NOK 20 million to UNFPA programmes in Iraq
Content: 29 July 2021
29 July 2021; Baghdad, Iraq - The Government of Norway granted NOK 20 million (US$ 2.35 million) to UNFPA to scale up the prevention and response to gender-based violence (GBV) with a focus on the most vulnerable women and girls across Iraq.
The new funding will contribute to the improvement of GBV services including refurbishment of targeted women safe spaces and community centres, making them friendly for women with disabilities. The project will also support male engagement in GBV interventions and increasing awareness about women's rights in camps and areas of returnees.
UNFPA will continue strengthening the capacity of civil society partners in providing high-quality services to girls and women with disabilities including GBV referrals and people-centred counselling.
Commenting on the contribution, the Chargé d’affaires of the Embassy of Norway in Jordan and Iraq, Ms Rita Furuseth Sandberg said: “UNFPA is an important partner in the work to prevent sexual and gender-based violence, a priority area for Norwegian humanitarian support. Increasing awareness of SGBV and improving assistance for survivors of violence are key objectives to reach the most vulnerable”.
“Norway’s support is pivotal in ensuring no one is left behind. This new commitment not only includes direct interventions for girls and women but also encompasses engagement and dialogue with boys, men and families all together on the importance of ending gender-based violence,” said UNFPA Representative to Iraq, Dr Rita Columbia on the recent funds. ”UNFPA is thankful to Norway for its trust in our mandate and partnership; together we will continue to serve those who need it the most”.
*******
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/137935-norway-renews-commitment-women-and-girls-nok-20-million-unfpa-programmes-iraq




Date: 28 July 2021
Title: The 1951 Refugee Convention: 70 years of life-saving protection
Content: 28 July 2021
Baghdad-Erbil 28 July 2021:Today marks the 70th anniversary of the 1951 Refugee Convention, a key international treaty establishing the rights of people forced to flee. UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, says that recommitting to its spirit and fundamental principles is more urgent today than ever.
“The Convention continues to protect the rights of refugees across the world,” said Filippo Grandi, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.
“Thanks to the Convention, millions of lives have been saved. Seventy years since it was drawn up, it is crucial that the international community defends its principles.”
He expressed alarm at recent attempts by some governments to disregard or circumvent the Convention’s principles, from expulsions and pushbacks of refugees and asylum seekers at land and sea borders, to the proposals to forcibly transfer them to third states for processing without proper protection safeguards.
Speaking 70 years to the day after the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees was presented to states for signing, Grandi said the treaty was a crucial component of international human rights law and remained as relevant now as it was when it was drafted and agreed.
“The language of the Convention is clear as to the rights of refugees and remains applicable in the context of contemporary and unprecedented challenges and emergencies – such as the COVID-19 pandemic,” Grandi said.
Both the 1951 Refugee Convention and the more recent Global Compact on Refugees call for international cooperation to find a range of solutions for refugees.
Grandi stressed the need for the international community to uphold the key principles of refugee protection as laid out in the Convention, including the right of someone fleeing persecution not to be sent back into the path of harm or danger.
The 70th anniversary of the Refugee Convention comes only a few months after UNHCR itself marked seven decades as the world’s mandated organisation for the protection of the forcibly displaced.
Background notes for editors:
To read more about the 1951 Refugee Convention, click here.
To find out more about the Global Compact on Refugees, click here.
For material from UNHCR’s archive on Refugees Media, follow this link (you may need to register to login, which is free).
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/137710-1951-refugee-convention-70-years-life-saving-protection




Date: 26 July 2021
Title: Iraq Launches Human Rights National Action Plan
Content: 26 July 2021
UNAMI welcomes Iraq’s adoption of a five-year Human Rights National Action Plan, launched on 26 July, at an event chaired by the Deputy Minister of Justice and organized with the support of the Office of the President and UNAMI’s Human Rights Office.
The Human Rights National Action Plan, prepared by the Ministry of Justice and endorsed by the Council of Ministers, seeks to harmonise national legislation with international human rights standards, strengthen national policies for the protection and promotion of human rights, and build human rights capacity within government institutions.
“The need for strong and coherent action on human rights is more essential than ever. The Human Rights National Action Plan provides a solid framework for the legislative, policy and procedural reforms which can prevent human rights violations in the future and will make a difference to the lives of all Iraqis”, said Danielle Bell, Chief of UNAMI’s Human Rights Office and Iraq Representative, United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), speaking at the launch event.
The Government’s adoption of the Human Rights National Action Plan reflects Iraq’s continuing engagement with UNAMI, as well as with the broader United Nations human rights system, including UN treaty body mechanisms. UNAMI stands ready to support the government to ensure that the Human Rights National Action Plan is fully realized.
The full text of the speech made at this event by Ms Danielle Bell, is available here
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/137426-iraq-launches-human-rights-national-action-plan




Date: 26 July 2021
Title: 1001 Nights series launched by the Ministry of Education and supported by UNICEF to provide alternative learning solutions reaches over 20,000,000 views on Facebook
Content: 26 July 2021
Supported by UNICEF, the Ministry of Education launched the 1001 nights series on education for TV and online platforms in Iraq.
Baghdad, 26 July 2021 - In Iraq, over 10 million children could not access their education due to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. In response, UNICEF and its partners in Iraq continue its efforts to provide alternative learning platforms and support education initiatives for the most vulnerable children in Iraq.
UNICEF and the Ministry of Education in Iraq have partnered Big Bad Boo Productions, through the Inc.’s 1001 Nights Life Skills and Civic Education Program (the 1001 Nights Program), which uses cartoons, discussions and activities to teach children life skills and build shared values and friendship and provide emotional well-being support throughout Iraq.
In order to ensure children and families are able to access the program at home, Big Bad Boo also launched an online campaign on Facebook, which 93% of the viewers responded they either “like” or “love” the program.
As of June 2021, the total views across all episodes of the 1001 Nights Program on Facebook in its first three months is 20.6 million - 11.8M views in the Arabic version and 8.8M in the Kurdish version.
The program includes at-home, in-school and blended models so that children can also continue their learning during school closure due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This multi-platform (TV, radio, internet and printed media) program is designed to teach children civic values, critical thinking and various life skills.
The partnership will implement the 1001 Nights Program and will reach over 50,000 children (20,000 internally displaced, returnees and Syrian refugee children, as well as 30,000 children in regular schools).
A total of 1,667 teachers and facilitators will be given student guidance materials, which parents can also use to engage with their children for successful distance-based learning.
“1001 Nights is a prime example of how high-quality digital content can bring to life learning and psycho-social development for children facing some of life’s most daunting situations” says Rory Robertshaw, Chief of Education for UNICEF in Iraq.
“Partnerships such as this one are essential in providing much needed support for children in Iraq who have missed out on their learning due to the COVID-19 pandemic” says Sheema Sen Gupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq. “Business as usual is not enough as we respond to this pandemic. Innovation has the power to achieve and elevate our ambitions for education and all that education promises” she explained.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/137390-1001-nights-series-launched-ministry-education-and-supported-unicef-provide-alternative




Date: 26 July 2021
Title: UN signs financing agreement with Germany to support UN election monitoring of the 10 October 2021 Iraq Council of Representatives elections
Content: 26 July 2021
Baghdad, 26 July 2021 - The United Nations in Iraq welcomes the contribution of 1 million Euro from Germany to a UN-led project to monitor the upcoming 10 October 2021 Iraq Council of Representatives elections.  The German funding will support the deployment of UN electoral monitors pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 2576 of 2021.
” International monitoring of the upcoming parliamentary elections has been a request of the government and the people of Iraq. We strongly support the efforts of the Iraqi High Electoral Commission and the Government of Iraq to provide for secure, free and fair elections. International election monitoring can strengthen the credibility of the electoral process and encourage a high turn-out of voters", said Peter Felten, Chargé d’affaires of the German Embassy to Iraq.
On behalf of UNAMI, UNOPS signed an agreement with Germany to manage the financing and administration of the project. The United Nations thanks Germany for its contribution, which strengthens support to the process of holding credible and transparent elections in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/137425-un-signs-financing-agreement-germany-support-un-election-monitoring-10-october-2021-iraq




Date: 25 July 2021
Title: UNICEF receives USD 200,000 from the Government of Canada to support the continuous provision of quality health services for refugees in Iraq
Content: 25 July 2021
UNICEF has received USD 200,000 from the Government of Canada (Canada’s International Development – Global Affairs Canada) to support sustaining the continuous provision of quality health services for refugees in Iraq which have been negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Thanks to this contribution, UNICEF will provide and sustain essential maternal, neonatal and child health services for refugee populations in camps and host communities.
These funds will be used to reach over 5,000 children with routine and supplementary immunization activities, more than 2,000 new-born babies and their mothers with MNH services and over 35,000 individuals -parents of U5 children- will be reached by community health workers through the tent-to-tent awareness sessions in these camps and also procurement of essential MNH supplies.
As part of the COVID-19 pandemic response, these funds will also support the local health authorities to conduct IPC orientation sessions for health personnel as well as  bolster COVID19 vaccination services in these communities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/137377-unicef-receives-usd-200000-government-canada-support-continuous-provision-quality-health




Date: 22 July 2021
Title: Germany, IOM Strengthen Partnership for Evolving Humanitarian Response in Iraq
Content: 22 July 2021
Baghdad 22 July 2021 — During the ISIL conflict, an estimated six million Iraqis were displaced. Thousands of families have returned to their areas of origin since the end of the crisis, but unstable conditions in Iraq have caused a significant shift in the country’s humanitarian situation. As country-wide camp consolidation and closure processes move forward, internally displaced persons (IDPs) are reckoning with the complex experiences of premature return and secondary displacement. Returnees residing in hotspots of severe living conditions and IDPs living in strained camps and informal sites are in urgent need of adapted humanitarian assistance.
As a part of its ongoing support for the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Iraq, the Government of Germany will provide additional multi-year humanitarian funding that will better position IOM to adapt and rapidly implement its intervention strategy to address the evolving needs of the affected populations while remaining flexible to respond to sudden onset crises.
The latest grant from the German Federal Foreign Office (FFO) supplements an ongoing IOM Iraq project launched in March 2020. In addition to enhancing visibility, this multi-year humanitarian funding allows for longer-term planning and programme continuity. This is crucial, as remaining populations facing protracted displacement are in need of sustained assistance until solutions to their displacement are found.
“This funding from the German Federal Foreign Office is not only generous, it is flexible and will extend over the years to come,” said IOM Iraq Chief of Mission Gerard Waite. “This will enhance IOM’s capacity to pursue a holistic and sustained response to displacement that corresponds to the scope of urgent need in Iraq.”
 
The funding will be used to implement a broad range of humanitarian activities, from camp management in formal and informal sites to specialized, community-based protection and mental health and psychosocial support services both in- and out-of-camp. For those living in sub-standard or damaged shelters, funding will provide immediate relief solutions for improved safety, protection and living conditions. Interventions will also provide non-food item assistance and support primary health care centres to ensure accessibility and quality of essential services.
 
“Germany remains committed to the needs of internally displaced persons in Iraq. The broad range of individual IDP situations requires tailor-made solutions. We want to give partner organisations as much flexibility as possible so they can adapt to changing situations on the ground and live up to their ambition to deliver humanitarian assistance in accordance with priority needs,” said Chargé d’affaires Peter Felten of the German Embassy in Iraq. “We are very happy to continue our partnership with IOM in this regard.”
 
Continuing support from the Government of Germany enables IOM Iraq to respond to pressing humanitarian needs while also working to determine root causes of and durable solutions to displacement, thereby facilitating the safe relocation or return and reintegration of IDPs into their communities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/137083-germany-iom-strengthen-partnership-evolving-humanitarian-response-iraq




Date: 22 July 2021
Title: Security Council Press Statement on 19 July Terrorist Attack in Iraq
Content: 22 July 2021
The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the cowardly terrorist attack in Baghdad, Iraq, on Monday, 19 July 2021. The attack, which was claimed by Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL/Da’esh), resulted in at least 30 deaths and at least 50 injured.
The members of the Security Council expressed their deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims and to the Government of Iraq, and they wished a speedy and full recovery to those who were injured.
The members of the Security Council reiterated their support for the independence, sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity, democratic process and prosperity of Iraq.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security.
The members of the Security Council underlined the need to hold perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism accountable and bring them to justice, and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Government of Iraq and all other relevant authorities in this regard.
The members of the Security Council reiterated that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed. They reaffirmed the need for all States to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and other obligations under international law, including international human rights law, international refugee law and international humanitarian law, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed their support for Iraq’s security and the continued fight against terrorism, including against ISIL/Da’esh.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/136946-security-council-press-statement-19-july-terrorist-attack-iraq




Date: 20 July 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Iraq
Content: 20 July 2021
The Secretary-General strongly condemns the horrific bomb attack targeting civilians at a market in Al-Sadr City today.
He extends his heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and to the Government and people of Iraq. He wishes those injured a speedy recovery.
This deadly attack ahead of the Eid al-Adha holiday is a reminder to us all that the scourge of terrorism knows no bounds.
The Secretary-General underlines the need for the perpetrators of this crime to be swiftly brought to justice.

Farhan Haq, Deputy Spokesman for the Secretary-General 
New York, 19 July 2021
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/136734-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-iraq




Date: 20 July 2021
Title: Children are killed and injured in an explosion in a market in Baghdad
Content: 20 July 2021
Statement from Sheema Sen Gupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq
BAGHDAD, 19 July 2021- “UNICEF regrets to report that at least 25 people were killed, including children, and dozens were injured, as a result of an explosion today in Al-Wahailat market in the north-east of Baghdad.
 
“This horrific attack right before Eid Al-Adha is a terrible reminder of the violence Iraqi children continue to face.  
 
“Those children were just preparing for the special days to come with their families. Our heartfelt condolences go to their families and we wish those injured a speedy recovery. 
 
“Children should be protected at all times and to grow in a safe environment free from any form of violence. 
 
“On the eve of Eid Al-Adha and as Iraqis mourn this sad moment, UNICEF calls for all actors in Iraq to work together towards a safer Iraq where children do not have to live in fear and where they enjoy their very basic activities and rights”.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/136739-children-are-killed-and-injured-explosion-market-baghdad




Date: 19 July 2021
Title: UN Iraq Special Representative Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert extends her best wishes to the people of Iraq on Eid-ul-Adha
Content: 19 July 2021
Baghdad, 19 July 2021 – Once again, the Feast of Sacrifice, Eid-ul-Adha, arrives in challenging times, with great sacrifices made in the fight against COVID-19.
This is traditionally a time to give, to show compassion and celebrate with loved ones. This year, we must again find ways to do so while remaining safe and healthy.
As we reflect on the many sacrifices made, let us stand in solidarity with those less fortunate, and reaffirm our determination to work together towards a brighter future for all.
Best wishes of peace and good health,

Adha Mubarak!
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/136678-un-iraq-special-representative-jeanine-hennis-plasschaert-extends-her-best-wishes-people




Date: 18 July 2021
Title: Nearly 40 per cent of young people on the move globally identify education and training as top priorities, according to new UNICEF poll
Content: 18 July 2021
67 per cent of young people in Iraq would like to contribute and share their voices in the community through social media, meeting local authorities and through youth groups, according to U-Report Iraq.

Download the Talent on the Move report here
BAGHDAD, 18 July 2021 – Nearly 40 per cent of migrant and displaced youth identified education and skills training as their top priorities, while 30 per cent named employment opportunities. Approximately 70 per cent of those surveyed also said limited financial resources prevent them from accessing learning opportunities, while almost 40 per cent reported a lack of available jobs as their biggest barrier to earning an income. 

These findings were revealed through a U-Report poll of more than 26,000 people, including almost 9,000 young people (aged 14-24), across 119 countries, including Iraq. The poll, conducted between 6 May and 1 June 2021, asked respondents about their aspirations to learn and earn, and the unique barriers they face – as a girl or as a refugee, trying to access the labour market with or without legal status. Insights from the poll along with stories from migrant and displaced youth themselves are included in the newly released ‘Talent on the Move’ report from UNICEF.
The poll also found that the majority of youth on the move want to learn professional skills (e.g. law, administration, business, education), followed by languages and tech skills. Almost 90 per cent globally reported feeling that they can contribute their opinions, skills and talents in their community. In Iraq, 67 per cent of young people reported that they would like to contribute and share their voices in their communities through social media, meeting local authorities and through youth groups.
Iraq contributed with the highest participation and engagement worldwide in the poll. UNICEF’s work with young people in Iraq has given girls and boys in displaced and host communities an important channel to voice their opinions and air their voices, both through U-Report and other youth-led initiatives, such as the recently launched Young People’s Advisory Group. Young Iraqis, especially the most vulnerable who remain socially excluded and served by UNICEF’s partners across Iraq, continue to call for equitable skilling and decent work opportunities. So far in 2021, UNICEF has reached nearly 4,000 young people with critical life skills, entrepreneurship and digital skills opportunities.

“Children and young people on the move are telling the world that they have big dreams and aspirations for their lives,” said UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore. “Yet many are prevented from securing opportunities for learning or employment because of their migration status or lack of financial resources and support systems. It is time for the international community to help them achieve their dreams and ambitions, and unlock new openings for them to learn, earn and thrive.”
As part of the global report, UNICEF urges governments and policy makers to adopt specific recommendations which include: 
Recognize young people on the move as positive assets and rights-holders.
There are currently 281 million international migrants. One in five is a young person and 36 million are children. Worldwide, more than 4 out of 10 forcibly displaced persons are younger than 18, with 33 million children living in forced displacement either within their own country or abroad. Each day of 2020, an additional 26,000 children were displaced by climate-induced disasters alone.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/136605-nearly-40-cent-young-people-move-globally-identify-education-and-training-top-priorities




Date: 15 July 2021
Title: Under the Auspices of the Minister of Migration and Displacement and in partnership with the Council of Ministers Secretariat and Salah al-Din Governorate, UNDP Iraq hosts interfaith conference for religious leaders on peaceful coexistence
Content: 15 July 2021
Baghdad, 15 July 2021 – The United Nations Development Programme in Iraq (UNDP) in partnership with the Iraqi Ministry of Migration and Displaced (MOMD), the Council of Ministers Secretariat, the Governorate of Salah al-Din, and supported by the Government of Denmark, concluded an interfaith religious conference today for 70 religious leaders from Salah al-Din Governorate.
The two-day conference took place in Baghdad as the second in a series of conferences targeting religious leaders from Anbar, Ninewa and Salah al-Din governorates. Based on the recommendations of these conferences, UNDP will work closely with the religious leaders on building their capacities and supporting their efforts on advancing the return and reintegration process for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in partnership with local and national authorities.
Key recommendations of the 14-15 July conference that discussed the return of IDPs and strengthening peaceful co-existence were highlighted: to form a network for all religious leaders in Salah al-Din to coordinate efforts on social cohesion, joint steps to amicably resolve issues around endowments properties and acquisitions, and to work with the United Nations to support the return of IDPs, including livelihood opportunities.
The conference is part of UNDP Iraq’s programme for religious leaders aiming to enhance their role in community coexistence and social cohesion, including establishment of a co-existence network to foster dialogue. Work undertaken with interfaith religious leaders contributes to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal of Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions (Goal 16).
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Ms. Zena Ali-Ahmad emphasizes, “We are thankful to the Government of Denmark for supporting engagement with religious leaders in Iraq through our Social Cohesion Programme. UNDP Iraq’s work with religious leaders and engagement with local and national government ensures a unified approach to peacebuilding and social cohesion among a range of religious sects.”
The Deputy Minister of Migration and Displaced, Mr. Karim Hussein Ali Al-Nuri states, “It is important that all Iraqis work toward spreading the culture of tolerance, and we call on religious leaders, in their important role, to be active in emphasizing social reintegration and acceptance within Iraqi society.”
The Deputy Secretary General of Council of Ministers Secretariat, Mr. Jasim Al-Habousi indicates, “This conference is aligned with the Government of Iraq’s priority to ensure return and reintegration of all Internally Displaced Persons to their areas of origin in Iraq, and it is our hope to find solutions to encourage this movement for these populations to live with dignity in alignment with their civic rights.”
In 2020, UNDP Iraq launched a dedicated five-year Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/136241-under-auspices-minister-migration-and-displacement-and-partnership-council-ministers




Date: 15 July 2021
Title: Statement of Sheema Sen Gupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq, in relation to the Global Joint Statement
Content: 15 July 2021
“Following the spirit of the Joint Statement, all children in Iraq, especially the most vulnerable and marginalized and those at risk of not coming back to school, should be provided with support to continue learning, including those in pre-primary, primary and secondary schools. The current situation in Iraq is an opportunity to support gradual safe return to schools and a blended learning approach, with more flexible systems and, increasingly, using digital tools. UNICEF will continue to support the Ministry of Education in the development of this blended approach which will allow every child to acquire skills, knowledge and be prepared for adulthood”
JOINT STATEMENT
PARIS/NEW YORK, 15 July 2021 – “It’s been 18 months since the COVID-19 outbreak started and education for millions of children is still disrupted. As of today, primary and secondary schools are shuttered in 19 countries, affecting over 156 million students.
“This should not go on. Schools should be the last to close and the first to reopen.
“In their efforts to limit transmission, governments have too often shut down schools and kept them closed for prolonged periods, even when the epidemiological situation didn’t warrant it. These actions were frequently taken as a first recourse rather than a last measure.
“The losses that children and young people will incur from not being in school may never be recouped. From learning loss, mental distress, exposure to violence and abuse, to missed school-based meals and vaccinations or reduced development of social skills, the consequences for children will be felt in their academic achievement and societal engagement as well as physical and mental health. The most affected are often children in low-resource settings who do not have access to remote learning tools, and the youngest children who are at key developmental stages.
“The losses for parents and caretakers are equally heavy. Keeping children at home is forcing parents around the world to leave their jobs, especially in countries with no or limited family leave policies.
“That’s why reopening schools for in-person learning cannot wait.
“It cannot wait for cases to go to zero. There is clear evidence that primary and secondary schools are not among the main drivers of transmission. Meanwhile, the risk of COVID-19 transmission in schools is manageable with appropriate mitigation strategies in most settings. The decision to open or close schools should be based on risk analysis and the epidemiological considerations in the communities where they are situated.
“Reopening schools cannot wait for all teachers and students to be vaccinated. With the global vaccine shortages plaguing low and middle-income countries, vaccinating frontline workers and those most at risk of severe illness and death will remain a priority. All schools should provide in-person learning as soon as possible, without barriers to access, including not mandating vaccination prior to school entry.
“Ahead of the Global Education Meeting on July 13, we urge decisionmakers and governments to prioritize the safe reopening of schools to avoid a generational catastrophe.
“Closing schools mortgages our future for unclear benefits to our present. We must prioritize better. We can reopen schools safely, and we must.”
#####
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children visit www.unicef.org.
Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook
About UNESCO
UNESCO is the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. It seeks to build peace through international cooperation in education, scientific collaboration, cultural dialogue and the free flow of information. More information at www.unesco.org
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/136242-statement-sheema-sen-gupta-unicef-representative-iraq-relation-global-joint-statement




Date: 14 July 2021
Title: COVID-19 situation critical in WHO’s Eastern Mediterranean Region
Content: 14 July 2021
13 July 2021 – After a decline in COVID-19 cases and deaths across WHO’s Eastern Mediterranean Region for 8 consecutive weeks, several countries are seeing a significant increase in new cases and deaths.
Significant increases in COVID-19 cases have been reported from Libya, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, and Tunisia. Lebanon and Morocco have also started to see a rise in cases, with an exponential increase expected in these 2 countries in the coming weeks.
“We are reaching a critical point for COVID-19 in our Region,” said Dr Ahmed Al-Mandhari, WHO Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean. “Just one week after reaching the grim milestone of 11 million cases, we are now seeing an upward spike in a number of countries. This is being aggravated by new variants circulating – most concerningly the Delta variant – low vaccine availability and uptake, and lack of adherence to public health and social measures.”
With the Eid al-Adha feast taking place during the week starting 20 July, traditionally marked by religious and social gatherings, WHO is concerned that the current upsurge may continue to peak in the coming weeks, with catastrophic consequences.
“Countries are reintroducing or strengthening social and travel restrictions, but at this stage, increasing complacency by communities means that the virus is winning in the Region.
“As variants continue to spread, we need everyone to get vaccinated as soon as they are offered the vaccine, and to continue wearing masks, and practising physical distancing. Although significant progress has been made, there remains a shocking imbalance in the global distribution of vaccines, and this leaves millions of people exposed to deadly variants of concern. It is not too late to turn the course of this pandemic, but it requires much more exerted global, regional and national efforts,” said Dr Al-Mandhari.
The total number of cases across the Region now exceeds 11.4 million, and the number of deaths is more than 223 000, with 19 out of 22 countries now reporting at least one new variant circulating.
Note to the editors
Tunisia reports the highest COVID-19 mortality rate of the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region and the African continent. The situation in the country continues to be extremely concerning. Between 8000 and 9500 cases are currently being reported every day, with wide circulation of the Delta variant. In less than one week, the number of deaths almost doubled, from 119 deaths on 5 July to 189 deaths on 8 July.
Vaccine coverage is increasing, especially among people older than 60, but coverage is still low, with 12.7% of the population receiving at least one dose of vaccine, and 6% fully vaccinated.
Public health measures have been strengthened, including suspension of social events and closures of businesses. Full lockdown is being implemented in some governorates, but the impact of these measures on the circulation of the virus and daily incidence needs to be strictly monitored.
Oxygen beds are at 90% occupancy and intensive care unit beds are at 95% occupancy. In some governorates, hospital beds are over capacity. Hospitals are overwhelmed with limited numbers of available beds, and risk of shortage of oxygen supply. They also suffer from limited human resources, with medical staff very dedicated, but exhausted.
Support to Tunisia has been remarkable, with countries in the Region and beyond stepping up to deliver field hospitals, medical equipment and oxygen cylinders, and additional vaccines, highlighting the spirit of solidarity and action within the Regional 2023 Vision of Health for All by All.
WHO, like other international partners, is committed to supporting Tunisia in facing this crisis, including by procuring additional oxygen concentrators and generators to hospitals, as well as medical supplies, tests, reagents and PPE, and supporting provision of additional vaccines.
Through the Emergency Medical Teams Initiative, WHO is also reaching out to its network partners for the possible deployment of international emergency medical teams to provide surge support in the areas of intensive and critical care, infection control and infectious diseases.
In the Islamic Republic of Iran, the number of cases has been increasing since mid-June. The daily average almost doubled during the past 4 weeks, increasing from 8539 on week of 6 June to 16 393 on week of 4 July. After 8 weeks of continuous decline, the number of deaths also increased during the past 2 weeks.
Officials have blamed the surge on mass gatherings and travel during Nowruz, the country’s biggest holiday which took place in late March, saying that compliance with health measures like social distancing and mask-wearing noticeably plummeted over the holiday.
In Iraq, cases have been increasing since the end of May with the daily average doubling during the past 5 weeks, increasing from 4010 cases on week of 30 May to 8076 cases on week of 4 July. The number of deaths has also increased during the past 3 weeks. Less than one percent of the population received one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. Efforts by Iraq to contain the pandemic include banning government employees, students, and teachers from working unless they bring a vaccination document or a negative PCR test report on a weekly basis, and a countrywide partial curfew is being implemented.
In Libya, a dramatic upsurge in cases starting on week of 4 July. The daily average of cases increased by 425%, from 246 cases on week of 20 June to 1293 cases on week of 4 July. Alfa and Beta variants of concern have been officially confirmed in the country, and the Delta variant is suspected to be circulating, given its presence in neighbouring countries. As a result, borders with Tunisia have been closed for one week. Vaccination coverage is still at a low level, with only 5.6% of the population partially vaccinated.
Cases in Morocco have been steadily increasing since mid-May, with the daily average increasing from 170 cases on week of 9 May to 1066 cases on week of 4 July. Alpha and Delta variants of concern have been detected, causing Morocco’s government to announce an extension of the state of emergency until 10 August.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/136017-covid-19-situation-critical-who%E2%80%99s-eastern-mediterranean-region




Date: 14 July 2021
Title: First COVID-19 vaccination unit opens in Domiz-1 refugee camp in Duhok
Content: 14 July 2021
Erbil-Kurdistan Region of Iraq, 14 July 2021 - The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the Directorate General of Health (DOH) inaugurated yesterday the first COVID-19 vaccination unit in Domiz-1 Refugee Camp in Duhok Governorate.
The establishment of this vaccination unit was achieved with support from the Department of Health and the Department of Migration and Crisis Response (DMCR) in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI), complementing efforts undertaken by partners. The newly established unit is part of the public health centre at the Camp that is established and already providing vital health care services to camp residents, which currently hosts some 31,000 Syrian refugees, and those living in urban areas nearby.
The opening ceremony of the vaccination unit, the first of its kind in a refugee camp in Iraq, was attended by the General Director of Health in Duhok, UNHCR Duhok, in addition to other government officials and partners including Peace Winds of Japan, the Swedish Development Aid Organisation (SWEDO) and DMCR, as well as Barzani Charity Foundation (BCF). Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, UNHCR has coordinated with and supported the health sector throughout Iraq to ensure that refugees and IDPs are included in national health response plans and vaccination rollouts.
“This year’s theme of the World Refugee Day was inclusion of refugees and other communities affected by displacement in health, education, and sports. As the pandemic has shown us, nobody is safe until everyone is safe. As such, collective efforts, and partnerships in support to the health sector are critical to reach more beneficiaries among refugee, displaced, returnee, and host communities”, said Gwenolenn Le Couster, Head of UNHCR Sub-Office Duhok.
UNHCR has been disseminating information and awareness on the vaccine to the refugee community, and the importance of vaccination. The camp hosts the largest refugee population and is also accessible for those in some urban areas. Refugees can register for the vaccine online through the Ministry of Health portal. On-site registration is also available for refugees who approach the centre and the vaccination centre is public and not limited to camp residents.
UNHCR welcomes the efforts by the authorities in the KRI and the Federal Government of Iraq for including refugees and other displaced communities in the national vaccination plan on par with the local population and for providing them access to PCR testing and COVID-19 treatment. End

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/136020-first-covid-19-vaccination-unit-opens-domiz-1-refugee-camp-duhok




Date: 13 July 2021
Title: Statement attributable to Sheema Sen Gupta, UNICEF Representative in Iraq
Content: 13 July 2021
Baghdad - 13 July 2021 - UNICEF expresses its sincere condolences and extends its sympathy to the victims and families affected by the fire that broke out in the Imam Hussein Teaching Hospital ward for treatment of patients with COVID-19 in Nasiriyah on Monday night.
We acknowledge with sadness the dramatic number of deaths and people wounded.
UNICEF conveys its respect to the families and friends of the victims and wishes a speedy recovery to those injured.
UNICEF will continue supporting the health sector in Iraq and calls for all parties to ensure safety in health facilities, especially during a time in which the COVID-19 pandemic is already causing pain and concern to many families.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/135839-statement-attributable-sheema-sen-gupta-unicef-representative-iraq




Date: 12 July 2021
Title: The Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator visits Salah al Din
Content: 12 July 2021
Salah al Din, Iraq – 11 July 2021: The Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, traveled to Salah al Din to meet with the Deputy Governor of Salah al Din and the Mayor of Samarra.
She met with the area-based coordination (ABC) working group in Salah al Din, which provides the nexus between humanitarian and development work. Efforts to support IDPs, returnees and host communities were discussed with all stakeholders. She further visited the Tikrit University and a World Food Programme project site. During her visit, she reaffirmed the UN’s long-term commitment to support the Government of Iraq in its efforts to provide durable solutions for Iraq’s IDPs. The mission included Head of United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), WFP Iraq Deputy Representative, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), and Development Support Office (DSO).
During her visit, the Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator met with the Mayor of Samarra at the Samarra Archaeological City, which is a UNESCO World Heritage site. She discussed the challenges the mayor is facing with Samarra being an area of particular concern with regards to economic growth.
While attending the ABC meeting Ms. Vojáčková-Sollorano stated “The area-based coordination mechanism is an important piece of the puzzle to turn humanitarian needs into development goals in the Governorate of Salah al Din. It is essential to focus on social cohesion when making returns and reintegration of IDPs sustainable, but also when ensuring local integration”
The Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator also met with the President of Tikrit University. They discussed the critical role the University can play in reaching the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by providing higher education to future generations of Iraq, and through initiating and facilitating cross-sectoral dialogue and action, embedding the SDGs within all areas of teaching, research, operations and leadership, and providing practical guidance to inspire further action.
The trip was concluded with a visit to Aziz Balad in Balad district, where WFP is supporting vulnerable returnees and the host community with livelihood projects and by rehabilitating agricultural lands. WFP is working with the local Directorate of Agriculture, Water Resources, Farmer’s Association and Mercy Hands to help revitalize local agricultural production and supporting smallholder farmers. Ms. Vojáčková-Sollorano also met with beneficiaries at the site.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/135659-resident-coordinator-and-humanitarian-coordinator-visits-salah-al-din




Date: 12 July 2021
Title: Employment, environmental sustainability and public sector digitization: innovative projects launched in Karbala Governorate
Content: 12 July 2021
Baghdad, 12 July 2021 – Three innovative projects focusing on environmental sustainability, jobs for unemployed youth and digitization of the public sector have today been launched by the United Nations Development Programme in Iraq in partnership with the Governorate of Karbala.
The project launches reaffirm UNDP Iraq’s commitment to supporting communities in Karbala, and included:
Joining the Governor of Karbala and Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq for the launches were the Federal Minister for Youth and Sport, Federal Minister for Communications as well as the UN Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary General (DSRSG), Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq.
The Governor of Karbala, Nassif Al-Khattabi stated: “The local government in Karbala has had a long-standing partnership with UNDP. The partnership has supported the government's response to COVID-19, establishing the Karbala data center and the smart Karbala mobile application. We have also worked together to improve access to jobs for young people within the private sector and tackling environmental challenges through sustainable solutions such as producing organic fertilizer from waste.”
“We stand committed to working with UNDP to complete these projects and launch newer initiatives towards achieving the SDGs.” Al-Khattabi added.
DSRSG in Iraq Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano who approved the funds for the composting project through the UN Multi-Partner Trust Fund said: “We are proud to support this pilot composting project – a first in Iraq – which will use environmentally friendly methods and generate green jobs for communities in Karbala. Pending it’s success, I look forward to seeing it rolled out across the country.”
Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad added: “Today’s project launches reaffirm UNDP’s long-standing partnership with the Karbala Governorate in key areas affecting the community – particularly youth unemployment and efficient delivery of public services which many people have been vocal about in recent years. We look forward to seeing these projects materialise and subsequently meet the critical needs of communities in Karbala.”

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/135590-employment-environmental-sustainability-and-public-sector-digitization-innovative-projects




Date: 12 July 2021
Title: Launch in Iraq of the new STRIVE action STRIVE Juvenile: Preventing and Responding to Violence against Children and Juvenile by Terrorist and Violent Extremist Groups
Content: 12 July 2021
12 July 2021 Baghdad, Iraq – The Government of Iraq, together with the European Union (EU) and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), launched the STRIVE Juvenile project in Iraq with the aim to develop and implement comprehensive national responses to prevent and counter terrorism and violent extremism affecting children and juveniles.
In the past years, the international community has been increasingly confronted with the phenomenon of the association of children and juveniles with terrorist and violent extremist groups. Iraq is indubitably one of the countries most affected by terrorism and so-called violent extremism in recent years. The Islamic State (ISIL) recruited thousands of children and juveniles in Iraq, using them as front-line fighters, as suicide bombers, to manufacture and plant explosive devices, conduct patrols, as guards and spies, and for a variety of support roles. Hundreds of foreign children and juveniles were also associated with ISIL, either traveling to Iraq alone or brought by family members.
Since 2019, the Government of Iraq has been implementing stabilization, reconciliation, and accountability programs to strengthen locals’ ability to counter terrorist radicalization and recruitment. Nevertheless, many ISIL-alleged affiliated/associated children and juveniles remained in Iraqi custody along with Iraqi ISIL fighters. Therefore, the Government of Iraq has expressed the urgent need to tackle the situation of children and young people who are currently in detention for alleged affiliation/association with terrorist groups and has acknowledged that the promotion of their rehabilitation and reintegration, as well as the provision of fair and equal justice, are important to prevent future terrorist radicalization and violence.
Through the new STRIVE Juvenile project funded by the EU, the Government of Iraq, represented today by the Honorable Mr. Ziad Al-Tamimi, Undersecretary of the Ministry of Justice and Judge Laith Jabber Hamza on behalf of the High Judicial Council, will closely work  with UNODC, the executing agency, to strengthen national capacities to combat terrorist and violent extremism recruitment and exploitation of children and juveniles, while also increasing the resilience of vulnerable children and juveniles against terrorist groups agendas.
Within the framework of UNODC’s strong mandate and expertise in violence against children, justice for children and counter-terrorism, the Office has been addressing since 2015 specific objectives to increase the protection of children from terrorism and violent extremism and to ensure that children and juveniles are better served and protected by justice systems.
Building on national ownership, the STRIVE Juvenile project in Iraq will support the country in developing coherent strategies that better serve and protect children and juveniles by enhancing safe and resilient communities and seeking alternatives to prosecution, by prioritizing rehabilitative measures with the aim of reintegrating children and juveniles into society. The European Union acknowledging that children and juveniles can be extremely vulnerable to terrorist tactics, emphasized today the EU’s commitment to fighting children recruitment and exploitation by terrorist and extremist groups which requires coherent and comprehensive measures. The EU Ambassador to Iraq, H.E. Mr. Martin Huth, stated: “The joint EU-UNODC initiative, STRIVE Juvenile, supports efforts in Iraq to protect children from threats associated with terrorism and violent extremism.”
Today’s launch of the STRIVE Juvenile project in Iraq, is a sign of the strong partnership between the European Union, UNODC and the Government of Iraq, demonstrating their joint efforts to disrupt terrorist groups’ recruitment of children and juveniles and promote the rehabilitation and reintegration of children who have been associated with these groups, in full respect of human rights, gender equality and international law. Mr. Ali El-Bereir, Head of UNODC Office in Iraq, pledged “STRIVE Juvenile supports the Iraqi Government in its efforts to prevent child recruitment by terrorist groups, and to promote rehabilitation, reintegration and justice responses adapted to children and juveniles, bridging the gap between security interests and child rights."
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/135614-launch-iraq-new-strive-action-strive-juvenile-preventing-and-responding-violence-against




Date: 11 July 2021
Title: UNFPA celebrates World Population Day: Family Planning is the answer for sustainable development
Content: 11 July 2021
Iraq, Baghdad, 11 July 2021 – Today, UNFPA jointly with the Ministry of Health and Environment, commemorated World Population Day, focusing on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on fertility.
A panel of distinguished experts on economic development, population and demography, as well as reproductive health discussed the importance of reproductive rights and family planning for gender equality and sustainable development of Iraq.
Speaking at the event, Dr Riyadh Abdul Amir Al-Halfi, the Director-General of Public Health at the Ministry of Health emphasised the need to implement the national family planning strategy, not only through the increase of supply of contraceptives but also through increasing awareness about the importance of family planning for the economic stability of families and healthy future of children and mothers.
For her part, Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative to Iraq said: “Individuals and couples must have universal access to sexual and reproductive health services, including family planning services regardless of humanitarian or economic challenges faced by society. Family planning leads to healthier mothers and children and indicates that women’s rights in making informed decisions about the size of their family are ensured in society”.
“Women, especially young girls, must be empowered socially, economically and politically and must be encouraged to exercise their rights,” she added.
Dr Alexander Hamilton, the Economic and Statistics Adviser s Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (UK) at the British embassy in Iraq, stated that supporting family planning has major returns on investment: “A one-dollar investment in family planning bring US$ 120 return in health, social and economic benefits. For example, in Iraq, reducing the number of unintended pregnancies by 0.5% in five years would equal to 7% per capita increase in the education budget”.
The expert panellists elaborated on why family planning is a national priority and why it should be a key element in population policies to harness the demographic dividend. They shared examples of family planning positive impact on economic and social development from developed and middle-income countries.
Following the panel discussion, representatives from the Ministry of Planning, civil society, young people, and people with disabilities shared their thoughts on the topic. Key messages that came out from this exchange focused on the importance of changing attitudes towards fertility and the number of children and educating communities about healthy birth spacing to keep mothers alive and babies healthy, and the importance of the provision of quality and inclusive family planning services to all to enable young people, women and men to exercise their reproductive rights.
----
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/135561-unfpa-celebrates-world-population-day-family-planning-answer-sustainable-development




Date: 10 July 2021
Title: Enhancing agricultural development will facilitate Iraq’s accession to WTO
Content: 10 July 2021
Baghdad – A workshop on “WTO Accession and Agriculture” was organised from 4th to 7th July 2021 in Baghdad.
Agricultural development consistent with WTO standards needs enhancement in Iraq for facilitating the negotiations leading to the accession process.
The workshop provided a comprehensive overview of the agriculture sector as perceived within the WTO and the Agreement on Agriculture and its pillars.
Representatives from various government institutions from Baghdad and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq including officials from the Ministry of Trade, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Industry participated in the workshop.
The workshop was organized by the International Trade Centre (ITC) a joint agency of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and United Nations (UN), through  “Strengthening the Agriculture and Agri-food Value Chain and Improving trade policy in Iraq“ (SAAVI) project.
Funded by the European Union (EU), the project is contributing to inclusive economic growth and job creation, particularly for youth, by improving Iraq’s agriculture competitiveness and supporting trade development. It is also particularly focuses on providing support to Iraq in the process of acceding to the WTO.
Mr. Adel Almasoodi, Director General, Foreign Economic Relations Department, Ministry of Trade opened the workshop and reaffirmed Iraq’s commitment to the accession to the WTO and assured the support of his team to the SAAVI project.
H.E. Martin Huth, Ambassador of the European Union to Iraq and Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, the United Nations Resident Coordinator to Iraq were also present.
Speaking on the occasion, H.E. Martin Huth, Ambassador of the European Union to Iraq said,
“The EU has a strong interest in Iraq acceding to the World Trade Organisation in order to bring Iraq into the illustrious WTO group of 164 states. WTO accession, and the economic reforms that it entails, represents a clear opportunity for Iraq to implement the goals of the White Paper.  Being a full member of the WTO, will allow Iraq to improve its collaboration on trade and investment with all WTO members and ultimately support the creation of decent work for all Iraqis”
Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, the United Nations Resident Coordinator to Iraq said,
“The drive for economic reform, including political commitments in resuming the WTO accession process with a clear roadmap, is a clear signal of a better future awaiting Iraq.”
The workshop included sessions from experts from WTO, Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) and the International Trade Centre. In addition the trade policy technical team from the International Trade Centre, Geneva, including  Mr. Jean-Sébastien, Senior Officer for Policy and Business and Ms. Devika Rajeev, Associate Programme Officer, were present in Baghdad to facilitate the workshop.
This workshop is the first in a line of capacity building sessions that will be organised through the SAAVI project to support Iraq to accede to the WTO.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/135468-enhancing-agricultural-development-will-facilitate-iraq%E2%80%99s-accession-wto




Date: 08 July 2021
Title: Regional Director’s statement on COVID-19 in WHO’s Eastern Mediterranean Region
Content: 08 July 2021
7 July 2021 – In the Eastern Mediterranean Region today, cases of COVID-19 are on the rise after 2 months of steady decline, and we are once again seeing countries struggling to contain infection and protect their populations, while at the same time keeping their borders open and their economies active.
As we continue into the summer months, we are concerned about another spike in cases due to variants of concern and increased international travel, combined with low protection of people due to limited vaccination uptake and inadequate adherence to prevention measures.
Despite all efforts, we are seeing a higher weekly average of new cases and deaths across the Region compared to the same time last year. This is due to several factors.
Firstly, the Delta variant has been detected in at least 98 countries around the world, including 13 countries in our Region, and it is spreading quickly regardless of vaccination coverage. It is fueling current surges in cases and deaths. The Delta variant seems to be spreading faster than the original strain.
The rapid spread of the Delta variant is contributing to an increase in disease transmission both globally and in our Region. Countries should prepare by strengthening surveillance and detection, social measures, and ensuring health systems are able to cope with increasing numbers of moderate and severe cases.
We are working to obtain a better understanding of COVID-19 variants, but we cannot do this without enough in-depth information about how the virus circulates. We encourage all countries to enhance sequencing capacity and data sharing. The more we know about the virus and the impact of its different strains, the better we can adapt our response to defeat it. WHO, of course, is willing to play its role in supporting data collection, analysis, sharing and management.
Secondly, vaccines are still not being distributed fairly and equitably, giving COVID-19 an opportunity to continue spreading and mutating. We are working hard to make sure that all countries in our Region and beyond have access to enough vaccines so that they can protect their most vulnerable populations.
More than 500 million doses are still needed to vaccinate at least 40% of the population of every country in the Eastern Mediterranean Region by the end of the year. We are far, far behind from reaching this goal. For this reason, all countries need to monitor the vaccine rollout and share their experiences, so that we can take action to address challenges related to vaccine supply and vaccine hesitancy.
The situation is even more critical in a number of countries facing humanitarian emergencies, where people are already living under extremely challenges conditions, and yet need to be protected as equally as anyone else.
We need higher income countries to finance the procurement of vaccines through the COVAX Facility, and to share vaccines with lower income countries.
And finally, countries in the Region are not strictly and consistently applying the public health and social measures, with poor adherence among the public.
How can we, as individuals, protect ourselves? Vaccinated people need to continue adhering to mask use, physical distancing, and other measures, and those who have not yet been vaccinated should do so as soon as they can, to add an extra layer of protection against COVID-19 and its variants, including Delta.
More than 18 months into the pandemic, we also need to start thinking about the medium- and long-term actions to be taken to make sure we never find ourselves this vulnerable and exposed again: national capacities need to be strengthened across disease surveillance, laboratory science, clinical management, community engagement, among other areas. Importantly, we need to advance genome sequencing and oxygen production at national level and to build regional capacities for vaccine production. WHO is currently giving high priority to these issues.
All of this requires working together to benefit from our experiences and maximizing the use of our collective resources. Our Region is rich with human resources, knowledge, and research capacities.
Despite the lessons learnt throughout the pandemic – that COVID-19 can only be beaten through cooperation, solidarity, and coordination among countries and communities alike – we are now seeing a very disturbing turn of events, with the politicization of the vaccine rollouts becoming even more evident.
It is time to put politics aside for the good of humanity. We will not succeed until everyone is protected – regardless of age, gender, race, geographical location, or political affiliation. We are in this together, and we can only come out of this together.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/135106-regional-director%E2%80%99s-statement-covid-19-who%E2%80%99s-eastern-mediterranean-region




Date: 08 July 2021
Title: New UNICEF Representative in Iraq presents credentials
Content: 08 July 2021
Baghdad, 06 July 2021 - New UNICEF Representative to Iraq, Ms. Sheema Sen Gupta, presented her credentials to H.E. Dr. Ali Shamran, Head of the Protocol Department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Baghdad.
“The presentation of my credentials today to the Government of Iraq will further strengthen our existing partnership with the Government to support our programmes in Iraq and to help create the conditions in which every child in Iraq can develop and thrive”, stated Sheema Sen Gupta.
HE Dr. Shamran also confirmed the Ministry’s readiness to facilitate and support the mission of the new UNICEF Representative in Iraq.
UNICEF promotes the rights and wellbeing of every child in everything we do. Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/135132-new-unicef-representative-iraq-presents-credentials




Date: 08 July 2021
Title: Iraq makes strides to develop poultry and tomato sector strategies
Content: 08 July 2021
Baghdad/Nineveh/Basra: Sector-focused consultations to support sustainable and inclusive development in the poultry and tomato value chains in Iraq were held in Basra and Mosul on 4 July 2021.
These consultations will be instrumental in elaborating national strategies for the two sectors. The poultry and tomato sector strategies will serve as a compass for the Government, private sector and development partners to improve the competitiveness of farmers and small and medium enterprises in these two sectors, contributing to the national pathway towards sustainable food systems, inclusive growth and job creation for Iraq citizens. Aligned with national planning frameworks, the strategies will specify clear priorities eventually producing a concrete five-year plan of action (2022-2026) that will not only define roles for implementing institutions but also provide an implementation management framework.
Public sector and private sector representatives including farmers, input suppliers, processors, wholesalers, traders and retailers and agri-support business services participated in the consultation sessions. They discussed the current situation and the future opportunities in developing the tomato and poultry value chains. The sessions provided a platform for engaging into realistic priority setting based on understanding  market trends and requirements, and for discussing how inter-institutional cooperation can be improved to provide the necessary enabling environment for sustainable growth of the sector.
The International Trade Centre is facilitating the elaboration of the poultry and tomato sector strategies within the framework of the European Union-funded project, “Strengthening the agriculture and agri-food value chain and improving trade policy in Iraq” (SAAVI) under the leadership of the Government of Iraq.
Mr. Eric Buchot, who leads the International Trade Centre project in Iraq said, “As we work with our partners to strengthen agribusinesses in Iraq, we are grateful for the opportunity to hear from representatives of the government and private sector including farmers. The most effective way for the private sector to make its contributions is as part of such integrated and comprehensive strategic approach that involves government, food chain partners and development agencies.”
The EU Ambassador to Iraq, Mr. Martin Huth said “The European Union is committed to work with the Government of Iraq to ensure better job opportunities for all Iraqis. Consultations with stakeholders are an important component of project design and the views of government, the private sector, farmer associations, civil society and business support organizations are essential. Our efforts, especially project activities, must fit the local context well and support the needs of stakeholders.”
Earlier, in Baghdad, the first sector core team meeting was also held with representatives from Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Trade, along with private sector stakeholders including farmers associations and chambers of commerce. The sector core team will provide leadership and guidance during the sector strategies design process.
These consultations build on approximately 18 local group consultations that were held with farmers and small businesses including women-owned businesses in Ninewah, KRI, Basrah, Thi Qar.
More than 500 competitiveness surveys focusing on agribusinesses and farmers have been completed throughout the country. Over 3000 interviews were conducted at the national level with consumers as well as with representatives from various stakeholder groups, such as traders, wholesalers and retailers, to help better understand market demand, identify areas of improvement and market opportunities.
Another round of national level consultation for tomato and poultry sector strategies will be conducted in early September.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/135131-iraq-makes-strides-develop-poultry-and-tomato-sector-strategies




Date: 08 July 2021
Title: UNICEF Iraq launches the Young People’s Advisory Group (YPAG) to enhance dialogue between UNICEF and young people in Iraq
Content: 08 July 2021
Baghdad, 08 July 2021 - UNICEF announced its renewed commitment to support inclusive meaningful systematic participation of young people in Iraq, through the creation of the Young People’s Advisory Group (YPAG), with the goal of empowering young people to be civically engaged in their communities.
The YPAG is an advisory body formed as an institutional mechanism for consultation and dialogue between UNICEF and young people in the country, as well as to participate in the activities of UN agencies affecting young people. The group will represent the Iraqi young people in local, national, and regional forums; advise the organization on how to engage young people in humanitarian context and development; and strengthen youth participation and advocacy in youth-led initiatives.
The YPAG consists of twenty-four members, with young people representing all governorates in Iraq. Members of the YPAG were selected through an inclusive application process with young people, in which especially those from vulnerable and underrepresented backgrounds were encouraged to apply. “We are excited to join forces with the newly formed YPAG to set a generation of young people on the course to empowerment and leadership in their communities and beyond. This is particularly critical now to mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and ensure that young people’s voices are heard, and they continue to have access to the right tools and support to thrive”, Sheema Sen Gupta, UNICEF Iraq Representative noted.
The YPAG combines mentorship and skills building to equip young people with the key resources they need to identify problems and challenges in their communities and find solutions to these problems. The members of the YPAG build skills and resilience, while UNICEF and their communities benefit from their contributions and solutions.
“Launched in April 2021 and supported by UNICEF, the YPAG provides an institutional mechanism for consultation between young people and the UN Country Team on a variety of issues. It is very exciting for us as an organization to engage young people as partners. In their short tenure, the YPAG has already supported UNICEF and partners by contributing to our ongoing work.” said Mads Sorensen, Chief, Adolescent Development and Participation.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/135130-unicef-iraq-launches-young-people%E2%80%99s-advisory-group-ypag-enhance-dialogue-between-unicef-and




Date: 07 July 2021
Title: A sustainable recovery from COVID-19: final report lists key recommendations to move beyond the pandemic
Content: 07 July 2021
Baghdad, 7 July 2021 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq has today concluded its socio-economic impact assessment series by issuing a final report that aggregates its key findings and more than 50 recommendations made to the Government of Iraq and development partners to support Iraq’s recovery from COVID-19.

Sustainable Recovery from COVID-19 in Iraq: Key findings is the final paper in a series of eight released by UNDP on the impact of COVID-19 in Iraq.
Throughout the series, UNDP provides a multidimensional analysis on the impact of the pandemic and related shocks, current and past, on Iraq and its citizens. It recognizes that returning to a sustainable and inclusive development trajectory depends on addressing the root causes of fragility and provides a range of policy recommendations for all stakeholders in the recovery from the pandemic and economic crisis, anticipating that this would catalyse a holistic approach to realizing the SDGs.
“The pandemic hit Iraq following years of conflict, and on top of political turmoil and civil unrest paired with a significant drop in oil revenue. Since then, COVID-19 has both revealed and exacerbated deep economic and social vulnerabilities while hitting the poorest and most vulnerable groups – like youth, women and IDPs – the hardest,” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“In Iraq, compounding shocks consistently affect all dimensions of fragility and gradually eat away at the
foundations of the social contract. Through the series, we wanted to demonstrate the urgency of investing in inclusive recovery scenarios if we are to make progress towards Agenda 2030 for everyone. A multidimensional approach addressing key economic, societal, political, security and environmental vulnerabilities is imperative for recovery. It will be impossible to attain the Sustainable Development Goals without tackling these first.
“We hope this policy series is a useful resource to rethink development solutions to build forward better to a fragile context such as Iraq and will inform research, policies, strategies and plans in support of the Iraqi people and their recovery from COVID-19,” adds Ms. Ali Ahmad.
UNDP Iraq is grateful to ILO, IOM, UNEP and UN-Habitat for their partnership and important contributions to various reports under the Socio-economic Impact Assessment series. Click here to view a digital summary of the Socioeconomic Impact Assessment series.
Papers in UNDP’s Socioeconomic Impact Assessment series include:
Impact of COVID-19 and the Oil Crisis on Iraq’s Fragility
Impact of COVID-19 on the Iraqi Economy
Impact of COVID-19 on Social Cohesion in Iraq
Impact of COVID-19 on Social Protection in Iraq
Impact of COVID-19 on Environmental Sustainability in Iraq
Impact of COVID-19 on Iraq’s Vulnerable Populations
Findings of the Assessment of COVID-19’s Socioeconomic Impact on Iraq’s Vulnerable Populations
Sustainable Recovery from COVID-19 in Iraq: Key findings
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/135105-sustainable-recovery-covid-19-final-report-lists-key-recommendations-move-beyond-pandemic




Date: 07 July 2021
Title: IOM, KOICA Partner to Support Local Economic Recovery in Baghdad, Ninewa and Kirkuk
Content: 07 July 2021
7 July 2021 Baghdad — Decades of conflict in Iraq coupled with the COVID-19 outbreak have severely affected human capital, intensified poverty, and undermined individuals’ ability to find decent and sustainable jobs. The consequences of conflicts are especially severe for vulnerable returnees, internally displaced persons (IDPs) and host communities who continue to need access to livelihoods opportunities and recovery initiatives.
The Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) will extend its support to the International Organization for Migration (IOM) through a USD 5 million grant; with this funding from KOICA, IOM Iraq will contribute to local economic recovery and community resilience in Iraq through increasing access to sustainable and decent work. The overall objective of the project is to support job creation, entrepreneurship and the growth of small to medium sized enterprises (SMEs), as well as to encourage productive employment, including for women.
“During the ISIL crisis, millions were displaced and local economies were destroyed; the loss of livelihood opportunities and the lack of vital services in areas of origin are clear obstacles to return for those who remain in displacement across Iraq,” said IOM Iraq Chief of Mission Gerard Waite. “This partnership with KOICA will reinforce IOM’s efforts to address protracted displacement and create the conditions for sustainable returns.”
“Since the COVID-19 pandemic struck the globe, youth unemployment has become more serious than before. Especially in Iraq, the ISIL crisis and COVID-19 have had a catastrophic impact on society,” said KOICA Chief Director Mr. LEE Dong Hyun. “We hope this project will contribute to recovery from the socioeconomic damage done to Iraq’s vulnerable populations.”
The project’s interventions will target the most vulnerable sections of the population in Baghdad, Ninewa and Kirkuk, with a focus on durable solutions for IDPs, specifically access to livelihoods and employment. The grant will also go towards helping businesses in conflict-affected areas recover from the damage suffered, re-start their operations, and offer much needed jobs to the local community.
To facilitate the creation of sustainable job opportunities, IOM Iraq will offer vocational training; farmer training; on-the-job training; and support for the establishment or expansion of micro-businesses through business support packages. Sustainable job opportunities will be created by supporting SMEs with grants through the Enterprise Development Fund (EDF). In addition, IOM Iraq will utilize a referral system to match individuals who are identified and trained in the individual livelihood assistance (ILA) component of the project with employment opportunities created via the businesses supported under the EDF.
IOM’s approach includes a strong element of community participation, especially in initial engagements with the community, to determine livelihood needs and priorities. The project will also ensure that women are supported to meaningfully engage in mainstream economic recovery and development in Iraq.
Under the project, IOM will work closely with the Government of Iraq as well as with local authorities, community, religious and tribal leaders, the private sector, and other relevant stakeholders to mitigate challenges related to limited economic opportunities and limited access to essential services in the targeted areas.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/135108-iom-koica-partner-support-local-economic-recovery-baghdad-ninewa-and-kirkuk




Date: 07 July 2021
Title: With support from the EU, UNICEF, UNESCO and the Ministry of Education implement EMIS training for schools on effective delivery of quality education in Iraq
Content: 07 July 2021
Training for schools on effective delivery of quality education in Iraq
Baghdad, 6 July 2021-UNICEF, in partnership with UNESCO, Ministry of Education (MoE), and Directorates of Education (DoE), have conducted the first Education Management Information System (EMIS) training workshop in Rasafa district, Baghdad.
This is part of a European Union (EU) funded project that mainly trains education personnel on the new EMIS, which collects and disseminates data to support all levels of the education system to support decision-making and policy analysis and formulation.
The project is implemented in 8 Governorates, where UNICEF will continue to support EMIS training of data entry users at the school level, development of governorate education sector plans, build the capacity of teachers. The EMIS developed under this project will improve the delivery of quality education and allow educators to make informed decisions using real time data.
This new initiative is vital for Iraq, where the quality of learning remains low. Previous conflict in the country has resulted in very high dropout rates and schools that operate two or three shifts per day, with as many as 60 students per class. The COVID-19 pandemic has also affected education in Iraq with school closures and limited options for alternative learning modalities.
“Decades of conflict and under-investment in Iraq have destroyed what used to be the best education system in the region and severely curtailed Iraqi children’s access to quality learning. With this support from the EU, we are able to support the education system in the country and ensure that every child receives quality education and a chance at a brighter future” remarked UNICEF’s Deputy Representative to Iraq, Dr Paula Bulancea.
The project is one of UNICEF’s multipronged approaches to improve learning outcomes and support equitable and inclusive education for all girls and boys in Iraq by 2023.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/135104-support-eu-unicef-unesco-and-ministry-education-implement-emis-training-schools-effective




Date: 06 July 2021
Title: Iraq: Facing Drug Trafficking with Geo-strategy and Strategic Analysis Training
Content: 06 July 2021
Cairo, Egypt - 06 July 2021 :According to the UNODC World Drug Report, 35.6 million people suffer from drug use disorders globally. Effective, balanced solutions to drug demand and supply must be rooted in evidence and shared responsibility.
This is more important than ever, as illicit drug challenges become increasingly complex, and the COVID-19 crisis and economic downturn threaten to worsen their impacts, on the poor, marginalized, and vulnerable most of all. The report notes that illicit drug trafficking in and through Iraq specifically has been increasing since 2003.
Consequently, UNODC, in cooperation and coordination with the Attaché de Police at the French Embassy in Iraq, is supporting the Iraqi Anti-Narcotics Directorate at the Ministry of Interior (MoI) in its response to counter cross-border illicit drug trafficking, through the project “Strengthening the capacities of Iraqi law enforcement and criminal investigation services.” This project is funded by the United States Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (US INL).
Sparking the efforts under the project, the first training on “Drug Trafficking Geo-Strategy and Strategic Analysis” took place in Cairo, Egypt for Heads of 10 Iraqi Anti-Narcotics Units in Baghdad and Erbil. The five-day in-depth activity focused on the strategic analysis and operational methodology for the identification of the main actors, modus operandi, and drug smuggling routes of international organized criminal groups involved in drug trafficking. The topic was the foundation for the development of an appropriate national database.
The training was delivered by experts from the Anti-Narcotics Bureau ‘Office Anti-Stupéfiants’ (OFAST) of the French Ministry of Interior, experts from US Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) based in Cyprus, the Attaché de Police based at the French Embassy in Iraq, and UNODC Experts. The international and varied expertise allowed for effectively clarifying the transnational dimension of countering drug trafficking, the necessity and tools for strategic international police and judicial cooperation at all levels (multilateral, bilateral, and national), and all types (institutional, technical, and operational).
The Iraqi delegation successfully acquired knowledge on the intersections between drug source countries and regions, trafficking methods, and money laundering. Moreover, the delegation was introduced to the different types of drug seizures, the concealing techniques, the drug trafficking routes, and the drug prices.
Overall, three main angles to facing drug trafficking were presented to the delegation
1) Understanding the criminal market and its evolution;
2) identifying all influential elements in working against drug trafficking, while targeting trafficking points and locations of traffickers;
3) as well as establishing a threat status to define national response strategies for the interception of criminal groups’ activities and seize their illicit assets.
The multiple interactions throughout the training between the Iraqi delegation and the different experts from France, USA, and UNODC confirmed that this event became a multilateral cooperation platform where attendees and experts exchanged high-level technical/operational expertise and experience as well as built trust for future cooperation.
Upon completion of the training, the Iraqi delegation declared that “It was a very interesting training and would like to share OFAST’s experience with H.E the Minister of Interior and probably make it a case study for all the incoming and reform-minded officers in the Anti Narcotic Directorate. Also, addressing drug trafficking in Iraq is becoming a new priority, we need to develop our existing capacities at the strategic and operational level by applying what we learned during this workshop.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/134841-iraq-facing-drug-trafficking-geo-strategy-and-strategic-analysis-training




Date: 06 July 2021
Title: Over 29,500 internally displaced persons in camps in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq receive civil identification documents
Content: 06 July 2021
Baghdad/Erbil, 06 July 2021: After a temporary halt of operations due to COVID-19 restrictions, the issuance of civil documentation for internally displaced persons (IDPs) living in Kurdistan Region of Iraq resumed earlier this year.
The federal Ministry of Interior (MOI) has successfully processed 29,593 applications for documents that include Nationality Certificates and Civil Identity Cards during the five missions to 12 IDP camps in Duhok. Documentation is a key need among IDPs which enables them to access assistance and services, whether in their area of displacement or when they return.
“Missing civil documents prevented my son from finding a proper job for years. He applied to the committee, and a few days later he received his documents and now he is very hopeful for the future”, Amina said.
The civil documentation project was carried out in cooperation with UNHCR legal Partner Harikar and Barzani Charity Foundation in charge of camp management.
“ID documents are important for all people. Lack of documentation for IDPs and returnees severely impacts their ability to access education, healthcare, and employment, in addition to freedom of movement.” said Philippa Candler, UNHCR Representative in Iraq. “Obtaining an ID card is their first step into building a better future,” she added.
UNHCR appreciates the role of MOI in processing the documentation requests effectively, and of the Kurdistan Regional Government for hosting the IDPs.
Additional resources:
Read more: UNHCR Iraq Factsheet | June 2021.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/134843-over-29500-internally-displaced-persons-camps-kurdistan-region-iraq-receive-civil




Date: 06 July 2021
Title: New program to help counteract serious financial crimes in Iraq
Content: 06 July 2021
Baghdad, 6 July 2021. – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq, in partnership with the United States Government and the Supreme Judicial Council of Iraq has launched a multi-year training initiative today, to strengthen and improve complex organized and financial crime investigations in Iraq.
The training program, called Organized and Financial Crime Investigations: An Integrated Approach, focuses on the skills, expertise, techniques, and procedures necessary for Iraqi judges and other professionals to effectively investigate complex financial crime cases. It also makes recommendations to improve policies and procedures for the investigation and prosecution of complex organised and financial crimes and establishes a roadmap for implementing those policies.
As part of the initiative, UNDP will work with judges, prosecutors and financial crime investigators to conduct workshops for various Iraqi government institutions on organized and financial crimes, and to oversee the development of a handbook on leading and conducting complex financial crime investigations.
Chief Justice of the Supreme Judicial Council of Iraq, the Honorable Judge Faiq Zaidan, emphasised that the goal of the program is “to strengthen the procedures and tactics of investigative judges on approaching and leading complex financial crime investigations, in close collaboration with the colleagues from the investigative agencies” of the Commission of Integrity, the Board of Supreme Audit, the Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism Office of the Central Bank, and the specialised investigation directorates of the Ministry of the Interior.
U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Matthew Tueller stated that Iraq requires “efficient tools and policies to help investigate and prosecute financial crimes, because the motivation behind the majority of these criminal offenses is personal enrichment that hurts the Iraqi state and people.” The United States Department of State was pleased to finance UNDP’s assessment on financial crime investigation capabilities in Iraq; this assessment helped lay the groundwork for the training and was instrumental in drafting guidelines financial investigation techniques for judges and investigators.
Ms Zena Ali-Ahmad, UNDP Resident Representative stated “This program and accompanying paper acknowledges how complex, organised financial crimes such as corruption, money laundering, and illicit accumulation of wealth are contributing to an atmosphere of privilege and injustice. These crimes are a major impediment to Iraq's economic recovery, stability, and development. UNDP stands ready to work alongside the Supreme Judicial Council of Iraq and other institutions to help put an end to these crimes and is extremely grateful to the U.S. Department of State for funding this important initiative.”
Funds from this project have been generously provided by the United States Government. The project is part of UNDP Iraq’s Security Sector Reform/Rule of Law Programme.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/134754-new-program-help-counteract-serious-financial-crimes-iraq




Date: 05 July 2021
Title: High-Level Ministerial and UN Delegations Inaugurate FAO’s Activities in Nineveh Governorate
Content: 05 July 2021
Nineveh, Bashiqa, Hamdaniya and Bartella districts
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) held the inaugural ceremony of dairy processing, marketing, and micro-enterprise centres established under the project Support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh Governorate funded by the European Union (EU) and implemented in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture.
The official opening ceremony was attended by the, the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Mithaq Abdul-Hussein, the Deputy Minister of Migration and Displacement, Mr. Karim Hussein Ali Al-Nuri, the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General/Resident Coordinator/Humanitarian Coordinator, Ms. Irena Vojackova-Sollorano, the Representative of the Minister of Water Resources, Mrs. Samira Alshabib, the Representative of the Minister of Planning, Mr. Bassem Dari Mahmoud, the Representative of the Nineveh Governor, Mr. Ali Al-Qaba, the Director of Agriculture directorate in Nineveh, Dr. Rabie Youssef Elias; the Director of the Veterinary Services in Nineveh, Dr. Uday Al-Abadi, the President of the agricultural Local Union/Cooperative Associations and the FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan as well as 600 farmers and livestock producers among the project beneficiaries.
During the Ceremony, the government officials participated to the distribution of the first batch of dairy equipment aiming to improve the quality of milk production of nearly 4,000 families, including women’s groups, and distribution of sugar molasses to support 5,000 livestock producers in various districts and sub-districts of Nineveh Governorate.
Senior officials also attended the inauguration of two rehabilitated village small/medium-scale milk collection centers and visited a farm in Hamdaniya district, where the cultivation of green fodder crops such as sorghum and Alfalfa were introduced for the first time.
FAO Representative, Dr. Salah El-Hajj Hassan, in his opening remarks, underlined that Nineveh governorate is a key strategic region for food production in Iraq, and among the governorates with the highest rates of returnees, following the liberation of Mosul. He said “Contributing to rebuilding Iraq’s agriculture sector, as it is a major provider of employment and income in rural and peri-urban areas is an essential element for the development of the country.
FAO investment in agricultural livelihood and value chains development in Nineveh will help food insecure households to produce much-needed food, generate jobs, diversify income and reduce their dependency on humanitarian assistance. The introduction of new agricultural practices, including in-country production of green fodder, will not only bring potential economic benefits but also will have high nutritive value” and concluded by thanking all authorities and the EU for the generous contribution.
The Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Mithaq Abdul-Hussein in his speech, appreciated the coordination between FAO and Nineveh Agriculture Directorate, including the capacity building of extension staff who are supporting the implementation and successfully transferring their technical knowledge to the beneficiaries.
The Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident Coordinator Humanitarian Coordinator, Ms. Irena Vojackova-Sollorano expressed appreciation for the event and the role of women in agriculture and in the project as major driver of change.
The Deputy Minister of Migration and Displacement, Mr. Karim Hussein Ali Al-Nouri, reiterated the importance of FAO project as a real supporter for the stability of displaced families, through their return to the areas of origin; while the Director of Nineveh Agriculture Dr. Rabie Youssef Elias emphasized the adoption of modern technologies for greater sustainability.
FAO Senior Livestock Officer, Dr. Chedly Kayouli, concluded by thanking the project team, in particular the Extension Officers of the Nineveh Agriculture Directorate, who were able to transfer the technical knowledge to the beneficiaries for a sustainable livestock production systems.
Finally and on the sidelines of the ceremony, the President of the Local Union of Agricultural and Cooperative Societies - Nineveh Branch, Sheikh Abdul Hamid Fathi Al-Rashidi, thanked all actors working to improve the agricultural sector in Iraq.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/134643-high-level-ministerial-and-un-delegations-inaugurate-fao%E2%80%99s-activities-nineveh-governorate




Date: 05 July 2021
Title: Conference held by ILO and Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs highlights key labour market issues in Iraq
Content: 05 July 2021
The conference, held under the patronage of the Prime Minister, brought together partners from across the spectrum, including representatives from the government, employers' and workers' organizations, key policymakers, UN agencies and development partners, as well as academics.
Baghdad, Iraq (ILO News) Partners from across the spectrum have come together to discuss some of the key issues shaping Iraq’s labour market, with discussions focusing on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the world of work and finding solutions to address the country’s decent work needs.
Held Under the Patronage of His Excellency Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi, a conference entitled Iraq’s Labour Market: Realities and Aspiration , was organised by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the International Labour Organization
It was attended by His Excellency Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Dr. Adel Al-Rikabi, UN Deputy Special Representative and Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, the Ambassador of the European Union to Iraq, His Excellency Mr. Martin Huth and ILO Country Coordinator for Iraq Dr. Maha Kattaa.
The conference also brought together experts and representatives from the government, employers' and workers' organizations of Iraq, key policymakers, UN agencies and development partners, as well as academics.
“One of the most important factors which contributes to peace is employment and the provision of decent work opportunities for Iraqis. The on-going unemployment situation is a serious challenge, which leads to an increase in violence and instability, hinders the creation of an environment that attracts investment, and increases social problems,” said Dr. Al-Rikabi.
“We hope that, through you and through the efforts of the concerned parties, to work to restore the labour market of Iraq to its position, both nationally and internationally, and work to restore balance in the forces of the labour market and its various components, and stimulate investment to create more decent job opportunities."
The conference centred around four key sessions: labour market challenges and opportunities; the role of the private sector and investment in creating decent employment; active labour market policies and programmes; and the development of an integrated and comprehensive national employment policy.
“The UN in Iraq is actively contributing to both creation of decent jobs through its large-scale projects and to employment through the Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework. The Government of Iraq and its private sector are the key stakeholders for the long-term vision of this joint Cooperation Framework, which transforms humanitarian needs into long-term development goals.  I am confident that today’s workshop will bring us one step closer to achieving these goals,” said Ms. Vojáčková-Sollorano.
The one-day event was an opportunity to discuss, exchange views and lessons learnt on key labour market issues guided by evidence-based research and programmes. It examined solutions to address the immediate needs of the country’s labour force, and ways to coordinate efforts that could better support the country’s most vulnerable workers. It also looked at medium and longer-term measures needed to better protect workers, such as those in informal employment and enterprises, such as small-scale businesses, so they can better cope especially during economic shocks, such as that brought about by the pandemic.
The Ambassador of the European Union to Iraq, Mr. Huth, stressed that “increasing employment and ensuring decent work for all are essential aspects of sustainable development. As European Union, we sustain that quality employment and decent work conditions help reduce inequalities and poverty among all Iraqis, and empower Iraqi people, especially women, young people and the most vulnerable such as displaced persons and people with disabilities.”
“The Covid-19 pandemic compounded by the economic crisis, has had a significant impact on the socio-economic well-being of all Iraqis, thereby highlighting the need for a comprehensive approach to the labour market in Iraq. As European Union, we are thus pleased to support together with our UN-partners the laudable efforts of the Iraqi Government for active labour market policies, labour governance and labour protection as laid out in the White Paper and specifically, the Decent Work Country Programme. Today’s first Iraqi Labour Conference has reassured me of the strong resolve of the Iraqi Government to take decisive action and I am looking forward to continuing our EU engagement with the Iraqi authorities,” Mr. Huth added.
The conference comes under the framework of the Decent Work Country Programme  (DWCP) in Iraq, which is being implemented by the ILO in partnership with the Government and social partners for the period 2019-2023. The programme focuses on three key priorities: supporting private sector development and job creation; strengthening social protection and addressing child labour; and strengthening labour governance and social dialogue.
“We need to agree on the most pressing issues facing the labour market in Iraq today and on ways to address them in a more effective and coordinated manner through our policies and programmes. From job creation to supporting workers through skills development, and promoting entrepreneurship through the establishment of small businesses, to facilitating access to public employment services and developing the private sector so it can create more and better jobs,” said Dr. Kattaa. “These programmes should be guided by a national employment strategy and a clear action plan implemented in close coordination with the government and our social partners.”
The conference concluded with an outline of key recommendations which were put forward through the various research and discussions which took place during the day. The recommendations will be presented and endorsed as a first step towards concrete action to enhance decent wok in Iraq’s labour market.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/134532-conference-held-ilo-and-ministry-labour-and-social-affairs-highlights-key-labour-market




Date: 30 June 2021
Title: IOM Supports Government of Iraq with Capacity Building for Returnee Reintegration in Ninewa
Content: 30 June 2021
Erbil 30 June 2021 — With technical assistance from the International Organization for Migration (IOM), and support from the Government of Australia’s Department of Home Affairs, the Government of Iraq has developed a referral system operated by the Ministry of Migration and Displacement (MoMD); it links returnees in Ninewa Governorate to local reintegration service providers based on need.
A key step forward for Iraq’s implementation of the Global Compact for Migration and growing national capacity in migration governance, the free and confidential referral system can be accessed by anyone living in Ninewa who has returned from abroad or was displaced due to conflict. It will support sustainable reintegration through a whole of government and whole of society approach, linking people to local services including those that resolve housing problems; provide vocational training; and support to enroll children in schools.
 
Services are to be provided by state programs, local Civil Society Organizations, national and international NGOs and international organizations. The reach and scale of the system will grow as more service providers join in; there are also plans to scale up to other governorates.
 
With IOM’s technical support, MoMD has developed a basic electronic case management system, Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), and trained more than 150 field staff who are responsible for operating the system.
 
During a series of open days in late June at MoMD offices in Mosul, Hamdaniyah, Sinjar and Telafar, returnees and the wider community were invited to learn about available services, meet local officials in branch offices and ask questions.
 
“Improving returnees’ access to services as they rebuild their lives is crucial for the reintegration process,” said IOM Iraq Chief of Mission Gerard Waite. “Through this referral mechanism, MoMD officials will be able to identify relevant services provided by civil society, governmental entities and local or international organisations that can support.”
 
IOM Iraq’s technical input to referral mechanism in Ninewa is a part of a larger effort to help government institutions build their capacity, improve conditions for sustainable return and reintegration, and strengthen national migration governance in Iraq. The MOMD office in Mosul provides an operational base for a range of new institutional initiatives that will increase Government capacity. The office was built by IOM Iraq in 2020, with support from the Government of Australia.
 
The referral system represents a significant development in cooperation between MoMD and the government’s Ministry of Interior which oversees the Community Policing network — including Referral Guidance Centres; Women's Legal Counselling Offices; and Housing, Land and Property Assistance Centres. Coordinating the service and resources available under both ministries  means comprehensive support can be provided in a manner that respects each ministry’s areas of expertise.
 
For more information, please contact IOM Iraq’s Public Information Unit, Email: iraqpublicinfo@iom.int
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/134019-iom-supports-government-iraq-capacity-building-returnee-reintegration-ninewa




Date: 29 June 2021
Title: In the presence of the Governor of Nineveh, and the Mayor of Mosul, UNESCO celebrates the inauguration of four new training facilities at the Vocational Training Center in Mosul
Content: 29 June 2021
Monday, June 28, 2021, within the “Revival Mosul and Basra Old Cities” project, funded by the European Union, and in the presence of the Governor of Nineveh, Mr. Najm al-Jubouri, the Mayor of Mosul,  Zouhair Al Araji, Officer-in-Charge and Head of Culture at the UNESCO Office in Iraq, Mr. Junaid Sorosh-Wali, Consul General of the Republic of Korea, Mr. Choi Kwang Jin, and Director of the Department of Labor and Vocational Training, Ms. Mithaq Talib, UNESCO celebrates the inauguration of new training facilities at the Vocational Training Center in Mosul.
In his opening remarks, Mr. Najm al-Jubouri, Governor of Nineveh, welcomed the participants at the Department of Labour and Vocational Training in Mosul, and said “On this occasion, we thank UNESCO and the European Union, which funded these training workshops, and we hope in the future that new areas will be opened in addition to the field of construction, which is now being focused on in order to involve young people in the reconstruction process, as well as targeting the neediest youth who will engage in the fields of work needed by the labour market”.
Ms. Barbara Egger, Head of Cooperation for the European Union in Iraq confirmed that “the European Union will continue support Mosul stabilization and reconstruction process. However, we believe that the recovery process should be led and implemented by the Mosulawi themselves. Mosul youth should be empowered to lead the economic and social reforms in the governorate. The EU supports several initiatives in Mosul for this specific purpose. I am pleased to see the expansion of this vocational centre. It is particularly important to provide specialized training in construction techniques to young Mouslawis to rebuild their city. I am equally delighted to see young Mouslawis enrolled in the training courses and I am looking forward to these Mouslawis graduate and join the job market.”
In his welcoming remarks Mr. Sorosh-Wali said, “I am delighted to see more than 200, including 25 female, TVET trainees attending the UNESCO-run construction courses here to gain the skills that will enable them to access the labour market and find jobs. I am also happy to see another 115 trainees (8 female) attending courses at Nineveh Vocational School at the same time, also supported by UNESCO.  As UNESCO, we believe that today, more than ever, young men and women are change makers, building a new reality for themselves and their communities. Young people around the world are driving social change and innovation, respecting their human rights and fundamental freedoms, and looking for new opportunities to learn and work together for a better future.”
He added, “I am pleased to be here at the Vocational Training Center in Mosul today and to see the progress of the UNESCO project especially by increasing the center’s capacity to host 100 additional new trainees by rebuilding 4 training rooms. I am also interested in hearing the opinions of the trainees who will share their success stories.” And plans for them after they graduate!"
Through the project, UNESCO is working to provide vocational training in construction to 1,550 vulnerable youth trainees in Mosul and Basra, providing real opportunities for the social and economic development of the community. Increasing access to and achievement of TVET is fundamental to ensuring more equitable access to better living conditions, increasingly specialized and better-paid jobs, a more sustainable environment as well as more sustainable economic and social development.
In an interview with Mr. Bilal Al-Hamaydah, the Project Officer, he said, “TVET is one of UNESCO’s priorities in Iraq. As the lead agency for the reform of the TVET sector in Iraq, UNESCO continues to support the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, the Ministry of Education and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor in Iraq. Implementation of Sustainable Development Goals 4, 8 and 11, which emphasize an increase in the number of young people with relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship”.
He emphasized that the project, generously funded by the European Union, aims to provide income generation opportunities for young job-seekers and returnees in the Old City of Mosul through the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the historic urban landscape. The added value of the project is the combination of intensive employment schemes, restoration, rehabilitation and reconstruction of demolished and damaged homes and buildings in the old town. So far, 244 VTC graduates have joined the worksites of 44 heritage houses under reconstruction in the Old City of Mosul.
Ms. Mithaq Taleb, Director of the Department of Labor and Vocational Training in Nineveh Governorate, said, “I really hope that this project will enhance local ownership and self-reliance and provide direct alternatives to young people, making them less vulnerable to extremism. The employment created through reconstruction and urban renewal processes will benefit the local economy, while promoting resilience, cultural identity and social cohesion. "The targeted activities of the project, with a focus on engaging young men and women, will contribute positively to changing people's lives through medium and long-term job opportunities with a time period that exceeds the immediate time frame of the proposed project," she added.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/133769-presence-governor-nineveh-and-mayor-mosul-unesco-celebrates-inauguration-four-new-training




Date: 28 June 2021
Title: The Iraqi Ministry of Education and WFP plan to broaden access to school feeding for 3.6 million children
Content: 28 June 2021
BAGHDAD 28 June 2021 – The Ministry of Education of Iraq (MoE) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) have agreed to broaden access to school feeding for 3.6 million school children across the country. So far this year, 264,000 of the most vulnerable children have been provided with school meals and support in 11 districts. Partners plan to expand the programme over the next four years to provide better opportunities to all children in need, to stay in school and support their learning and futures.
“The Ministry of Education is a longstanding champion of school nutrition, which is a pillar to help children stay in learning. It is proven that the school feeding programme is vital for achieving success in education, strengthening children’s focus and mental capacity. Last year, the schools where we ran the National School Feeding Programme had improved rates of 99 percent retention, and 97 percent attendance of students,” said Iraqi Director of Sport and Deputy Education Minister spokesperson Mohammed Al Aboudi.
At a two-day, consultative workshop last week, the partners, including the Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Trade and Ministry of Health, worked on a strategy to expand the school feeding programme based on its success in improving learning opportunities.
The school meal includes a bottle of water, freshly baked bread, cheese and a piece of fruit. This balanced meal provides the energy that school children need to focus during classes. In addition, all the food is purchased from local suppliers, bakeries, fruit markets and small businesses. This strengthens the capacity of small business owners, facilitates the creation of hundreds of livelihood opportunities in areas where the programme is implemented, and invigorates national and local food systems.
In the new 2021-2022 academic year, the partners’ aim is to support 450,000 children, then 900,000 children the following year, subsequently 1.8 million, and 3.6 million by 2024-2025. The plan is also to hand over the joint programme to the government.
The high-level workshop provided the opportunity for MoE, WFP and partner ministries to discuss priorities such as focusing on the most vulnerable children, and the selection of food items for the school meals. A national school meals committee – chaired by Ministers – will also be formed, to help place children’s futures at the centre of the national agenda. A new National School Feeding Policy is also being jointly developed.
“WFP appreciates the continuous investment of the Ministry of Education in the School Feeding programme in past school years, in recognition of the importance of health and nutrition for school children in Iraq,” says Abdirahman Meygag, WFP Representative in Iraq. “WFP is committed to supporting the Ministry of Education to create a strong school feeding policy and to expand the programme, so more children have the chance to learn better, leading to improved chances to fulfil their potential as adults.”
The partners also committed to advocate for the creation of a national pooled fund for school feeding, to help with long-term finance needed for the programme. To ensure a successful handover, WFP will also continue to support the Ministry of Education with training and development on key systems and staff skills, alongside local Directorates of Education. Such capacity strengthening can enhance the long-term success of the School Feeding Programme, and ultimately the futures of millions of school children.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/133438-iraqi-ministry-education-and-wfp-plan-broaden-access-school-feeding-36-million-children




Date: 27 June 2021
Title: Italy renews its commitment to Iraq’s stabilization with a new US$2.4 million contribution
Content: 27 June 2021
Baghdad, Sunday, 27 June 2021 – The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Italy, represented by the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS), is supporting the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) with an additional EUR 2 million (US$2.4 million) to assist communities affected by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
Italy’s contribution will be channelled through UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS), which implements fast-track initiatives in areas liberated from ISIL. Italy has generously provided more than US$18 million, since the Facility was set up in 2015 with the objective of returning Internally Displaced Iraqis to their homes.
“We appreciate this timely support from Italy. Thanks to our partners, the FFS can continue its work to improve conditions in the Liberated Areas and assist those who remain displaced to come home in safety and with dignity,” says UNDP Resident Representative Zena Ali Ahmad.
“With this important contribution Italy reaffirms its commitment to support displaced return to their communities to rebuild their lives,” adds Ms Ali-Ahmad.
The Ambassador of Italy to Baghdad, Bruno Pasquino, commended the additional contribution of the Italian Government as another concrete step towards a more stable, secure and safe Iraq. “This initiative is in line with the priorities of the Italian cooperation towards improving gender equality and contributing to conflict prevention and mitigation, » says AICS Amman Director Michele Morana. “The Italian government fully supports the stabilization process in Iraq, by contributing to create better conditions for a sustainable and dignified return of displaced persons to their homes and reintegration into their communities, and effectively supporting their safety and security».
With the support of 27 partners and the Government of Iraq, the FFS has completed over 2,831 projects in areas liberated from ISIL, benefitting more than 13 million Iraqis with improved basic services, education, health and infrastructure. It has assisted 4.8 million internally displaced persons (IDPs) to return home.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/133423-italy-renews-its-commitment-iraq%E2%80%99s-stabilization-new-us24-million-contribution




Date: 27 June 2021
Title: WFP and the Iraqi Ministry of Trade launch a food ration smartphone app for 1.6 million people in Iraq
Content: 27 June 2021
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and Iraqi Ministry of Trade launched the ‘Tamwini’ (My Food Ration) smartphone application in Najaf, which will roll out for 1.6 million people across the governorate.
The Tamwini app allows families to easily update – directly on their smartphones – their information for the Public Distribution System for food rations (PDS). The initiative is part of the digitalisation of the PDS, which WFP and the Ministry of Trade launched in January 2019 and provides added benefits during COVID-19 pandemic as people can update their information – for example in the case of a newborn or a marriage – directly on their phone from the safety of their homes instead of visiting PDS offices in person.
“As well as providing a practical, time-saving solution for families benefiting from the scheme as well as government staff, the Tamwini app is especially useful in a governorate such as Najaf, where some communities live far apart, and updating personal family data means longer journeys to PDS offices,” said Iraqi Minister of Trade Alaa Ahmed al-Jubouri. “Together with WFP and partners, since July 2020 we have successfully trialled Tamwini in two neighbourhoods in Baghdad and Mosul. The rollout to 1.6 million people in Najaf is a milestone towards expanding the use of the app across the country.”
“The strong partnership between WFP and the Ministry of Trade is the foundation for this innovation: from the smartcards that are being introduced across Iraq to replace paper cards, iris scanning verification, and now expanding access to the Tamwini app to people across Najaf governorate,” said WFP Representative in Iraq Abdirahman Meygag. “By creating better solutions and services for families in Najaf, we are moving towards enhancing social protection for the entire country.“
A robust Public Distribution System that is constantly updated – in real time – will also allow for prioritisation of the most vulnerable families. Under WFP’s social protection programme, the PDS digitalisation is also providing the foundation for other government Ministries to align and create one single, social register of families most in need of support.
Tamwini can be downloaded by Najaf residents by collecting a dedicated QR code card from their PDS branch in Najaf – just one time. Scan the QR code with a smartphone – one per household – and the option to download Tamwini appears via the Google Play Store. Soon, Tamwini will also be available on the iOS App Store. Each QR code corresponds to the family’s individual electronic PDS (‘ePDS’) number.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/133427-wfp-and-iraqi-ministry-trade-launch-food-ration-smartphone-app-16-million-people-iraq




Date: 26 June 2021
Title: FAO Consultative workshop on Climate change
Content: 26 June 2021
23-24 June 2021, Najaf Governorate: The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) conducted a two days consultative workshop in coordination with the Ministry of Health and Environment and other line ministries as part of the formulation process of the GCF funded project: Strengthening climate resilience of vulnerable agriculture livelihoods in Iraq's rural communities.
Representatives from the local governments of Najaf, Karbala and Muthanna, officials from the ministries of Health and Environment, Agriculture, Water Resources, Planning, farmers associations, academia, private sector and large number of FAO experts from the HQ and the regional offices attended the event.
FAO Representative in Iraq, Dr Salah ElHajjHassan, confirmed during the workshop FAO commitments to support the rural communities and national authorities to enhance the climate resilience through the introduction of climate adaptive technologies and farming  practices to increase water availability at the farm level and enhance water productivity in the governorates of Muthanna, Najaf and Karbala , he also highlighting that this process  is in line with the agency new framework and to support government efforts to scale up food and water  security.
The Undersecretary of the Ministry of Health and Environment, Dr. Jassim Abdel Aziz, confirmed the Ministry support to tackle the root causes and barriers to climate change adaptation in Iraq.
Najaf Deputy Governor, Karbala Governor, and the Deputy Governor of Muthanna appreciated the initiative and confirmed the commitment of the local governments to ease the formulation and implementation of the project.
Overall, the project will contribute to strengthen climate change resilience of farming communities against climate induced water scarcity in the governorates of Najaf, Karbala and Muthanna; additionally, it will reduce climate change adaptation deficit of farming communities and increase water productivity; it will also contribute to scaling-up climate change adaptation into key national water management policy frameworks and mainstreaming it across stakeholder.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/133365-fao-consultative-workshop-climate-change




Date: 25 June 2021
Title: UNODC World Drug Report 2021: pandemic effects ramp up drug risks, as youth underestimate cannabis dangers
Content: 25 June 2021
VIENNA, 24 June 2021 – Around 275 million people used drugs worldwide in the last year, while over 36 million people suffered from drug use disorders, according to the 2021 World Drug Report, released today by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC).
The Report further noted that in the last 24 years cannabis potency had increased by as much as four times in parts of the world, even as the percentage of adolescents who perceived the drug as harmful fell by as much as 40 per cent, despite evidence that cannabis use is associated with a variety of health and other harms, especially among regular long-term users.
"Lower perception of drug use risks has been linked to higher rates of drug use, and the findings of UNODC’s 2021 World Drug Report highlight the need to close the gap between perception and reality to educate young people and safeguard public health,” said UNODC Executive Director Ghada Waly.
“The theme of this year’s International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking is “Share facts on drugs. Save lives”, emphasizing the importance of strengthening the evidence base and raising public awareness, so that the international community, governments, civil society, families and youth can make informed decisions, better target efforts to prevent and treat drug use, and tackle world drug challenges.”
According to the Report, the percentage of Δ9-THC – the main psychoactive component in cannabis - has risen from around six per cent to more than 11 per cent in Europe between 2002-2019, and around four per cent to 16 per cent in the United States between 1995-2019, while the percentage of adolescents that perceived cannabis as harmful declined by 40 per cent in the United States and by 25 per cent in Europe.
Moreover, most countries have reported a rise in the use of cannabis during the pandemic. In surveys of health professionals across 77 countries, 42 per cent asserted that cannabis use had increased. A rise in the non-medical use of pharmaceutical drugs has also been observed in the same period.
Drug Use Rising, but Science-Based Treatment More Available
Between 2010-2019 the number of people using drugs increased by 22 per cent, owing in part to global population growth. Based on demographic changes alone, current projections suggest an 11 per cent rise in the number of people who use drugs globally by 2030 -- and a marked increase of 40 per cent in Africa, due to its rapidly growing and young population.
According to the latest global estimates, about 5.5 per cent of the population aged between 15 and 64 years have used drugs at least once in the past year, while 36.3 million people, or 13 per cent of the total number of persons who use drugs, suffer from drug use disorders.
Globally, over 11 million people are estimated to inject drugs, half of whom are living with Hepatitis C. Opioids continue to account for the largest burden of disease attributed to drug use.
The two pharmaceutical opioids most commonly used to treat people with opioid use disorders, methadone and buprenorphine, have become increasingly accessible over the past two decades. The amount available for medical use has increased six-fold since 1999, from 557 million daily doses to 3,317 million by 2019, indicating that science-based pharmacological treatment is more available now than in the past.
The Dark Web
Drug markets on the dark web only emerged a decade ago but major ones are now worth at least US$ 315 million in annual sales. Although this is just a fraction of overall drug sales, the trend is upwards with a fourfold increase between 2011 to mid-2017 and mid-2017 to 2020.
Rapid technological innovation, combined with the agility and adaptability of those using new platforms to sell drugs and other substances, is likely to usher in a globalized market where all drugs are more available and accessible everywhere. This, in turn, could trigger accelerated changes in patterns of drug use and entail public health implications, according to the Report.
The Drug Market Rebounds and Shifts
The new report shows that drug markets have swiftly resumed operations after the initial disruption at the onset of the pandemic; a burst that has triggered or accelerated certain pre-existing trafficking dynamics across the global drug market. Among these are: increasingly larger shipments of illicit drugs, a rise in the frequency of overland and water-way routes used for trafficking, greater use of private planes for the purpose of drug trafficking, and an upsurge in the use of contactless methods to deliver drugs to end-consumers.
The resilience of drug markets during the pandemic has demonstrated once again traffickers’ ability to adapt quickly to changed environments and circumstances.
The Report also noted that cocaine supply chains to Europe are diversifying, pushing prices down and quality up and thereby threatening Europe with a further expansion of the cocaine market. This is likely to widen the potential harm caused by the drug in the region.
The number of new psychoactive substances (NPS) emerging on the global market fell from 163 in 2013 to 71 in 2019. This reflects trends in North America, Europe and Asia. The findings suggest national and international control systems have succeeded in limiting the spread of NPS in high income countries,where NPS first emerged a decade ago.
Drug Risks, New Developments Spurred by Pandemic
COVID-19 has triggered innovation and adaptation in drug prevention and treatment services through more flexible models of service delivery. Many countries have introduced or expanded telemedicine services due to the pandemic, which for drug users means that healthcare workers can now offer counselling or initial assessments over the telephone and use electronic systems to prescribe controlled substances.
While the impact of COVID-19 on drug challenges is not yet fully known, the analysis suggests that the pandemic has brought increasing economic hardship that is likely to make illicit drug cultivation more appealing to fragile rural communities. The social impact of the pandemic – driving a rise in inequality, poverty, and mental health conditions particularly among already vulnerable populations – represent factors that could push more people into drug use.
***
The World Drug Report and further content is available here: https://wdr.unodc.org/&nbsp;
The 2021 World Drug Report provides a global overview of the supply and demand of opiates, cocaine, cannabis, amphetamine-type stimulants and new psychoactive substances (NPS), as well as their impact on health, taking into account the possible effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/133229-unodc-world-drug-report-2021-pandemic-effects-ramp-drug-risks-youth-underestimate-cannabis




Date: 22 June 2021
Title: Switzerland helps WFP provide critical food assistance and boost people’s resilience in Iraq
Content: 22 June 2021
BAGHDAD 22 June 2021 – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) has today welcomed a US$1.1 million contribution from the Government of Switzerland that will help WFP provide monthly food assistance to hundreds of thousands of internally displaced people (IDPs), Syrian refugees living in Iraq as well as strengthen people’s resilience.
As well as meeting the most vulnerable’s urgent food needs, Switzerland’s contribution will also fund the innovative ‘Urban Livelihoods’ projects. Under the initiative, WFP provides support and training for 135,000 vulnerable people to help them create and sustain long-term incomes through starting small businesses, creating job opportunities, so they can start working again amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
“The pandemic continues to have an impact on the global economy and Iraq is no exception. The devaluation of the Iraqi Dinar also pushed food prices up,” says Abdirahman Meygag, WFP Representative in Iraq. “Switzerland’s contribution is timely. The funding is also helping strengthen urban families’ ability to generate sustainable incomes, while not forgetting the families in crisis who are unable to return home yet.”
Each month, WFP provides monthly food assistance to displaced families and refugees, which is even more vital during the difficult times because of the pandemic.
“Through the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), Switzerland is committed to support vulnerable displaced families that continue to be affected negatively by the pandemic,” says Lukas Gasser, Ambassador of Switzerland to the Republic of Iraq. “This contribution is a step closer to meet Switzerland’s priority in Iraq of meeting the most urgent needs of IDPs and to find a durable solution for displaced affected persons.”
Most of WFP’s food assistance is provided in the form of mobile money transfers, and electronic vouchers, which enable families to purchase the food they need from markets. This year, WFP raised the monthly cash assistance amount for IDPs and refugee families assisted. For sudden displacements or urgent needs, WFP also provides ready-to-eat food packages to support families before they can access a market.
“Switzerland is a long-term partner of WFP, whose steadfast support for years has enabled us to reach families in Iraq in need of urgent humanitarian assistance,” Meygag added.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/132564-switzerland-helps-wfp-provide-critical-food-assistance-and-boost-people%E2%80%99s-resilience-iraq




Date: 22 June 2021
Title: UNFPA Deputy Executive Director, Kurdistan Region’s Prime Minister discuss census, population development and women rights
Content: 22 June 2021
22 June 2021; Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq - The UN Assistant Secretary General and UNFPA Deputy Executive Director, Mr Ib Petersen, UNFPA Regional Director for the Arab States, Dr Luay Shabaneh, and UNFPA Representative to Iraq, Dr Rita Columbia, visited on 21 June the Prime Minister of the Kurdistan Regional Government, Mr Masrour Barzani, in attendance of the Minister of Planning, Dr Dara Rasheed and the Head of the Department of Foreign Relations, Mr Safeen Dizayee.
During the meeting, Mr Petersen and Mr Barzani talked about the cooperation between UNFPA and the Kurdistan Regional Government in the areas of population data, prevention of gender-based violence, and youth participation. The dialogue also focused on the UNFPA technical support for the Population and Housing Census and population analysis.
The two officials discussed the issue of women shelters in the Kurdistan Region and how to strengthen the referral mechanisms through the judicial court.
Mr Petersen thanked the Kurdistan Regional Government for the partnership with UNFPA on women and youth-related interventions, emphasised the need for reliable data to ensure the development and implementation of people-centred policies based on evidence.
For his part, Prime Minister Barzani reiterated his government’s support to UNFPA programmes and interventions in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/132511-unfpa-deputy-executive-director-kurdistan-region%E2%80%99s-prime-minister-discuss-census-population




Date: 21 June 2021
Title: Australia’s Provides Additional Funding to Support UNMAS New Partnership Model and Gender Mainstreaming Activities in Iraq
Content: 21 June 2021
Baghdad – The United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) in Iraq welcomes an additional contribution of AUD 3,000,000 million (approximately USD 2,295,333 million) from the Government of Australia to further enable stabilization and humanitarian efforts through mine action in retaken areas of Iraq. This brings the current five-year contribution from Australia to a total of AUD 21 million (approximately USD 11,574,143 million).
More than three years after the Government of Iraq declared victory over the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), their presence continues to linger – particularly through the thousands of explosive ordnance left behind in the wake of their loss.
These explosive devices were intended to heavily injure, maim, and kill civilians as a way of destabilizing the country.
In this regard, UNMAS has adapted its strategy to ensure optimum and sustainable support to the Government of Iraq, particularly through the focus of its assistance to sustainable national capacity inclusive of national authorities and national operators. As part of this strategy, UNMAS rolled out a new partnership model bringing together international mine action organizations with local NGOs, paving the way for national ownership and localization of the mine action response in Iraq.
In addition, UNMAS is also advocating for gender mainstreaming and equal opportunity across all its activities and within the overall mine action sector in Iraq. This means that UNMAS encourages the hiring and training of capable women and men from impacted communities to deliver explosive hazard management and explosive ordnance risk education and through this providing critical livelihood opportunities to vulnerable communities.
“Explosive ordnance and remnants of war pose ongoing protection risks to Iraqi communities and hamper the conflict recovery efforts” said Ms Paula Ganly, the Australian Ambassador to Iraq. “Australia is pleased to continue our long-standing partnership with UNMAS in supporting the national authorities and their important efforts in helping conflict-affected communities recover and build resilience in a safe and stable environment.”
“Ever since UNMAS commenced its activities in Iraq, Australia has remained a steadfast supporter of mine action, playing a pivotal role in the continuation of this life-saving work in-country. This work not only enables rehabilitation and reconstruction activities, but also provides employment opportunities for vulnerable communities, thereby contributing to the reinvigoration of the local economy as well as saving lives in the process.” said Mr. Pehr Lodhammar, UNMAS Senior Programme Manager in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/132471-australia%E2%80%99s-provides-additional-funding-support-unmas-new-partnership-model-and-gender




Date: 21 June 2021
Title: Policing for the people: new initiative to boost local police services in Iraq
Content: 21 June 2021
Baghdad, 21 June 2021 – Police stations across Iraq will become more service-oriented and will better respond to the needs of citizens thanks to a new initiative between the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq and the Ministry of Interior (MoI), generously funded by the governments of Canada, Germany, and the Netherlands.
The Model Police Station Pilot establishes a policing model that increases trust between citizens and local police, restores responsive, effective, and accountable local police services that are accessible to both men and women. It incorporates recommendations and priorities from Iraq’s Local Police Service RoadMap launched in November 2019 and reflects the results of assessments that address challenges within the existing system.
The Pilot has a strong focus on crime management, police-community relations and gender responsive policing, including investigating the presence and role of female police officers in Iraq, as well as increased accessibility to local police stations by women, girls, and youth from minority ethnic groups. The Model Police Station ‘design outline’ has been developed in consultation with the MoI to inform what a Police Station in Iraq should look like. Recommendations from the pilot will be trialed across six police stations in Anbar, Baghdad, Basra, and Ninewa governorates.
This initiative compliments a series of trainings that have been delivered with UNDP’s support over several years, including improving the effectiveness of local police for mid-level managers in the Iraqi local police, basic leadership training, and criminal investigation.
“I welcome the model police station pilot initiative implemented in partnership between UNDP and MoI. This initiative is essential to advance the local policing in post-Daesh Iraq. The model police station initiative complements the ongoing support that is already provided by UNDP to strengthen local policing in Iraq, including specialised trainings, development of the Local Police Service Road Map and Standard Operating Procedures for Criminal Investigation. This initiative is another milestone for the UNDP and MoI partnership, to further improve local policing services to local communities. This is essential for Iraqi’s long-term stability and development.” says Deputy Minister of Interior for Police Affairs, Lieutenant General Emad Mohammed.
“As Iraq recovers from the ISIL conflict, now is the time to implement a new local police approach that is more citizen-responsive, and service-orientated, and addresses the needs of women and girls, both inside the police service, and within communities.,” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“UNDP is committed to working alongside the Ministry of Interior to ensure the recommendations made under this pilot – such as increasing the number of female police officers and improving access to vulnerable women – are implemented as soon as possible,” she adds.
The Model Police Station Pilot was supported by the governments of Canada, Germany, and the Netherlands.
Available documents:
Executive Summary: Model Police Station Pilot
Policy Brief: Gender assessment, Model Police Station Pilot
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/132507-policing-people-new-initiative-boost-local-police-services-iraq




Date: 21 June 2021
Title: UNFPA Deputy Executive Director meets President and Speaker of Iraq
Content: 21 June 2021
21 June 2021; Baghdad, Iraq - The UN Assistant Secretary General and UNFPA Deputy Executive Director, Mr Ib Petersen, UNFPA Regional Director for the Arab States, Dr Luay Shabaneh, and UNFPA Representative to Iraq, Dr Rita Columbia, visited on 20 June, the President of the Republic of Iraq, Mr Barham Salim and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mohammed al-Halbousi.
During their meeting with the President, Mr Petersen discussed the importance of people-centred and evidence-based population policies to achieve sustainable development, emphasising the need to conduct the Population and Housing Census for Iraq. He reiterated UNFPA support and advocacy for women and youth rights, and commitment to working with the government of Iraq, the civil society and the international community to empower women and girls through education, especially education related to reproductive rights, so they can contribute effectively to change within their communities.
For his part, Mr Salih called for further investment in youth as the driving force for change and development in Iraq and for the protection of women from gender-based violence.
With the Speaker al-Halbousi, Mr Petersen raised an issue of prevention of gender-based violence as a foundation for healthy families and communities. He also stressed the need for further improving legislation and policies related to GBV including protection of women and children. The Speaker reaffirmed his support to eliminating all forms of violence in the Iraqi society, especially against women.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/132508-unfpa-deputy-executive-director-meets-president-and-speaker-iraq




Date: 20 June 2021
Title: UNDP Iraq launches handbook on citizen journalism to promote social cohesion as part of young media professionals program
Content: 20 June 2021
Baghdad, Iraq, 20 June 2021 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq has released a handbook on citizen journalism following an intensive training program for young media professionals on various topics including citizen journalism tools, ethical journalism, and conflict-sensitive reporting to promote social cohesion in Iraq.  The Media and Advocacy component of UNDP Iraq’s Social Cohesion Programme seeks to promote unity between societal groups through use of social media platforms, nation-wide competitions, media stories, and the training and capacity building of media professionals in general, with a focus on youth.
The Use of Citizen Journalism Tools to Promote Social Cohesion is a handbook designed for young media professionals, students, and academics as a reference point for citizen journalism tools, helping to facilitate the creation of products that contribute to positive, solutions-oriented journalism in Iraq. Available online, copies of the handbook will also be distributed to media faculties, students, and media professionals in Arabic and Kurdish.
Launched in December 2020, UNDP Iraq’s Citizen Journalism Project encourages and supports 120 young Iraqi journalists, bloggers, and social media activists from Baghdad, Anbar, Ninewa, Salah al-Din, Diyala, Dhi Qar, Najaf, Karbala and the Kurdistan Region, implemented in partnership with Tammuz Organization for Social Development and Sabaq Center for Media Development.
The second phase of the citizen journalism project will include roundtable discussions for media representatives on the media landscape in Iraq and a short film contest related to social cohesion and diversity in Iraqi communities. These activities will complement the online platform Diversity (or “Tanawo3” in Arabic) launched collectively by participants to share their stories, photographs and videos related to peacebuilding and community cohesion in Iraq.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali Ahmad states, “With a media landscape that is constantly shifting toward a greater focus on online journalism, supporting Iraq’s citizen journalists is vital to ensuring well-rounded and informed reporting. With the launch of this handbook and platform, all Iraqis can participate in sharing stories from their diverse communities. We are grateful to the Government of Denmark for their support in funding this important initiative.”
In 2020, UNDP Iraq launched a dedicated five-year Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq, and working with media and citizen journalism is identified as one of the key priority areas under this programme.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/132343-undp-iraq-launches-handbook-citizen-journalism-promote-social-cohesion-part-young-media




Date: 19 June 2021
Title: Statement by UNAMI DSRSG Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir on the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict
Content: 19 June 2021
BAGHDAD, 19 June 2021: Today, the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) reaffirms its commitment to the elimination of sexual violence in conflict.
The enactment of the Yazidi Survivors Law in March this year was a major step in addressing the needs of survivors of atrocities committed by the so-called Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). The law provides for reparations, care for survivors and their rehabilitation into society. The full implementation of the law is essential. Survivors should be enabled to access all relevant benefits contained in the law. 
 
I encourage the Iraqi authorities to redouble efforts to ensure perpetrators are held accountable for these atrocious crimes, and to ensure that sufficient resources, including financial and human resources, are made available to meet the needs of all survivors of conflict-related sexual violence. 
 
As we commemorate this important day, we honor the victims and survivors of sexual violence, and pay tribute to those working towards prevention and accountability.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/131989-statement-unami-dsrsg-ingibj%C3%B6rg-s%C3%B3lr%C3%BAn-g%C3%ADslad%C3%B3ttir-international-day-elimination-sexual




Date: 19 June 2021
Title: Statement by UNAMI DSRSG Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir on the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict
Content: 19 June 2021
BAGHDAD: Today, the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) reaffirms its commitment to the elimination of sexual violence in conflict.
The enactment of the Yazidi Survivors Law in March this year was a major step in addressing the needs of survivors of atrocities committed by the so-called Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). The law provides for reparations, care for survivors and their rehabilitation into society. The full implementation of the law is essential. Survivors should be enabled to access all relevant benefits contained in the law.
I encourage the Iraqi authorities to redouble efforts to ensure perpetrators are held accountable for these atrocious crimes, and to ensure that sufficient resources, including financial and human resources, are made available to meet the needs of all survivors of conflict-related sexual violence.
As we commemorate this important day, we honor the victims and survivors of sexual violence, and pay tribute to those working towards prevention and accountability.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/132323-statement-unami-dsrsg-ingibj%C3%B6rg-s%C3%B3lr%C3%BAn-g%C3%ADslad%C3%B3ttir-international-day-elimination-sexual




Date: 18 June 2021
Title: UNESCO has completed the training of Master Trainers from the Ministry of Education and the General Directorate of Education at Rasafa 3 on the Education Management Information System (EMIS)
Content: 18 June 2021
As part of the EU-funded “Education Management Information System for Quality Education in Iraq”, UNESCO has developed a purpose-built EMIS for Iraq. In partnership with UNICEF, the EMIS will be rolled out across 9 General Directorates of Education (GDoE) during 2021 - 2023.
The EMIS collects, organizes and stores education data, processes, analyses, and generates reports and educational indicators and makes it easily accessible to stakeholders at all levels of the sector, from Ministry-level planning experts, to directorates, to teachers and school administrators. The EMIS also serves as a daily operations tool for schools to manage data related to students, teachers, employees, facilities, and assets in real time. Such valuable information will facilitate strategic decision-making, policy formulation and budgeting, and routine management at the district and school levels, helping educational planners at the ministry, directorates, and schools to better manage education service delivery and improve the quality of learning in Iraq.
A functional EMIS system requires the capacity to manage and use its capabilities and robust mechanisms to support the end-users. As part of the EMIS development process, a core Team of Master Trainers from the MoE and Rasaf 3 have received a 3 week training on the maintenance and day-to-day use of the system, to respond to different needs and best practices. These Master Trainers will lead the EMIS trainings at the level of schools that will start on 20 June 2021. In addition, to provide support to the end-users (schools) an EMIS Call Center has been established at the MoE and 3 support analysts from the call center are trained to provide remote support to school-level users.
Following this training, the Master Trainers with UNESCO and UNICEF support will conduct school level trainings in the schools across GDoE at Rasafa 3. The GDoE at Rasafa 3 and all schools have been equipped with laptops provided through the project.
The commencement of this training marks a critical milestone as it is a key step to ensuring Iraqi ownership and sustainability of the EMIS, empowering stakeholders to use and maintain the system according to their needs and preparing Ministry users for the eventual technology transfer.
Speaking at the opening of the training workshop, the Chief of Education for UNESCO, Mr. Santosh Khatri said
“The availability of quality, relevant education data is pre-requisite for government’s ability to improve education through evidence-based policy making at the central and governorate administration level, and to empower the teachers and administrators at school level to make informed decisions quickly and effectively.”
Attending the training, the Director General for Educational Planning (Ministry of Education), Mr. Safaa Younis, said
“The Education management information system will provide data and information to decision makers and enable them to analyze, draw conclusions and identify strengths and weaknesses in the educational system, in order to correct the path and control remotely”.
Appreciating the ongoing efforts in strengthening of Iraq’s education systems, Head of Cooperation of European Union Delegation to Iraq, Ms.Barbara Egger said
“The new Education Management Information System will set the foundation for an improved quality of education. The availability of up to date and accurate data for decision makers and school administrators will improve the planning, monitoring and quality delivery of the learning process. We appreciate the commitment from Ministry of Education in adopting the system and equally the dedication from the trainees during the last couple of weeks. We will continue to work together with Ministry of Education and our partners at UNESCO and UNICEF to support the implementation and the roll-out of the system across the country”.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/132001-unesco-has-completed-training-master-trainers-ministry-education-and-general-directorate




Date: 18 June 2021
Title: UNFPA Deputy Executive Director and UNFPA Regional Director for the Arab States Arrive in Iraq
Content: 18 June 2021
Baghdad, Iraq - The United Nations Assistant Secretary-General (ASG) and United Nations Population Fund Deputy Executive Director (DED), Management, Mr Ib Petersen, and UNFPA Regional Director (RD) for the Arabic States, Dr Luay Shabaneh,  started today a five-day visit to Iraq.
During the visit, Mr Petersen and Dr Shabaneh will focus on the humanitarian-development-peace nexus, which is also a focus of the UNFPA country programme 2020-2024 and the Iraqi national priorities. The high-level UNFPA officials  will  discuss with the Government, civil society organisations and partners in Baghdad and Erbil how UNFPA can further support the Government of Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government to achieve the Agenda 2030  and meet Iraq’s commitments made at the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD 25) in Nairobi on November 2019.
“I am delighted to be in Iraq as part of my field visit to the Middle East. I look forward to hearing from government officials and civil society representatives how UNFPA can increase its support during the country’s recovery period after years of humanitarian crises to ensure that Iraq meets the goals of the Decade of Action,” said Mr Petersen from the Baghdad Airport.
During the visit, they will also conduct two field visits to camps for the internally displaced  and meet with women and young people from the host communities to discuss their needs and how UNFPA can scale up its programmes to support their ambitions.
The UNFPA DED Management and RD for the Arab States will be accompanied will depart Iraq on 22 June, heading to Amman, Jordan.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/132217-unfpa-deputy-executive-director-and-unfpa-regional-director-arab-states-arrive-iraq




Date: 15 June 2021
Title: Ministry of Planning, UNFPA, Present the Population Analysis Report 2020
Content: 15 June 2021
Baghdad, Iraq – The Ministry of Planning and UNFPA presented on 14 June the findings and recommendations of the Population Analysis Report 2020 during a workshop entitled "Population Policies for Sustainable Development".
The Population Analysis study, which was conducted by the Directorate General of Human Development of the Ministry of Planning, with support from UNFPA and Sweden, assessed the demographic and social changes that took place since adopting the population policy in 2014. This study paves the way for a revised population policy.
Today in Iraq, 60% of the population is formed of young people under 25. It means that 57% of people are capable of contributing effectively to the economic development of Iraq. Whether demographic changes can be used for the success and sustainability of country development is determined by implementing effective population policies that are rights-based, evidence-informed and gender-responsive.
Speaking at the event, the Minister of Planning, Dr Khalid Battal Al-Najm, highlighted that in the past demographic indicators showed a significant population growth as a result of the high fertility rates in the country; however, presently, the fertility rate went down. The population growth has led to an increase in the number of young people and growth in the labour force. This, however, has led to an inability to meet the population, especially youth's needs for job opportunities and quality and sustainable lives. He also emphasized the importance of updated population data that should come from the population census.
For her part, UNFPA Representative, Dr Rita Columbia, said: "A people-centred population policy will support the country in its aspiration for peace and prosperity and become an accelerator for achieving Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. This is the right time for Iraq to increase the investment in human capital, focusing on young people who will lead the country towards sustainable development and peace. UNFPA will continue supporting and working together with the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Youth & Sports, and line ministries to move forward the youth agenda and strive for gender equality and social cohesion in order to fulfil Iraq's commitments made at the 25th anniversary of the International Conference on Population and Development, held in Nairobi in November 2019."
The event was attended by the Minister of Planning, Dr Khalid Battal Al-Najm, the Minister of Youth & Sports, Mr Adnan Darjal, a representative from the Department of International Organisations and Conferences, the UNFPA Representative, Dr Rita Columbia, and population experts. The inaugural session was followed by a panel discussion among experts who discussed the revision and update of the population policy, strengthening the role of the National Population Policies Committee, the population policy and development agenda in Iraq, as well as mainstreaming the population dynamics in the local plans. The meeting adopted a roadmap for the revision and update of the population policy document led by the Directorate of Human Development at the Ministry of Planning.
===
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person's potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/131550-ministry-planning-unfpa-present-population-analysis-report-2020




Date: 15 June 2021
Title: UNHCR Press Release
Content: 15 June 2021
A UNHCR delegation headed by the Representative in Iraq, Ms. Philippa Candler, visited the Governor of Erbil, Mr. Omed Abdulrahman Hassan.
They discussed cooperation and humanitarian assistance to refugees and internally displaced persons living in Erbil governorate, in particular UNHCRs structural contributions to towns hosting refugee camps. UNHCR will increase its engagement with local communities that has opened their doors to refugees and undertakes to work with the government to improve the services and infrastructure in towns in Erbil hosting refugee camps.
The Governor reaffirmed his commitment towards supporting persons forced to flee their homes who have found shelter in Erbil. During the meeting the Governor presented UNHCR with a plaque as a tangible sign of his appreciation of the role and contributions of the organization.
"This plaque is a reflection of the strong and positive cooperation between the Government and UNHCR in Erbil. I appreciate the commitment of the Governor of Erbil to protect and support the 135,000 refugees living in Erbil Governorate - half of all refugees in the country. UNHCR will continue to work closely with the Governor and his team in support of refugees and the areas in the governorate generously hosting them,” Philippa Candler said.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/131547-unhcr-press-release




Date: 14 June 2021
Title: UNDP Iraq Supports the National Security Advisory / the National Committee on the implementation of the Strategy for Combating and Preventing Violent Extremism in Iraq
Content: 14 June 2021
Erbil, Iraq – On 11 June, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq and the National Committee on the Implementation of the Strategy to Combat Violent Extremism at the National Security Advisory launched a four-day workshop on the role of the assigned teams and committees at the presidency, parliament, and prime ministry offices and at the governorates in implementing the strategy to Combat Violent Extremism in Iraq.
The workshop, facilitated by experts from the national committee and UNDP international experts, aimed at presenting the national strategy to combat violent extremism and its implementation plan, discussing the responsibilities of the central teams and governorates committees in implementing the strategy and developing action plans at the local level. Participants were also engaged in sessions highlighting regional and international comparative experiences with focus on the role of local government and community members, including women, in combating violent extremism.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali Ahmad states, “Sustainable solutions to violent extremism require an integrated holistic approach that focuses on unity and cohesion in society and strengthening governance at local levels. Our workshop with representatives from the national committee sets the stage for a partnership conducive to preventing violent extremism in Iraq.”
Ali Abdullah Albedeiri, chairman of the National Committee on the Implementation of the Strategy to Combat Violent Extremism in Iraq, states, “This workshop is timely and important to engage the local authorities in the implementation of the strategy which requires integrated and coordinated national and international efforts and the buy in from the community and local government.”
Additional specialized sessions will follow, targeting other national and local partners including civil society, governorate teams, youth and religious leaders to enhance their role in the implementation of the national strategy to combat violent extremism.
Support to Prevention of Violent Extremism (PVE) in Iraq is part of UNDP Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/131320-undp-iraq-supports-national-security-advisory-national-committee-implementation-strategy




Date: 13 June 2021
Title: UNESCO strengthens MoE Iraq's capacities in online distance learning to respond to COVID-19
Content: 13 June 2021
The closure of schools and disruption to learning brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic have highlighted the need to utilize online and distance modes of learning to promote learning continuity.
Distance learning, known synonymously as online learning or e-learning, serves as a critical tool in the response to the interruption of educational service provision. Providing training in distance learning methodologies also recognises the increasing role that technology can and will play in improving quality and access to education. To facilitate this new mode of learning, teachers need to be equipped with the appropriate skills and knowledge and supported to adapt to new learning settings.
To equip the teachers with ICT and online distance learning competencies, UNESCO, with funding from the European Union, and with technical support from the Regional Bureau for Education for Arab States in Beirut has developed training materials and trained 30 Master Trainers from the Ministry of Education and General Directorates of Education in Rasafa 3, Basra, Qadissiyah and Thi Qar on ICT based Online Distance Learning.
Following this workshop, UNICEF will cascade the training through the Master Trainers to 4,000 teachers in the 4 target governorates (Rasafa 3, Basra, Qadissiyah and Thi Qar).
The distance learning training responds to the direct request from HE the Minister of Education for training on distance learning for teachers in Iraq, and builds on materials developed to support COVID-19 regional responses by the UNESCO Regional Bureau for Education in the Arab States.
This initiative is part of the EU funded “System building and capacity strengthening for the Ministry of Education and its Directorates of Education” project. The project forms part of UNESCO and UNICEF’s wider effort to support systems building and capacity strengthening for the Ministry of Education and its governorate-level Directorates of Education, reinforcing the joint commitment of EU, UNESCO and UNICEF to supporting improved learning outcomes and equitable and inclusive education for all girls and boys in Iraq.
The training, delivered virtually over two weeks to the cohort of Master Trainers, comprised of 5 core Modules: (i) Teaching online (ii) The essentials of remote learning (iii) Blended learning and flipped instruction, (iv) Assessment in online distance education and (v) Content creation, with a sixth Module introduced ‘Kodrat’; the UNESCO online platform serving as a resource for distance learning for teachers, in Arabic, launched in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Subsequently trainers received additional sessions on how to deliver interactive and engaging training for teachers online, learning how to model learner-centred best practices.
The group of Master Trainers welcomed the interactive online training opportunity; speaking at the conclusion of the final training session, Dr. Shroq Bashar, Deputy Director General at the General Directorate of Preparation, Training and Educational Development commented “E-learning and training is one of the most important forms of education at the present time as it has opened local and international educational outlets, as well as saving time, effort and cost through the use of interactive programs and digital content that was absent from the educational institution in Iraq”.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/131237-unesco-strengthens-moe-iraqs-capacities-online-distance-learning-respond-covid-19




Date: 13 June 2021
Title: United States, Canada and IOM Support Government of Iraq with Technology for Stronger Border Management
Content: 13 June 2021
Baghdad — During a ceremony held on 13 June 2021, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) provided Iraq’s Ministry of Interior (MoI) with four Mobile Border Processing Units (MBPU) equipped with metal detectors, radios, binoculars, IT equipment and the IOM-developed Migration Information and Data Analysis System (MIDAS).
This system is a high-quality, cost-effective and fully customizable border management information system that will allow the MoI to collect, process, store and analyse traveller information in real time and across an entire border network.
The delivery of these technologies, made possible with support from the governments of the United States and Canada, is a key component of two ongoing IOM projects to assist the Government of Iraq (GoI) with implementing a comprehensive border management plan to facilitate safe, orderly and regular migration in order to pave the way for sustainable security.
“The transfer of MIDAS-outfitted equipment marks the first time this technology is being made operational in Iraq,” said IOM Iraq Chief of Mission Gerard Waite. “This is a pivotal moment in IOM’s support for the Government of Iraq and Iraqi national security, and we are grateful for the generous contributions of the governments of the United States and Canada, which have made this milestone possible.”
The two projects target Iraq’s highly porous border with Syria, where border controls have been adversely impacted by years of war and sanctions. The crisis caused by the Islamic State (or Daesh), difficult security conditions and challenges with the federal budget have left border communities without the tools and capabilities they need to address security concerns.
The delivery of this equipment is part of a broader effort to enhance border security, including the implementation of infrastructure modernization, community-based dialogue and problem-solving platforms and capacity building for law enforcement and border guards. This approach will help to enhance the technical capacity of the Government of Iraq to receive, screen and respond to migrants coming from Syria and leaving Iraq. It also strengthens the ability of Iraqi institutions, officials and communities to cooperatively identify and resolve border security issues.
The GoI and partners – including the Border Points Commission, provincial and local governments, local civil society organizations and other entities – have been involved at every stage of the project, including planning, design and implementation, to support an integrated border management approach that is sustainable, as well as responsive to the needs of border communities.
“I am pleased that the Government of the United States of America, through its support to the IOM, has worked to continuously improve the capacity of the Interior Ministry’s Border Guard Security Forces,” said U.S. Ambassador Matthew Tueller. “The initiative we are celebrating today is part of an ongoing effort by the United States to help Iraq enhance its border controls and screening capabilities at the Al Qaim border crossing checkpoint in Anbar Province, as well as at the informal port-of-entry at Fao in Ninewa province. The MIDAS screening equipment we are handing over today, in addition to radios, night vision devices and vehicles, will strengthen the Border Guard Security Forces interdiction and screening capabilities at critical points along the Iraq-Syria border,” he added.
“Canada is pleased to support the Ministry of Interior and IOM’s efforts to enhance security along Iraq’s border with Syria,” said Canadian Ambassador Ulric Shannon. “This partnership is an important component of Canada’s broader engagement in Iraq, which aims to reinforce stability and promote the enduring defeat of Daesh.”

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/131238-united-states-canada-and-iom-support-government-iraq-technology-stronger-border-management




Date: 13 June 2021
Title: Supporting increased returns a top priority for Denmark with new DKK 50 million contribution
Content: 13 June 2021
Baghdad : The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq welcomes an additional DKK 50.3 million (US$8 million) contribution from the Government of Denmark to its flagship Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS).
The funding will support the safe return of people in areas liberated from ISIL in Iraq by rehabilitating critical infrastructure, creating livelihoods and building social cohesion.
This contribution brings Denmark’s total investment in FFS to US$53.9 million since 2015. To date, the FFS has completed over 2,831 projects in areas liberated from ISIL, benefitting more than 13 million Iraqis with improved basic services, education, health and infrastructure. It has assisted 4.8 million internally displaced persons (IDPs) to return home.
Danish Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod stresses Denmark’s continued commitment to help assist in addressing the challenges Iraq faces: “The work of the UN in Iraq is absolutely vital for the long term stability and prosperity of Iraq and its people – who over the years have endured so much hardship. A stable and democratic Iraq is absolutely key is ensuring stability and security in the region, but also in Denmark and Europe. I am therefore happy to announce a further contribution of approx. 8 mio. USD to the United Nations Stabilisation Fund”.
“Through generous support from international partners like Denmark, critical services damaged during the conflict have been restored, livelihoods have been created and reconciliation efforts have been furthered,” says UNDP Resident Representative Zena Ali Ahmad.
“We are grateful for Denmark’s new contribution, which will support the people of Iraq to pick up their lives and build forward better. The time is now to bolster our stabilization efforts as 1.2 million people continue to remain displaced and need essential services. This funding prioritises the most vulnerable communities to increase returns to the hardest to return areas, and I thank Denmark’s continued commitment to this cause,” adds Ms Ali Ahmad.
In November 2020, the FFS mandate was extended to 2023 with a strengthened focus on productive sectors such as agriculture, promoting sustainable livelihood and employment opportunities. In addition to mainstreaming human rights principles, environmental sustainability, conflict sensitivity and gender equality in all sectors of work.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/131239-supporting-increased-returns-top-priority-denmark-new-dkk-50-million-contribution




Date: 11 June 2021
Title: ILO and partners mark World Day Against Child Labour in Iraq
Content: 11 June 2021
A virtual event with key national and international partners took place, shedding lights on some of the root causes and consequences of child labour in Iraq and efforts to address them.
The ILO, together with national and international partners marked World Day Against Child Labour in Iraq with a virtual event highlighting the plight of working children and efforts to tackle the worst forms of child labour in the country. The event took place on Thursday (June 10), ahead of World Day Against Child Labour which is observed annually on June 12.
Organised by the ILO, the event was attended by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the Kurdish Regional Government, Ms. Kwestan Mohammed and key officials from the government, including the Deputy Director General of the Department of Labour and Vocational Training at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Federal Government of Iraq, Mr. Abbas Fadel. It also brought together representatives from Save the Children International, UNHCR, UNICEF, the child protection sub-cluster, as well as Al-Tahreer Association for Development and Kurdistan Save the Children, ILO’s local implementing partners.
“Your work in this field is very valuable. Through our work at the ministry, and with your engagement we continue to tackle the issue of child labour in efforts to promote and protect children’s rights. However, we must also continue working with the children’s families to ensure they have access to economic and livelihoods opportunities,” said the Minister.
“Child labour in Iraq has been on the increase due to armed conflict, displacement and economic challenges, which have been further exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. On World Day Against Child Labour, we call on our partners to put the issue of child labour at the core of their programmes as it requires drastic efforts that address the root causes of the problem,” said Mr. Fadel.
Iraq has ratified the ILO Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138) and the ILO Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (No. 182), which are central to the fight against child labour.
The event took place as global activities to mark this year’s world day kicked off, focusing on action taken for the 2021 International Year for the Elimination of Child Labour .
“The issue of child labour is complex and has hazardous consequence on children’s safety, wellbeing and education. At the ILO, we will continue to work with partners on finding solutions to remove children from the worst forms of child labour and provide them with access to the services and support which they need,” said Dr. Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq.
With support from the European Regional Development Protection Programme (RDPP II) – a joint European initiative by the Czech Republic, Denmark, the European Union, Ireland and Switzerland, the ILO in Iraq is implementing a programme which tackles the worst forms of child labour amongst Syrian refugees, internally displaced persons and vulnerable host community members. This includes piloting a Child Labour Monitoring System, increasing access to quality education for children, providing skills training and income-generating activities to older siblings and caretakers of vulnerable children, and supporting the development of a National Action Plan against child labour.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/131049-ilo-and-partners-mark-world-day-against-child-labour-iraq




Date: 11 June 2021
Title: UN-Habitat Executive Director meets with senior Government officials in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq to discuss on-going and future urban development initiatives
Content: 11 June 2021
Erbil, 11 June 2021 - UN-Habitat’s Executive Director (ED), Maimunah Mohd Sharif, met with H.E. Mr. Sasan Awni, Minister of Municipalities and Tourism of Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG), thanking the KRG for its tireless rebuilding efforts and discussed future collaboration opportunities.
H.E. Mr. Awni acknowledged UN-Habitat’s engagement since 2014 in humanitarian and early urban-recovery efforts in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KR-I), supporting internally displaced persons (IDPs) through shelter provision and reconstruction efforts. Mrs. Sharif emphasized how in the past three years, the agency has shifted its focus on supporting the return of displaced Iraqi to their areas of origin. While it will continue to provide development assistance in liberated governorates, in the years to come UN-Habitat will be initiating more normative and technical programs. She spoke about the need to raise the attention of donors towards the need to strengthen urban planning capacities within the Ministry of Municipalities and Tourism so that they can effectively perform their day-to-day while planning for a more sustainable and more equitable urban future.
During her discussion with Mr. Daban Shadala, Deputy Head of Department of Foreign Relations (DFR), Mrs. Sharif exchanged thoughts on water management issues affecting the region, sustainable returns of displaced persons and the importance of cultural tolerance. They agreed that launching capacity development initiatives concurrently with UN-Habitat’s urban recovery projects can make development efforts more sustainable and durable.
In her meeting with H.E. Mr. Zagros Fatah, Deputy Minister of KRG’s Ministry of Planning (MOP), Mrs. Sharif acknowledged the excellent level of collaboration between MOP and UN-Habitat and the past co-financing of three successful projects in the region. She was particularly glad to hear about the Ministry’s renewed interest in the Building Codes that were jointly developed in 2018 to enhance climate change considerations and energy consumption. They then discussed the opportunity to work jointly on the drafting of a Regional Spatial Plan and the establishment of an Urban Observatory in KR-I to monitor and analyse urban data and trends.
In his conversation with the Executive Director, Mr. Zagros Fatah stated the importance of being able to provide affordable housing to the most vulnerable members of society by attracting private sector investments. He was particularly interested in Mrs. Sharif’s experience as former Mayor of the City Council of Penang Island, Malaysia, in establishing digitisation systems for land management, building control and revenue generation.
After a brief tour of the Citadel of Erbil, Mrs. Sharif then visited the neighbourhood of Kurani Ainkawa where UN-Habitat and UNDP, in 2010-11, led an ambitious urban upgrading project in partnership with the KRG. In the Community Centre that was inaugurated in 2016, Mrs. Sharif met with H.E. Mr. Omed Khoshnaw, Governor of Erbil, who recognised the truly transformational value of this project and expressed his hope that such interventions can be replicated in other areas. They discussed building capacity opportunities in urban planning and data analysis. Mr. Massoud Karash, Deputy Governor of Erbil, voiced his concern for the lack of water and electricity that is currently affecting this region, stressing the need for an integrated approach to the provision of basic services in urban and rural areas.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/131175-un-habitat-executive-director-meets-senior-government-officials-kurdistan-region-iraq




Date: 10 June 2021
Title: The Humanitarian Coordinator visits Shariya Camp and welcomes KRG decision to allow semi upgraded shelters for camp residents
Content: 10 June 2021
Dohuk, Iraq –  The Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, visited Shariya IDP Camp in Dohuk governorate. The visit came in the aftermath of a fire on 4 June, that destroyed some 288 tents in the camp, leaving over 1000 persons homeless.
Ms. Sollorano met with BCF Camp Management staff and representatives of the UNHCR led Camp Coordination and Camp Management Cluster to discuss current needs and the way forward. Representatives from BCF Camp Management, UNHCR IOM, and OCHA, met the Humanitarian Coordinator on the visit to the camp.  Resources were swiftly deployed last Friday to put out the fire, secure the area and support those impacted.  Temporary tents, alternative shelters, water, hot meals, and Core Relief Items were provided. During her visit to Duhok, Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano met with families that were affected by the fire and listened to their concerns and the challenges facing them.
“While I am saddened by the fire incident last Friday, the UN welcomes the KRG and the Governor of Dohuk’s decision to allow the construction of semi-upgraded shelters so that camp residents can live in safety and with dignity. I hope this will put a stop to any such incidents happening again in the future” said the Humanitarian Coordinator.
Representatives from BCF Camp Management, UNHCR, IOM, and OCHA, met with the Humanitarian Coordinator and facilitated her visit to the camp.
The UN underscores the increased need to find durable solutions to end displacement in Iraq. All forms of durable solutions have to be voluntary, safe, dignified, and sustainable. The creation of safe conditions and the availability of basic services are an essential.
Ms. Vojáčková-Sollorano reaffirmed the UN’s commitment to continue providing humanitarian assistance for both IDPs and returnees.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/130808-humanitarian-coordinator-visits-shariya-camp-and-welcomes-krg-decision-allow-semi-upgraded




Date: 10 June 2021
Title: A new step towards gender equality in Iraq; New MoU signed
Content: 10 June 2021
Baghdad – A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has today been signed between the General Secretariat of the Iraqi Council of Ministers’ (GSCOM) Women Empowerment Directorate and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to advance gender equality and women empowerment in Iraq.
Building upon existing structures and ongoing gender mainstreaming efforts, the new partnership will strengthen the institutional and analytical capacity of relevant Iraqi stakeholders to advance gender equality, focusing on the specific needs of women and girls in Iraq. It will help Iraq achieve its gender equality commitments under the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by integrating gender perspective in governmental policies and plans.
One of the priority activities under the MoU is to assist the government’s Central Statistical Organization to establish an e-platform that aims at bridging the gender classified data gap by facilitating the flow of reliable, gender-specific data across different institutions in the country that will help shape government policies.
The Secretary General of the Council of Ministers, His Excellency Mr. Hamid Al-Ghizi said: “Whereas women around the world are seen as powerful agents of change towards advanced, sustainable and inclusive societies, Iraqi women have played a strong role in addressing the crises and challenges that Iraq has experienced and have had an effective role and contribution in establishing inclusive society. Hence, we believe that this MoU is an important step towards strengthening these roles”
“While Iraq still grapples with the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, it has disproportionately affected women and girls, exacerbating numerous existing social, economic and political challenges. This calls for increased gender responsive efforts towards achieving gender equality. UNDP Iraq will continue support the government to mainstream gender equality and fulfil its national obligations under the SDGs. This MoU with GSCOM will further strengthen inclusive and gender sensitive policies, as well as our efforts to achieve gender equality in Iraq,” says Resident Representative of UNDP in Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/131047-new-step-towards-gender-equality-iraq-new-mou-signed




Date: 09 June 2021
Title: SRSG for Iraq briefs diplomatic representatives on the new mandate; UNAMI aims to strengthen Iraq’s electoral capacities and promote transparency
Content: 09 June 2021
Baghdad, 9 June 2021 – The Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq, Ms. Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, briefed today in Baghdad representatives of the diplomatic missions accredited to Iraq, on the latest Security Council resolution concerning Iraq and the correspondingly enhanced mandate of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI).
In its resolution 2576 (2021) adopted on 27 May, the Security Council commended the Government of Iraq’s efforts to plan and execute genuinely free and fair early elections that are credible, participatory and inclusive, with the full, equal and meaningful participation of women. The resolution also welcomed the government’s request for further UN electoral advice, support, and technical assistance in this regard.
UNAMI already provides comprehensive technical assistance and advice to IHEC on election management, legal and regulatory frameworks, training and procedures, Covid preparedness, procurement, logistics, information and communication technology, field-level coordination, communications and outreach, gender policies, and election security planning at the HQ and governorate levels. “With more than 70 UN electoral staff currently deployed throughout the country, the aim is to strengthen Iraq’s electoral capacities and promote transparency, thereby rebuilding trust in Iraq’s electoral institutions and processes”, SRSG Hennis-Plasschaert clarified.
Pursuant to the recently adopted Security Council resolution, UNAMI is now in the process of preparing for the phased deployment of additional UN teams on the ground in the lead up to, and on election day. The SRSG invited the international community to support this initiative so as to ensure that sufficient UN electoral staff can indeed be deployed.
“Positively responding to the request of the Government of Iraq, the Security Council decided to endorse a strengthened, robust and visible UN team, with additional staff, in advance of Iraq’s forthcoming election, to monitor Iraq’s election day with as broad a geographic coverage as possible, and to continue to assist with the election, in a manner that respects Iraqi sovereignty”, SRSG Hennis-Plasschaert stated.
The SRSG emphasized the importance of all Iraqis using their democratic right by casting their votes in high numbers, thus making these elections a true democratic milestone in the history of Iraq. “The people of Iraq have spoken loudly and clearly to demand these elections: now is the time to make these voices heard through the ballot box. This is your country, and your vote can shape the future of Iraq”.
“The United Nations fully supports the Iraqi people’s desire for a political system that truly represents them and meets their needs. The October early elections can help realize that desire, hopefully strengthening the foundations of a strong, stable and sustainable Iraq”, SRSG Hennis-Plasschaert said.
In line with the Security Council resolution, she also made it clear that the elections are at all times Iraqi-led and Iraqi-owned: “it is first and foremost the responsibility of the Iraqi institutions and political leadership to ensure transparency and accountability in the electoral process. The elections must be conducted in a conducive environment where candidates conduct their campaigns, and voters cast their ballots, freely and safely”.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/139428-srsg-iraq-briefs-diplomatic-representatives-new-mandate-unami-aims-strengthen-iraq%E2%80%99s




Date: 09 June 2021
Title: UNHCR press statement
Content: 09 June 2021
UNHCR, which leads the Camp Coordination/Camp Management and Shelter Clusters in Iraq, welcomes the Government’s to allow the construction of semi-upgraded shelters in camps for displaced persons in Duhok Governate.
The decision represents a longer-term response to the large fire in Shariya IDP camp on 4 June and will not only reduce risks of fire but is a positive step in terms of protection, dignity, safety, and privacy for each individual family.
The shelter upgrade, something that UNHCR and humanitarian partners have been advocating for, is a transitional solution until these families can go back home in a voluntary, safe and dignified manner. UNHCR and humanitarian partners will work closely with the authorities, Camp Management, and the community to set appropriate standards for the upgrades. The decision complements the immediate response of Government, Camp Management, and humanitarian partners to the 4 June fire. In the immediate aftermath of the fire, UNHCR and its partners contributed tents, core relief items, additional fire extinguishers and other protection and assistance services, such as replacement of civil documents, to the affected population.
UNHCR will continue its long-standing fire prevention activities including provision of fire extinguishers and risk awareness and risk mitigation activities in support of and in coordination with Camp Management and camp-based Civil Defence authorities. UNHCR would also like to urge donor countries to contribute to this urgent shelter need so that displaced families in Shariya and other camps can live with peace of mind, protected from hazards until they find longer-term solutions.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/131046-unhcr-press-statement




Date: 09 June 2021
Title: UN-Habitat Executive Director discusses future initiatives with Government Officials during her first visit to Iraq
Content: 09 June 2021
Baghdad, 8  June 2021 - UN Habitat’s Executive Director, Maimunah Mohd Sharif, has visited Iraq for the first time and called for all levels of the Government to work together on urban sustainability, resilience and climate change.
The Executive Director met with Mr. Kahtan Taha, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, to express her deepest appreciation for all the support the Iraq government have provided to UN-Habitat.
In this meeting, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs said: “I am glad to meet today the USG and the ED of UN-Habitat and learn about UN-Habitat Programme in Iraq, particularly since Iraq needs more support to the reconstruction efforts of housing and infrastructure to ensure sustainable return of IDPs.”
The Executive Director also met with the Governor of Anbar, the Minister of Planning (MoP) of Iraq, the Minister of Justice (MoJ), and the Minister of Finance (MoF), in separate meetings.
In the meeting with the Governor of Anbar, the ED witnessed the signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to further cement the partnership between the two parties and improve lives for the people of Iraq.
The Executive Director also referred to the numerous urban recovery and reconstruction projects that UN-Habitat has implemented so far in the recently liberated areas and emphasized how the success of its future reconstruction programmes is contingent on the strong support from the Iraqi Government and its Ministries, and encouraged them to coordinate closely to amplify the impact of urban recovery initiatives.
A matter critical to UN-Habitat’s Iraq Programme was discussed in both her meetings with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of Justice, as the Executive Director requested their support for the formal recognition by the Government of Housing, Land, and Property (HLP) rights of Yazidis in Sinjar. Since 2017, UN-Habitat has been working with the Government of Iraq to endorse a decree to officially recognize the HLP rights of the Yazidi minority in Sinjar. So far, UN-Habitat has distributed more than 9,000 Occupancy Certificates to Yazidi returnees.
The passing of the legal decree granting Yazidi land rights would represent a significant triumph for both the Government of Iraq and UN-Habitat as this would be the first time in modern history that occupancy rights for the Yazidi minority in Sinjar are formally recognized, thereby providing them with legal property rights. Moreover, the decree is in line with the recent agreement between the Federal Government and the Kurdistan Region Government to work collaboratively on building peace and stability in Sinjar.
Finally, the Executive Director requested a concerted effort by MoP, MoF and local authorities towards knowledge sharing on urban sustainability, resilience and climate change. These elements play a key role in implementing the New Urban Agenda, a framework unanimously adopted in 2016 at the United Nations Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development (Habitat III), that lays out how cities should be planned and managed to promote sustainable development. In this sense, facilitating the institutional collaboration of government actors to engage in joint action with UN-Habitat will offer an effective model for enhancing the value of its urban-recovery initiatives.
In her first visit to Baghdad, the ED successfully elevated UN-Habitat’s relationship with key Government stakeholders to a new level, strengthening the engagement of key decision makers in the  urban realm and reiterating the agency’s commitment to improving the lives of the Iraqi people.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/130628-un-habitat-executive-director-discusses-future-initiatives-government-officials-during-her




Date: 09 June 2021
Title: Local authorities in Heet celebrate the handover of area-based and complementary projects and activities completed by UN-Habitat with funding from the European Union and Alwaleed Philanthropies
Content: 09 June 2021
Heet, Iraq – 9 June 2021 - More than three years after the official end of the ousting of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), establishing durable solutions for displaced families remains critical. Damaged and destroyed houses and the lack of basic services remain some of the main obstacles preventing the sustainable return of displaced persons to their hometowns and communities.
The absence of appropriate housing, jobs, and basic services such as water, sanitation, schools, as well as safe public spaces for children, means that displaced families face challenges to returning home. This has been further exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, during which many people lost jobs, and schools were closed, meaning that families had to keep children at home.
On 8 June 2021, UN-Habitat brought together MP Sheikh Adil Khamis Al-Mahlawi, representatives from the Governor of Anbar’s office, and representatives from Heet as well as Ms. Maimunah Modh Sharif, Executive Director of United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), and Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano, Deputy Special Representative, Resident Coordinator, Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq, to celebrate the completion and tangible impact of these activities on the community of Al Baker and to inaugurate the newly created Al-Nejoom park, funded by the European Union. This is the first visit of the UN-Habitat Executive Director to Iraq.
MP Sheikh Adil Khamis Al-Mahlawi opened the ceremony by saying “I extend my thanks and gratitude to the leadership of this programme and the donors [Alwaleed Philanthropies and the European Union], who made us happy and brought us together today in Al-Nejoom Park in Al-Bakr neighborhood in Heet district ... to contribute to the opening ceremony of this park to be a place of recreation and a landmark in this area. We are looking forward to more construction projects and providing services…and let's work together for this purpose.”
With the aim to encourage the sustainable return of internally displaced persons (IDPs) and enhance living conditions and livelihoods in conflict-affected governorates, in 2019 the European Union partnered with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and UN-Habitat to implement local recovery projects in five targeted communities, including the town of Heet.
Ambassador of the EU to Iraq, H.E. Martin Huth, said, “ensuring better services to the displaced population in Anbar, is yet another good example of the EU’s strong commitment to support local communities and local authorities in shaping a more inclusive and accountable development for Iraq. All the more we are pleased that activities were completed notwithstanding the difficult times during the COVID-19 pandemic. The recovery challenges affecting Iraqi communities three years after the defeat of ISIL still persist. The European Union will continue its partnership with UN-Habitat, UNDP and the Iraqi local authorities for rebuilding healthier spaces for communities, ensuring better access to services, and continue to contribute to the long-term stability and social development of the country.”
Through the implementation of a first set of impactful rehabilitation projects on housing, water supply and open spaces funded by the European Union, UN-Habitat managed to gain a strong foothold in the area of Al Baker West, gain the trust of the community and establish an excellent relationship with the authorities of Heet.
"I am glad to be here today and proud to see the results of UN-Habitat's area based approach implemented in Heet that has focused on and contributed to sustainable returns of IDPs," said Ms. Irena Vojáčková-Sollorano: Deputy Special Representative, Resident Coordinator, Humanitarian Coordinator for Iraq during her statement.
This helped to secure in mid-2020 another development partnership with Alwaleed Philanthropies focused on complementary activities aimed at mitigating COVID-19 transmission and enhancing community resilience in Al Baker East.
“We are happy to see that our project has been completed in the town of Heet, and that residents are finally returning to their homes establishing their presence there. We thank our partners at the UN-Habitat for their work and dedication throughout this process. Today, with more than one billion people living in slums and 1.6 billion people living in inadequate housing units, it is our responsibility to ensure housing rights for all; home is a fundamental and basic human necessity,” said Her Royal Highness Princess Lamia Bint Majed Saud AlSaud, the Secretary General and member of the Board of Trustees at Alwaleed Philanthropies.
Within these two projects combined, UN-Habitat has rehabilitated 180 war-damage houses; renovated a primary school; created a new park and two sports facilities; upgraded and extended potable networks serving over 600 houses and 4,125 people; rehabilitated two Water Treatment Plants; upgraded seven health facilities, including Heet’s General Hospital, to protect some 130,000 people among health personnel and community members in the current pandemic crisis; created over 6,500 working days for Heet residents in construction, civil works and landscaping; organised several sports events; conducted a planting campaign with a local volunteer group; provided vocational training for 120 unemployed youth; and engaged Iraq contractors, community groups and local NGOs in creating opportunities for synergies between projects, job opportunities, and capacity building.
Ms. Maimunah Modh Sharif, Executive Director of UN-Habitat said, “we very much look forward to continuing to work closely with our counterparts in Anbar, specifically the Governor’s office, the Heet Mayor’s office, the relevant Directorates and Municipality and count on your support to ensure success and sustainability of these very important projects that highlight the importance of linking humanitarian-development-peacebuilding activities to sustain peace in the long-term.” Mrs. Sharif closed her statement by saying, “it is my first visit to Iraq, and I can feel the warmness, and the warm heart of the Heet community.”
The result of the projects has not only provided improved living conditions and access to basic infrastructure, but residents have increased sense of dignity, safety and security.
Female headed households specifically highlighted the importance of solid walls and gates to provide them a sense of safety and security for them and their children, who now have a safe space to go and play, and just ‘be’ children.
Most importantly, the projects have contributed to nurturing even stronger ties between the Anbar Governor’s office and local authorities in Heet, specifically the Mayor's office, the relevant Directorates, and the Municipality, to ensure the long-term sustainability of its planned initiatives with the objective to reach the most vulnerable people.
Anbar Chief of Governor’s Advisors, Engr. Jasim Mohammed Al-Halbousi, said “UN-Habitat was present in the beginnings of liberation, as it had a role in restoring stability and enabling returnee families by securing jobs and employing young people, which had an impact on reviving the economic situation of those areas. The local government took upon itself the responsibility of restoring stability, returning the displaced, and securing the minimum services as soon as possible, but because of the lack of financial allocations, it was necessary to search for international partners, most notably UN-Habitat. The decision was to maintain cooperation and invest their expertise in this field, and we succeeded in this endeavour and today we have reaped the fruits of this success by opening these projects”.
“Today we have attended a great ceremony conducted by UN-Habitat for the handover of Al-Nejoom Park in west Al-Baker Neighbourhood and the project to support COVID-19 mitigation in east Al-Baker. Al-Baker neighbourhood was greatly affected by ISIS terrorist activities and as such, these projects made a magnificent imprint on the community. I would like to thank and appreciate the work of the heroes who put all their efforts towards implementing these two projects to return life to this neighbourhood,” said Mr. Muhannad Zbar Al-Obaidi, Mayor of Heet.
Background:
The town of Heet (over 70,000 inhabitants) is located along the Euphrates River, northwest of Ramadi, the provincial capital. The city fell to ISIL in October 2014 and was recaptured after a military offensive by the Iraqi Security Forces in April 2016. It suffered significant physical damage to homes and public facilities, and its inhabitants have endured some of the worst atrocities and adversities during its occupation. UN-Habitat established a presence in Heet in 2019 to support sustainable returns and more recently, mitigation of COVID-19 in poor neighbourhoods. With the support of implementing partners, the living conditions of recent returnees in Al Baker neighbourhood have been improved, allowing many who were still in camps, or living with relatives or renting, to return to their homes, and to dignified, adequate and appropriate living conditions.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/139427-local-authorities-heet-celebrate-handover-area-based-and-complementary-projects-and




Date: 07 June 2021
Title: UN-Habitat Executive Director meets with the US Ambassador to Iraq to discuss on-going partnership to support the land rights of minority groups
Content: 07 June 2021
Baghdad - 7th June 2021: UN-Habitat’s Executive Director (ED), Mrs. Maimunah Sharif, met with Ambassador Matthew H. Tueller, the United States’ Ambassador to Iraq, and thanked the US Government for its longstanding partnership and continued trust in UN-Habitat’s initiatives.
The United States is one of the main donors to UN-Habitat focusing on Housing, Land, and Property (HLP) rights in Iraq, with a particular focus on protecting the property rights of minorities.
“The United States greatly values its partnership with UN-Habitat,” said Ambassador Tueller during his meeting with the ED.  “UN-Habitat has made truly commendable progress in many areas, and especially in addressing housing, land, and property rights of the displaced and other vulnerable populations,” he added.
UN-Habitat Iraq Program is currently implementing a three-year program titled “Support to Housing, Land and Property Rights for IDPs in Nineveh.” The program’s overall goal is to stabilize Iraq by promoting safe, voluntary, dignified, and sustainable returns and reintegration in the liberated areas in Nineveh, northern Iraq. The program is particularly focused on vulnerable IDPs from minority groups, particularly Yazidis, whose registration for housing, land and property (HLP) rights has been banned due to discriminatory practices in Iraq.
To counter the discrimination against the Yazidi minority, UN-Habitat is registering and mapping the land claims of Yazidi returnees, holding community consultation meetings to help verify their claims among themselves, and issuing Occupancy Certificates endorsed by federal, local authorities, and community representatives. As a result of UN-Habitat’s continuous effort, more than 9,000 Occupancy Certificates have been distributed to Yazidi returnees to date.
“The support from the US government has always been crucial to UN-Habitat’s Housing, Land and Property (HLP) rights initiative in Iraq. We are confident that the process of endorsement of land decree and the recognition of the Certificates of Occupancy is critical to ensure sustainable return of Yazidis,” said the ED.
UN-Habitat hopes to continue its partnership with the U.S. Department of State to support the protection of HLP rights for the Yazidi minority in Iraq and to complete the last stage towards formal registration of Occupancy Certificates. It is expected that the Iraqi government will formally recognize their HLP rights by legal decree.
The most significant outcome from ED’s meetings with the senior Iraqi officials is that they are keen to lay the groundwork for the formal recognition of the Occupancy Certificates by the central Government. The endorsement of the legal decree granting Yazidi land rights will be a great accomplishment for UN-Habitat, as it will mark the first time in modern history that occupancy rights for the Yazidi minority in Sinjar will be formally recognized.
In addition, the approval of the law will impact informal settlements, and will enormously affect urban populations in Iraq, including IDPs. The law will open the door to address the legal situation of almost 15% of the population in Iraq who live in informal settlements. In the past, these informal settlements have affected social, economic and service aspects of many Iraqi cities, and have often impeded the drafting of urban plans and the delivery of basic services to its citizens. Once this law is passed, it is expected that thousands of job opportunities will be created, as many construction projects will be launched to upgrade and regularize eligible informal settlements.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/130347-un-habitat-executive-director-meets-us-ambassador-iraq-discuss-going-partnership-support




Date: 07 June 2021
Title: UN-Habitat’s Executive Director meets with the Japanese Ambassador to Iraq to express her appreciation for the longstanding partnership between the Government of Japan and UN-Habitat Iraq
Content: 07 June 2021
Baghdad - 7th June 2021
UN-Habitat’s Executive Director (ED), Mrs. Maimunah Sharif, met with Ambassador Suzuki, Japan’s Ambassador to Iraq and thanked the Government of Japan for its longstanding partnership and continued trust in UN-Habitat’s initiatives.
The partnership between the Government of Japan and UN-Habitat in Iraq dates back to 2004. Between then and 2008, UN-Habitat has implemented several projects with Japanese funding, including rehabilitating damaged houses and public infrastructures such as schools, establishing vocational training schools, and installing new water and sanitation facilities. Japan has categorically been a long-standing partner and donor in major rebuilding projects.
In his meeting with the ED, the Japanese Ambassador Suzuki said:
"Humans cannot start to live without a shelter. Not only a decent home, but essential supply of water, sanitation and electricity; we also need to earn money for livelihood.
"The people in that region are still suffering from lack of all these, on top of communal and safety concerns.
"True to its name, UN-Habitat's integrated approach give consideration to this, caring for real people's life. It is in line with the notion of "human security" envisaged in Japan's assistance policy.
"It is with trust and good wishes of Japanese people to Iraqi people in plight, that Japan decided to finance these projects. UN-Habitat, with its local and global achievements, is a greatly reliable partner in these projects."
Presently, UN-Habitat is the only organization in Iraq constructing low-cost houses for Internally Displaced Person (IDPs). In her meeting with the Ambassador, the ED enthusiastically acknowledged and appreciated the role of Japanese funding in UN-Habitat’s urban-recovery initiatives. The ED also thanked the Japanese Government for extending emergency support towards returnees in the face of a global pandemic.
Since the Japanese Fiscal Year 2014, the Government of Japan has provided more than USD 56 million to UN-Habitat (Iraq). Japan is currently funding two ongoing projects, namely: “Support to Reconstruction and Peace-building of Liberated Cities in Iraq – Phase III (FY2019 project)” and “Emergency Support to Returnees in Iraq after the Outbreak of COVID-19 (FY2020 project)”. These projects have massively contributed to social stabilization and UN’s peace-building efforts in Iraq. Apart from discussing the existing projects, the prospects of launching new ones in the future were also discussed in ED’s meeting with the Ambassador.
Both the Japanese Ambassador and the ED recognized that the main challenge faced by UN-Habitat today is the influx of IDPs. By 2017, the number of people returning to their homes has surpassed the number of people displaced in Iraq. However, the damage to their houses is one of the main obstacles preventing many IDPs from returning. Therefore, it was mutually agreed in the meeting that solving the housing crisis in liberated cities is an urgent need, not only for the displaced persons but also for communities who have been bearing the heavy burden of hosting many IDPs for more than three years.
The meeting strengthened the commitment of both parties to further work for incorporating sustainable and context-based practices in the liberated cities of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/130372-un-habitat%E2%80%99s-executive-director-meets-japanese-ambassador-iraq-express-her-appreciation




Date: 07 June 2021
Title: Addressing needs of Iraq’s most vulnerable critical for inclusive and sustainable recovery from COVID-19, new UNDP reports say
Content: 07 June 2021
Baghdad, 7 June 2021 – Recovery strategies targeting Iraq’s vulnerable populations – including women, youth and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) – must be prioritized to ensure inclusive and sustainable recovery from COVID-19 in Iraq, according to two new complementary reports released today by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq in collaboration with the United Nations Human Settlement Programme (UN-Habitat) and the International Organization for Migration (IOM).
Both reports emanate from a study that explores the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on socio-economic status and livelihoods at the household level, with a focus on its impact on vulnerable groups such as women, youth, children, persons with disabilities, and displaced communities. It compares urban and rural settings and considers impacts in both Federal Iraq and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
Original data collected and presented in the first report, Findings of the Assessment of COVID-19’s Socioeconomic Impact on Iraq’s Vulnerable Populations forms the basis for the subsequent policy report: Impact of COVID-19 on Iraq’s Vulnerable Populations. The latter examines policy implications of the data findings and argues that building an inclusive path forward will require establishing sustainable systems and structures, listening and responding to the voices of the vulnerable, and laying out realistic goals to enable attainment of the 2030 Agenda.
Key findings include:
The reports are the sixth and seventh papers in a series released by UNDP on the impact of COVID-19 in Iraq.
“COVID-19 has, and will continue to have, long-term consequences for vulnerable Iraqis in accessing sustainable livelihoods, food security, health and education – particularly women, youth, the elderly, people living with disabilities and the displaced,” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“As the report clearly suggests, without sufficient attention to these vulnerable communities, Iraq may not achieve long-term, equitable sustainable development and recovery, and risks undoing the progress made towards achieving Agenda 2030. This could further undermine the social contract between the State and its citizens at a time where this is of critical importance. We urge the Government of Iraq, Kurdistan Regional Government, local actors and the international community to consider the policy recommendations outlined in the report and band together and tackle this issue. As always, UNDP Iraq stands ready to support these efforts to improve the lives of all Iraqis,” adds Ms Ali Ahmad.
UNDP Iraq is grateful to UN-Habitat and IOM for its partnership and important contributions to Findings of the Assessment of COVID-19’s Socioeconomic Impact on Iraq’s Vulnerable Population and Impact of COVID-19 on Iraq’s Vulnerable Populations.
Previously released papers in UNDP’s socioeconomic impact assessment series:
Impact of COVID-19 and the Oil Crisis on Iraq’s Fragility
Impact of COVID-19 on the Iraqi Economy
Impact of COVID-19 on Social Cohesion in Iraq
Impact of COVID-19 on Social Protection in Iraq
Impact of COVID-19 on Environmental Sustainability in Iraq
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/130352-addressing-needs-iraq%E2%80%99s-most-vulnerable-critical-inclusive-and-sustainable-recovery-covid-19




Date: 03 June 2021
Title: UNDP Iraq hosts Interfaith Religious Conference in Erbil on peaceful coexistence to encourage return and reintegration of the displaced
Content: 03 June 2021
Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq, 02 June 2021 – The United Nations Development Programme in Iraq (UNDP) in partnership with the Iraqi Ministry of Migration and Displaced (MOMD), the Governorate of Ninewa, and supported by the Government of Denmark, concluded an interfaith religious conference held in Erbil today.
The two-day conference gathered around 100 religious leaders to elaborate on how best to advance reconciliation, coexistence and combating violent extremism, as well as encourage the return and reintegration of displaced families in Ninewa Governorate. Participants had the opportunity to discuss critical topics like the return of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and preventing violent extremism within communities in Ninewa, and raise important issues directly with the Minister of Migration and Displaced, Her Excellency Mrs. Ivan Faiek Jabru and the Governor of Ninewa, His Excellency Mr. Najim Aljabouri.
Key recommendations include the need for religious leaders to work together to support the Ministry of Migration and Displaced build trust between religious groups to help prevent crises from impacting civil peace; and that leaders are encouraged to support religious speech that promotes moderation and mediation, resenting hate speech, and respect for other religions or beliefs.
The conference follows intensive training undertaken by UNDP Iraq of 87 religious leaders from different backgrounds to enhance their role in community coexistence and social cohesion. A co-existence network was established to foster dialogue, with sub-network hubs for religious leaders in Anbar, Baghdad, Erbil and Ninewa governorates. The trained leaders engaged over 150 community members from different religious backgrounds in training sessions to enhance their skills and knowledge regarding social cohesion, forgiveness, family violence, and COVID-19 public health messages. Work undertaken with interfaith religious leaders contributes to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal of Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions (Goal 16).
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad emphasizes, “We are very pleased with our partnership with the MOMD and local government to encourage the return and reintegration of many displaced vulnerable Iraqis to their communities. Through our work to bring religious leaders from different faiths together, we aim to encourage solidarity in spreading messages of peace and supporting returns. We are thankful to the Government of Denmark for their continued support to this important Social Cohesion agenda in Iraq.”
The Minister of Migration and Displaced, Her Excellency Mrs. Ivan Faiek Jabru, states, “We need to support community peace and return the displaced, and it is our duty as Iraqis to support peaceful coexistence by rehabilitating displaced families as well as spreading the concept of community peace among all segments of society.”
 
In 2020, UNDP Iraq launched a dedicated five-year Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/129810-undp-iraq-hosts-interfaith-religious-conference-erbil-peaceful-coexistence-encourage-return




Date: 30 May 2021
Title: Asiacell and UNDP Iraq join efforts to support youth employment and entrepreneurs
Content: 30 May 2021
The MoU commits the leading telecommunications company and the UNDP Iraq to work together on several initiatives, including supporting young entrepreneurs and start-ups in developing innovative solutions to local challenges alongside UNDP Iraq’s Accelerator Labs
Iraq, Sulaymaniyah – Following its commitment to boosting youth employment and strengthening Iraq’s Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), Asiacell today signed a two-year Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq.
The MoU commits the leading telecommunications company and the UNDP Iraq to work together on several initiatives, including supporting young entrepreneurs and start-ups in developing innovative solutions to local challenges alongside UNDP Iraq’s Accelerator Labs; Also supporting an online platform designed to connect entrepreneurs with potential investors; and promoting opportunities for long-term, sustainable youth employment. Youth-led efforts tackling the COVID-19 pandemic will also be covered under the MoU, with a particular focus on the awareness-raising platform Corona in Iraq (https://stayhome.iq/).
“Through their passion, creativity, innovation and entrepreneurial spirit, young Iraqis today are the agents of change and have the potential to build a resilient and inclusive Iraq – particularly as the country moves on from multiple crises, including the ISIL conflict, the economic difficulties due to declining oil prices, and the COVID-19 pandemic. Today we are proud to partner with Asiacell to nurture young talent, but also help secure the future of Iraqi youth by providing long-term employment training and support,” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“Partnering with the UNDP is a valuable addition to our continuous programmes, which will yield a positive impact on the Iraqi youth. The many challenges entrepreneurs face does not end with the successful founding of a company around a product or a service in Iraq. The Iraqi unfertile technology business ecosystem coupled with the pandemic has made the transition from science to sales even more complex for start-up companies that launched before March 2020, as markets, funding sources, and priorities have shifted. We are full of confidence that this new set of initiatives we are working on right now will have an immeasurable positive effect on the Iraqi economy.” says Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer of Asiacell, Amer Al-Sunna.
The MoU was developed based on the recommendation of the solid study of Iraq’s economic recovery from COVID-19 to expand social security coverage for vulnerable groups, increase revenue generation from partners like Asiacell to fund key development programmes, and allocate more resources to develop the private sector.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/129338-asiacell-and-undp-iraq-join-efforts-support-youth-employment-and-entrepreneurs




Date: 24 May 2021
Title: War-Destroyed Houses Reconstructed for Vulnerable Families in Mosul: IOM Iraq, Qatar Charity
Content: 24 May 2021
24 May 2021 Erbil — As millions of Iraqi returnees continue to grapple with post-conflict realities in areas heavily affected by war, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Iraq has helped 18 families rebuild their destroyed homes in West Mosul with generous support from Qatar Charity.
The recently concluded “Reconstructing Destroyed Housing in Mosul” project contributed to the supporting durable solutions to displacement in Iraq and provided support to the most vulnerable families.
“We appreciate IOM Iraq and Qatar Charity’s initiative to rehabilitate 18 houses in Zanjili and [support] many projects in Mosul. Ninewa Governorate will do everything it can to facilitate rebuilding Mosul and bring life back,” said Ali Salih Khair, a representative for the Governor of Mosul, during a ceremony on 26 April to commemorate the achievement.
“After ISIL took over Mosul, we were displaced to Salamiyah Camp until 2017. When we came back, our house was destroyed. We rented a house, but we kept hoping that one day we would go back home. IOM gave us hope and now my family is back living in our house,” said Faris, a project beneficiary from Mosul.
Housing destruction remains one of the biggest obstacles to return faced by internally displaced persons (IDPs). Lack of safe, dignified housing also poses challenges in terms of protection, putting especially women and girls at risk of gender-based abuse; it also causes additional hardship for households including elderly relatives and persons living with disabilities.
“Through this project, and with Qatar Charity’s support, IOM Iraq intervened in 24 sites to remove post-conflict debris and supported 18 families to build housing units. The project also included cash-for-work opportunities and skills-training, which allowed more community members to benefit and participate in the reconstruction efforts,” said IOM Iraq Chief of Mission Gerard Waite.
“We are delighted to rebuild destroyed homes in Mosul, in cooperation with IOM, which would contribute to providing a dignified life and creating a better environment for the beneficiaries,” said Mr. Ahmed Saad AlRumaihi, Director of Emergency and Relief at Qatar Charity. He added that “Qatar Charity is proud of its partnership with IOM in supporting and completing this important project”, and keen to work with UN agencies and international organizations, especially in crisis-stricken regions worldwide, to implement projects for the benefit of IDPs and refugees.
“After the liberation of Mosul, we came back to see nothing but debris. I was working and living in a rented house. Without IOM, I would have never thought of rehabilitating my house again,” said Sleman.
In cooperation with the Government of Iraq and local communities, IOM Iraq continues to implement comprehensive projects in areas of return to assist the sustainable reintegration of IDPs, including through rehabilitating infrastructure, livelihood support, improving access to basic social services, community policing forums, and social cohesion and peacebuilding initiatives.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/139430-war-destroyed-houses-reconstructed-vulnerable-families-mosul-iom-iraq-qatar-charity




Date: 24 May 2021
Title: Statement from UNHCR Iraq
Content: 24 May 2021
Erbil-24 May 2021 - UNHCR is saddened by the death of the Iranian asylum seeker who had set himself on fire last Tuesday, the 18th of May in front of the UN compound in Erbil.
This tragic loss of a human life is regrettable and we express our deepest sympathy and stand with his family, friends and loved ones during this difficult time.
UNHCR met with representatives of the Iranian displaced community yesterday, Sunday 23 May to discuss their concerns and how
UNHCR can continue to support this community to the extent of our mandate and capabilities.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/139429-statement-unhcr-iraq




Date: 24 May 2021
Title: Fostering justice to curb corruption in Iraq: €15 million project supports transparency and accountability across state institutions
Content: 24 May 2021
The project, entitled Support to justice initiatives curbing corruption and promoting commercial dispute resolution, builds on Iraq’s national efforts to improve transparency and accountability across state institutions and supports Iraq to deliver to its national and international commitments with regard to the fight against corruption.
Baghdad – A EUR 15 million initiative aimed at curbing corruption in Iraq and bolstering transparency and public accountability has been launched today in partnership between the European Union Delegation to Iraq, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and Iraqi federal and Kurdistan state institutions.
The project, entitled Support to justice initiatives curbing corruption and promoting commercial dispute resolution, builds on Iraq’s national efforts to improve transparency and accountability across state institutions and supports Iraq to deliver to its national and international commitments with regard to the fight against corruption. It aims to improve the country’s legislative and strategic framework for combatting corruption, supports the justice sector to better process corruption offences, and fosters the development of commercial courts and arbitration mechanisms. It will also empower Iraqi civil society to take a more active role.
Overall, this project enhances Iraq’s compliance with the United Nations Convention against Corruption, ratified in 2008, and contributes to creating a more conducive environment for attracting economic investments. Critically, the project leads to an improved citizen-state relationship, transparency and public awareness.
Activities under the project include notably support to Iraqi institutions to revise national anti-corruption laws, promoting their alignment with international standards and the provision of specialized on-demand training and mentorship opportunities for corruption investigators and integrity judges.
The project builds on a close collaboration with a number of federal and KRI state institutions, including the Higher Judicial Council and Judicial Council of the Kurdistan Region; Federal and Regional Commissions of Integrity; Council of Representatives and House of Representatives of Kurdistan Region; Federal and Regional Prime Minister Offices, as well as Iraqi civil society organizations.
The Ambassador of the European Union to Iraq, H.E. Martin Huth, stresses that ‘’the fight against corruption requires a joint and united effort, from the Iraqi government, state institutions, and an ever vigilant and watchful Iraqi society. With the launch of this important initiative, the EU offers critical support to Iraqi state institutions mandated in the integrity domain. This project helps Iraq deliver on its own national and international commitments and respond to the clear expectations of Iraqi citizens to rid Iraq of the plague of corruption. I look forward to seeing a continued strong political will, national ownership and joint steering of this initiative for the benefit of Iraq and its people.”
“The Iraqi people have taken to the streets to demand action against corruption” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
Their voices are louder than ever and should no longer be ignored. By strengthening transparency and public accountability through robust anti-corruption reforms, we aim to increase access to the rule of law and restore the public’s confidence in the institutions that serve them.
“We are extremely grateful to our longstanding partner the EU, who has taken a bold commitment to supporting one of the most complex and challenging undertakings in Iraq, and to our partners across the Iraqi and Kurdish Region state institutions for entrusting UNDP to lead this effort,” she adds.
More information can be found on the project fact sheet here.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/127427-fostering-justice-curb-corruption-iraq-%E2%82%AC15-million-project-supports-transparency-and




Date: 20 May 2021
Title: Security Council Arria Formula Meeting Highlights UNITAD Innovation and Partnership as Model for Accountability Efforts Globally
Content: 20 May 2021
New York, 20 May 2021 – UNITAD’s innovative and technology–focused approach to the collection and analysis of evidence of ISIL crimes was welcomed by United Nations Member States in an Arria Formula Meeting of the Security Council on Wednesday last week, chaired by the United Kingdom.
At the event, two key pillars of innovation were highlighted: the use of advanced technology to exploit mass data collection; and applying a trauma-informed approach to all aspects of contacts with witnesses and survivors.
At the opening of the meeting, Special Adviser Karim A. A. Khan QC introduced a video outlining a range of technologies the Team, including 3-D modeling of crime scenes, excavation of mass graves, and the use of advanced search technologies to, in particular, ISIL documents. Referencing the presence of Nobel Peace Prize Laureate, Ms. Nadia Murad, Special Adviser Khan noted that “what you will see today is not a movie or fictional account, but real life. The village you will see, is Nadia’s village, the school you will see was Nadia’s school”. The Special Adviser highlighted how UNITAD had used technology to take these crimes scenes and bring them to national courtrooms globally.
Ms. Murad acknowledged the progress of investigations, observing that “if you had told me when the Security Council was debating UNITAD’s creation that I would be able to burry my brothers within four years, I would not have believed you”. She further noted “For true justice and reconciliation, survivors must see that due process is upheld in Iraqi courts… and that survivors are included in this process every step of the way.”
Also addressing the continued imperative to hold ISIL members accountable for their crimes, Ms. Amal Clooney, Counsel for ISIL victims, noted that ISIL had not tried to hide its crimes but had in fact publicized them widely, underlining that innovative uses of technology adopted by UNITAD could be used to exploit this digital record of ISIL’s crimes. Noting that UNITAD had now finalized its initial case–brief in relation to crimes against the Yazidi community and found clear and convincing evidence of genocide, Ms. Clooney underscored “that this investigation was always meant to be the beginning, not the end”, and called on states “that believe in human rights to commit to holding international trials”.
Justin Spelhaug, Vice-President of Tech for Social Impact Group, Microsoft Corporation described its partnership with UNITAD in the development of the “Zeteo Project”, leading to the development of cutting-edge tools using artificial intelligence and machine learning to identify those responsible for ISIL crimes. Mr. Spelhaug noted that the opportunities presented by the application of such technologies in criminal investigations were vast, emphasizing that “the common thread that binds these efforts is our focus on using AI to seek truth and actionable insight in an ocean of data so that investigators, researchers, front line providers and policy makers can take more effective action. Our work with UNITAD really personifies [the] objective of seeking truth and actionable insight and data”. He expressed his hope “that these efforts can be shared with others and the collective learnings that have been gained can be used to deliver accountability and justice for other important international criminal investigations”.
Dr. Daryn Reicherter of Stanford University described the partnership with UNITAD in developing and implementing a trauma–informed approach to engagement with survivors. He noted that addressing the needs of those who have suffered trauma is not only the correct approach from a medical and normative perspective, but was also essential in ensuring survivors are empowered to provide the most effective testimony possible.
Member States welcomed UNITAD’s innovative approaches in the implementation of its mandate and underlined their commitment to continue to support its work. A number of States noted the pioneering nature of some of the working practices of UNITAD, emphasizing that these good practices should be implemented more broadly.
Special Adviser Khan concluded the meeting by noting the Security Council’s strong and unified support for UNITAD, which provides the foundation for strengthening efforts to prosecute ISIL members for their crimes. The Special Adviser stated “I would simply, and with the greatest humility, suggest to all members of the United Nations to look at the legal option that you know exists, look at the legal tools that are available, open the doors that you know are there. You have identified consensus. You have identified this common ground. With the greatest of respect, hold on to it, stand on it, build on it.”
Click here to watch the video of the meeting.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/127274-security-council-arria-formula-meeting-highlights-unitad-innovation-and-partnership-model




Date: 20 May 2021
Title: UNODC meeting on “Challenges of combating money laundering and terrorist financing in the Iraqi judiciary”
Content: 20 May 2021
19 May 2021 - Aiming to enhance the internal coordination and increase the number of Anti-Money Laundering (AML)/ Counter Financing of Terrorism (CFT) prosecutions and convictions in Iraq, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) held a high-level strategic meeting for representatives of the Iraqi Financial Intelligence Unit and the Judiciary of Iraq on the 19th of May 2021.
This high-level meeting is part of two UNODC Projects, namely “Strengthening Iraqi Institutions to Counter Financing of Terrorism,” and “Responding to violent extremism and terrorism” funded by the Federal Government of Germany and the Government of Japan..
Senior level participation from relevant Iraqi institutions included: Munther Ibrahim Hussein Al-Khazali, Member of the Federal Court of Cassation; Ammar Hamad Khalaf Al-Ithawi, Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Iraq; Karim Khasbak, President of the Iraqi State Council; and Nizar Nasser Hussain, Director General of the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing Office. The meeting also gathered representatives from the Office of Combating Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, Central Bank of Iraq, State Council, Appeals Court and Investigation Court.
Senior judges and relevant senior officials from Egypt, Lebanon and United Arab Emirates joined the meeting in which they provided an interactive platform for participants to enlist the current challenges related to investigations, prosecution and adjudication of money laundering and terrorism financing offences in Iraq as well as highlight the needed efforts for strengthening international cooperation in money laundering and terrorism financing offences.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/127226-unodc-meeting-%E2%80%9Cchallenges-combating-money-laundering-and-terrorist-financing-iraqi-judiciary




Date: 12 May 2021
Title: ILO and partners launch nation-wide campaign to tackle the worst forms of child labour in Iraq
Content: 12 May 2021
Baghdad, Iraq (ILO News) The International Labour Organization in Iraq and partners launched a nation-wide campaign to tackle the worst forms of child labour in the country. The campaign will target 10,000 children, their families and guardians, teachers, employers, and the media through a series of activities which aim to raise awareness on the increasing dangers of child labour, mobilise efforts to reach the heart of communities most effected by the rise of child labour in the country; and encourage activities to amplify the voices of those effected by the problem.
During a virtual meeting, which was attended by senior representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of Iraq, including the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, as well as representatives of ILO’s local implementing partners Al-Tahreer Association for Development and Kurdistan Save the Children, partners discussed joint efforts in the implementations of the campaign and its activities.

“The year 2021 has been declared as the International Year for the Elimination of Child Labour , and our campaign in Iraq is part of these global efforts to combat child labour,” said Dr. Maha Kattaa, ILO Country Coordinator in Iraq. “We hope through your support, recommendations and collaboration, this campaign will have a significant and lasting impact on the ground. We want to speak as one voice against the dangers of child labour and seek wider partnerships, such as that of the private sector, to address these issues.”

Child labour has been on the raise in Iraq in recent years due to a combination of factors including armed conflict, displacement and economic challenges, which have been further compounded by COVID-19, forcing a growing number of children into the workforce.

This campaign aims to inform communities about the negative consequences of child labour and ultimately change behaviour of society and institutions alike. While it may not be effectively removing these factors, it aims to make child labour unacceptable and make it an urgent priority for responsible authorities to tackle and for businesses to reject.

“Our ministry is conducting a campaign through its inspection unit to tackle the worst forms of child labour and we hope that these and other efforts will complement the activities of the campaign which is being undertaken by the ILO,” said Mr. Raed Jabbar Bahedh Director General of the Department of Labour and Vocational Training at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.

“We are ready to coordinate, support and engage in the awareness raising campaign,” said Dr. Arif Hito, the Director General of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq. “Such a campaign needs take into account awareness raising on the social level, and ensure there are alternative solutions to families and children.”

The campaign will be guided by existing ILO tools to combat child labour, such as SCREAM , which is an education and social mobilization initiative, to help educators worldwide promote understanding and awareness of child labour among young people, and the recently launched inter-agency toolkit  to guide humanitarian actors and other agencies in the global community to effectively prevent and respond to child labour in humanitarian action. These tools will be translated and adapted to the Iraq context and used through various activities including social media campaigns and community-level outreach.

The campaign will also support on-going efforts that seek to link children and their families with existing support mechanisms. This will complement activities by the ILO and partners  to address child labour. With support from the European Regional Development and Protection Programme for Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq (RDPP II)  – a joint European initiative by the Czech Republic, Denmark, the European Union, Ireland and Switzerland, the ILO is currently implementing a project which tackles the worst forms of child labour amongst Syrian refugees, internally displaced persons and vulnerable host community members in Iraq.

Iraq has ratified the ILO Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138) and the ILO Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (No. 182), which are central to the fight against child labour. In December 2019, the ILO signed and launched a new Decent Work Country Programme (DWCP)  in Iraq in partnership with the Government and social partners for the period 2019-2023. Under the programme, the ILO is working with government, worker and employer organizations to support national initiatives on employment promotion, rights at work, social dialogue and social protection, including developing an effective framework to address child labour.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/126775-ilo-and-partners-launch-nation-wide-campaign-tackle-worst-forms-child-labour-iraq




Date: 12 May 2021
Title: Freedom of expression increasingly curtailed in Kurdistan Region of Iraq - UN report
Content: 12 May 2021
GENEVA / BAGHDAD (12 May 2021) – Freedom of expression in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq has been increasingly curtailed over the past year, according to a UN report issued today.  Critics of public authorities have risked not only intimidation, restrictions on their movements and arbitrary arrests, but some were also charged with defamation, while others, more recently, were prosecuted under national security laws.
The report, by the UN Human Rights Office and the UN Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI), documents a concerning pattern, observed from March 2020 to April 2021, of people being targeted for exercising their legitimate right to report on or criticize the actions of the public authorities.
“The pattern of repression documented in this report is deeply worrying, highlighting not only the threats and intimidation of critics, but also the chilling effect such actions can have on others seeking transparency and to hold public authorities to account,” said UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet.
While recognizing that the Kurdistan Regional authorities are facing uniquely challenging domestic, regional and international circumstances, the key findings of this report are of serious concern, particularly the behaviour of the security apparatus, the selective application of laws and the lack of compliance with relevant legal procedures and international human rights standards.
“Recent years have seen progress towards a democratic Kurdistan Region where freedom of expression and the rule of law are valued. But democratic societies need media, activists and critics to be able to report on public issues without censorship or fear, and citizens also have a right to be informed,” Bachelet stressed.
“Transparency, accountability and openness to questioning is vital for any healthy democracy,” the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq and head of UNAMI, Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, added.
The High Commissioner and the UN Iraq Special Representative both said that they are encouraged by the continuing cooperation of the Kurdistan Regional authorities with their offices, noting that report and its recommendations are part of an ongoing dialogue with the Kurdistan Regional Government to promote human rights and foster accountability for human rights violations and redress for victims.
Among its recommendations, the report urges the Kurdistan Regional authorities to take immediate steps to fully protect the right to freedom of expression and to end harassment, intimidation and reprisals against journalists, human rights defenders and activists. It also calls on the authorities to ensure that criminal law is not used as a tool to limit freedom of expression, including by refraining from arresting and/or detaining individuals lawfully expressing dissent and/or discontent. In addition, existing laws should be amended to provide clear definitions of prohibited speech and all restrictions on freedom of expression set out in domestic legislation should be consistent with relevant international human rights standards.
The report was shared in advance with the Federal Government of Iraq and Kurdistan Regional Government and includes the response from the Kurdistan Government as an annex.

To read the report, please click here.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/126770-freedom-expression-increasingly-curtailed-kurdistan-region-iraq-un-report




Date: 12 May 2021
Title: UN Iraq Special Representative Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert sends warmest wishes to Iraqis on Eid-ul-Fitr
Content: 12 May 2021
As you celebrate this blessed occasion within the confines of your homes, I convey my best wishes to you and your loved ones.
Baghdad - Eid-ul-Fitr is a joyous occasion marking the end of the holy month of Ramadan.  This year, public celebrations and outings will once again be subdued due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the curfews imposed in the country.
Nevertheless, despite these difficult circumstances, I am hopeful that the blessings of Eid-ul-Fitr will bring renewed optimism for better days ahead.
In Iraq, and globally, we are in the midst of an important COVID-19 vaccination drive. We will only be safe once everyone is safe.
As you celebrate this blessed occasion within the confines of your homes, I convey my best wishes to you and your loved ones.
Eid Mubarak.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/126820-un-iraq-special-representative-jeanine-hennis-plasschaert-sends-warmest-wishes-iraqis-eid-ul




Date: 12 May 2021
Title: Iraq receives the second delivery of COVID-19 vaccines through the COVAX Facility
Content: 12 May 2021
The levels of COVID 19 infection rates in Iraq continue putting enormous pressure on hospitals, intensive care units, health workers, and country resources.
Baghdad – Despite the continued global shortage and limited production of COVID19 vaccines, Iraq received on 9th May, the second shipment of AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine contracted through the COVAX Facility. The arrival of the second shipment of exactly 499,200 doses brought the total number of vaccines received by the Iraqi health authorities from COVAX to nearly one million so far.
“The epidemiological situation might have shown a slight improvement, but is not yet under control and the number of infections and fatalities remains of high concern in Iraq. Controlling this Pandemic is our common goal, and we need to do everything we can to reduce the transmission of the virus and the subsequent mortality in Iraq. The more people get vaccinated the more we move closer to controlling this pandemic in Iraq and around the world” said Dr. Ahmed Zouiten WHO Representative and Head of Mission in Iraq.
As of 10th May, a total of 441121 people have already received vaccination in the different governorates of Iraq, with an average of 15000 people vaccinated every day. “We need to fast-track procurement of more vaccines to ensure that at least 20% of the eligible population in Iraq is vaccinated by the end of the year 2021,” Dr Zouiten added.
The levels of COVID 19 infection rates in Iraq continue putting enormous pressure on hospitals, intensive care units, health workers, and country resources. While the preventive measures can effectively reduce transmission, their effectiveness still always depends on citizens’ adherence to these measures. This makes the vaccination a top nationwide goal to win the battle against the pandemic.
Since the start of the pandemic and as of 10 May, Iraq reported a total of 1,117,627 confirmed cases of COVID19 infection, and 15,800 related deaths, and have experienced 2 distinct waves of high periods of transmission, the last of which started in late January 2021 and is still ongoing with an average of 4000 to 5000 cases every day for the last few weeks.
END
Notes to Editors:
COVAX is a partnership between CEPI, Gavi, UNICEF and WHO.
Full COVAX News Note to Editors: https://www.who.int/initiatives/act-accelerator/covax/covax-news-note-to-editors
List of donor pledges to the Gavi COVAX AMC: https://www.gavi.org/sites/default/files/covid/covax/COVAX-AMC-Donors-Table.pdf
Funding tracker for the ACT Accelerator, which includes details of funding for COVAX: https://www.who.int/publications/m/item/access-to-covid-19-tools-tracker
Live updates on the COVAX vaccine roll-out globally: https://www.who.int/initiatives/act-accelerator/covax/covax-news-note-to-editors

Useful links:
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/126804-iraq-receives-second-delivery-covid-19-vaccines-through-covax-facility




Date: 10 May 2021
Title: Government, UN launch 2030 National Youth Vision, reiterate commitment to Youth Development and Empowerment
Content: 10 May 2021
The National Youth Vision is a youth-oriented, human rights-based and multi-sectoral roadmap for empowering young people in Iraq and creating opportunities for them, considering the demographic dividend with 20% of the population being aged from 15 to 24 and 41% aged from 10 to 30 years.
Baghdad - The Ministry of Youth and Sports in the Federal Government launched the 2030 National Youth Vision. The Vision was put in place in collaboration with the Ministry of Culture and Youth in the Kurdistan Regional Government, with technical support from UNFPA and UNICEF, and funding from Sweden, through the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida).
The National Youth Vision is a youth-oriented, human rights-based and multi-sectoral roadmap for empowering young people in Iraq and creating opportunities for them, considering the demographic dividend with 20% of the population being aged from 15 to 24 and 41% aged from 10 to 30 years.
The National Youth Vision is the outcome of countrywide discussions between the relevant ministries, stakeholders, and young people. It will guide sectoral strategies on the comprehensive development of youth, creating opportunities for elevating their health, psychological, social, cultural and economic status and enabling young people to be included in decision-making socially, economically and politically.
Speaking at the launch, the Minister of Youth and Sports, Dr Adnan Al-Darjal, said: “The vision, with its fourteen thematic areas, represents the concerns, problems, and aspirations of young people revealed through the National Youth Survey. The vision was based on real and factual data that tens of researchers and experts identified in all governorates.”
“Any youth project that does not include youth in its core will not have the desired outcome because young people are the main component of every youth-based businesses and projects. We plan to present the vision to the Council of Ministers soon as it is a national document. We urge partners in the Government to adopt the policies governed by the vision and consider allocating fiscal budgets for them a necessity,” he added.
For her part, UNFPA representative, Dr Rita Columbia, emphasised: “The 2030 National Youth Vision is an important document as it will facilitate comprehensive youth development in Iraq, and ensure that the country benefits from its demographic dividend. The Vision particularly highlights a focus on girls and young women who, if and when supported, can play a significant role in Iraq’s sustainable development. I thank both ministries for endorsing a Youth Vision that, with proper implementation, can harness the huge potential of youth in Iraq and contribute to the peace and prosperity of the country”.
UNICEF Deputy Representative, Dr Paula Bulancea, said: “Young people in Iraq are diverse, creative, and dynamic. When provided with the support and resources that they need, they can support their communities. Today, with the launch of the National Youth Vision 2030, we advocate for commitments by all stakeholders for more sustainable development for youth and adolescents in all fields. The partnership with the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and the Ministry of Culture and Youth, as well as other government entities and local partners is important for us to achieve the best results for young people. The launch of the National Youth Vision 2030 serves as a key contribution to the 2030 Agenda and a vital compass to guide us all in our shared work.”
The launch of the 2030 National Youth Vision took place at the Prime Minister’s Guesthouse with the virtual participation of donor countries and sister UN agencies.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/126728-government-un-launch-2030-national-youth-vision-reiterate-commitment-youth-development-and




Date: 10 May 2021
Title: Special Adviser Khan briefs Security Council on UNITAD Investigations:  Evidence shows that ISIL attacks against the Yazidi community in Sinjar constitute genocide.  Finding that ISIL committed war crimes and incited genocide against Shia Muslims.
Content: 10 May 2021
Special Adviser Khan announced that through its independent criminal investigations UNITAD had established “clear and convincing evidence that genocide was committed by ISIL against the Yazidi as a religious group”
New York – Special Adviser Karim Asad Ahmad Khan QC today provided his final briefing to the Security Council, presenting the findings of his sixth Report on the work of the United Nations Investigative Team to promote accountability for crimes committed by Da’esh / ISIL (UNITAD).
Special Adviser Khan announced that through its independent criminal investigations UNITAD had established “clear and convincing evidence that genocide was committed by ISIL against the Yazidi as a religious group”. Evidence collected by the Team had also confirmed ISIL was responsible for acts of extermination, murder, rape, torture, enslavement, persecution and other war crimes and crimes against humanity perpetrated against the Yazidis.
With respect to its investigations into mass executions of predominantly Shia unarmed air cadets and personnel from Tikrit Air Academy, also known as Camp Speicher, Special Adviser Khan confirmed to the Council that “the Team has identified video evidence substantiating the crime of direct and public incitement to commit genocide against Shia Muslims. The narration on videos glorifying the horrifying images of these mass executions contains a repeated and clear exhortation to ISIL followers: “Kill them wherever you find them”. The Special Adviser also informed the Council that, based on evidence collected, the Team had concluded that these attacks constitute the war crimes of murder, torture, cruel treatment and outrages upon personal dignity.
A new line of investigation into the development and deployment of chemical weapons by ISIL in Iraq had moved forward rapidly. Evidence collected has confirmed the implementation of a chemical weapons programme centred at laboratories in Mosul University controlled by ISIL in 2014. This had initially led to the weaponizing of chlorine from water treatment plants and subsequently the development of toxic lethal compounds including thallium and nicotine that were tested on live prisoners, leading to death. In 2016, a sulfur mustard production system was deployed by ISIL through the firing of 40 rockets at the Turkmen Shia town of Taza Khurmatu.
Special Adviser Khan underlined that the rapid expansion of UNITAD evidence holdings, combined with the use of advanced technology including artificial intelligence tools to analyse information collected, had allowed for significant progress in the implementation of the mandate of the Team. Exploitation of ISIL laptops and mobile phones had allowed for extensive analysis of internal ISIL administration documents, allowing the Team to compile timelines of activity in relation to key persons of interest.
Looking ahead, Special Adviser Khan noted that the progress made in the work of the Team to date had set a path for the prosecution of ISIL members for international crimes in Iraq, highlighting that his Report laid out a timeframe that would allow for trials against ISIL members to commence next year.
The Special Adviser concluded by thanking the Security Council and the Government of Iraq for their continued support in the implementation of the mandate of the Team.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/126729-special-adviser-khan-briefs-security-council-unitad-investigations-evidence-shows-isil




Date: 10 May 2021
Title: Agreement between REFAATO and UNDP and provides safe drinking water to Iraqis
Content: 10 May 2021
UNDP has signed an agreement with REFAATO  to provide residents in Ishaqi, Salah-Al Din with access to safe reliable drinking water.
Baghdad, 10 May 2021 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Iraq has signed an agreement with Government of Iraq’s Reconstruction Fund for Areas Affected by Terroristic Operations (REFAATO) to provide residents in Ishaqi, Salah-Al Din with access to safe reliable drinking water.
Approximately $1.25 million, generously provided to REFAATO by the Islamic Development Bank, will be used to rehabilitate the Yathrib Water Treatment Plant in Salah Al-Din which was severely damaged in the conflict against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL.)
The agreement will be implemented through UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization (FFS), which supports the return of Internally Displaced Persons from the five ISIL liberated governorates through stabilization interventions including infrastructure rehabilitation, livelihoods support, municipal support and social cohesion activities.
“Since we commenced our stabilization programming in mid-2015, UNDP has worked in tandem with ReFAATO on the challenging task of rebuilding the areas damaged by the ISIL conflict. With almost 3,000 projects completed supporting 11 million Iraqis, UNDP Iraq continues to address critical stabilization needs in vulnerable communities. This milestone agreement charts the path to a growing partnership between UNDP Iraq and ReFAATO, and we look forward to working closer together to bring peace and stability to Iraq,” says Resident Representative of UNDP Iraq, Zena Ali Ahmad.
“We also welcome the new collaboration with the Islamic Development Bank who has generously provided funds that will allow 80,000 vulnerable residents access safe and reliable drinking water,” adds Ms Ali Ahmad.
Head of the Reconstruction Fund for Areas Affected by Terrorist Operations (REFAATO), Dr. Mohammad Hashim Al-Ani, stated:
“We are pleased to witness the continuation of serious international and regional support to Iraq in its reconstruction efforts and support to communities.”
"The agreement between the REFAATO and UNDP to provide safe drinking water in Al-Ishaqi area is of the utmost importance as the clean drinking water is invaluable item and an essential need.”
“In this regard, we take the opportunity to affirm our readiness for cooperation and joint coordination in advance for all international parties that plan to, and already contribute, to Iraq’s reconstruction, recovery and urban development programmes. Today we commend the generous initiative from the Islamic Development Bank and the United Nations Development Programme.” added Dr. Al-Ani.

Under the FFS, UNDP Iraq has completed almost 200 water infrastructure projects across the liberated areas of Anbar, Diyala, Kirkuk, Ninewa and Salah Al-Din, and provided more than 3.5 million residents with improved access to water. Another 50 water projects are currently underway.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/126566-agreement-between-refaato-and-undp-and-provides-safe-drinking-water-iraqis




Date: 06 May 2021
Title: Advocating a Gender Perspective in Peacebuilding: New MoU between UNDP Iraq and Folke Bernadotte Academy signed
Content: 06 May 2021
UNDP Iraq’s Social Cohesion Programme works with Iraqi local peace practitioners, including Community-Based Organizations and Communal Peace and Dialogue Committees, which FBA will provide training for on gender mainstreaming in dialogue processes under the year-long agreement.
Baghdad, Iraq – A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed between the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Iraq and Folke Bernadotte Academy (FBA) to enhance local capacities for peacebuilding in Iraq with concentration on gender mainstreaming in peacebuilding. With a mandate to support international peace and security-related efforts, Folke Bernadotte Academy is a governmental agency based in Stockholm, Sweden.
Focused on effective peacebuilding, FBA and UNDP Iraq’s new partnership aims at advancing the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325 agenda on women, peace, and security, within the realm of social cohesion and the promotion of peaceful co-existence. Through working to advance a gender perspective in community peace processes, this partnership also contributes to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals of Gender Equality (Goal 5) and Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions (Goal 16).
UNDP Iraq’s Social Cohesion Programme works with Iraqi local peace practitioners, including Community-Based Organizations and Communal Peace and Dialogue Committees, which FBA will provide training for on gender mainstreaming in dialogue processes under the year-long agreement.
According to UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad, “This new collaboration with Folke Bernadotte Academy will further strengthen our efforts for inclusive and gender sensitive peacebuilding in Iraq through our extensive work with local organizations and peace structures. We are thankful to Folke Bernadotte Academy for this partnership and its contribution to advancing gender equality through our Social Cohesion Programme in Iraq.”
Taleb Sobeh, project manager for Sweden’s strategy for development cooperation with Iraq, from FBA states, “UNDP is a key actor in the promotion of social cohesion and peaceful co-existence in Iraq, and this cooperation enables us to, together with local actors, work for gender equal processes that strategically take the priorities and perspectives of both women and men into account.”
UNDP Iraq has launched in 2020 a dedicated 5-year Social Cohesion Programme to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/126421-advocating-gender-perspective-peacebuilding-new-mou-between-undp-iraq-and-folke-bernadotte




Date: 06 May 2021
Title: The Minister of Agriculture receives the Representative of FAO in Iraq and affirms the Ministry's endeavor to achieve a qualitative improvement in buffalo breeding, milk production and rehabilitation of the infrastructure of the Governorates
Content: 06 May 2021
H.E Al-Khafaji stressed the ministry's endeavor to achieve a qualitative leap in the methods of raising buffaloes
The Minister of Agriculture, H.E Muhammad Karim Al-Khafaji, received today, the Representative of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in Iraq (FAO), Dr. Salah Hajj Hassan, and his accompanying delegation, in the presence of the Ministry's Technical Undersecretary Dr. Mithaq Abdul-Hussein, the Ministry's advisor, Dr. Mahdi Damad Al-Qaisi, and Adviser Raed Haddad
During the meeting, H.E Al-Khafaji stressed the ministry's endeavor to achieve a qualitative leap in the methods of raising buffaloes, providing fodder and producing milk, and rehabilitating the infrastructure for agricultural projects in various Governorates, including Nineveh, Maysan, Basra and Dhi Qar. While referring to the rehabilitation of the agricultural infrastructures in the governorates, the Minister underlined the need to establish Milk collection centers and to adopt advanced marketing methods.
He explained that there are large numbers of livestock in Iraq, and in various provinces, including Nineveh. From his side, Dr. Salah Hajj Hassan confirmed that the FAO has carried out many activities in Nineveh Governorate in the field of upgrading technical skills of producers providing them with advice and support of inputs to grow large areas of fodder crops, to benefit with feeding their while achieve appropriate economic viability for livestock producers.
FAO delegation also expressed full readiness to cooperate with the Ministry in providing support to the agricultural sector in Iraq, through research work, capacity building, agri-food businesses and agricultural value chains development.
The meeting ended with a strong emphasis on coordination and cooperation in light of the agricultural renaissance and the promotion of the local agricultural product.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/126503-minister-agriculture-receives-representative-fao-iraq-and-affirms-ministrys-endeavor-achieve




Date: 05 May 2021
Title: Global shortage of 900,000 midwives threatens women’s lives and health, new report shows
Content: 05 May 2021
The global midwifery workforce now stands at 1.9 million, about two thirds of what is needed, according to the report, titled the State of World’s Midwifery 2021.
ERBIL, Iraq/UNITED NATIONS, New York – “A 35-year old pregnant woman came to our clinic with abdominal pain,” recalled Hawrin Yousif, a 27-year-old midwife in the Khazir displacement camp in the Kurdistan Region of northern Iraq. “After conducting a medical check-up, I understood that she had been going through early labour for the last five hours and urgently needed to be taken to the maternity hospital in Erbil.”
An ambulance raced them to the hospital, but the woman’s labour was progressing too quickly.
“The mother was so scared and she kept begging me to bring her baby to life safely: ‘Don’t let him die’,” Ms. Yousif said. “My heart was beating fast. I knew that these lives were at risk.”
With quick action, she was able to deliver the baby safely. But many women and newborns are not so lucky.
The world is facing a shortage of about 900,000 midwives, according to a new report published by UNFPA, the World Health Organization (WHO), the International Confederation of Midwives (ICM) and partners. The COVID-19 crisis has only exacerbated these problems, with the health needs of women and newborns overshadowed by the pandemic response and midwives being deployed to other health services.

Time to prioritize women’s needs and skills
The global midwifery workforce now stands at 1.9 million, about two thirds of what is needed, according to the report, titled the State of World’s Midwifery 2021.
Gender inequality is one of the drivers of the enormous midwife shortage. The chronic under-investment in midwifery highlights how the needs of women, and the skills of a mostly female workforce, are often neglected by policymakers and health systems.
And results are too often tragic, taking the form of ill health, maternal and newborn death, injury or stillbirth. Fully supporting midwifery, on the other hand, could avert 67 per cent of maternal deaths, 64 per cent of newborn deaths and 65 per cent of stillbirths, saving an estimated 4.3 million lives per year, according to an analysis conducted for this report.
“It's time for governments to acknowledge the evidence surrounding the life-promoting, life-saving impact of midwife-led care," said Dr. Franka Cadée, ICM’s president.

Midwives as advocates for women
Midwives do not only deliver babies. They provide a range of sexual and reproductive health services, as well as antenatal, postpartum and neonatal care. They can also serve as powerful advocates of respectful care and women’s rights.
“A capable, well-trained midwife can have an enormous impact on childbearing women and their families – an impact often passed on from one generation to the next,” said UNFPA Executive Director Dr. Natalia Kanem.
Yet midwives face persistent gender discrimination that prevents them from achieving professional autonomy and leadership roles. They also endure gendered disparities in pay and career growth, affecting retention.

Impact of COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly reduced the midwifery workforce. In many places, midwives report they have not received sufficient personal protective equipment. Yet midwifery personnel have overwhelmingly continued to deliver babies and care despite the health system strains and personal risks to their health.
“The biggest challenge was to convince women and girls to wear masks and comply with the COVID-19 preventative measures,” Ms. Yousif told UNFPA, which supports her reproductive health facility with funding from Canada and Sweden. “We were determined to help them stay safe and healthy. My colleagues and I went door-to-door visiting families and explaining to them why it was necessary to abide by the preventive measures.”
“We must learn the lessons the pandemic is teaching us,” said WHO Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, “by implementing policies and making investments that deliver better support and protection for midwives and other health workers.”
In addition to calling for investments in education and training, the report highlights the need to improve the working environment for midwives and to include them in policymaking and leadership roles.
******
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, delivers a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/126344-global-shortage-900000-midwives-threatens-women%E2%80%99s-lives-and-health-new-report-shows




Date: 04 May 2021
Title: Circular solution to Mosul’s conflict debris launched
Content: 04 May 2021
The UN Environment Programme (UNEP) and the International Organization for Migration (IOM) are joining forces with Mosul Municipality – with the support of Japan – to establish the city’s first debris recycling center.
Baghdad/Geneva - Mosul – Iraq’s second largest city – suffered massive devastation during the conflict with the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). An estimated 7-8 million tonnes of debris was created by the fighting, mainly in the Old City on the banks of the Tigris River. To deal with this huge debris challenge, the UN Environment Programme (UNEP) and the International Organization for Migration (IOM) are joining forces with Mosul Municipality – with the support of Japan – to establish the city’s first debris recycling center.
In the conflict’s immediate aftermath, clean-up campaigns cleared hundreds of thousands of tons of debris blocking streets to allow residents access to their homes and businesses, and enable rehabilitation of critical infrastructure such as hospitals, schools and water treatment plants.
The cleared debris, however, was often dumped in an uncontrolled manner in open spaces, gullies and strewn along roadsides for lack of designated disposal sites, creating problems in this city where land is a premium. Furthermore, much of the debris remains locked in damaged buildings which will require complex explosive hazard clearance and demolition and will take many years to release.
“By processing the rubble to produce quality materials that can be used in reconstruction efforts, creating much needed job opportunities for returnees and cleaning-up the urban environment, this initiative practically illustrates how humanitarian needs and sustainable development goals can be addressed in a joint manner,” said Dr. Jassim Humadi, Iraq’s Deputy Environment Minister.
“We are very grateful to the Government of Japan for their support in helping turn the debris problem in Mosul into a means of positive change.”
The project builds upon lessons learned and best practices gathered under debris recycling pilots implemented jointly by IOM and UNEP in Mosul and Kirkuk. Where conventional practice had been to clear and dump the debris, this new initiative will concentrate on reusing the recycled aggregate for reconstruction.
“Material testing results confirming that the recycled aggregate complies with Iraq’s standards for road construction should also help pave the way for embedding circular economy principles in dealing with routine construction and demolition waste, thereby promoting a ‘building back better’ approach to crisis recovery,” said Gary Lewis, Director of UNEP’s Disasters and Conflicts Branch.
In the destroyed village of Buwaiter, where the pilot debris recycling project in Kirkuk was implemented,
“unemployed youth with no work opportunities benefited immensely,” said Salal.
Othman, who guards the recycling site and used the crushed gravel to pave the area in front of his house, which is typically impassable during the rains.
“Young people in our village view debris recycling as a golden chance in terms of job creation, which additionally, by clearing the rubble, is allowing us to return and rebuild our homes,” added Mijbel Mar’i, a 24-year-old day labourer.
Remarking on the debris recycling in Buwaiter, Hassan Al-Jubouri, the head of Multaqa sub-district, described it as
“an excellent step to dispose of huge volumes of debris while simultaneously employing people,”
adding that
“with this project, in addition to removing the debris we now have the possibility to reuse it. And given that many rural roads in our sub-district need surfacing, the crushed materials are ideal for this end.”
“Japan has provided over USD 500 million as humanitarian assistance to the people affected by the crisis since 2014. Additionally, Japan decided this year to provide a new assistance package to Iraq, amounting to USD 50 million, including this project by UNEP,” said Japan’s Ambassador to Iraq, His Excellency Mr. Kotaro Suzuki.
“I commend UNEP’s initiative together with IOM on recycling debris which cleans up the urban environment and produces materials for road construction as well as creating job opportunities for unemployed youth.”
“In Japan, after the earthquakes, people mourned their loss and started to clean up the debris which was all that was left of their homes and memories of loved ones. Our fathers’ generation did the same in scorched cities after the war, to rebuild towns for their people, for their future children,” he added. “We want to assist people in Mosul and Kirkuk in their efforts to revive their towns, rebuild their lives once again.”

Videos:
English: https://youtu.be/zEu58pPLNTs
Arabic: https://youtu.be/1qd1KDLkR34
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/126209-circular-solution-mosul%E2%80%99s-conflict-debris-launched




Date: 28 April 2021
Title: World Immunization Week - vaccines bring us closer
Content: 28 April 2021
The World Immunization Week aims to promote vaccines to protect people of all ages against vaccine-preventable diseases. Immunization saves millions of lives every year and is widely recognized as one of the world's most successful health interventions.
Baghdad – Every year from 24 to 30 April, WHO, UNICEF, and all health partners in Iraq join the global community to celebrate World Immunization Week. This year, under the theme "vaccines bring us closer," the World Immunization Week urges greater engagement around immunization globally and at the country level to promote the importance of vaccination, and to improve health and well-being, for all.
The World Immunization Week aims to promote vaccines to protect people of all ages against vaccine-preventable diseases. Immunization saves millions of lives every year and is widely recognized as one of the world's most successful health interventions. Vaccines are safe and effective and can positively impact the population's health when immunization rates are high. Yet, there are still many children in Iraq today not getting the vaccines they need, and many people missing vital vaccines during adolescence, adulthood, and old age.
For over 200 years, vaccines have protected us against diseases that threaten lives, livelihoods and prohibit our development. With their help, we have progressed without the burden of diseases like smallpox and polio, which cost humanity hundreds of millions of lives and cripples millions of children worldwide. Vaccines themselves continue the advance to a world free from hepatitis B and cervical cancer.
In 2021, the World Immunization Week comes as COVID-19 vaccines are being rolled out worldwide, including in Iraq. There has never been a better time than now for vaccines to bring communities and loved ones closer. Many families and friends have not physically met and seen each other because of the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 vaccines are the best option for ensuring families will be able to meet their loved ones again.
As part of the 2021 campaign, WHO, UNICEF, health partners, and individuals worldwide are uniting to increase trust and confidence in vaccines, maintain and increase vaccine acceptance, and increase investment in vaccines, including routine immunization, to remove barriers to access. While the world focuses on critically important new vaccines to protect against COVID-19, there remains a need to ensure routine vaccinations are not missed. Many children have not received vaccination doses during the global pandemic, leaving them at risk of serious diseases like measles and polio. For example, in the first half of 2020 alone this resulted in over 160,000 children in Iraq not getting vaccinated against measles.
WHO, UNICEF, and the Iraq Health Authorities invite more partners to join us and support a lifesaving cause as we build solidarity and trust in vaccination as a public good that saves lives and protects health. Investments and new research are enabling ground-breaking approaches to vaccine development, which are changing the science of immunization forever.
In Iraq, WHO and UNICEF reaffirm their commitment to continue working with and supporting the Ministry of Health to ensure that all people in need of vaccines in the country, especially children and the vulnerable groups like women, the elderly, people with chronic conditions, internally displaced populations and refugees continue to receive all required vaccines, including COVID-19 vaccines.  The overarching aim is to reach all people, including in hard-to-reach areas of the country.
WHO and UNICEF reiterate that vaccines are safe and effective and the best and only way to keep all people protected against vaccine-preventable diseases and urge everyone eligible to get the COVID-19 vaccine as soon as possible.

Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Country Representative, Iraq …………………………….
Dr Paula Bulancea, UNICEF Country Representative, Iraq ………………………….

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/125884-world-immunization-week-vaccines-bring-us-closer




Date: 28 April 2021
Title: Support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh Governorate, Iraq - FAO and EU support to Ninawa farmers to mitigate drought
Content: 28 April 2021
FAO Representative in Iraq, Salah Hajj Hassan, expressed his appreciation to the Government of Iraq for its support and participation in the implementation of agricultural developmental projects.
Baghdad - The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nation, in collaboration with the Iraqi Ministry of Agriculture, today distributed quantities of feed and summer sorghum seeds to livestock breeders in Nineveh Governorate, supporting 400 beneficiaries.
FAO Representative in Iraq, Salah Hajj Hassan, expressed his appreciation to the Government of Iraq for its support and participation in the implementation of agricultural developmental projects.
"Investing in agricultural assistance today will provide food for tomorrow; and can ensure people have a source to have a sustainable future of food," said Abdul Hakeem ElWaer, FAO Assistant Director General and Regional Representative for the Near East and North Africa.
Deputy Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Coordinator of Humanitarian Affairs for Iraq, Ms. Irena Vojackova-Sollorano, has indicated the importance of supporting and aiding farmers, especially the returnees, who lost their property and livelihoods. She also mentioned the efforts of the United Nations Agencies.
Ms. Barbara Egger, the EU Head of Cooperation in Iraq, said: “I am pleased to see that, thanks to the strong partnership between FAO and the authorities, the distribution of feed and seeds to approximately four hundred households, including returnees, in the sub-district of Baashiqa in Nineveh under this EU funded initiative”.  “During a time where the country has been badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, as well as drought, it is important to restore livelihoods in order to increase the resilience of rural communities”.
Dr. Duraid Hekmat Tobya, Director of Nineveh Agriculture Directorate, stated: “FAO projects and activities in Iraq work towards developing the agricultural sector with its both crop and animal components not only in Nineveh governorate in particular but all over Iraq”.
FAO Livestock Expert, Dr. Chedly Kayouli, confirmed that "the dependence of livestock breeders in Iraq in general and Nineveh Governorate in particular on giving excessive quantities of cereal grains (wheat and barley) to their animals is considered as poor feeding system not sustainable. Therefore, we wanted livestock breeders to use green fodder in raising livestock in order to improve milk production as well as for the purpose of fattening (meat production), and I believe that we succeeded in that, in cooperation with Nineveh agricultural extension staff”.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/126009-support-agricultural-livelihoods-rural-and-peri-urban-returnees-and-communities-nineveh




Date: 26 April 2021
Title: WHO is extremely saddened by the loss of lives in a fire that blazed through in Ibn Al-Khatib hospital in Baghdad
Content: 26 April 2021
Baghdad: WHO Iraq shares the feelings of pain and sorrow over the recent fatal fire in Ibn Khatib Hospital, where dozens of people lost their lives and others were injured in the huge fire that blazed through Ibn Khatib Hospital in the Diyala Bridge area in Baghdad on Saturday evening.
Dr Ahmed Zouiten, WHO Iraq Representative and Head of Mission Said “in my own name and behalf of the members of WHO we extend our deepest condolences and consolation to the families of the victims, and to the people and the Government of Iraq.  And we wish a speedy and full recovery to those who were injured.”
“WHO stands ready to assist Iraq Government efforts to respond to this incident” added Dr Zouiten.
The Government of Iraq declared three days of national mourning, The Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi ordered an investigation into the incident in the early hours of Sunday.
This accident constitutes an additional burden on Iraq’s fragile health system which has faced over the past years, many challenges, including internal conflict and successive displacement crises, and has been stretched even further by the COVID19 Pandemic.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/125718-who-extremely-saddened-loss-lives-fire-blazed-through-ibn-al-khatib-hospital-baghdad




Date: 25 April 2021
Title: Baghdad hospital fire: UN expresses shock, calls for stronger protection measures to prevent disasters
Content: 25 April 2021
The Special Representative calls for stronger protection measures to ensure that such a disaster cannot reoccur.
Baghdad – The Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq, Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, expresses shock and pain at the enormity of the tragic incident that befell COVID-19 patients at the Ibn Khatib hospital in Baghdad Saturday night. She offers her deepest condolences to the families of those who lost their lives and wishes the injured a full and speedy recovery.
The Special Representative calls for stronger protection measures to ensure that such a disaster cannot reoccur.
The UN continues to provide critical support to Iraq's health sector amid the pandemic and surging infections, and stands ready to further assist the health authorities in combating the disease.


The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/125654-baghdad-hospital-fire-un-expresses-shock-calls-stronger-protection-measures-prevent




Date: 25 April 2021
Title: Japan supports WFP food assistance in Iraq as COVID-19 pandemic persist
Content: 25 April 2021
BAGHDAD – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) received a US$6.4 million contribution from the Government of Japan to support nearly 40,000 internally displaced people in camps for five months with monthly food assistance, and a further 15,000 people in urban communities with work projects over a 10-month period.
Japan’s contribution is helping displaced families in Iraq, as well as Urban Livelihoods resilience-building projects, supporting vulnerable people to return to work during the COVID-19 crisis.
“Japan has provided over US$500 million as humanitarian assistance to people affected by the crisis in Iraq since 2014. Additionally, Japan decided this year to provide a new assistance package for Iraq, amounting to US$50 million including this project by WFP,” said Japanese Ambassador to the Republic of Iraq Kotaro Suzuki. “I praise WFP’s continuous and tireless efforts to help the internally displaced, and vulnerable people through its Urban Livelihoods initiatives. The Government and people of Japan wish that these projects mitigate sufferings of internally displaced and vulnerable people, especially under the serious impact of COVID-19, and pave a way for peace and a bright future.”
Japan was one of the first donors to contribute to both WFP’s life-saving humanitarian work alongside its development projects in Iraq, helping families rebuild their lives as they returned home from camps. Now, by supporting the Urban Livelihoods initiatives – introduced in response to the COVID-19 pandemic – Japan and WFP are able to help cushion the loss of income suffered by workers dependent on day or seasonal employment as a result of the pandemic and assist them to meet their immediate food needs.
“Japan’s generous support is helping sustain families in camps who are relying on WFP’s humanitarian assistance, alongside vulnerable households in urban areas who need such development projects in their neighbourhoods,” said WFP Representative in Iraq Abdirahman Meygag. “The Urban Livelihoods initiatives mean that thousands of participants can earn an income and cover their food needs. In a changing environment, and as COVID-19 cases rise in Iraq, the support from the government and people of Japan is making a real difference to families’ lives in Iraq.”
Last year, the Urban Livelihoods projects across the country provided nearly 43,000 people with temporary income, and supported and improved community surroundings through planting trees and clearing public parks, cleaning and renovating schools, health centres, orphanages, a centre for the deaf, mute and blind, a central library, and road cleaning and re-painting. Similar initiatives are being planned in 2021.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/125666-japan-supports-wfp-food-assistance-iraq-covid-19-pandemic-persist




Date: 23 April 2021
Title: Iraq: Japan supports resilience and livelihood amid COVID-19 crisis
Content: 23 April 2021
Baghad, 23 April 2021 - The United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and the Government of Iraq are welcoming the critical and timely support from the Government of Japan to help mitigate the socio-economic impact of COVID-19 and promote stabilization, community security, and livelihood activities in the country.
A UNIDO project funded by Japan, will provide a boost to Iraq’s fragile economy and to a society plagued by high unemployment rates.
The project will support internally displaced people (IDPs) living in displacement camps across the Nineveh Governorate, as well as host communities, by providing them with economic and livelihood opportunities. Activities and recovery strategies will help develop self-reliance among beneficiaries, which is essential to maintaining peace and stability. The project will build the beneficiaries’ capacities to start, manage and sustain a micro enterprise of their choice through entrepreneurship and skills training, as well as providing them with physical capital in terms of the equipment and asset transfer required. Furthermore, to ensure food security, the project will introduce the concept of “kitchen gardening,” in line with UNIDO’s agri-business and agri-processing interventions and provide related training.
Building on UNIDO’s human security approach, the project will attend to the immediate and critical needs of forcibly displaced people, thereby addressing chronic vulnerabilities, structural challenges, and potential risks to sustained peace.
According to the Japanese Ambassador to Iraq, H.E. Mr. SUZUKI Kotaro, “Japan had provided over USD 500 million in humanitarian assistance to the people affected by the crisis since 2014. Additionally, Japan decided this year to provide a new assistance package for Iraq, amounting to USD 50 million, including this project by UNIDO.” He also said “I praise UNIDO’s unique approach to build capacities of beneficiaries to start, manage and sustain a micro enterprise of their choice through entrepreneurship and skills training, which leads to develop self-reliance. Such an approach shows us a way to capitalize on both the agricultural potential of Iraq and the resourcefulness of its people. The Government of Japan hopes that this project helps mitigate the socioeconomic impact of COVID-19.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/125608-iraq-japan-supports-resilience-and-livelihood-amid-covid-19-crisis




Date: 22 April 2021
Title: EU Supports IOM and UNODC Partnership to Strengthen Border Security in Iraq, on the Road to Economic Recovery and Development
Content: 22 April 2021
Baghdad 22 April 2021 — With support from the European Union, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) have partnered to support the Government of Iraq in developing its border management capacity. The joint project, “Enhancing the Capacity of the Government of Iraq at Trebil Border Crossing Point” will focus on improving security and the cross-border movement of people and goods, while revitalising cross-border trade and the local economy.
“The Government of Iraq has identified the stability of border crossing points as a priority to create the conditions for lasting security, following the defeat of ISIL in 2017,” said EU Ambassador to Iraq Martin Huth. “The EU is proud to support these efforts; in addition to the security component, strengthened borders and streamlined border processes can also promote economic growth.”
 
Years of conflict have affected the oil sector, the main pillar of Iraq’s economy, leading to the closure of land routes into Jordan and Syria and a drop in regional exports. The subsequent economic decline and loss of financial opportunities have become major sources of frustration and tension between communities and, in particular, among youth — who are more at-risk of being recruited by armed groups or taking part in criminal activities, including transnational organized crime, to meet their financial needs.
 
Fluid trade and movement across borders can boost the economy and expand job opportunities by diversifying national revenue streams — through this project IOM Iraq and UNODC will also rehabilitate the Trebil Border Crossing Point (BCP), the only official entry point with Jordan and a strategic port of entry for Jordan’s exports to Iraq. Trebil BCP was closed by Iraqi authorities in July 2015 to prevent militants from imposing taxes on passing cargo trucks. Oil exports from Iraq, a major source of energy supply for the Jordanian market, were severely impacted, which led to the closure of hundreds of Jordanian factories and companies and caused unemployment rates to increase in both countries.
 
Since 2018, the EU has been supporting IOM Iraq and UNODC’s efforts to strengthen the Karamah BCP on the Jordanian side. To increase the flow of goods and traffic, and support the agreements made between the two countries, investments must also be made on the Iraqi side of the border. Strengthening the Trebil border point is timely, as Iraq is making plans to reconstruct a dry channel to connect with the Red Sea and Europe, opening the country to more opportunities and sources of economic growth.
 
In accordance with the needs of the Government, IOM Iraq and UNODC will implement key actions at the Trebil border point including infrastructure rehabilitation, provision of specialised technical equipment and software, tailored training and facilitating cross border discussions towards supporting the GoI to better manage and promote safe, orderly and regular migration of people and movement of goods between Iraq and Jordan.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/125482-eu-supports-iom-and-unodc-partnership-strengthen-border-security-iraq-road-economic-recovery




Date: 21 April 2021
Title: The Government of Japan and UNOPS Restore Access to Urgent Healthcare in Anbar, Iraq
Content: 21 April 2021
Baghdad – The Government of Japan and UNOPS launched a new project to restore access to urgent primary health services in Anbar, Iraq.
The project aims at enhancing access to health services to support the COVID-19 response in the targeted areas through the rehabilitation of primary healthcare centers, and the provision of equipment and furniture, to improve the living conditions of the people including vulnerable populations, returnees, and internally displaced persons (IDPs). The project will directly benefit the public health system supporting more than 1.4 million individuals in Anbar governorate.
H.E. Mr. SUZUKI Kotaro, Ambassador of Japan to Iraq said “Japan had provided over USD 500 million as humanitarian assistance to the people affected by the crisis since 2014. Additionally, Japan has decided to provide a new assistance package for Iraq amounting to USD 50 million, including this project to be implemented by UNOPS.” “I praise UNOPS services in several fields which are crucial to improving capacities, boosting cost-effectiveness and increasing the quality of any project. I hope the assistance from the Government and people of Japan will help the people in Anbar Governorate, including IDPs, to realize better life through restoring access to urgent primary health services.
Dr. Khdair Khalaf Shalal, Director of General Office in the Directorate of Health in Anbar Governorate said “The Directorate of Health in Anbar Governorate appreciates the continued support from the Government and the People of Japan and UNOPS to the Iraqi people in restoring access to some health centers in the governorate and improving the services that are urgently needed especially during this period of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic.”
Appreciating the continued support from the Government of Japan in Iraq, Mr. Muhammad Usman Akram, Director of UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman, said: “UNOPS support in the rehabilitation of the centers will be critical to increasing access to public health services to the vulnerable people and those returning to their home after the years of conflict, and enhancing the Iraq Ministry of Health and Environment’s operational capacities across the country. The strategic support from the Government of Japan is a living example of how international partners can work hand in hand to improve access to urgently needed humanitarian services.”
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in Iraq has further exacerbated the existing challenges in providing necessary social services to people, as a result of years of conflicts, destruction, and economic slowdown. In particular, the health sector has been directly affected by the pandemic.
The project will contribute to the 2020 Humanitarian Response Plan for Iraq as well as supporting the country in its efforts towards the realization of Agenda 2030 and achieving SDG3: Good Health and Well-being.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/125388-government-japan-and-unops-restore-access-urgent-healthcare-anbar-iraq




Date: 20 April 2021
Title: COVID-19 Dealt Heavy Blows to Iraqi Labour Market, Enterprises in 2020: IOM, FAO, ITC Study
Content: 20 April 2021
Erbil — In early April, Iraq surpassed 900,000 COVID-19 cases. Necessary efforts to contain the spread of the virus throughout 2020 led to a reduction in economic activity; compounded by pre-existing economic challenges, drops in oil prices and the public health COVID-19 crisis, it is estimated that Iraq’s economy contracted by 9.5 per cent in 2020.
To measure losses and investigate how small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Iraq are coping with the economic impact of COVID-19, the International Organization for Migration (IOM), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), and the International Trade Center (ITC) conducted a panel study in 2020 on 893 SMEs representing 16 sectors in 15 governorates in Iraq. The study focused on the food and agriculture sector in order to determine variance in outcomes and effects on these firms when compared to non-agricultural businesses. The primary data used in this study was collected using ITC’s COVID-19 corporate survey.

The new report Panel Study: Impact of COVID-19 on Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises in Iraq showcases the main findings from three rounds of data collection, covering the effect of border closures and lockdowns on revenue, production, and employment; accessibility of resources or ability to sell products; and mechanisms adopted to cope with the crisis.

Almost all firms in the study reported a decline in production or sales between February 2020, the pre-COVID-19 period, and the end of the year. Firms suffered large losses in revenue early on (an average decline of 67% by June). Although revenue partially recovered between July and October, it did not reach pre-pandemic levels (firms reported a revenue drop on average of 23% between February and November). SMEs also reported incurring new debt over the year due to the pandemic, primarily through informal means such as borrowing from friends and family.

The labour market also suffered due to COVID-19. On average the number of employees in SMEs reduced by 27 per cent between February and June. By August, employment numbers began to recover but remained below pre-pandemic levels by the end of 2020, with the number of male and female employees, including full- and part-time, decreasing on average by seven per cent between February and November. Furthermore, the reduction in employment temporarily widened the gender gap in the labour market. In February, there was 1 woman for every 15 men working in the surveyed SMEs. The gap reached 1 woman for every 19 men by August, but then decreased to 1 for 13 in November 2020.

Over the course of the study period, the mechanisms SMEs adopted to cope with the financial difficulties of the pandemic changed. Initially, SMEs laid off employees. Later, requesting leniency in repaying financial responsibilities and increasing marketing efforts emerged as the dominant strategies. In June, more than half of SMEs’ reported being at risk of shutting down permanently (65%). By December, those reporting this risk reduced to less than a third (31%).

The same 893 SMEs were surveyed three times in 2020: 22 June to 7 July, 9 to 18 September, and 29 November to 15 December.

The study was funded by the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM) and the European Union.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/125344-covid-19-dealt-heavy-blows-iraqi-labour-market-enterprises-2020-iom-fao-itc-study




Date: 19 April 2021
Title: The United Kingdom’s GBP 3 million contribution supports Iraq’s fight against COVID-19
Content: 19 April 2021
Baghdad, 19 April 2021 –The United Kingdom has committed GBP 3 million (approximately US$ 4.1 million) to support the Government of Iraq’s response to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
With this contribution, the United Kingdom joins 12 international partners in supporting UNDP’s COVID-19 rapid health emergency response in Iraq. UNDP’s response aims to strengthen Iraq’s health sector in response to the pandemic, improve access to isolation wards and medical equipment, increase public awareness of COVID-19 symptoms and prevention measures, and provide personal protective equipment to healthcare workers.
Since launching its response in March 2020, UNDP has established 13 purpose-built COVID-19 isolation wards in Anbar (Fallujah and Ramadi), Babil, Basra, Dhi Qar, Diyala, Dohuk, Karbala, Kirkuk, Missan, Najaf, Ninewa and Salah al-Din governorates. Additional wards are being built in Diwaniya, Erbil, Muthanna, and Wasit, bringing the total number of supported medical facilities to 17.
“Containing the coronavirus outbreak is the Government of Iraq’s top priority, particularly with the second wave of infections country-wide. UNDP is on the front line, supporting Iraq’s national healthcare system to tackle the outbreak,” says UNDP Resident Representative Zena Ali Ahmad. “The United Kingdom’s generous contribution enables us to boost our support even further as we collectively fight this pandemic.”
“The United Kingdom supports the Government of Iraq in its fight against COVID-19, which continues to cause such challenges in both of our countries. We are pleased to make available this funding through UNDP to strengthen Iraq’s national health response and help manage the ongoing outbreak,” says Her Majesty’s Ambassador Stephen Hickey.
The United Kingdom joins Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United States of America in supporting UNDP’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Iraq.


The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/125186-united-kingdom%E2%80%99s-gbp-3-million-contribution-supports-iraq%E2%80%99s-fight-against-covid-19




Date: 19 April 2021
Title: Support to agricultural livelihoods of rural and peri-urban returnees and communities in Nineveh Governorate, Iraq
Content: 19 April 2021
On Thursday 15/4/2021 the EU/FAO agricultural livelihoods project for returnee farmers in Nineveh Governorate distributed twenty “handy scythes” (mechanical mowers for cutting fodder forage) to twenty women's associations in Al-Hamdaniya, Bashiqa, Tikif, Mosul, Al-Nimrud, Hamidat, Hammam Al-Alil, Wana, Al-Muhallabiah and Al-Qosh.
A ceremony was held in the presence of a large number of women beneficiaries as well as with extension workers from the Directorate of Agriculture. The use of the mechanical mowers should encourage livestock keepers to produce fodder crops locally in order to improve milk productivity up to 50% when feeding their dairy animals with newly introduced nutritious green fodder. It also alleviates the daily chores for women farmers who normally harvest manually.
On the day, the FAO team and extension workers trained the beneficiaries to use mechanical mowers to cut fodder. After an explanation on how to use it, the beneficiaries were invited to a practical demonstration at farmer Suhail Khudaydah Senju’s field from the village of Bahzani in a ryegrass field.
Agricultural extension staff answered questions and inquiries raised by the beneficiaries about the functioning of mechanical mowers, and then distributed to them to the women groups.
One beneficiary, Mrs Intisar Ephrem Boutros (1981) from Al-Hamdaniya / Qaraqosh said: “I am very happy with the training and support for planting green fodder crops received during several field visits. It has clearly given us a better economic return. The mowers will also help us to reduce time spent on cutting grass, so I will have more time for other activities such as milking and processing.” Intisar extended her sincere gratitude to everyone who helped especially FAO staff and the Nineveh Directorate of Agriculture Team.
Another beneficiary Mr. Suhail Khadidah Senju (1984) said: “My joy and the joy of my father were unspeakable today, because FAO chose our field in order to test and distribute the mechanical mowers and explain their mechanism of work, and a large number of beneficiaries were meeting to learn how to operate it.
Dr. Duraid Hekmat Tobya, Director of Nineveh Agriculture Directorate stated that the collaboration with FAO presents relief to a large number of formerly displaced farmers who were affected by terrorist operations. He was also pleased that the equipment would ease women’s time spent on cutting green forage.
FAO/Iraq representative, Dr. Salah Al-Hajj Hassan, thanked the European Union for financing the project and the Ministry of Agriculture for all efforts, facilities and partnerships that contributed to improving the conditions of returnee farmers and introducing appropriate and successful technologies. He emphasized the importance of introducing innovative technologies and new scientific information through FAO’s so-called “Farmer Field School” approach. He specifically thanked Dr. Chedly Kayouli, Senior Livestock Officer heading the team in Nineveh and support provided by René Verduijn, FAO Senior Resilience Team Leader.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/125351-support-agricultural-livelihoods-rural-and-peri-urban-returnees-and-communities-nineveh




Date: 16 April 2021
Title: UNHCR Provides Intensive Care Unit Supplies to COVID-19 Treatment Hospitals
Content: 16 April 2021
Baghdad, Erbil-Iraq, 16 April 2021 - The United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) announces today that, in coordination with national health authorities, and in solidarity with the people of Iraq, it is providing Intensive Care Unit (ICU) sets to COVID-19 treatment hospitals in 7 Governorates, complementing efforts undertaken by other partners.
As part of ongoing efforts to enhance COVID-19 treatment responses, UNHCR delivered and supported the installation of 23 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) equipment sets in 7 Governorates including Erbil, Duhok, Suleymania, Kirkuk, Anbar, Diyala, and Salahaldeen.  The ICU sets consist of ventilators, electric ICU beds, monitors, nebulizers, syringe pumps, infusion and suction pumps, and oxygen regulators. The ICU equipment will serve many of the host community, refugee and internally displaced (IDP) families living in the 7 Governorates.
Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, UNHCR has directly supported the health sector throughout Iraq which generously includes IDPs and refugees in national health plans and responses. UNHCR also thanks the public health authorities in the KRI and the Central Government of Iraq for including refugees in the national vaccination plan and for providing access for them to PCR testing and COVID-19 hospitals.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/125071-unhcr-provides-intensive-care-unit-supplies-covid-19-treatment-hospitals




Date: 16 April 2021
Title: UNESCO announces winning architectural design of competition to rebuild Al-Nouri Mosque complex in Mosul
Content: 16 April 2021
An international jury today announced that an entry by eight Egyptian architects won the international competition for the reconstruction of the historic Al-Nouri Mosque complex in Mosul, Iraq, a major component of UNESCO’s ambitious project for the rehabilitation of the ancient city, Revive the Spirit of Mosul.
Selected from among 123 entries, the winning design for a “Courtyards Dialogue,” as the winning project is called, was presented by a team of four partners Salah El Din Samir Hareedy, Head of Team, Khaled Farid El-Deeb, Sherif Farag Ebrahim, and Tarek Ali Mohamed, and four designer architects Noha Mansour Ryan, Hager Abdel Ghani Gad, Mahmoud Saad Gamal, and Yousra Muhamed El-Baha.
“The reconstruction of Al-Nouri Mosque complex, a historical site that is part of Mosul’s fabric and history, will be a landmark in the process of advancing the war-torn city’s reconciliation and social cohesion. Heritage sites and historical monuments are powerful catalysts for people’s sense of belonging, of community, and identity. They are key to reviving the spirit of Mosul and of Iraq as a whole.”
Audrey Azoulay, UNESCO Director-General
“The selection of the winning design under the international competition for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the Al-Nouri Mosque complex is a significant milestone under the ‘Revive the Spirit of Mosul’ initiative. In 2018, the UAE took the lead and joined UNESCO on this historic endeavor, inspired by the history and legacy of Mosul and the resilience and strength of its people. Reaching this important milestone has brought us closer to the realization of a shared commitment to restore social cohesion and a spirit of fraternity and tolerance in Mosul once again.”
Noura bint Mohammed Al Kaabi, United Arab Emirates Minister of Culture and Youth
The winners, seasoned architects with a notable track record in heritage rehabilitation, urban planning and climate-based architecture, will now produce a more detailed design for the reconstruction of Al-Nouri complex, with a view to starting its building in late autumn 2021.
The project foresees the reconstruction of Al-Nouri’s historic prayer hall and the organic integration of the complex, the largest public space in the Old City of Mosul, in its urban surrounding through open public spaces with five entry points from surrounding streets.
While the prayer hall will look as it did before the 2017 destruction of Al-Nouri Mosque, it will feature notable improvements in the use of natural light and expanded spaces for women and dignitaries, that will connect to the main hall through a semi covered open structure which could also serve as an open space for prayer.
The winning project further foresees the creation of enclosed gardens evocative of the historic houses and gardens that were located around the prayer hall prior to its remodelling in 1944.Upon notification of their winning, the team issued a statement welcoming the results of the competition saying “Our team worked with high passion to submit a project that primarily addresses the need for social cohesion and revival of souls. We are looking forward to completing the design and to helping the revival of the Old City of Mosul.”
The winning design will receive a $50,000 prize and will be awarded the contract for the detailed design of the complex. The runners-up will be awarded prizes in recognition of their work, $30,000 will be given to a team from India, followed by $20,000 to an entry from Spain, $15,000 to a team in the USA, and $10,000 to a team of architects from the United Arab Emirates, France, Turkey and Lebanon.
The international design competition for the Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Al-Nouri complex in Mosul was launched in November 2020 by UNESCO. The competition was prepared in close coordination with the Iraqi Ministry of Culture and the Iraqi Sunni Endowment, with the support of the United Arab Emirates, all of them members of the Joint Steering Committee of the project. This reconstruction of the Al-Nouri Complex is part of UNESCO’s flagship initiative Revive the Spirit of Mosul, which was launched in 2018 and concerns the rehabilitation of the historical fabric of the Old city of Mosul, the revival of the city’s cultural life, and the strengthening of its educational system to ensure quality education for all.
The Joint Steering Committee of the project and international architectural competition for the Al-Nouri complex, required entrants to conserve the parts of the prayer hall that survived the 2017 destruction and integrate them into new buildings. It also called for the rehabilitation of historical edifices as part of the new landscaped site. By creating new spaces dedicated to the community – for education, social and cultural activities – the project will serve the inhabitants of Mosul in ways that go beyond its principal religious function.
More about the competition
Al-Nouri Mosque design images
Video message of UNESCO Assistant Director General for Culture, Ernesto Ottone R.
Revive the Spirit of Mosul page
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/124955-unesco-announces-winning-architectural-design-competition-rebuild-al-nouri-mosque-complex




Date: 16 April 2021
Title: WFP and UNICEF continue support to schoolchildren in Iraq in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 16 April 2021
Baghdad, April 11, 2021: In a new joint initiative, UNICEF and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) are providing a cash stipend to the families of 2,400 primary school girls in Basra, to support their transition to lower secondary education.
The pilot project will help adolescent girls in the Shatt Al-Arab district continue learning whether they are in school or forced to study at home because of COVID-related closures.
The stipends, which are paid in Iraqi dinars at the equivalent of USD 80, will help impoverished and vulnerable families provide for their children. Three installments will be paid to the families during this academic year, amounting to a total of USD 240 per student who stays in education.
“All too often, mothers and fathers who find themselves unable to put food on the table and keep a roof over their children’s heads or provide them an education are tempted to send their daughters into early marriage or into the labour force,” said Paul Edwards, UNICEF’s Representative. “With the support that we are providing, we are working with our partner WFP to help parents close the financial gap and not have to pull their children out of learning as they desperately try to make ends meet,”
With the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic and related restrictions including the closure of schools, the ability of children to learn in-person, socialize and play with their friends in the safety of their schools – and in many cases have assured access to a meal – have all been threatened. Hard-won gains in human capital may be set back, affecting the long-term future opportunities and earning potential of students, said a World Bank study in 2020. A joint survey by UNICEF and WFP in late 2020 revealed that over 90 percent of parents prefer their children to return to school, so long as mitigation measures are in place, such as limiting the number of children in classrooms and school yard, a full-time health worker at school, staying home for 14 days if exposed to the virus, and mandatory masks.
“Through this initiative, WFP and UNICEF are focusing on the most vulnerable schoolgirls and their families, at a crucial time when they risk leaving education forever,” said WFP Iraq Representative Abdirahman Meygag. “As soon as it is possible, WFP and the Ministry of Education are ready to resume the National School Feeding Programme to support vulnerable students and families through the provision of nutritious school meals, which also attracts and helps keep children in school.”
In addition to the stipends to the girls from UNICEF and WFP, the package of support, provided in partnership with NGO Mercy Hands, includes teacher training on gender responsive approaches to teaching and learning methods, now done remotely while schools remain closed.
This initiative was made possible thanks to the support of Germany and Canada, without which some girls in Basra may need to leave school prematurely.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/124956-wfp-and-unicef-continue-support-schoolchildren-iraq-face-covid-19-pandemic




Date: 16 April 2021
Title: 1 per cent of humanity displaced: UNHCR Global Trends report
Content: 16 April 2021
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency is today appealing to countries worldwide to do far more to find homes for millions of refugees and others displaced by conflict, persecution or events seriously disturbing public order. This is as a report released today showed that forced displacement is now affecting more than one percent of humanity – 1 in every 97 people – and with fewer and fewer of those who flee being able to return home.
UNHCR’s annual Global Trends report, which comes two days ahead of 20 June World Refugee Day, shows that an unprecedented 79.5 million were displaced as of the end of 2019. UNHCR has not seen a higher total.
The report also notes diminishing prospects for refugees when it comes to hopes of any quick end to their plight. In the 1990s, on average 1.5 million refugees were able to return home each year. Over the past decade that number has fallen to around 390,000, meaning that growth in displacement is today far outstripping solutions.
“We are witnessing a changed reality in that forced displacement nowadays is not only vastly more widespread but is simply no longer a short-term and temporary phenomenon,” said UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi. “People cannot be expected to live in a state of upheaval for years on end, without a chance of going home, nor a hope of building a future where they are. We need a fundamentally new and more accepting attitude towards all who flee, coupled with a much more determined drive to unlock conflicts that go on for years and that are at the root of such immense suffering.”
UNHCR’s Global Trends report shows that of the 79.5 million who were displaced at the end of last year, 45.7 million were people who had fled to other areas of their own countries. The rest were people displaced elsewhere, 4.2 million of them being people awaiting the outcome of asylum requests, while 29.6 million were refugees (26 million) and others forcibly displaced outside their country.
The annual increase, from a figure of 70.8 million at the end of 2018, is a result of two main factors. First is worrying new displacement in 2019, particularly in Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Sahel, Yemen and Syria – the latter now in its ninth year of conflict and accounting on its own for 13.2 million refugees, asylum seekers, and internally displaced people, fully a sixth of the world’s total.
Second is a better presentation of the situation of Venezuelans outside their country, many of whom are not legally registered as refugees or asylum-seekers, but for whom protection-sensitive arrangements are required.
And within all of these numbers is a multitude of individual and very personal crises. More children (estimated at 30-34 million, tens of thousands of them unaccompanied) are among the displaced than, for example, the entire populations of Australia, Denmark and Mongolia combined. Meanwhile, the proportion of displaced aged 60 and above (4 percent) is far below that of the world population (12 percent) – a statistic that speaks to immeasurable heartbreak, desperation, sacrifice and being torn apart from loved ones.
9 things you need to know about forced displacement
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/125041-1-cent-humanity-displaced-unhcr-global-trends-report




Date: 15 April 2021
Title: Japan, IOM extend partnership in support of vulnerable communities in Iraq
Content: 15 April 2021
Thursday, April 15, 2021 Baghdad — Iraq continues to grapple with the cumulative effects of past conflicts on its development, which has left the country vulnerable to renewed conflict.
The socioeconomic shock caused by the COVID-19 pandemic is a compounding factor that is threatening peace, security, and development in the country as it recovers from the 2014-17 battle against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
Despite the military defeat of ISIL in 2017 Iraq remains at a critical juncture, with a significant risk of backsliding into conflict. At the same time, the Iraqi authorities are still struggling to manage the fallout of the mass mobilization which took place to retake large swathes of the country’s territory from ISIL. Vast numbers of former combatants who voluntarily disengaged in order to resume civilian life are experiencing challenges due to the limited economic opportunities and limited access to essential services in their areas of origin.
The Government of Japan (GoJ) will extend its support to the International Organization for Migration’s efforts to assist vulnerable populations, though a USD 4.2 million grant. With this funding from the GoJ, IOM Iraq will promote stabilization and work to reduce the risk of renewed violence through measures to promote security, socio-economic inclusion, and social cohesion in complex post-conflict situations and fragile communities in Ninewa and Anbar Governorates.
IOM Iraq activities will target individuals who are unable to access durable solutions due to perceived or former association to ISIL, former combatants, and broader communities. In line with the Government of Iraq’s own priorities, a special focus will be placed on youth. Under the project, IOM plans to work closely with the Government of Iraq in support of the National Strategy to Prevent Violent Extremism, as well as with local authorities, community, religious and tribal leaders, the private sector, and other relevant stakeholders.
IOM will also provide assistance to address the socioeconomic impacts of COVID-19 that have compounded ongoing vulnerabilities across the country, and analyse and respond to resulting instances of increased criminal activity.
“Dedicated efforts are necessary to promote stabilization, reduce the risk of renewed violence and address post-conflict dynamics in fragile communities,” said IOM Iraq Chief of Mission Gerard Waite. “IOM will continue to be grateful for the GoJ’s continued support and partnership in this regard.”
H.E. Mr. SUZUKI Kotaro, Ambassador of Japan to the Republic of Iraq, stated: “Japan has provided over USD 500 million as humanitarian assistance to the people affected by the crisis since 2014. Additionally, Japan has decided to provide a new assistance package for Iraq amounting to USD 50 million, including this project by IOM.
“I hope that the assistance from the Government and people of Japan will help to promote stabilization and reduce the risk of renewed violence in complex post-conflict and fragile communities in Ninewa and Anbar.
“I trust IOM’s expertise and I firmly believe people in Ninewa and Anbar will realize social cohesion and continue to reject renewed violence.”
The project, “Promoting Location-Specific Inclusion in Iraq” will build upon lessons learned and good practices gathered under the 2020-21 Government of Japan-supported project “Leveraging the Security Development Nexus in Iraq: Support for Community Stabilization in Conflict Affected Communities.”
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/124957-japan-iom-extend-partnership-support-vulnerable-communities-iraq




Date: 14 April 2021
Title: UN-Habitat and Ministry of Justice in Iraq sign Memorandum of Understanding
Content: 14 April 2021
Baghdad: After 3 years of fruitful collaboration between UN-Habitat Iraq and the Ministry of Justice of Iraq, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was signed with the support of the Prime Minister of Iraq, and under the patronage of Mr. Salar Abdul Sattar Muhammad, Minister of Justice.

The MOU aims to strengthen the cooperation between UN-Habitat and Ministry of Justice through joint efforts to secure and protect land tenure rights, and to facilitate the registration of ownership rights as one of the most critical durable solutions for Yazidis in Sinjar district. Additionally, the MOU strives to seek and explore potential solutions and legal approaches with respect to ownership rights and documentation, and remedy the effects resulting from the destruction of documents in the city of Mosul.
Yazidis in Sinjar area face major challenges in proving their ownership or occupancy land rights, particularly where official documents are missing, damaged, destroyed, or in the absence of cadastral and registry information and maps delineating land and property to prove ownership or occupancy rights. Addressing and resolving Yazidi land rights would mark a major step towards respecting human rights and reconciliation.
UN-Habitat has been addressing land rights of Yazidi minorities in Sinjar area since 2016, immediately after the area was liberated from ISIL. The agency is implementing a programme titled “Support to Housing, Land and Property Rights for IDPs in Nineveh” which aims to facilitate the sustainable return and focuses on vulnerable IDPs from minorities (Yazidis) whose access to Housing, Land and Property (HLP) rights has been denied for decades by a legacy of discriminatory policies and practices against Yazidis, as well as by recent violent conflict.
UN-Habitat is registering and mapping land claims by Yazidi returnees, supporting the verification of their claim among themselves, and issuing “Occupancy Certificates” that are endorsed by local authorities and community representatives. The issuance of occupancy certificates by UN-Habitat is a first step toward the final registration of Yazidis land rights in Iraq.
More than 7,600 Occupancy Certificates have been distributed to Yazidis returnees so far, recognizing their occupancy rights for the first time in modern history. UN-Habitat is also liaising closely with the Prime Minister’s Office and the Iraqi Ministry of Justice to endorse a legal decree to formalize the recognition of land rights and upgrade the occupancy certificates to full “Land Ownership Titles”.
Mr. Ahmed Luebi, Director General of the Department for Justice Affairs in the Ministry of Justice, stated that the signing of the MOU with UN-Habitat is necessary to ensure the sustainable return of the displaced people and the right of Yazidis to own land in Sinjar, which is considered one of the most important areas in Iraq. Further, he outlined that the MOU was drafted with the support of Prime Minister and the efforts of the Minister of Justice, Judge Salar Abdul Sattar Muhammed.
Wael Al-Ashhab, Head of UN-Habitat Iraq, emphasized that the signing of MOU is as result of great collaboration with Ministry of Justice which is our main counterpart in our journey to facilitate the registration of Yazidis land rights. UN-Habitat will continue to support MOJ to finalize the registration of Yazidis land rights and additional support will be provided to Real Estate Registration Office in Mosul by building capacity on housing, land and property related issues.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/124811-un-habitat-and-ministry-justice-iraq-sign-memorandum-understanding




Date: 14 April 2021
Title: Australia provides AUD 2 million to UNFPA-women and girls interventions in Iraq
Content: 14 April 2021
Baghdad, Iraq - The Australian Government Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) renewed its commitment to reproductive health and rights of women and girls, and prevention and response to gender-based violence in humanitarian settings. The project will support the work carried out by UNFPA with a AUD 2 million contribution.
Women and girls, including individuals with disabilities and survivors of gender-based violence; and men and boys, as allies of the prevention and response to gender-based issues, will benefit from awareness and integrated gender-based violence and sexual and reproductive health services.
“Australia is pleased to continue our important partnership with UNFPA Iraq” said Ms Paula Ganly, the Australian Ambassador to Iraq. “Providing assistance for reproductive health needs and rights of women and girls and protection from gender-based violence is essential to ensuring their full and equal participation in society."
Acknowledging the new funding, Dr Rita Columbia, UNFPA Representative to Iraq, said: “I extend our sincere gratitude to the longstanding partnership with DFAT. This generous contribution will help women and girls to have easier access to quality gender-based violence and sexual and reproductive health services, especially to women and girls with disabilities.”
“Today, due to the uncertainty environment caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever to work hand-in-hand to help the most vulnerable people stay healthy and live in a violence-free environment,” she reiterated.
Australia is a strong advocate for women and girls’ protection and reproductive rights. Since 2014, Australia has contributed AUD 18.2 million to UNFPA programming in Iraq, helping refugees, internally displaced people, people with disabilities, host communities and returnees.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/124813-australia-provides-aud-2-million-unfpa-women-and-girls-interventions-iraq




Date: 13 April 2021
Title: UN Iraq Special Representative Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert extends her best wishes for a peaceful, healthy Ramadan
Content: 13 April 2021
Once again, Ramadan is being observed amid restrictions due to COVID-19 and economic hardship compounded by the pandemic. While these difficulties test our resolve, we must all remain mindful of the need to protect ourselves and our loved ones and not allow the challenging circumstances to dampen the occasion.

The holy month remains a time for peace and reflection, one for prayer, fasting, and giving. This shared experience can bring people closer even if not physically, as Ramadan is observed by Muslims worldwide in the spirit of solidarity, while remaining safe and healthy.
As we speak, vaccines are being administered. And together with the ongoing preventive measures, they hold the promise for a better tomorrow, for the day when we all return to normality and can shift our focus to the many other issues facing Iraq, including enhancing economic performance, working to resolve political differences and improving security, social and environmental conditions.
As we remember our loved ones lost, those who remain away from their homes and families as well as the many families in need who will mark this occasion amid a rising cost of living, all of us must take this opportunity to reflect, forgive and give back where we can. We are all sisters and brothers in humanity with a common destiny, facing the same problems that demand collective solutions.

We extend our best wishes for a harmonious, serene and healthy Ramadan.
Ramadan Kareem
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/124564-un-iraq-special-representative-jeanine-hennis-plasschaert-extends-her-best-wishes-peaceful




Date: 12 April 2021
Title: UN signs financing agreement with the European Union to support UN electoral assistance to Iraq
Content: 12 April 2021
Baghdad, 12 April 2021 - The United Nations in Iraq welcomes the contribution of EUR 5.51 million from the European Union to a UN-led project to support capacity-building within the Independent High Electoral Commission (IHEC). The EU funding will also support deployment of UN electoral advisers as IHEC prepares for the October 2021 national elections.
“High voter turnout will be key in ensuring a parliament and government that are representative of all Iraqis,” said EU Ambassador Martin Huth. “By supporting the organisation of the elections, the EU hopes to build the confidence among the Iraqi people in their elections and help IHEC establish a free, fair and inclusive electoral process that is deserving of their trust.” 
 
The European Union’s contribution to the UN assistance project comes in addition to funding from Germany, the Netherlands and France, bringing total contributions from the EU and its member states to USD 18.6 million.
 
On behalf of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) signed an agreement with the EU on 8 April to manage the financing and administration of the project. The United Nations thanks the European Union for its contribution, which strengthens Iraq’s ability to hold free, fair and transparent elections in Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/124491-un-signs-financing-agreement-european-union-support-un-electoral-assistance-iraq




Date: 09 April 2021
Title: New contribution from Japan supports UNDP’s Programme on Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration in Iraq during COVID-19
Content: 09 April 2021
Baghdad, Iraq, 09 April 2021 – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Iraq has welcomed a US$8.2 million (JPY 883,636,344) contribution from the Government of Japan to support community-based reconciliation and reintegration in Iraq with a focus on families perceived as affiliated with ISIL in Anbar, Ninewa and Salah al-Din governorates and those affected by increased gender-based violence and harsh economic conditions due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The contribution will be instrumental in supporting UNDP Iraq’s Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration Project which supports the community readiness, return, and reintegration of families perceived to be affiliated with ISIL, who are often the most marginalized and vulnerable.
The project’s phased approach includes area-based conflict sensitive assessments, facilitation of dialogue, mediation and reconciliation processes relating to the development of local peace covenants, and a full-scale socio-economic reintegration support package in communities of return, including shelter rehabilitation and psychosocial and livelihood programming. The project contributes to the durable solutions strategy and works in partnership with national and local government partners, to facilitate the return of Internally Displaced Persons and ease the negative impacts of COVID-19 on them and on the receiving communities. More than 3, 200 perceived ISIL-affiliated families have been supported to facilitate their return and reintegration through local peace agreements under this project to date, and 4,000 beneficiaries will be reached by the socio-economic reintegration support with this new contribution.
UNDP Iraq Resident Representative Zena Ali-Ahmad states, “We are extremely grateful to one of our longstanding partners, the Government of Japan, for this important contribution. Their support is vital in ensuring we leave no one behind. We are focused on creating durable solution by providing support not only to IDPs and returnees, but also to host communities. By including all members of society in Iraq’s social fabric, we promote unity and prevent vulnerable individuals from turning to violence and extremism.”
According to the Japanese Ambassador to Iraq, His Excellency Mr. SUZUKI Kotaro, “Japan had provided over USD 500 million as humanitarian assistance to the people affected by the crisis since 2014. Additionally, Japan decided this year to provide a new assistance package for Iraq, amounting to USD 50 million, including this project by UNDP.” “UNDP has been Japan’s excellent partner all over the world, in both humanitarian and development cooperation, and especially so here in Iraq.” “The Government of Japan wishes this project help people cope with common and multiple challenges they face, and show the way toward reconciliation and welfare in peace.”
The Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration Project is anchored on the UN Iraq Joint Approach for Community-based Reconciliation and Reintegration of persons perceived to be affiliated with ISIL in Iraq. It is part of UNDP Iraq’s five-year Social Cohesion Programme launched in January 2020 to promote stronger, peaceful, and more cohesive communities in all areas of Iraq.
The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/139902-new-contribution-japan-supports-undp%E2%80%99s-programme-community-based-reconciliation-and




Date: 09 April 2021
Title: WHO hands-over urgent in-kind supplies to Ministry of Health of Kurdistan Iraq to support fighting COVID 19
Content: 09 April 2021
Erbil, Iraq: The World Health Organization (WHO) handed over an urgent COVID 19 response consignment of in-kind medical supplies and equipment to the Ministry of Health of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRG-I).
The 7-truck consignment is worth US$426,732 and it included 151 pallets of medical supplies, and hospital consumables, in addition to 46 pallets of renewable and supplementary items of the Inter-agency Emergency Health Kit (IEHK) sufficient for a population of approximately 200,000 persons for a minimum duration of three months.
The consignment also included, three ICU ventilators and monitors along with personal protective equipment and virus transportation medium, all of which, comes in timely to support the MoH efforts in fighting and containing COVID-19 in KRG-I.
“WHO is very concerned about the health of the Iraqi people and will continue to provide the technical and logistical support required for protecting the health staff of both Central and Regional ministries as well as the citizens all over Iraq,” said Dr. Adham Ismail, WHO Representative in Iraq.
The urgent shipment of supplies was thanked by health officials in the KRG-I. “We appreciate WHO support to the Ministry of Health of Kurdistan Region of Iraq; it will certainly assist in equipping our national health staff who are working hard to contain COVID 19 in the Region,” said Dr. Saman H. Barzangy, Minister of Health of KRG-Iraq.
The in-kind consignment is meant to support COVID 19 response activities implemented by the directorates of health of KRG-I. It further included a shipment of 30 hospital beds sent to Sulaymaniyah prior to the hand over due to the urgency of the request.
As of 18 April, the health authorities in KR-I reported 337 COVID 19 confirmed cases with 4 associated deaths and 244 recoveries.
WHO would like to thank Kuwait and USAID for their generous contribution which assisted in funding this COVID 19 protection and treatment consignment.

The United Nations in Iraq comprises two field missions (UNAMI and UNITAD), UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes, working at the community, governorate and national levels across the Republic of Iraq.
URL: https://iraq.un.org/en/124368-who-hands-over-urgent-kind-supplies-ministry-health-kurdistan-iraq-support-fighting-covid-19




