Date: 10 May 2024
Title: Economists Discuss a Transition Beyond GDP Per Capita For Jamaica’s Sustainable Development
Content: 10 May 2024
Today, the Jamaica Economy Panel (JEP) publishes its twenty-first discussion, titled “Beyond GDP per capita for Jamaica’s Sustainable Development.”
The JEP discussion paper examines the possibility of adopting measures Beyond GDP to gauge sustainable development in Jamaica. It addresses concerns regarding the effectiveness of GDP per capita in measuring development progress, especially in terms of sustainable development.
The JEP discussion recognizes the global reliance on GDP per capita as a key measure of economic activity as well as its limitations in capturing multidimensional development indicators as part of assessing sustainable progress.
According to Dr. Nadine McCloud, Senior Lecturer, Department of Economics, University of the West Indies Mona, Beyond-GDP measures designed by the PIOJ and the UNEP have addressed some of the challenges.
“There is broad consensus that using GDP per capita as a metric for economic performance and development is tantamount to viewing a country and its citizens through a narrow and severely biased lens fraught with many ills,” Dr. McCloud said. “The most critical input to the production of any useful data-driven measure is data, which are subjected to, for example, institutional and governmental barriers,” Dr. McCloud added.
Introducing a new development measurement tool for Jamaica comes with its share of challenges. The JEP panel emphasized several hurdles, including inadequate data on non-economic aspects and challenges in quantifying intangible assets. Additionally, resistance from entrenched institutions and policymakers accustomed to GDP-focused methods, along with limited awareness among policymakers, stakeholders and the public regarding the limitations of GDP and the advantages of alternative measures.
Responding to the survey results, Mr. Dennis Zulu, United Nations Resident Coordinator, agreed that “Moving beyond GDP will require committed collective efforts among various partners and stakeholders to research, design, finance and educate on new measurement tools in the years to come.” He added that “The United Nations is committed to working with the government to implement more nuanced development measurement tools like Beyond-GDP for a more adequate measure of Jamaica’s sustainable development progress as well as for more effective development planning.”
Overall, the JEP Panellists agreed that the advancements in wealth accounting provide a deeper comprehension of both the quantity and quality of growth and development. As highlighted by Dr. Stuart Davies, Senior Economist, UN Resident Coordinators Office.
“Recent advances in wealth accounting, which go beyond GDP, can enable a better understanding of not only the quantity but also the quality of growth and development. Development planners, decision-makers, and practitioners can now better understand the interlinkages and trade-offs between national assets, and reflect these in their policies, projects and programmes to achieve sustainable development more effectively. For small island developing countries, like Jamaica, these new wealth accounting tools enable more nuanced approaches to development that enhance not just future prosperity but also resilience in all its forms,” Dr. Davies said.
The Jamaican Economy Panel is part of a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at the University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together economic, public-sector experts and development practitioners to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panellists.
For more information on the Jamaican Economy Panel and for the results of this JEP discussion, visit here.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/268338-economists-discuss-transition-beyond-gdp-capita-jamaica%E2%80%99s-sustainable-development




Date: 07 May 2024
Title: Belize, Jamaica and St. Vincent and the Grenadines eliminate mother-to-child transmission of HIV and Syphilis
Content: 07 May 2024
Jarbas Barbosa, Director, PAHO/WHO and Christine Stegling, Deputy Executive Director, UNAIDS (Assistant-Secretary General), and Dennis Zulu, UN Resident Coordinator, witnessed the event.
Belize, Jamaica, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines are the latest countries in the Americas to receive certification from the World Health Organization (WHO) for eliminating the mother-to-child transmission of HIV and syphilis (EMTCT). The milestone was marked today at a commemorative event organized by the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) in Kingston, Jamaica, with support from UNICEF and UNAIDS and with the participation of health ministers from the three countries.
“This achievement is a testament to years of dedication, hard work, and collaboration among governments, health professionals, and communities”, PAHO Director Dr. Jarbas Barbosa said at the event. Dr. Barbosa also acknowledged the “remarkable resilience” displayed by the three countries, ensuring the adaptation and continuation of essential services despite the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. “I trust that the celebration today will inspire other countries to reinvigorate their commitments” towards a generation free of HIV and congenital syphilis.
In 2010, countries of the Americas committed to the elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV and syphilis and endorsed the regional strategy, which was updated in 2016 under the PAHO Plan of Action for the Prevention and Control of HIV and Sexually Transmitted Infections.
To meet elimination targets, countries focused on strengthening prevention and treatment services within primary health care and in maternal and child health, updating guidelines, ensuring the effective screening of pregnant women, monitoring cases and following-up with HIV and syphilis exposed infants.
In a video message, WHO Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, praised Belize for integrating primary disease prevention and treatment into maternal and child health services. He also commended Jamaica for its civil society organizations' commitment to human rights and lauded St. Vincent and the Grenadines for investing in robust national laboratory structures. "While validation is a tremendous accomplishment, maintaining it requires sustained efforts to prevent new infections," he said. "WHO and partners will continue to support all countries in the Americas to strengthen health systems, provide comprehensive services, and ensure the involvement of women in planning and service delivery."
Globally, 19 countries and territories have now been certified for eliminating mother-to-child transmission of HIV and/or syphilis, with 11 of them located in the Americas. In 2015, Cuba made history by becoming the first country in the world to achieve the dual elimination of HIV and syphilis. This was followed by Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Bermuda, Cayman Islands and Montserrat and St. Kitts and Nevis in 2017, and Dominica in 2020.
“The end of AIDS is an opportunity for a uniquely powerful legacy for today’s leaders. We are again celebrating a great public health milestone today as Caribbean countries show global leadership in the elimination agenda to achieve an HIV free generation,” Luisa Cabal, UNAIDS Regional Director for Latin America and the Caribbean, said.
New HIV infections among children in the Caribbean decreased by 25% between 2010 and 2022. During that period, annual notified cases declined from 2,000 to 1,500. Reported cases of congenital syphilis in the English-speaking Caribbean now stand at 36 cases per 100,000 newborns, below the goal of no more than 50 cases per 100,000 newborns.
"UNICEF welcomes the commitment of Belize, Jamaica and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines for achieving the double elimination of vertical transmission for HIV and Syphilis", Garry Conille, UNICEF Regional Director for Latin America and the Caribbean, said. “We are confident that this milestone will be a catalyst for other countries in the region to pursue the Elimination of Mother-to-Child Transmission Agenda toward the 2030 target: No children left behind in the progress to end AIDS,” Conille added.
WHO awards this certification to countries which have brought the mother-to-child HIV transmission rate to under 5%; provided antenatal care and antiretroviral treatment to more than 90% of pregnant women; reported fewer than 50 new cases of congenital syphilis per 100,000 newborns, and achieved an HIV case rate of fewer than 500 per 100,000 live births.
Elimination Initiative
The PAHO Elimination Initiative seeks to put an end to more than 30 communicable diseases, including the mother-to-child transmission of HIV and syphilis, in Latin America and the Caribbean by 2030.
The initiative was relaunched during the Organization’s 60th Directing Council and seeks to harness the lessons learned from the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as from previous elimination experiences to accelerate disease elimination in the Region.

Quotes from Ministers of Health
Kevin Bernard, Minister of Health and Wellness of Belize: “Eliminating mother to child transmission of HIV and syphilis is an extremely significant accomplishment for the people and the country of Belize. The activities leading up to this momentous goal were not always easy, however with the commitment and motivation of our health care workers, in all areas of health, this has become a reality. We continue to work towards achieving public health goals for a healthier and more productive Belize.”
Dr. Christopher Tufton, Minister of Health and Wellness of Jamaica: “The elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV and syphilis is a win that underscores protecting the health of all. It is also exemplary of the extraordinary progress being made in our maternal health care. What’s more, it is vitally important that we consolidate the gains made from this achievement, especially through continued community engagement and partnership in the public health interest of all.”
St. Clair Jimmy Prince, Minister of Health, Wellness and the Environment of St Vincent and the Grenadines: “I commend the dedication and commitment of healthcare workers on achieving certification by the World Health Organization (WHO) of the dual elimination of mother-to-child transmission (EMTCT) of HIV and syphilis. This achievement signals to the world that ending paediatric HIV and congenital syphilis through the elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV and syphilis is achievable. The Ministry will continue to work towards ending AIDS as a public health threat by 2030.”


###

About PAHO
The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) works with the countries of the Americas to improve the health and quality of life of its population. Founded in 1902, it is the world’s oldest international public health agency. It serves as the Regional Office of WHO for the Americas and is the specialized health agency of the Inter-American system.

About UNAIDS
The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) leads and inspires the world to achieve its shared vision of zero new HIV infections, zero discrimination and zero AIDS-related deaths. UNAIDS unites the efforts of 11 UN organizations—UNHCR, UNICEF, WFP, UNDP, UNFPA, UNODC, UN Women, ILO, UNESCO, WHO and the World Bank—and works closely with global and national partners towards ending the AIDS epidemic by 2030 as part of the Sustainable Development Goals. Learn more at unaids.org and connect with us on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube.

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in the world’s toughest places to reach the most disadvantaged children and adolescents – and to protect the rights of every child, everywhere. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we do whatever it takes to help children survive, thrive and fulfill their potential, from early childhood through adolescence. And we never give up.
For more information about UNICEF and its work in LAC visit: www.unicef.org/lac

LINKS
Elimination of Mother-to-Child Transmission of HIV, Syphilis, Perinatal Hepatitis B, and Congenital Chagas Disease
https://www.paho.org/en/topics/elimination-mother-child-transmission-hiv-syphilis-perinatal-hepatitis-b-and-congenital
PAHO Elimination Initiative
https://www.paho.org/en/elimination-initiative

CONTACTS
PAHO
Luciana Viegas: + 1 202 981-8455 | Sebastian Oliel: +1 202 316-5679 | Ashley Baldwin: +1 202 340-4025 | mediateam@paho.org | www.paho.org

UNAIDS
Daniel de Castro | UNAIDS Regional Communications & Global Advocacy Adviser | Latin America and the Caribbean | cel: +507 6998 3175 | @unaidslac |decastrod@unaids.org

UNICEF
Sendai Zea | Communication Specialist UNICEF LACRO | sczea@unicef.org | +507 68210843
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/268004-belize-jamaica-and-st-vincent-and-grenadines-eliminate-mother-child-transmission-hiv-and




Date: 27 March 2024
Title: United Nations and The Bahamas Facilitate Inaugural Joint National Steering Committee Meeting
Content: 27 March 2024
UN Partnership to Accelerate Programme Implementation Under Existing Cooperation Framework
NASSAU – The Bahamas' Joint National Steering Committee (JNSC) for the United Nations Multi-Country Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (MSDCF) held its country-level meeting on March 26 with the Sustainable Development Goals Unit (SDGU), Office of The Prime Minister and the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office. Representatives from various Ministries and Departments within the Government of The Bahamas, alongside UN Resident Coordinator Staff and UN agency representatives, were in attendance, virtually and in person. During the meeting, Co-chairs Mr. Dennis Zulu, UN Resident Coordinator and Director Rochelle Newbold, SDGU, communicated the significance of collective action in accomplishing the goals outlined in the MSDCF and its accompanying country implementation plan (CIP).
The Multi-Country Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (MSDCF) for the English and Dutch-speaking Caribbean spans from 2022 to 2026 and is the roadmap for coordinated development support agreed to by regional member states including The Bahamas.
The MSDCF is the foremost instrument for planning and implementing UN development initiatives that align with the 2030 SDG Agenda and The Bahamas’ national development priorities. UN agencies and national governments, including The Bahamas, endorsed the Cooperation Framework, for the first time in 2022.
"The Joint National Steering Committee is very important to the transparency, monitoring, and accountability of UN-Bahamas programme implementation," Co-chair Zulu said. "This meeting is being held at an opportune time because it allows us to focus on the specifics of the Country Implementation Plan, in the case of The Bahamas." Co-chair Zulu added.
"This is a meeting that has been long anticipated. Most of you may recall that when this administration took office, this was one of the first undertakings that it committed the country to be a part of, this regional MSDCF," Co-chair Newbold said. “We are very excited and willing to [partner]," Co-chair Newbold added.
The meeting featured a short presentation on the MSDCF's focus and structure and a summary of the key focus areas under The Bahamas' 2022/2023 country implementation plan (CIP). The CIP results will be published in an upcoming annual report. Representatives from relevant UN agencies also gave updates on the annual results review and achievements for 2023, including a presentation on the 2024/2025 country implementation plan.
Critical discussions during the meeting centred around potential and new collaborations as well as best practices and capacity building. Participants engaged in fruitful dialogue, exchanging insights and perspectives to address technical and procedural gaps, and explored future opportunities for successful partnerships and programme implementation.
The meeting came to a close with practical recommendations for Ministries and Departments to adopt the most effective methods to advance the work of the CIP. The SDG team pledged to support Ministries and Departments in advancing their work. The United Nations recommitted to greater momentum, and engagement with the JNSC to advance and sustain its effort in The Bahamas.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/265303-united-nations-and-bahamas-facilitate-inaugural-joint-national-steering-committee-meeting




Date: 17 January 2024
Title: Economists Highlight Six Transitions Framework as Accelerator for Vision 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals in Jamaica
Content: 17 January 2024
Today, the Jamaica Economy Panel (JEP) publishes its twentieth survey, titled Six Transitions for Accelerating SDGs.
The JEP inquiry addressed the relevance of these transitions, potential prioritization, identification of gaps, and consideration of redundancy in the Jamaican context. The panel discussion and the Six Transitions prioritized investments in six overarching areas: education, gender equality, health, sustainable energy, food, cities, and digital innovation can significantly enhance countries' ability to meet their SDG targets.

According to Dr. Nadine McCloud, Senior Lecturer, Department of Economics, University of the West Indies Mona, the SDGs are essential metrics for measuring the improvements in our citizens' lives and livelihoods. Thus, we must recognise the importance of achieving marked progress.

“Despite being stymied by the pandemic, Jamaica's significant upward trend in the SDG goals deserves commendations. This upward trend must continue, and the next few years are critical. Jamaica must devote more resources to building resilient food security mechanisms, digital connectivity systems, climate change buffers, and deepening our human capital to continue on this positive path. Given the global technology revolution, we must consider utilising artificial intelligence to expedite reaching the SDGs,” Dr. McCloud said.

Current global assessments of the Sustainable Development Goals indicate we are falling behind - globally. The 2023 Sustainable Development Report highlights that only 1 in 8 SDG targets is on track, and UNCTAD's 2023 World Investment Report reveals an increased annual investment deficit of US$4 Trillion, up from US$2.5 Trillion in 2015 when the SDGs were adopted. Jamaica, presently ranked 82nd, surpasses the SIDS (63.9) and Caribbean (65.9) averages with an SDG performance score of 69.6. However, urgent challenges persist, requiring prompt action to achieve its goals.

Responding to the survey results, Mr. Dennis Zulu, United Nations Resident Coordinator, agreed that “Achieving these goals demands ongoing collective efforts and partnerships with various stakeholders to design, finance, and implement policies, projects, and programmes in the years to come.” He emphasised that “The United Nations and the government must collaborate to champion the Six Transition areas and accelerate SDGs in Jamaica through strategic partnerships.”

Overall, the JEP Panellists' discussion concluded that significant progress has been made in some areas, like gender equality and decent work, however, Jamaica will still need to accelerate its efforts in the coming years. As highlighted by Dr. Stuart Davies, Senior Economist, UN Resident Coordinators Office.

“With the clock ticking, designing investments and development pathways to accelerate multiple SDGs will be critical if Jamaica is to meet its sustainable development targets by 2030. How Jamaica takes the best from global guidance and practice on transformation, and fine-tuning this to its sustainable development needs in the coming years will be an important determinant of success,” Dr. Davies said.

The Jamaican Economy Panel is part of a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at the University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together economic, public-sector experts and development practitioners to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panellists.

For more information on the Jamaican Economy Panel and the results of this JEP discussion, visit the UN Jamaica website.

###

For further information, please contact:
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/257998-economists-highlight-six-transitions-framework-accelerator-vision-2030-and-sustainable




Date: 10 October 2023
Title: UN Inks New Partnership with the University of the West Indies
Content: 10 October 2023
Today the United Nations and the University of the West Indies (UWI) signed a new partnership agreement at 9 a.m. in the Dr Aleem Mohammed Meeting Room of the Regional Headquarters of the University of the West Indies.
The UN-UWI Declaration of Intent strengthens cooperation in meeting the 2030 agenda for sustainable development in the Caribbean.
The Agreement is built on the three (3) pillars of UWI’s Strategic Plan; Access, Alignment and Agility and the four (4) pillars of the United Nations Multi-Country Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (MSDCF) – the UN roadmap for development within the English and Dutch-speaking Caribbean.
The Declaration of Intent (DOI) was signed by Professor Densil A. Williams, Principal, UWI Mona on behalf of the University and Mr. Dennis Zulu UN Resident Coordinator on behalf of the United Nations system in Jamaica. The signing was hosted at UWI’s Regional Headquarters.
“The latest performance assessment of the SDGs from the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network shows that on average less than one-fifth of the SDG targets are on track to be achieved,” Zulu said.
“It is, therefore, crucial that we all do our best to enhance partnerships, forge enduring collaborations and pool ideas and expertise to support Jamaica and the region in meeting its SDG targets. This UN-UWI partnership aims to do just that,” Zulu added.
The ceremony featured brief presentations from Dr. Stuart Davies UN Senior Economist, and Dr. Nadine McCloud, Senior Lecturer, Department of Economics.
“The research we’ve done so far indicates significant interest in programmes of SDG focus. This [partnership] is timely. As a university, we are in discussions with other international partners which will see us launching academic programmes in social justice and specifically around the SDGs, so as an institution, we can assist Jamaica and the world in ensuring we achieve the SDGs,” Professor Densil A. Williams, Principal, UWI Mona said.
The Declaration identifies initial areas of collaboration including economic transformation and resilience-building for the SDGs, financing for sustainable development, knowledge generation and sharing, data capacity development and others.
“Partnering with the United Nations helps us ensure that no one is left behind in economic or educational gains; whatever we do,” Professor Williams said.
The DOI is signed on the heels of UN Jamaica’s youth partnership Forum aimed at refocusing efforts around the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The one-day event is hosted at UWI’s Regional Headquarters.
“Today’s signing is not just symbolic of our continued commitment to Jamaica, but a step forward in strengthening UN’s partnership with UWI as a key partner in the sustainable development of Jamaica and the region,” Zulu said.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/248767-un-inks-new-partnership-university-west-indies




Date: 10 October 2023
Title: United Nations and Partners Announce Package of Youth Services at Partnership Forum
Content: 10 October 2023
The United Nations in Jamaica today hosts its annual partnership forum aimed at refocusing efforts around the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The Forum is being held under the theme “Partnerships for Peace, Planet and Prosperity. For Youth. By Youth. With Youth.” The United Nations and its partners will announce a host of service offerings for youth and sign a new UN partnership with the University of the West Indies (UWI).
Additionally, the Forum provides the opportunity for Jamaica’s youth leaders to build partnerships for SDG implementation and share and learn about efforts for SDG acceleration.
This year’s forum features the launch of the UN’s first Youth Engagement Action Plan for Jamaica, the signing of UN’s Declaration of Intent for greater partnership with the UWI, Mona as well as a series of interactive dialogues, breakout sessions and panels from The Ashe Company, The British High Commission, Jamaica Animation Nation, Jamaica College Robotics, The Heart Foundation of Jamaica, The Planning Institute of Jamaica, The Jamaica Constabulary Force, and others; with a live outside broadcast with Chiney K and the FYAH Fam on 105.1 FM. The initiative will also see key remarks from The Hon. Marsha Smith, MP, State Minister, Ministry of Education and Youth, Mr. Deanroy Bernard, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Culture, Gender, Entertainment and Sport, Mr. Dennis Zulu, United Nations Resident Coordinator and Professor Densil A. Williams, Principal, UWI, Mona.
In a UN first, the keynote presentation features a live address from Ronald J. Taylor, Global Youth Safety and Wellbeing Product Policy Manager at TikTok.
The one-day event will see over 200 youth attendees and partners building their capacity to support Jamaica in delivering on Vision 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals through shared best practices, innovation and partner-building.
“This Youth Forum unfolds against a backdrop of complex national and regional issues, including national youth priorities around education, employment, gender-based violence, safety, wellness, a relentless climate crisis coupled with the gradual but uneven recovery from the pandemic,” said Dennis Zulu, United Nations Resident Coordinator.
“Admittedly, progress towards achieving the global goals by 2030 is off track. Now more than ever before, it is critical that we empower Jamaica’s youth, by amplifying their voices, their expertise and their innovative ideas to get us back on track to achieve Vision 2030 and the SDGs,” added Zulu.
###
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/248768-united-nations-and-partners-announce-package-youth-services-partnership-forum




Date: 09 October 2023
Title: Jamaican Economy Panel Commends Reduction in Youth Unemployment and Debates Options for its Continued Decline
Content: 09 October 2023
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) publishes its nineteenth survey on Enhancing Employment Opportunities for Jamaica’s Youth.
The JEP panellists were asked about how COVID-19 has impacted the labour market, what challenges, and opportunities are faced by Jamaica’s youth, and the potential options available to policymakers and development practitioners to support employment for Jamaica’s youth in the coming years.

Like many Small Island Developing States (SIDS) across the Caribbean, providing sufficient labour market opportunities, particularly for youth (15 to 24 years), continues to be a challenge for Jamaica.

Over the past decade, official statistics show that the average overall unemployment rate has been in double digits (11% from April 2013 to April 2021), which for youth has been much higher at 27%. In recent years, the trend has been decreasing, but unemployment remains high for Jamaica’s youth. An interesting development in Jamaica's labour market has been the convergence in unemployment rates between men and young women. This has been so significant that in July 2022, the unemployment rate among young women fell to below that of young men. A marked departure from the trend.

Dr. Nadine McCloud, Senior Lecturer, Department of Economics, University of the West Indies Mona, stated “High and persistent youth unemployment undoubtedly cast significant costs on individuals and society. Young people face a double-edged sword. On the one hand, young people have fewer years of work experience; are uncertain about their niche, operate in smaller networks, and if employed, are less costly to replace compared to more experienced adult counterparts in comparable industries. On the other, they are technologically agile and receptive to new skills, which in this digital era, can offer Jamaica a demographic net dividend.”

Responding to the survey results, Mr. Dennis Zulu, United Nations Resident Coordinator, agreed that “addressing youth unemployment necessitates a collaborative effort between the public and private sectors, fostering opportunities for our youth through diverse initiatives and programs to achieve SDG-8 in Jamaica.” He emphasised that “it is essential for the United Nations to partner with the government, working in tandem to champion gender equality, poverty reduction, and the promotion of decent work and economic growth through strategic partnerships.”

Overall, the JEP Panellists' discussion concluded that youth unemployment in Jamaica remains a complex and difficult problem to solve.

“Root and branch approaches will be needed to both bridge employers current as well as future needs from their workforce to remain competitive both domestically and internationally,” Dr. Stuart Davies, UN Senior Economist, said.

“Enhancing the skills of young people to ensure that they are best equipped to reach their full potential, is crucial to Jamaica’s economic transformation, future prosperity, and strategy to deliver on its Sustainable Development Goals, particularly SDG-8: Decent Work and Economic Growth,” Dr. Davies added.

The Jamaican Economy Panel is part of a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at the University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together economic, public-sector experts and development practitioners to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panellists.

For more information on the Jamaican Economy Panel and for the results of this JEP discussion, visit here.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/248782-jamaican-economy-panel-commends-reduction-youth-unemployment-and-debates-options-its




Date: 28 August 2023
Title: FAO and The Government of Bahamas develop national strategy to protect and preserve forests
Content: 28 August 2023
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in collaboration with the Forestry Unit within the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources is taking steps to protect The Bahamas’ forest cover and sustainable management of forests.


Stakeholders at the Inception Workshop for the ‘Preparation of Strategic Framework to Reduce Deforestation and Forest Degradation in the Bahamas’ project.
This initiative stems from an inception workshop held on August 24, which is a first step under a new Green Climate Fund (GCF) project entitled ‘Preparation of Strategic Framework to Reduce Deforestation and Forest Degradation in the Bahamas’ project. The objective of the project is to improve the planning and monitoring of forest and land-use activities for mitigation and adaptation. Another key priority will be the development of an institutional framework to integrate different data and information sources for climate change reporting.
In response to climate challenges which include sea-level rise and financial and environmental impacts from hurricanes and tropical storms, the country has developed robust responses to strengthen resilience mechanisms. The Bahamas has since established a Climate Change and Environmental Advisory Unit, developed a National Climate Adaptation Policy, and amended the Forestry Act to recognize the importance of implementing climate change mitigation and adaptation policies.
Nevertheless, a critical gap remains in accessing climate finance, specifically concerning deforestation and forest degradation reduction. The GCF project will support the national effort to tackle climate change by improving coordination and institutional arrangements within the Government of the Bahamas.
FAO Representative for Jamaica, the Bahamas and Belize, Dr Crispim Moreira who addressed the workshop said, “Our aim is to bolster capacity and coordination among stakeholders, ensuring that we can effectively reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation. Moreover, by integrating nature-based solutions, we reinforce our commitment to mitigating climate change impacts while nurturing our precious natural heritage.”
“This project is of monumental importance for The Commonwealth of The Bahamas as it will supply data required on our national forest resources throughout our family islands. This work will enable our country to effectively report about our terrestrial resources across all ecosystems from Mangroves, Coppice forests and our Pine Forests, with specific focus on our Central and Southern islands”, said Acting Director, The Forestry Unit, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, Danielle Hanek.
Hanek further mentioned that “based on the success of this project, our country will then be able to have more access to Climate Finance opportunities while advancing the Forestry sector of The Bahamas."
The workshop laid the groundwork for a ‘Reducing emission from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries’ (REDD+) strategy, through the participation of stakeholders steering committee and other key stakeholders from Nassau, Andros, Abaco and Grand Bahama, in addition to global experts from NGOs.
The long-term goal is to establish a National Forest and Land-Use Monitoring System, and enhance capacity for mainstreaming data collection, analysis and application within the Land-use, Land-use Change, and Forestry (LULUCF) sector.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/244886-fao-and-government-bahamas-develop-national-strategy-protect-and-preserve-forests




Date: 05 July 2023
Title: UN launches campaign, calling for renewed global ambition and action for the Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 05 July 2023
Public mobilization comes ahead of critical halftime Summit in September at UN in New York
The United Nations, today, is kicking off a communications campaign to rally for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the roadmap for people and planet adopted by world leaders in 2015. Ahead of a critical UN Summit in September, the campaign aims to amplify an urgent call for ambitious new action, showcase the Goals as the blueprint for sustainable progress globally, and galvanize the global public around this shared agenda for our common future.

At halftime toward the deadline of 2030, the promise of the SDGs is in peril. For the first time in decades, development progress is reversing under the combined impacts of climate disasters, conflict, economic downturn and lingering COVID-19 effects.

The 2023 SDG Summit will gather world leaders at the United Nations Headquarters in New York on 18-19 September to reaffirm their collective commitments to the Goals and the promise to leave no one behind. This Summit is a defining moment to urgently put the world back on track to achieving the SDGs.

Starting today, in a major digital activation across platforms and countries worldwide, the UN campaign aims to re-energize the conversation about the Goals.

“We want to get everyone on board for the SDGs”, said Nanette Braun, Director of Campaigns in the UN Department for Global Communications. “Our hope is that decision-makers and individual citizens alike will feel inspired to join the conversation and contribute to achieving the Goals with new resolve and ambition.” [This quote can be replaced by senior UN officials in host country].

Building off the color wheel brand of the SDGs, the campaign uses a dynamic new visual system for its messaging to build momentum, raise awareness and mobilize accelerated action for the SDGs.

One core campaign component is the call to individual citizens to take action on the SDGs through the UN’s ActNow initiative across all 17 Goals. From using public transportation, to fundraising for schools or speaking up for equality, the platform lists steps that everyone can take to accelerate progress on the SDGs and create better lives on a healthier planet for all.

A curated group of high-profile influencers, the Circle of Supporters, will galvanize their communities to take individual action on the SDGs and to impress upon decision-makers the urgency to act now.

More information on the SDG Summit is available at: https://www.un.org/en/conferences/SDGSummit2023
Hashtag: #GlobalGoals

Media contact:
Alexandra del Castello, UN Department of Global Communications, alexandra.delcastello@un.org
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/239109-un-launches-campaign%C2%A0calling-renewed%C2%A0global-ambition-and-action-%C2%A0-sustainable-development




Date: 05 July 2023
Title: FAO seeks to implement digital solutions in Jamaica, The Bahamas and Belize
Content: 05 July 2023
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), through its initiative 1000 Digital Villages in Latin America and the Caribbean, is collaborating with the public and private sectors of Jamaica, the Bahamas and Belize to design and develop programmes focused on promoting digitalization of agriculture services in the rural sector.
In the case of Belize, the initiative is working with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Business to prepare an internal digitalization strategy and to digitize a training programme for the staff of the Ministry's Department of Cooperatives.

Another of the outputs will be the creation of two applications. The first will be to support the extension service offered by ministry professionals and will be linked to the Belize Agricultural Information Management System (BAIMS) platform. The second will seek to advance the digitalization of the Belize Agricultural Price Information System (BAPIS) and speed up the collection and analysis of information. Both products include training for officials responsible for managing these digital tools and for stakeholders and users of the relevant sector data.
In the case of the Bahamas, the proposal focuses on bringing connectivity and digital tools to five rural communities that have significant difficulties in accessing markets and in their production processes. To do this, the first step will be to identify digital solutions that can be adapted to different value chains. In addition, a policy framework will be developed to continue supporting farmers in the implementation of digital technologies.
In the first stage, FAO will work together with the country's Ministry of Agriculture, Marine Resources and Family Island Affairs to identify the needs and appropriate solutions for each community. However, in the future, it is expected that private-sector institutions will also support the implementation of the project. For this reason, some NGOs have been identified as potential project partners.
In Jamaica, FAO has partnered with the Rural Agricultural Development Authority (RADA) to create a digital platform for farmers to more easily plan their production and organize the logistics of delivering their products.
The project aims to incorporate a strong inclusive approach and it is expected that 60 per cent of participants will be women and young farmers.
Crispim Moreira, the FAO Representative in these three countries, noted that "by promoting digital platforms and marketplaces, FAO can help farmers in Jamaica, the Bahamas and Belize access broader markets, connect with buyers, negotiate fair prices and reduce post-harvest losses".
Each of these examples reflects FAO's efforts to promote the transformation of agri-food systems that are more efficient, inclusive, resilient and sustainable.
FAO seeks to implement digital solutions in Jamaica, the Bahamas and Belize
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/244511-fao-seeks-implement-digital-solutions-jamaica-bahamas-and-belize




Date: 26 June 2023
Title: Food Security Improves In The Caribbean Yet Challenges Persist
Content: 26 June 2023
A recent food security and livelihoods survey conducted by the World Food Programme and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) in the Caribbean region revealed that 3.7 million people, or 52 per cent of the population of the English-speaking Caribbean, remain food insecure.
This is a 10 per cent decrease when compared to an August 2022 survey, however, it underscored growing financial hardship and challenges due to the rising cost of living in the aftermath of the pandemic.
According to the 2023 Caribbean Food Security and Livelihoods survey, carried out among English-speaking Caribbean countries, 98 per cent of respondents reported high food prices in the three months before the survey, the highest level reported since the first survey in 2020.
In a region that is highly vulnerable to climate shocks, the survey revealed that 42 per cent of households were affected by climate-related hazards in the 12 months before the survey. These events continue to have a significant impact on climate-sensitive livelihood activities such as agriculture and fisheries.
"In this complex socio-economic environment that is vulnerable to climate change, the priority of CARICOM and national governments to make food accessible amidst these shocks is important.  Collaboration across agriculture, social protection, education, and finance sectors, helps to improve livelihood opportunities and contributes to achieving affordable food for all," says Regis Chapman, Representative and Country Director WFP Caribbean Multi-Country Office.
For persons who reported disruption to their livelihoods, 65 per cent cited the unaffordability of the necessary inputs as the leading cause, with domestic workers and farmers most impacted. Salaried persons are managing slightly better, yet 40 per cent of respondents indicated job losses or salary reductions in the six months before the survey. Others have resorted to alternative or secondary sources of income to meet food and other needs, according to the survey.
The cost of living has had a widespread impact on people’s ability to continue to meet food and other needs. Rising prices for animal feed, fertilizer and fuel have also severely affected respondents engaging in farming and/or fishing.
“Food insecurity is having major effects on the socio-economic welfare of citizens throughout the region, the solution however can only be accomplished through joint regional efforts in the planning and execution of comprehensive sustainable actionable solutions geared towards building resilience against climatic conditions and future market disruptions,” says David Prendergast, Director, Directorate of Single Market and External Trade CARICOM.
The survey’s results are a reminder of the importance of the region’s agenda to reduce imports by 25 per cent by 2025, which includes strengthening food systems in the Caribbean so that they are resilient and adaptive to shocks and building on measures to address the affordability, accessibility, and availability of livelihood inputs.
The survey was completed with the support of the Government of Canada, the European Union and the United States Agency for International Development, Bureau of Humanitarian Assistance.
Note to the editor:
The survey report can be found on wfp.org. An interactive dashboard with results from all rounds of the survey is also available online. The dashboard visually compares the results over time and for the overall region and individual countries. https://analytics.wfp.org/t/Public/views/CaribbeanFoodSecurityLivelihoodsSurvey/Overview

#                 #                   #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/238221-food-security-improves-caribbean-yet-challenges-persist




Date: 22 June 2023
Title: UNICEF Calls on Government to Reconsider Proposed Amendment to Child Care and Protection Act
Content: 22 June 2023
UNICEF is deeply concerned that the proposed amendment to the Child Care and Protection Act would require children convicted of murder to serve a mandatory sentence of 20 years in prison before becoming eligible for parole.
UNICEF was invited to address the Joint Select Committee of Parliament today, to present its position. UNICEF’s position is that these amendments are contrary to Jamaica’s obligations under the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC).  Additionally, the amendments will not contribute to public safety, and are counter to the well-established global evidence on how to address serious offending by children effectively.
Acknowledging the concerns of citizens about the high crime rate in Jamaica, UNICEF Country Representative, Olga Isaza in her presentation said, “UNICEF is also concerned about the country’s murder rate that is ranked highest among 22 Latin America and Caribbean countries.” She noted that this statistic was mentioned in the reasons cited for the amendment.

“The effectiveness of the consequences imposed on a person found guilty of murder has to be measured in relation to their capacity in preventing recidivism and in decreasing the murder rate in a sustainable way, which I think is our common goal,” Ms Isaza emphasized.

To develop the argument against the amendment and offer alternatives including the discretionary considerations of judges, UNICEF brought to Jamaica, an international child justice specialist, Shelley Casey who has more than 20 years of experience drafting child justice laws and strategies. She has supported national child justice reforms and trained justice sector professionals in more than 25 countries in Asia, Africa, Europe, the Pacific and the Caribbean.

Explaining UNICEF’s position, Ms Casey outlined six reasons against the amendment which are: 1) Mandatory sentencing violates the Convention on the Rights of the Child; 2) Harsh sentences do not deter offending by children; 3) The most effective way to ensure public safety is through rehabilitation, not punishment; 4) Lengthy mandatory terms of imprisonment are cruel and inhumane and do not recognise children’s greater rehabilitative potential; 5) Imprisonment increases the likelihood of re-offending and puts the public at greater risk; and 6) A better solution to societal concerns is to invest in the root causes of violent offending.

Ms Casey noted that children engaged in persistent or violent crime are generally influenced by a range of social and environmental risk factors outside of their control, such as family violence, abuse and neglect, trauma, educational exclusion, socio-economic disadvantage, drug and alcohol addiction, and mental health issues. Many of these problems are compounded by children’s psychosocial immaturity and their susceptibility to peer pressure and exploitation by adults.

“Imprisonment of children fails,” Ms Casey stressed. “That is not to say that custodial sentence is never necessary, but it should be for the shortest appropriate time, as stipulated by the CRC,” she pointed out, adding that more time may be required for rehabilitation in some cases but confining children for longer than is necessary fosters further criminality.

Correctional centres often act as “schools of criminality” where children learn more offending strategies and sometimes create life-long friendships with other offenders. This is particularly problematic when children are imprisoned together with adults. “The skills they are developing to survive in a correctional centre are different from what we want them to have,” Ms Casey noted.

UNICEF is calling on the Government to reconsider the proposed amendment in keeping with the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), which Jamaica has ratified. A rigid approach that removes judicial discretion and individualized sentencing will not contribute to public safety or help in controlling the national murder rate.

UNICEF remains committed to continuing our support to Jamaica in its effort to promote universal respect for, and observance of, children’s rights and freedoms and encourages the child justice initiatives such as the National Child Diversion Programme and the training of the security and justice workforce on child-friendly justice and child rights.

###
About UNICEF Jamaica
We support government and non-governmental partners to promote and fulfil the rights of children, especially the most disadvantaged. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For information about UNICEF and its work, visit www.unicef.org/jamaica.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/237750-unicef-calls-government-reconsider-proposed-amendment-child-care-and-protection-act




Date: 06 June 2023
Title: Ministry of Education & Youth Jamaica and United Nations Agencies Strengthen Efforts to Tackle Violence in Schools
Content: 06 June 2023
Jamaica’s Ministry of Education and Youth (MoEY) and the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean (UNLIREC) are collaborating to strengthen measures to tackle the presence of firearms in schools and youth-related violence in general.
During a recent seminar organised by the MoEY’s Safety and Security in Schools Unit, UNLIREC and the Planning Institute of Jamaica, participants including representatives of UN agencies, civil society members and youth representatives noted the challenges of youth-related armed violence, inside and outside of school campuses as well as measures being implemented to address the problem. They also highlighted the need for the education and security sectors to provide coordinated responses and comprehensive solutions to ensure the well-being of communities, given that violence affects almost all aspects of life in society.
The discussions focused on preventive approaches across Latin America and the Caribbean. While Jamaica has not had many incidents involving firearms in schools, it is crucial for stakeholders to work together from a prevention angle. “Prevention is better than cure” was a key sentence repeated throughout the seminar by participants and panellists.
“Firearm-related and other types of violence is an unfortunate reality of our society that often spills over onto school campuses. Violence by and among students in schools and elsewhere often result from many contributing factors including community disputes, dysfunctional family relations, maladaptive behaviours by students and sometimes the easy access to weapons.  We need to address the elements that put children at risk, including access to firearms. We need to create a positive and inclusive school environment assisting students to build upon their strengths,” said Mrs. Fayval Williams, Minister of Education and Youth in her remarks.
Mrs. Soledad Urruela, UNLIREC’s Director stated in her remarks that “The mere presence of a firearm in a school setting – ​​ for whatever reason – is a transgression and an affront to everything schools represent. Weapons have no place in spaces that exist for peaceful coexistence, socializing and most of all for learning, in which girls, boys, and adolescents are taught to be good citizens and where indispensable core values are transmitted. We must all work toward preventing this scourge through an inclusive, whole-of-society approach. We must all do our duty to guarantee safe schools for a just, peaceful and sustainable future for our children and societies”.
During the Seminar, UNLIREC officially launched the Guidelines for the Development of Protocols to Tackle the Presence and Use of Firearms in Schools, which will serve as the basis for national discussions among different stakeholders for the development and implementation of action and response protocols to firearms incidents in school settings.
The initiatives and recommendations presented and discussed during the Seminar will serve as practical references to strengthen the efforts already being made by Jamaican institutions in the violence prevention sector, particularly school violence.
Dr. Anna Paolini, Director of UNESCO’s Office for the Caribbean expressed on behalf of the UN Resident Coordinator that “the national seminar gives evidence to the capacity of the UN system to collaborate for development by leveraging the multinational expertise of its agencies and taking them to the shores of member States. Jamaica recognizes that the issue of violence in schools requires a multi-stakeholder approach, and the UN welcomes the opportunity to play its role as partner.”
This Seminar forms part of the activities carried out under the Saving Lives Entity (SALIENT) fund initiative in Jamaica, which seeks to operationalize and mainstream small arms control into development efforts and policies in Jamaica and marks the end of UNLIREC´s firearms in schools’ component under the Salient project.
The SALIENT fund initiative is implemented in Jamaica by the Office for Disarmament Affairs (UNODA) and its Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean (UNLIREC), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), as well as the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).


For media enquiries or information, kindly contact:
Julián Bustamante

Coordinador de Programas | Programme Coordinator
Programa de Control de Armas Convencionales | Conventional Arms Control Programme
T: +51 (1)625 9124 | bustamante@unlirec.org
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/239508-ministry-education-youth-jamaica-and-united-nations-agencies-strengthen-efforts-tackle




Date: 05 June 2023
Title: Jamaican students to ACT on finding solutions to plastic pollution
Content: 05 June 2023
Jamaican students will join the world in commemorating World Environment Day 2023 on the 5th of June by participating in a “Beat Plastic Pollution JA” competition.
This is a joint United Nations initiative aimed at highlighting the urgent need for action to reduce plastic pollution, which is a major challenge in the Caribbean and globally. The Caribbean is the biggest plastic polluter per capita in the world (Ritchie & Roser, 2018). In 2015 alone, an estimated 79 million tons of solid waste, including 1.3 million tons of plastics, were introduced into the coastal waters of the Wider Caribbean Region (UNEP CEP, 2019).
Plastic pollution threatens the health of both people and the planet and negatively contributes to the triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss, and pollution and waste. Through the “Beat Plastic Pollution JA” competition, Jamaican students will demonstrate the urgent need to work across the plastic lifecycle and articulate different strategies to reduce and reuse plastic. They will showcase short videos of school activities addressing plastic pollution or pitch a “Beat Plastic Pollution JA” project that they would like to see implemented.
This student-initiative is being supported by the UNEP Caribbean Sub-Regional Office, UNEP Cartagena Convention Secretariat, UNESCO, UNICEF, UN Women and FAO.
“This project is part of ongoing support by UNEP to the Government of Jamaica, who signed our Protocol Concerning Pollution from Land-Based Sources and Activities (LBS Protocol) to the Cartagena Convention in 2010, committing to reduce marine pollution from plastics and solid waste. New regional UNEP projects funded by the Global Environment Facility (over 1 million US dollars) and the EU will promote and accelerate the transition to a circular economy for plastics in Jamaica.” - Christopher Corbin, Coordinator - UNEP Cartagena Convention Secretariat
Students will be asked to submit their videos and a completed talent release form to unep-zerowaste-caribbean@un.org. Their videos will also be shared on the social media platforms of the participating UN agencies in Jamaica.
Sources:
Hannah Ritchie and Max Roser (2018) - "Plastic Pollution". Published online at OurWorldInData.org. Retrieved from: 'https://ourworldindata.org/plastic-pollution' [Online Resource]
UNEP-CEP (2019) - “SOCAR - An assessment of Marine Pollution from Land-based Sources and Activities in the Wider Caribbean Region”. 126 pp.
###

1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/235026-jamaican-students-act-finding-solutions-plastic-pollution




Date: 25 May 2023
Title: UNICEF and JCPD Sign Agreement to  Modernise Social Protection System and  Improve Quality of Life for Persons with Disabilities
Content: 25 May 2023
UNICEF and the Jamaica Council for Persons with Disabilities (JCPD) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding signalling their partnership and commitment to improve the quality of life for persons with disabilities and modernizing the social protection system.
According to the 2001 Census, there are approximately 580,000 persons with disabilities in Jamaica. Thirty thousand (30,000) are registered with the JCPD, of which just about 5,000 are children.

“There is an urgent need for all stakeholders to work together to ensure that no one is left behind,” said UNICEF Jamaica Representative, Olga Isaza at the signing ceremony on Wednesday, May 24 at the AC Hotel in Kingston. “UNICEF is concerned that of the number of persons living with disabilities, 25% are poor and 53% live in rural areas,” she added.

Speaking on behalf of the EU Ambassador, Marianne Van Steen, Vanna Lawrence said, “The European Union uses this opportunity to reiterate its commitment to raising awareness on the living conditions of persons with disabilities, highlighting the challenges they encounter in everyday life as we assist with providing the tools and resources needed to improve their lives.”

The MoU forms part of a broader initiative to strengthen Jamaica’s child-sensitive, shock-responsive social protection system. It also covers technical support which is geared towards strengthening the quality of services for persons with disabilities especially children with disabilities.

Over the next 18 months, under the agreement, UNICEF will accelerate its work with the Council to support the needs of the most disadvantaged children. Through a project oversight committee, comprising the government, partner UN Agencies such as UN Women and the World Food Programme, UNICEF will be building the capacity of key stakeholders.

This project is being funded by a joint Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Fund Programme and the Canadian Government. “Already, the programme is responding to Jamaica’s national development priorities,” UN Resident Coordinator, Vincent Sweeney said.

“We are enhancing payment processes making them more efficient, effective, and accessible as well as strengthening institutional capacity for evidence-based emergency expansion of social protection programmes for the most vulnerable.” Mr Sweeney noted.

Additionally, the programme is ensuring that information systems used by the Social Protection system are integrated to support increased coverage and coordination and importantly working to close gender gaps on the policy and legislative frameworks.
Ms Isaza pointed out that these are critical areas which require sustained attention to protect and build on the gains made within the past decade. We must continue to work to advance the fundamental rights and promote the full potential of children in accordance with the SDGs and Jamaica’s 2030 development plan.”

For his part, the Chairman of the JCPD Board, Mr. Collin Ebanks welcomed the partnership agreement with UNICEF and shared that he was anticipating the training in advocacy and other capacity building opportunities for the Board of Directors and technical staff of the Council.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/233315-unicef-and-jcpd-sign-agreement-modernise-social-protection-system-and-improve-quality-life




Date: 18 May 2023
Title: The United Nations is seeking young, future leaders to join new global training programme for a world free of nuclear weapons
Content: 18 May 2023
Call for applications now open
The United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs (UNODA) and the government of Japan are calling on young people to apply for an innovative learning programme that will empower them to make their contribution to a world free of nuclear weapons.
Applications are now open for a new global training programme called the “Youth Leader Fund for a World Without Nuclear Weapons”. The training programme, which is run by UNODA and made possible by the generous financial contribution of Japan, offers up to a hundred scholarships for young people aged 18 and over. The new training programme is aimed at equipping the leaders of the future with the knowledge, skills, and network to join global efforts to eliminate nuclear weapons – the most dangerous weapons on earth.
Although nuclear weapons have only been used twice in warfare—in the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945—about 12,500 reportedly remain in our world today and there have been over 2,000 nuclear tests conducted to date. One nuclear weapon can destroy a whole city, potentially killing millions, and jeopardizing the natural environment and lives of future generations through its long-term catastrophic effects.
The programme is seeking youth who are motivated to use their talents to promote change for a more peaceful and secure world – without nuclear weapons. The intention is to bring together an eclectic and geographically diverse group of advocates for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. In addition to young people interested or active in international affairs, such as government or civil society organisations, those with a background in education, academia, journalism, industry, and other areas, are encouraged to apply. The programme is open to youth from across the globe, from nuclear-weapon States and non-nuclear-weapon States alike.
Over the course of two years, the selected participants will receive training in general principles of nuclear disarmament, non-proliferation, and arms control through online courses, with a selected cohort going on a week-long in-person study tour to Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The future leaders will also exchange ideas with disarmament experts from think tanks, civil society organizations, media, and the diplomatic field, and develop the practical know-how to engage and contribute on issues related to nuclear disarmament, non-proliferation, and arms control. Importantly, participants will learn about the lessons that the survivors of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, called hibakusha, have long been sharing with the world about the unimaginable suffering that nuclear weapons caused. As the hibakusha continue to age, it is vital that their powerful stories and appeals to eliminate nuclear weapons are carried forward by the future generation.
The programme will start in 2023 and culminate in 2030 – a year marked by various milestones, including the 85th anniversary of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings and the 60th anniversary of the entry into force of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of the Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Upon completion of the programme, the alumni will play a key role in training and mentoring the next cohort of interested young nuclear disarmament advocates. Following the 2023 – 2025 inaugural training programme under the Youth Leader Fund, three more rounds of similar trainings will be conducted, generating a positive ripple effect, and consolidating a worldwide network of talented future leaders with the shared goal of saving humanity from nuclear weapons. Through education, skills training, mentoring and other support, the hope is that participants will continue their disarmament and peace and security work in their field of interest and expertise after the programme.
In recent years, the United Nations Secretary-General has made a major push to empower youth, recognizing their role as the ultimate force for change and noting that they have proven their power in support of the cause of disarmament. Last Summer, at the tenth Review Conference of the States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), Prime Minister Kishida announced his country’s commitment to contribute ten million US dollars towards the United Nations to establish this new disarmament education and mobilization initiative, which seeks to “bring the lessons of Hiroshima and Nagasaki to the world, and the world to Hiroshima and Nagasaki.”
Applications will be accepted until Monday, 31 July 2023.  For more information, visit www.disarmamenteducation.org/ylf.
Contact: youthleaderfund@un.org.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/233314-united-nations-seeking-young-future-leaders-join-new-global-training-programme-world-free




Date: 05 May 2023
Title: The Cost of Congestion: The Impact of Vehicular Traffic in Jamaica’s Capital
Content: 05 May 2023
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) published its eighteenth discussion. In this discussion, the JEP was asked about the economics of congestion, the consequences of the ever-increasing traffic and possible solutions.
Kingston, Jamaica like many other rapidly expanding cities has not been able to avoid increasing traffic congestion. A survey conducted by The Human Resource Management Association of Jamaica (HRMAJ), found that, on average, people in Jamaica are spending 90-minutes per day in traffic, which for a small island developing state represents a huge cost. This not only has huge economic implications but can also pay a toll on the psychological and physiological wellbeing of the society as well as substantial environmental costs.
Ian Thomson, from the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, explained that “in addition to the costs of congestion in terms of lost economic efficiency, there are also negative consequences in terms of social cohesion. The phenomenon of traffic congestion, which is caused mainly by relatively wealthy car drivers, lengthens journey times and, more importantly, forces up public transport fares. Owning a car is one of the fruits of human progress; using it in conditions of acute congestion or contamination is a social ill.”
Unfortunately, increasing the supply of roads is not the apparently simple solution to the issue. As Braess’ paradox suggests, adding one or more roads to a road network can actually slow down overall traffic flow through it, therefore it is important to consider various solutions to road congestion as well as the factors that contribute to it.
Dr. Nadine McLoud, Head, Department of Economics, University of the West Indies Mona stated that “Congestion is a significant distorting externality for Jamaicans. It cuts into work and leisure times and, by extension, leads to suboptimal work and home production levels, inter alia. Yet, there is no silver bullet to reigning in our congestion problem that stems from a plurality of factors. A workable congestion toolkit should explore the collective social impact of meaningful spatial permutations of a road pricing mechanism and its disposition (congestion charge in certain zones), an improved public transportation system including a generalised school bus system, shift work and remote work schedules and sensitisation campaigns.”
One of the other major concerns with the surge of congestion is the increase in vehicle pollution including higher levels of air and noise pollution. Panellists felt that the majority of drivers were not aware of the environmental implications of traffic congestion. Congestion involves the engine starting and stopping which means extra fuel consumption and therefore emissions such as carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxide which not only have a huge impact on the environment but also have an impact on our health. Panellists indicated that it is important to consider ways to disincentivise car use, as well as public education campaigns.
In conclusion, Jamaica, like many other countries, continues to struggle with increasing urbanisation resulting in high congestion levels. As aforementioned, the congestion is impacting not only physical and mental health but also the health of the planet. Regarding the Sustainable Development Goals,  Goal 13, "Taking urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts," must be considered. The world remains "woefully off track in meeting the Paris Agreement target of limiting global warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels and reaching net-zero carbon dioxide CO2 emissions globally by 2050." It is important Jamaica plays its role in addressing this. Evidently, there is not one single solution to combatting the rising congestion in Jamaica. A multistakeholder approach is needed that also involves raising public awareness and education on the topic to create a mindset and behaviour shift that also encourages people to consider other forms of transport.
The Jamaican Economy Panel is a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at the University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to discuss socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panellists.
For more information on the Jamaican Economy Panel and for the results of this JEP discussion visit here.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/230309-cost-congestion-impact-vehicular-traffic-jamaica%E2%80%99s-capital




Date: 03 May 2023
Title: Defending Press Freedom:  The Essential Pillar of Democracy and Human Rights
Content: 03 May 2023
On 17 December 1986, journalist Guillermo Cano Isaza was assassinated in front of the offices of his newspaper, El Espectador, in my home country of Colombia. He was targeted because of the news stories he was pursuing as a journalist.
On World Press Freedom Day every year, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) honours his legacy by awarding the Guillermo Cano World Press Freedom Prize to a person or entity anywhere in the world that has stood up for press freedom — especially in the face of physical danger.
Today, as we observe the 30th anniversary of the proclamation of World Press Freedom Day by the UN General Assembly, I reflect on the story of Guillermo Cano Isaza, which made me aware for the first time in my youth of the risk members of my own family faced doing their jobs as journalists, and the risk I too would face if I decided to follow in their footsteps.
Remaining steadfast in my mission, I would go on to develop a career as a news producer in Colombia where I would meet two brave colleagues who I now pay tribute to on this day: Jaime Garzon, a journalist, comedian, and peace activist who was murdered in 1999 and Orlando Sierra Hernández, a columnist and deputy newspaper editor who was murdered in 2002. Both deaths, according to UNESCO’S Observatory of Killed Journalists, have been linked to the performance of their duties.
These first-hand experiences have shaped my view on press freedom as a fundamental human right which must be defended, protected, and expanded in all contexts. This view is supported by Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states:
“Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers."
When journalists are intimidated and fear for their safety, the fourth estate is weakened, leaving the citizenry that journalists serve without the ability to hold those in power accountable. And such threats to the freedom of journalists and media workers are growing daily. From global health to the climate crisis, corruption, and human rights abuses, they face increased politicisation of their work and attempts to silence them from many sides.
According to UNESCO, 2022 was one of the most dangerous years to be a journalist with 86 journalists and media workers killed around the world  — a year-over-year increase of 50 per cent. Moreover, even against the backdrop of global conflicts in Ukraine and other parts of the world, the deadliest region to be a journalist last year proved to be Latin America and the Caribbean. This is a reflection of the outsized risk [that] journalists in the region face when covering topics such as crime, corruption, gang violence, and the environment. The three countries that saw the most killings of journalists last year according to UNESCO were Mexico (19), Ukraine (10) and Haiti (9).
As Haiti struggles with a multidimensional crisis caused by three consecutive years of economic recession, a political impasse, and unprecedented levels of gang violence, the level of risk incurred by journalists working in the country has increased, a reality reflected by the deadly statistics. Prior to this crisis, 2020 to 2021 saw one journalist killed carrying out their duties in Haiti. The drastic increase to nine in 2022 shows how quickly the status of press freedoms in any country can change, and should remind us all of the need to remain vigilant and proactive in defending, protecting and expanding press freedoms.
Jamaica is not one of the countries listed in the Observatory of Killed Journalists, which monitors and provides updated information on the killings of journalists and media workers since 1993. This should not be taken for granted.
Despite a less lethal work environment in Jamaica and many other Caribbean countries, there are still places where the media is not free to report and investigate without fear of retribution. Journalists across the region report incidents of intimidation, harassment, and even physical violence, all of which undermine the fundamental principles of democracy.
To address these challenges, governments in Jamaica and the wider Caribbean must continue strengthening measures to protect press freedom and implementing laws that provide journalists with legal protection and uphold their physical safety.
Citizens can also support press freedom by demanding transparency and accountability from their elected officials. By denouncing censorship and supporting independent journalism, citizens can help create a more open and democratic society.
Globally, the wider international community must also participate in advocacy for press freedom in their individual countries as well as collectively, across the world.   This includes holding governments accountable for their actions and ensuring journalists can carry out their work without fear of retribution.
Let us never forget that it is the responsibility of journalists to expose human rights abuses and advocate for the rights of vulnerable populations. Without a free and independent press, these abuses can go unnoticed and unchallenged. As someone who knows what it is like to work in an environment where press freedom is constantly under threat, I pledge my personal support and that of the United Nations Information Centre for the Caribbean Area for the defence of press freedom in the region.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/230027-defending-press-freedom-essential-pillar-democracy-and-human-rights




Date: 20 March 2023
Title: Jamaica’s Social Protection Safety Nets Holding after COVID-19
Content: 20 March 2023
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) publishes its seventeenth discussion.
In this discussion, the JEP was asked about the social security implemented during the COVID-19 pandemic and how we are continuing to deal with the long-term effects.
As an economy with a significant reliance on the tourist industry, estimated to be around 20 per cent of GDP, the restrictions on travel were detrimental to most Jamaicans working in the sector. Restrictions in global travel and border closures caused visitor arrivals to decline by almost 70 per cent causing widespread job losses across the sector.
Dr. Nadine McLoud, Head, Department of Economics, University of the West Indies Mona stated that, “The needs of our most socioeconomically vulnerable are heterogeneous and numerous. Yet, the government and private sector can strategically join forces and leverage resources to yield long-lasting socioeconomic gains. For example, by using multiple social protection instruments - including microfinance provision - in a targeted manner, our society can ensure that Jamaica’s most challenged groups monetize their skill set to help chart their social and economic development.”
Panellists were asked for their views on social protection in Jamaica before the outbreak of COVID-19 and its capabilities to adapt to the increased needs that were caused by the pandemic. Many panellists felt that the social protection already in place was relatively capable of dealing with the heightened demand. One panellist highlighted the success of the CARE programme whilst also emphasising the challenges Jamaica’s informal sector still poses in ensuring inclusive social protection measures. The panellists identified informal workers and persons with disabilities as the two groups that received the least support. In the aforementioned UNDP report, Manuel Mera explained why the number of informal workers remains so high due to the contributory structure in Jamaica which acts “as the potential barrier to formality and the cross-subsidy as an incentive to remain informal.”
Responding to the survey results, Mr. Vincent Sweeney, United Nations Resident Coordinator a.i., agreed that “establishing and maintaining robust social protection mechanisms ensures that Jamaica is striving to achieve its Vision 2030 and SDG targets.” He emphasised that “it is imperative that the United Nations works to support the government in enhancing its social protection measures, ensuring that inequalities are reduced and that no one is left behind.”
The pandemic has highlighted some of the preparedness areas that need addressing before the next shock inevitably hits. This should be done through enhanced social protection measures and a move towards a more digital society.
The Jamaican Economy Panel is part of a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at the University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panellists.
For more information on the Jamaican Economy Panel and for the results of this JEP discussion visit here: https://jamaica.un.org/en/223975-jamaican-economy-panel-discussion-social-protection


1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/223982-jamaica%E2%80%99s-social-protection-safety-nets-holding-after-covid-19




Date: 14 February 2023
Title: Gabon, Jamaica and Sri Lanka unite to fight hazardous skin-lightening products
Content: 14 February 2023
• Gabon, Jamaica and Sri Lanka have joined forces to reduce the environmental and health toll of the skin-lightening industry
• $14-million initiative will support a holistic approach to eliminate mercury from skin-lightening products and promote the beauty of all skin tones
• Many skin-lightening products include mercury, posing significant risks to human health and the environment
The governments of Gabon, Jamaica and Sri Lanka have joined forces to fight back against damaging beauty practices, launching a joint $14-million project to eliminate the use of mercury in skin-lightening products.
Using cosmetics to inhibit the body’s production of melanin, leading the skin to appear lighter, is a centuries-old practice in many parts of the world that continues to take a toxic toll today.
Both men and women use skin-lightening products, not only to lighten their skin but to fade freckles, blemishes, age spots and treat acne. However, consumers are often unaware that many of these products contain harmful chemicals including mercury, a toxic substance which poses risks to human health and contaminates the environment.
Skin lightening products can cause skin rashes and discolouration; scarring; nervous, digestive and immune system damage, as well as anxiety and depression. The Minamata Convention on Mercury has set a limit of 1mg/1kg (1ppm) for mercury in skin-lightening products. However, a 2018 Zero Mercury Working Group and Biodiversity Research Institute test of over 300 products from 22 countries found that approximately 10 per cent of skin-lightening creams exceeded this limit, with many containing as much as 100 times the authorised amount.
Led by the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), with funding from the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and executed by the World Health Organization (WHO) and Biodiversity Research Institute (BRI), the Eliminating mercury skin lightening products project will work to reduce the risk of exposure to mercury-added skin lightening products, raising awareness of the health risks associated with their use, developing model regulations to reduce their circulation, and halting production, trade and distribution across domestic and international markets.
“Mercury is a hidden and toxic ingredient in the skin-lightening creams that many people are using daily, often without an understanding of just how dangerous this is,” GEF CEO and Chairperson Carlos Manuel Rodriguez said.
“This initiative is significant as it focuses not only on substitutions for harmful ingredients but on awareness building that can help change behaviours that are damaging to individual health as well as the planet.”
Skin-lightening products don’t just pose a risk to the user – children can be exposed through breastmilk, and food chains can become contaminated when cosmetics are washed off into wastewater. In addition, the compound can travel far from its point of dispersal, accumulating in the earth, water and soil without breaking down in the environment. With demand for skin-lightening products projected to grow to $11.8-billion by 2026, fuelled by a growing middle class in the Asia-Pacific region and changing demographics in Africa and the Caribbean, the use of harmful ingredients in skin lightening products is a global issue.
UNEP Industry and Economy Division Director Sheila Aggarwal-Khan said the use of mercury in skin lightening products was a serious public health issue in need of urgent attention.
“While Governments have agreed limitations on mercury use through the Minamata Convention, companies continue to manufacture, trade and sell toxic products to consumers”, she said. “UNEP is proud to work with these three countries, as well as a passionate set of co-financing partners to transform the industry.”
“WHO calls for urgent action on mercury as one of the top chemicals of public health concern. The health impacts of mercury have been known for centuries but more people should become aware now,” said Dr Annette Prüss, Acting Director, WHO Department of Environment, Climate Change and Health. “Countries should urgently act to take legal action against harmful practices so that this dangerous element is eliminated from skin-lightening products that people use every day.”
The three-year project will bring the countries together to align their policies on the cosmetic sector with best practice, creating an enabling environment to phase out mercury and attempting to shift broader cultural norms on skin complexion through engaging organisations, healthcare professionals and influencers working in the field.
Sema Jonsson, founder of project co-financier the Pantheon of Women Who Inspire, said the organisation wanted people to admire and be proud of their natural skin tone.
“We are all beautiful,” Jonsson said. “Not in spite of our skin but because of it.”
“We need a new ideal to follow, one which is equated with humanity and not the fairness of one’s skin.”
NOTES TO EDITORS
About the Biodiversity Research Institute Biodiversity Research Institute (BRI), headquartered in Portland, Maine, is a nonprofit ecological research group whose mission is to assess emerging threats to wildlife and ecosystems through collaborative research and to use scientific findings to advance environmental awareness and inform decision makers. BRI supports 12 research programs within four research centers including the Center for Mercury Studies.
About the Global Environment Facility, The Global Environment Facility (GEF) is a multilateral fund dedicated to confronting biodiversity loss, climate change, pollution, and strains on land and ocean health. Its grants, blended financing, and policy support helps developing countries address their biggest environmental priorities and adhere to international environmental conventions. Over the past three decades, the GEF has provided more than $22 billion in financing and mobilized another $120 billion for more than 5,000 national and regional projects. About UN Environment Programme (UNEP) UNEP is the leading global voice on the environment. It provides leadership and encourages partnership in caring for the environment by inspiring, informing and enabling nations and peoples to improve their quality of life without compromising that of future generations.
About the World Health Organization (WHO) Dedicated to the well-being of all people and guided by science, the World Health Organization leads and champions global efforts to give everyone, everywhere an equal chance to live a healthy life. Our mission is to promote health, keep the world safe and serve the vulnerable.
For more information, contact
News and Media Unit, UN Environment Programme Laura MacInnis, Senior Communications Officer, GEF
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/220052-gabon-jamaica-and-sri-lanka-unite-fight-hazardous-skin-lightening-products%C2%A0




Date: 07 February 2023
Title: World Environment Day 2023 to be hosted by Côte d’Ivoire with a focus on solutions to plastic pollution
Content: 07 February 2023
Côte d’Ivoire will host World Environment Day 2023 on 5 June with the theme of solutions to plastic pollution, UN Environment Programme (UNEP) and Côte d’Ivoire announced today.
This year marks the 50th anniversary of World Environment Day, after it was established by the United Nations General Assembly in 1972. Over the past five decades, the day has grown to be one of the largest global platforms for environmental outreach. Tens of millions of people participate online and through in-person activities, events and actions around the world.
“The scourge of plastic pollution is a visible threat that impacts every community around the world," said Jean-Luc Assi, Côte d’Ivoire’s Minister for the Environment and Sustainable Development. “As host of World Environment Day 2023, we welcome all sectors, from governments and businesses to civil society, to come together to find and champion solutions.”
Côte d'Ivoire has banned the use of plastic bags since 2014, supporting a shift to reusable packaging. The country’s largest city, Abidjan, has also become a hub for start-ups looking to beat plastic pollution.
More than 400 million tonnes of plastic is produced every year worldwide, half of which is designed to be used only once. Of that, less than 10 per cent is recycled. An estimated 19-23 million tonnes end up in lakes, rivers and seas annually.
Microplastics – tiny plastic particles up to 5mm in diameter – find their way into food, water and air. It is estimated that each person on the planet consumes more than 50,000 plastic particles per year –and many more if inhalation is considered. Discarded or burnt single-use plastic harms human health and biodiversity and pollutes every ecosystem from mountain tops to the ocean floor.
With available science and solutions to tackle the problem, governments, companies and other stakeholders must scale up and speed actions to solve this crisis. This underscores the importance of this World Environment Day in mobilizing transformative action from every corner of the world.
This year’s World Environment Day will be supported by the Government of the Netherlands, which is one of the countries taking ambitious action along the plastic lifecycle. It is a signatory of the New Plastics Economy Global Commitment and a member of the Global Partnership on Plastic Pollution
and Marine Litter. It is also a member of the High Ambition Coalition calling for a strong and ambitious international legally binding instrument to combat plastic pollution.
“Plastic pollution and its detrimental impacts on health, the economy and the environment cannot be ignored. Urgent action is required. At the same time, we need true, effective and robust solutions,” said Vivianne Heijnen, Netherlands’ Minister for the Environment. “As part of several policies aimed at plastics, The Netherlands and the European community at large are fully committed to reduce the production and consumption of single-use plastic, which can and must be replaced with durable and sustainable alternatives.”
The announcement today follows a resolution adopted in 2022 at the United Nations Environment Assembly to develop a legally binding instrument on plastic pollution, including in the marine environment, with the ambition to complete the negotiations by end of 2024. The first meeting of the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee (INC-1) was held in Uruguay in December and the second meeting is expected to be held in Paris in 2023. The instrument is to be based on a comprehensive approach that addresses the full life cycle of plastic.
“We must seize every opportunity and engage with every stakeholder to deal with the plastics problem in its entirety,” said Inger Andersen, UNEP’s Executive Director. “Côte d’Ivoire and the Netherlands are among a number of countries rising to this challenge and embracing the benefits of a circular plastics economy. The commemoration of the 50th World Environment Day is a moment for all governments, businesses, community groups, and individuals to join this drive.”
The campaign for World Environment Day 2023 will use the hashtag and slogan #BeatPlasticPollution.

NOTES TO EDITORS
About World Environment Day
World Environment Day is the United Nations’ principal vehicle for encouraging worldwide awareness and action for the environment. Held annually since 1973, the Day has also become a vital platform for promoting progress on the environmental dimensions of the Sustainable Development Goals. With the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) at the helm, over 150 countries participate each year. Major corporations, non-governmental organizations, communities, governments and celebrities from across the world adopt the World Environment Day brand to champion environmental causes.
About the UN Environment Programme (UNEP)
UNEP is the leading global voice on the environment. It provides leadership and encourages partnership in caring for the environment by inspiring, informing and enabling nations and peoples to improve their quality of life without compromising that of future generations.
For more information, please contact:
News and Media Unit of the UN Environment Programme

1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/218260-world-environment-day-2023-be-hosted-c%C3%B4te-d%E2%80%99ivoire-focus-solutions-plastic-pollution




Date: 18 January 2023
Title: Jamaica’s Creative Economy Poised for Another Take-Off
Content: 18 January 2023
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) publishes its fifteenth round of discussions and its first in 2023.
In this discussion, the JEP was asked about Jamaica’s Creative Economy and invited to share their perspectives on Jamaica’s options to further develop and diversify the island’s creative sector.
Dr. Nadine McLoud, Head, Department of Economics, University of the West Indies Mona stated that
“Jamaica has not reaped the full scale of the pecuniary and nonpecuniary returns from its massive and globally unique stock of creative capital that spans its entire socioeconomic distribution. Jamaica's production function in the creative arena requires critical facilitating inputs, such as physical infrastructure and financial capital, to help churn out sizeable and sustainable returns that will contribute to its economic development while reducing income inequality.”
Dr. Marcus Goffe Deputy Director/Legal Counsel of the Jamaica Intellectual Property Office (JIPO) describes Jamaica as a “cultural superstate - a powerhouse over-bubbling with talent and creativity” with a world platform in music, sport, dance, and other spheres. However, Jamaica hasn’t realised the full potential of its creative ability. This may be partly due to not having accessible financing for the creative sector nor the opportunity to monetise the industry thoroughly.
Economist, Dr. Karsten Müller, Assistant Professor of Finance, highlights that brain drain has an extremely negative affect on the economy, notwithstanding the creative sector. Müller further emphasized that to retain some of the brightest Jamaicans as well as entice highly skilled immigrants, it is necessary to invest in “more cultural offerings” which he posits would “improve the liveability of Kingston.”
According to UN Senior Economist Stuart Davies, moving forward, Jamaica should consider more flexible financing structures that advance the diversification and economic transformation of its creative sector. Additionally, creatives would benefit from increased access to flexible financing mechanisms in order to fully take advantage of opportunities that arise as they develop and take creative products and services to market.
Elliott Harris, Former United Nations Assistant Secretary-General for Economic Development, highlighted that traditional financing institutions often lack the flexibility that is needed for the creative economy to thrive. He explained that there is a “great need to expand access to sufficient and appropriate financing that will enable the scaling up of the creative economy to the point where it can actually provide a live yield.”
The sustainability and diversification of the Jamaican economy is key to ensuring that there are adequate opportunities for future generations, thereby limiting the migration of highly skilled creatives from Jamaica. Additionally, Jamaica is particularly well-known for its musical talent. Panellists emphasised the need for infrastructure to support this existing and burgeoning talent. In this regard, the JEP also agreed that emerging artists needed improved access to venues, practice space and business skills to further monetise this talent and further boost the music industry.
Responding to the survey results, Mr. Vincent Sweeney, United Nations Resident Coordinator ad interim, agreed that, “we must find ways to create a thriving environment for artists to truly reflect the rich creative ability that exists in Jamaica. There is space for public-private partnerships to help deliver on a number of these solutions.” He continued “improving access to global markets can raise competitiveness, ultimately creating a new economic dynamism.”
The Jamaican Economy Panel is part of a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at The University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panellists.
For more information on the Jamaican Economy Panel and for the results of this JEP discussion visit here.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/215702-jamaica%E2%80%99s-creative-economy-poised-another-take




Date: 29 December 2022
Title: Leaving No One Behind: Ending unmet need for family planning, preventable maternal deaths, GBV and harmful practices
Content: 29 December 2022
UNFPA is, at its core, about helping people everywhere reach their potential. The groundbreaking Cairo 1994 International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) Programme of Action shifted the focus from human numbers to human rights, and continually guides our work and is reiterated in the Montevideo Consensus on Population and Development, the regionalisation of the ICPD. It underpins our efforts to achieve three zeros by 2030: zero unmet need for family planning; zero preventable maternal deaths; and zero gender-based violence and harmful practices. This applies to young people in all their diversity.
In November 2019, countries across the world, including the Dutch and English Speaking Caribbean, met at the Nairobi Summit on ICPD25 in Kenya to renew their commitment to the Programme of Action. At the end of that engagement some very ambitious commitments to accelerate the implementation of the ICPD Programme of Action, leaving no one behind and ensuring rights and choices for all were made. In our Sub-region commitments were made by Barbados, St. Kitts & Nevis, Suriname and Trinidad and Tobago.
At UNFPA we continue to work with governments,  Civil Society Organizations, our other partners, and our UN counterparts in offering a quality response and contributing to the reduction of gender-based violence in humanitarian, peace and development settings;  ensuring sexual and reproductive health and rights for all, and for women’s and girls’ empowerment and gender equality. Notwithstanding the impact of COVID-19,  there have been some key achievements some of which help to fulfil Nairobi commitments, which are highlighted below.
UNFPA has supported countries with the implementation of the Essential Services Package for women and girls subject to violence: a set of modules that guide the provision of quality and coordinated essential services from the health, social services, justice and policing sectors. The idea behind this is that when quality services are in place for survivors and those at risk of experiencing GBV, more people will access them and the consequences of violence on survivors can be mitigated; and several lives will be saved.
In May, under the European Union-funded Spotlight Initiative Regional Programme, UNFPA and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), established the regional Essential Services Package Community of Practice (ESP CoP), a space that allows for key regional institutions and National Gender Bureaus across the Caribbean to continue to promote the application of high-quality standards in the provision of essential services for survivors of GBV.
To ensure survivors of GBV have access to high-quality services from various sectors, UNFPA also partnered with several institutions such as the University of the West Indies, the Guyana Police Force and the Jamaica Constabulary Force in the provision of well-needed and relevant training focused on a survivor centred approach. In  Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago, referral pathways - flexible mechanisms that safely link survivors to services such as health, psychosocial support, case management, safety/security, and justice and legal aid - were established and operationalized.
Our partnership with the Government of Canada and UN Women has resulted in the start of the implementation of the Build Back Equal (BBE) Project in Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The aim of the project is to decrease the adolescent birth rate and establish discernible measures to address the unmet need for family planning. In another similar partnership with Global Affairs Canada, we began implementing the EQUAL SRHR project which has similar objectives to BBE in Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago.
In Guyana, the India Funds Project which aimed to contribute to reducing adolescent pregnancy in Regions 1 and 9  recently concluded and we are happy that we have seen a reduction in the number of pregnancies among adolescents aged 10-19 in those two regions.
UNFPA in Suriname has placed significant focus on engaging young people by hosting events including a workshop on an adolescent health strategy throughout the year. Similarly, twenty Belizean youth participated in a capacity-building session which introduced them to the concept of population dynamics and its importance. In Jamaica, during the 16 Days of Activism for the Elimination of Violence Against Women and Girls, a banner event on VAWG and a youth forum were hosted in collaboration with the Ministry of Culture, Gender, Entertainment and Sport. The youth forum is key to engaging young people on the identification of youth-specific issues and how to prevent and respond to  Gender Based Violence from a gender perspective.
Despite the remarkable progress, the commitments from Nairobi still remain elusive for many countries. Universal access to the full range of sexual and reproductive health information, education and services as defined by the ICPD Programme of Action continues to be a work in progress. Hence, the work must continue to ensure the well-being of current and future generations. This will require unprecedented national, regional and global cooperation.
UNFPA remains committed to strengthening our partnerships and innovating to build a more inclusive, sustainable future for the region.
Note: Originally published in the national press.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/220481-leaving-no-one-behind-ending-unmet-need-family-planning-preventable-maternal-deaths-gbv-and




Date: 19 December 2022
Title: Afro-Descendant women entrepreneurs benefit from Business development bootcamp in Jamaica
Content: 19 December 2022
Thirty-three women entrepreneurs and senior leaders from women-led organisations from the Caribbean, North and South America and Africa received business development training, mentorship, and networking opportunities at the inaugural Yemanja Collaborative: Leadership and Networking Workshop for Women Entrepreneurs with select participants identified to attend the 2023 International Woman Leadership Conference (TIWLC) in Dubai.
Hosted by UN Women Multi-Country Office (MCO) – Caribbean in support of the International Decade for People of African Descent (2015 -2024), the participants who were primarily from the agro-processing, cultural and creative industries, attended daily training sessions with industry experts on pitching their businesses to access financing whether seed funding from angel investors, private equity financing or grant funding from development financial institutions (DFIs) as well as a focus on leadership skills, relationship management, securing investment and the Women’s Empowerment Principles(WEPs).
With World Bank and InfoDev data stating that women in Latin America and the Caribbean constitute 59% of the informal economy and represent only 8% of entrepreneurs in the formal sectors, the workshop sought to enhance the economic empowerment and resilience of women-owned MSMEs.
At the Opening Ceremony held at the ROK Hotel, the Minister of Culture, Gender, Entertainment and Sport, Honourable Olivia Grange noted the training aligned with the Government’s mandate as seen in Vision 2030 and the National Policy for Gender Equality (NPGE).
Minister Grange said: “This training and networking workshop presents a great opportunity for us to examine the progress made in advancing gender equality and empowerment of women and girls and explore how progress can be accelerated.”
The Minister continued: “The issues, barriers and legacy of the colonial past – the enslavement and chattel slavery - that may have prevented us from achieving our full potential as participants in Jamaica’s social, cultural and economic development, and have equitable access to and benefits from the country’s resources are not impossible to transform inequality into opportunity.”
Representative, UN Women MCO – Caribbean, Ms Tonni Brodber set the context of the workshop, noting its historic importance in the UN Decade Dedicated to People of African Descent (2015 -2024) and advancing the development of Afro-descendant women entrepreneurs and leaders in the private sector.
Ms Brodber said: “By analyzing policies to eradicate poverty from a multidimensional perspective cutting across the variables - race, ethnicity, class, sex- effectively allows us not only to lift people out of poverty temporarily but to lift them out of poverty, permanently.”
Minister of State, Ministry of Industry, Investment and Commerce, Jamaica, Honourable Dr Norman Dunn acknowledged the strides towards gender equality in Jamaica, noting that women represent 56% of new employees in 2021, which contributed to the country’s lowest employment rate of 6%.

Head of Culture Programme, UNESCO Office for the Caribbean, Mr Yuri Peshkov shared data from UNESCO’s Gender and Creativity: Progress on the Precipice report, revealing that women working in the Creative & Cultural sectors continue to face numerous barriers such as pay gaps, contractual status, and seniority.
The main facilitator - Entrepreneur and Motivational Speaker - Ms Ibukun Awosika exhorted the participants to leverage this network of women in business from the Caribbean and the African Diaspora.
Ms Awosika said: “You [the participants] are the first cohort of the Yemanja Collaborative and that means you have become a sisterhood that supports one another, upholds, and facilitates each other and thinks of how you all can grow together. Your sister’s success is your success and becomes available to you as a tool because you never know which day you will use it.”
The workshop, which was facilitated in 3 languages – English, Spanish and Portuguese – also featured site visits to businesses in the food processing and creative and cultural industries in Jamaica for knowledge exchange between women entrepreneurs who shared their successes and lessons learned in a post-pandemic environment.
On the final day, the participants pitched their business investment needs for an opportunity to be sponsored to TIWLC in Dubai to an all-women panel of experts which included: Ms Ibukun Awosika, Entrepreneur and Consultant, UN Women; Ms Ngardy Conteh George, Co-Founder, OYA Media Group & OYA Black Arts Coalition; Dr Sizakele Marutlulle, Intersectional Strategist and Creative Problem Solver, Marutlulle & Co; Ms Elena Williams, MIEx, Global Trade Expert, and Head of Global Regional Programmes, Connected Places Catapult and Imani Duncan-Price, UN Women Consultant. UN Women Multi-Country Office – Caribbean will sponsor five shortlisted women entrepreneurs from Caribbean countries to attend TIWLC in 2023.
The Yemanja Collaborative workplace was held under the UN Women-UNESCO Afrodescendant Women’s Resilience Programme to strengthen women-and youth-owned businesses in the cultural and creative industries in the Caribbean, Latin America and Africa. The programme seeks to highlight Afro-descendant women’s role and contribution to sustainable development through cultural exchanges, knowledge sharing and movement-building.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/220485-afro-descendant-women-entrepreneurs-benefit-business-development-bootcamp-jamaica




Date: 08 December 2022
Title: Japanese government donates refrigerated land cruisers, other cold chain equipment to boost Jamaica’s vaccination programme
Content: 08 December 2022

UNICEF/2022/Sheil
State Minister in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, Hon Leslie Campbell, His Excellency Masaya Fujiwara, Ambassador of Japan to Jamaica, State Minister in the Ministry of Health and Wellness, Hon Juliet Cuthbert-Flynn and Acting Country Representative, UNICEF, Vicente Teran were photographed at the handover to Jamaica of two refrigerated Toyota Land Cruisers, other cold chain equipment and supplies donated by the Government of Japan and procured by UNICEF, which took place at the National Chest Hospital in St Andrew on Tuesday, December 6.
Jamaica received two (2) Land Cruisers with refrigeration capacity, other equipment and supplies from the Government of Japan, through UNICEF, to boost its vaccination and immunization programme. The donation is part of a grant of US$1.22 million or J$190 million of cold chain equipment from the Government of Japan. The vehicles and supplies were handed over on Tuesday, December 6 on the grounds of the National Chest Hospital in St Andrew.
In making the presentation on behalf of the People and Government of Japan, His Excellency Masaya Fujiwara, Ambassador of Japan to Jamaica said, “Japan’s priority is to enhance universal healthcare, in particular, fighting infectious diseases. Even today, the effect of COVID-19 on daily lives is still challenging.” As a result of this cooperation, Jamaica now has cold chain equipment that meets World Health Organisation (WHO) Standards for effective vaccine management. “Jamaica’s capacity has also been strengthened for rapid deployment of vaccines for citizens islandwide,” noted the outgoing Ambassador.
The Government of Japan’s donation covered the total cost of all supplies, which included 80 vaccine refrigerators, 370 cold boxes of varying sizes, 585 vaccine carriers and 40 combination refrigerators and freezers which will benefit 120 public health centres.
UNICEF Jamaica managed the procurement through its Supply Division to support the global response to the pandemic.
In expressing appreciation for the donation on behalf of the People and Government of Jamaica, State Minister in the Ministry of Health and Wellness, Hon Juliet Cuthbert-Flynn said that the Land Cruisers, which were fit for purpose, will significantly improve our capacity to rapidly deploy vaccines across the country and of course increase quicker access by our health care workers.
“We are being strategic in thinking long-term. Public health and health facilities are evolving … we have to be proactive and put necessary measures in place,” State Minister Cuthbert-Flynn noted. “Our healthcare team is more than delighted to receive the donation of equipment and supplies.” She lauded the role of UNICEF in facilitating the donation and said that it was an “important partner in all things health.”
Speaking about the partnership between Jamaica and Japan, State Minister in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, Hon Leslie Campbell said, “Cooperation in the health sector is just one of the many fields in which Jamaica and Japan have been actively engaged.” He explained that the two countries have collaborated on “fruitful programmes and projects in sectors that span the range and gamut of the priorities of the Jamaican Government.” These included agriculture, education, energy, culture, disaster risk reduction, sport and security.
An assessment was conducted during the early stage of the pandemic to guide the procurement efforts which UNICEF led. The grant also facilitated the training of more than 100 public health staff including nurses and technicians from across the health regions as well as spare parts for the refrigerators. “There is still more to be done to modernize and digitalize the immunization programme but we are off to an excellent start, thanks to the contribution from the Government of Japan,” Acting Country Representative, UNICEF, Vicente Teran said.
Cold chain equipment is essential to ensure that some COVID-19 vaccines and other vaccines are transported to sites across the island and stored at the right temperature to maintain quality.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/221082-japanese-government-donates-refrigerated-land-cruisers-other-cold-chain-equipment-boost




Date: 02 December 2022
Title: Families face "Triple Threat" in caring for children with disabilities – UNICEF report
Content: 02 December 2022
Research on the socio-economic impacts of disability on children and their access to social safety nets being released for Disability Awareness Week 2022

UNICEF/2019/Hunter
Director and Principal of the Early Stimulation Programme (ESP) in the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, Antonica Gunter-Gayle together with students at the Early Stimulation Centre in Kingston.
The monthly costs of caring for a child with disabilities far outstrip the income of many Jamaican families, according to UNICEF Jamaica.
The report, Caring for Children with Disabilities: Managing the Triple Threat to Families, commissioned by UNICEF in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour and Social Security has found that while respondents’ monthly earnings did not exceed J$29,000, most families with a child with a disability spend close to J$50,000 each month on food, diapers and transportation. These expenses were among the most significant monthly costs and when routine therapy services, medication and special education are added the costs skyrocket to upwards of J$220,000 monthly.
The research on the socio-economic impacts of disability on children and their access to social safety nets will be released during Disability Awareness Week 2022 which is observed from December 3 to 9.
More than 60 per cent of the respondents in the study, reported that half or nearly all of their household income goes towards caring for the child with a disability and given the high costs, they are unable to afford many of the services.
“The extremely high costs are cause for concern especially for children with disabilities from the most disadvantaged households and even more as we consider the devastating effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the poorest families,” said Vicente Teran, Acting Representative, UNICEF. The triple threat to families with children with disabilities identified by the report were the economics of care, the cost of care and the barriers to care for children with disabilities.
In examining the economics of care, the study found that 43 per cent of respondents were unemployed and most of these persons were out of work for more than one year (85 per cent). Many reported becoming unemployed after their child with a disability was born and remained unemployed out of an obligation to care for the child at home. Some mothers explained that they felt they had to stay home and take care of the child as they did not trust anyone else to do so. They felt no-one else was capable of providing care or feared other people would mistreat the child.
The expenses associated with caring for a child with a disability push up the costs of care and reduce the family income. Some monthly costs range from J$28,000 for childcare to J$48,000 for speech therapy.  Even if the family is living above the poverty line, the additional expense means there is little disposable income, family members live from hand to mouth, and any economic shock could push them into poverty.
The study also identified significant barriers to care for children with disabilities. While financial support for people with disabilities is available from the Jamaica Council for
Persons with Disabilities (JCPD) and the Ministry of Health and Wellness (MOHW), it is not tailored to children’s specific needs. As such, children with disabilities must compete with other groups for limited funds. Their families also face significant challenges in accessing funds from the Programme of Advancement Through Health and Education (PATH) based on criteria which often require the household to be deemed poor or an agent to act of their behalf.
The report specifically recommends a separate social safety net programme for children with disabilities.
“This would be a game changer for children with disabilities in Jamaica,” said Teran, adding that there was an urgent need to enhance current social safety net provisions to better target and protect vulnerable children in Jamaica.
UNICEF has started work with the government of Jamaica under a US$1.2M Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Joint Programme to explore improving the social safety net’s targeting of children with disabilities and the introduction of shock responsive social protection measures, especially for persons with disabilities. The report and other planned interventions will be used to advocate for specific changes that are needed to fulfil the rights of children with disabilities.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/221084-families-face-triple-threat-caring-children-disabilities-%E2%80%93-unicef-report




Date: 01 December 2022
Title: European Union, IOM Donate Equipment to the Jamaica Constabulary Force to Aid the Fight Against Trafficking in Persons
Content: 01 December 2022
The International Organization for Migration (IOM) in collaboration with the European Union (EU), on Tuesday, November 29, 2022, handed over electronic equipment to the Jamaica Constabulary Force (JCF), to bolster the fight against human trafficking.
Three laptop computers, cell phones, a printer, and printer cartridges were handed over in a presentation at the AC Hotel by Marriott in Kingston. The equipment was purchased as part of the Multi-Country Border Security Project (MCBSP), implemented by IOM and funded by the European Union.
This is the second such donation to the JCF through this project. In September 2021, IOM and EU donated binoculars, camcorders, night vision goggles, key chain voice recorders, digital voice recorders, mini keychain video cameras, hidden camera glasses, and flexible waterproof tripods.
IOM has also provided training to members of the Counter-Trafficking and Organized Crime (C-TOC) Unit of the Jamaica Constabulary Force.
“IOM and the JCF have had a long-standing partnership to combat trafficking in persons in Jamaica and today we commit to continued collaboration and partnership to ensure that those who are the most vulnerable are protected and cared for,” said Keisha Livermore, Head of the IOM Office in Jamaica.
“We hope the items donated to the JCF will result in additional successes in identifying and protecting victims and punishing the perpetrators,” she added.
Head of Cooperation at the EU Delegation to Jamaica, Aniceto Rodriguez Ruiz, in his remarks said he is hopeful that the partnership will yield tangible success.
“The European Union is very satisfied to be supporting and to be a partner of Jamaica in promoting prevention and strengthening investigative capacities, networking, and providing equipment to fight trafficking in persons. I hope this will translate into fewer victims and successful prosecutions of perpetrators,” he stated.
Assistant Commissioner of Police and Head of C-TOC, Anthony McLaughlin, expressed gratitude to the IOM-EU team on behalf of the JCF.
“In the fight against trafficking and crime in general, it is almost impossible to reap success without technology. This equipment will enhance the investigative capacity of the Unit,” said ACP Mclaughlin.
The Multi-Country Border Security Project (MCBSP) in Jamaica, Haiti, and the Dominican Republic, has as one of its objectives raising awareness of human trafficking as well as providing support to anti-trafficking efforts in these countries.
According to the United States 2021 Trafficking in Persons report, Jamaica is ranked as Tier 2, which means that Jamaica does not fully meet the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking but is making significant efforts to do so. The report indicated that sex trafficking of Jamaican women and children, including boys, reportedly occurs on streets and in nightclubs, bars, massage parlours, hotels, and private homes, including in resort towns. At times, the report said, traffickers increasingly use social media platforms and false job offers to recruit victims. In Jamaica’s last report on trafficking, the report said, officials investigated 42 potential sex trafficking cases and one labour trafficking case.
About IOM - The International Organization for Migration (IOM), established in 1951, works to help ensure the orderly and humane management of migration to promote international cooperation on migration issues, assist in the search for practical solutions to migration problems, and provide humanitarian assistance to migrants in need, including refugees and internally displaced people.
For further information, please contact Dania Bogle at IOM Jamaica. Email: dabogle@iom.int Tel: 876-995-1932.


1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/220191-european-union-iom-donate-equipment-jamaica-constabulary-force-aid-fight-against-trafficking




Date: 21 November 2022
Title: UNICEF calls for better mental health for every child on World Children’s Day
Content: 21 November 2022
Every child deserves to grow up in loving, nurturing and safe environments.

UNICEF/2022/Joo
Glenmuir High student Keino King, aged 13, chats with Simone Clarke-Cooper during an Instagram Live session she hosted for World Children's Day on Sunday, November 20, 2022 at our Kingston office as part of UNICEF's global "On My Mind" campaign.
Today on World Children’s Day, UNICEF Jamaica is calling for greater investment in mental health care for children and adolescents. The call comes against the background of the continued impacts of COVID-19, unequal access to services and prevalent family and community violence – all persistent threats to the well-being of an entire generation of young people.
With the onset of COVID-19, caregivers reported that their boys and girls experienced heightened levels of frustration (41 per cent), anxiety (23 per cent), clinginess (49 per cent) and fear (21 per cent), according to the 2021 Lasting Impact report by UNICEF and the Caribbean Policy Research Institute (CAPRI). Even before the pandemic, a UNICEF-supported 2014 Ministry of Health and Wellness study revealed that more than 60 per cent of those treated at hospital for attempted suicide were under 25 years-old.
“UNICEF is urging policy makers to take a coordinated and multi-sectoral approach to expanding mental health and psychosocial support and services that can be accessed by young people,” said Vicente Teran, Acting UNICEF Country Representative. “Research shows that eighty per cent of Jamaican children experience violence in their homes and communities. This type of trauma has negative impacts on all aspects of early child development and increases the risk of lifelong adverse outcomes including mental disorders, further victimisation and involvement with violence and crime.”
Currently, the health ministry has only 30 per cent of the staff needed to operate its 23 Child Guidance Clinics which provide mental health support and services to children and adolescents, according to a 2021 CAPRI report The Inadequacy of Mental Health Services for Children. The report also noted that the 23 clinics serve 8,000 children annually, which is inadequate, as it is estimated that some 160,000 children in Jamaica need this support.
“At UNICEF, we are concerned that many adolescents do not have an environment at home, at school or in their communities where they feel safe to talk about their mental health. Often, young people face ridicule, stigma or even bullying when they seek support. Many adolescents say their parents and teachers do not take them seriously when they open up about the mental stress that they confront,” said Teran.
UNICEF continues to support mental health interventions for children and youth across sectors, including building a new Teen Hub with the Ministry of Health and Wellness in Morant Bay in St Thomas. Also, with that Ministry, UNICEF's U-Report social messaging service for youth launched the free, confidential and anonymous U-Matter mental health chatline. Young people are encouraged to message the word SUPPORT to 876-838-4897 on WhatsApp or with free SMS for Flow customers; or @ureportjamaica on Instagram and Facebook Messenger to connect with a trained counsellor.
Psychosocial interventions are also being provided in partnership with the Ministry of Education and Youth, including the violence prevention School-Wide Positive Behaviour Intervention and Support (SWPBIS) framework. UNICEF has continued to support teletherapy services provided by Child Guidance Clinics, and many of the young people are referred by Guidance Counsellors.  Meanwhile with the Department of Correctional Services, UNICEF is developing a Positive Behaviour Management Framework to train staff to build more positive relationships with the juveniles in their care.
However, even as these organizations work to address some of the gaps, there is an urgent need for government investment to impact the overwhelming need in a sustainable and meaningful way. In addition to the need for increased professional mental health treatment and support, Jamaica must invest in the development of policy frameworks that facilitate greater coordination and case management across ministries so that children and their caregivers are not frustrated as they seek care. Also, the widespread stigma must be addressed through community level campaigns to ensure that adolescents are enabled to seek and receive help.
Every child has the right to grow up in a loving, nurturing and safe environment, with supportive relationships and access to quality mental health and psychosocial support – and UNICEF stands ready to support the government and non-government partners to ensure that children and their families can receive support.
World Children’s Day is UNICEF’s global day of action for children, by children. As part of Jamaica’s participation in UNICEF’s global #OnMyMind campaign, we will be holding a forum at our downtown Kingston office for young people aged 10 years old and upwards to express their views on mental health, which will inform our work in this area in 2023. Celebrated every year on November 20 to coincide with the anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), the day aims to raise awareness and funds for the millions of children who are denied their rights, and to elevate young people’s voices as critical to any discussion about their future.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/221086-unicef-calls-better-mental-health-every-child-world-children%E2%80%99s-day




Date: 09 November 2022
Title: Jamaican Economy Panel Climate Resilience in Jamaica Calls for Mitigation and Adaptation
Content: 09 November 2022
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) publishes its fourteenth round of discussions.
In this discussion, the JEP was asked questions on Climate Resilience in Jamaica and asked to share their perspectives on what can be done to mitigate and adapt to the ever-changing climate situation. Dr. Nadine McLoud, Head Department of Economics, University of the West Indies Mona highlights the body of evidence that confirms that Jamaica will not fare well against climate change if it does not execute robust immediacy policies to mitigate its crippling effects.
Jamaica’s SDG performance in relation to climate resilience is noteworthy. Jamaica ranks 83 out of 163 for its overall performance. Its rank is considerably higher than the regional average, which is 69.5.
Jamaica is among the "top 20 countries most vulnerable to natural disasters." The negative impact of climate change puts the island in an even more perilous position with the increased frequency of storms and droughts.  In the past few years, Jamaica has made serious progress in the context of climate resilience, however, it can go further.
“The largely exogenous nature of acute and chronic climate-change events that we will encounter, begs the need for expansion and immediate action at all levels of the economy of our climate resilience toolkit,” Dr. McLoud said.
According to UN Senior Economist Stuart Davies, Jamaica maintains well-placed opportunities for climate financing.
“Jamaica is well placed to build on the momentum of its CAT bond to enhance innovative financing that increases the funds available for building climate resilience while enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of climate financing,” Dr. Davies said.
“Bankrolling resilience is costly and thus, given our limited resources, requires orthodox and unorthodox financing mechanisms, among other things, for Jamaica to achieve an acceptable level of climate change resilience,” Dr. McLoud added.
Accelerating progress in climate resilience requires and demands that we rethink public-private partnerships and cooperation.
“Strengthened cooperation and partnerships among the government, civil society, International Financial Institutions, and the private sector would expedite climate resilience in Jamaica. Also, adopting a multistakeholder approach would further promote collaboration and unity around policies to counteract the effects of climate change on the island,” commented Dr. Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator said.
For more information on the Jamaican Economy Panel and for the results of this JEP discussion visit here.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/206494-jamaican-economy-panel-climate-resilience-jamaica-calls-mitigation-and-adaptation




Date: 05 September 2022
Title: United Nations & Bahamas Development Bank Partner in staging first Multilateral Partnership Forum focused on the Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 05 September 2022
September 5, NASSAU – The United Nations and Bahamas Development Bank partnership has organized the first forum of its kind to accelerate partnerships focused on the Sustainable Development Goals.


Today’s Forum begins at 9 a.m. and is themed, “Transformational Partnerships for a Sustainable Future.” Prime Minister, the Honorable Phillip Davis will deliver the keynote address.
The Bahamas SDG Partnership Forum 2022 serves as a platform to strengthen engagement and relationships across relevant stakeholders and sectors, leading to a more transformational whole-of-society approach to partnerships for advancing SDGs in the Bahamas – particularly in the era of building forward better from COVID-19. The public may join online via the United Nations Bahamas Facebook page.
The event features panel discussions, group dialogues and key presentations engaging a number of partners including Eugene Newry, Under-Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Nicholas Higgs, Managing Director, Bahamas Development Bank; Nicola Virgil-Rolle, Executive Director, Lyford Cay Foundation; Samantha Rolle, Executive Director, Access Accelerator; Dave Prescott, Creative Director, The Partnering Initiative (TPI); The Hon. Obediah Wilchcombe, Minister of Social Services and Urban Development and Sumayyah Cargill, Manager, Strategic Development and Initiatives, Bahamas Development Bank, among others.
Senior officials of the United Nations will also present at the signature event. Roberto Valent, Regional Director, UN Development Coordination Office Latin America and the Caribbean, Sai Navoti, Chief of SIDS Unit Sustainable Development Goals Division, UN DESA as well as Dr. Garry Conille, UN Resident Coordinator in The Bahamas will present.
“The United Nations and The Bahamas have this year entered into a Cooperation Agreement that has already begun to yield programmes of impact for the people of The Bahamas,” Dr. Conille said.
The Partnership Forum is also the kick-off to a week-long Partnership Accelerator training programme.  The 2030 Agenda Partnership Accelerator is a collaborative initiative by the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN DESA) and The Partnering Initiative (TPI), in collaboration with United Nations Office for Partnerships (UNOP), UN Global Compact, and the UN Development Coordination Office. The initiative aims to significantly help accelerate effective partnerships in support of the Sustainable Development Goals.
The training workshops, which include a two-and-a-half-day national training will engage over 40 local leaders with best practice skills and techniques for building effective partnerships, it will enhance understanding of relationships across participants from different sectors and launch new partnerships for supporting the implementation of the SDGs. The Caribbean Partnership Accelerator Training of Trainers workshop, with 15 regional participants, will then close out the week.
According to Aneesah Abdullah, United Nations Country Coordinator, the week’s activities are the fruits of years of partner building and networking aimed at maximizing local expertise and leveraging the service offerings of the UN Development System for the benefit of Bahamians.
“This national training will create a network of partnering champions ready to contribute to national development in new ways. From consultations with local actors, we have ensured that the agendas reflect our national priorities including issues related to climate change, the economy, education, gender and migration,” Abdullah said.
The inaugural SDG Partnership Forum is hoped will encourage and enable the development of structured partnerships to contribute to The Bahamas’ achievement of the SDGs including the establishment of a partnership mechanism to further facilitate meeting the SDGs in The Bahamas.
“From this Forum we hope to identify innovative opportunities for multiparter SDG engagement including facilitating greater access to technical and financial resources for realizing Agenda 2030. I am especially grateful to all our partners, particularly the BDB for supporting the coordination of this effort.” Dr. Conille said.
Resources
-END-
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/197863-united-nations-bahamas-development-bank-partner-staging-first-multilateral-partnership-forum




Date: 03 August 2022
Title: Jamaica has opportunity to champion blue economic transformation
Content: 03 August 2022
Jamaican Economy Panel publishes 13th discussion on blue economy
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) publishes its thirteenth round of discussions. In this discussion, the JEP was asked questions on the Ocean economy in Jamaica and asked to share their perspectives on the central issues as well as what should be done to combat Ocean pollution.
Almost three-quarters of the earth's surface is covered by Oceans, yet the world is far from capturing the benefits it can offer for sustainable development. Under constant challenge from major threats like climate change, human mistreatment, and inappropriate waste management, all of which have been detrimental to the health of the oceans and to those who depend on its resources.
When the panellists were asked what they thought were the most significant issues facing our Ocean today, in the context of Jamaica, they felt that overfishing, marine litter/plastic and the dying coral reefs featured most prominently. Despite action to control plastic use, such as banning plastic carrier bags and straws, further actions are required if we are to sustainably manage this valuable resource.
To tackle these issues and reverse some of the damage done to the Ocean, the panellists felt that a suite of actions was needed which included developing more opportunities for recycling, strengthening regulations on waste management and raising awareness of the adverse consequences of the current business-as-usual action is having on our Ocean resources. The Recycling Partners of Jamaica have provided opportunities for Jamaicans to recycle plastic bottles by forming a collaboration with the National Environment Planning Agency (NEPA) and Magna Rewards Jamaica Ltd.
Dr Christine Clarke, Senior Lecturer in the Department of Economics at UWI Mona, highlighted the need for waste management to go further with a "5 to 10-year campaign promoting separation at source, containerisation and at least weekly collection of garbage."
Our panellists felt that effective awareness raising is critical to tackling Ocean pollution. Dr Patrice Whitley, Lecturer in the Department of Economics at UWI Mona, highlighted that "In order for change to occur, the general population needs to be aware of and concerned about the problem."
Tailored education on Ocean sustainability provides a powerful channel through which we can change behaviours and attitudes toward the environment, specifically those related to our Oceans. Mobilising the youth of today and encouraging children to be involved in sustainable environmental practices and blue activities will ensure we create a more sustainable future.
When the panellists were asked about who should be targeted to help combat ocean pollution, Chris Corbin, Acting Coordinator, UNEP Cartagena Convention Secretariat, explained, "We need to consider multiple sectors who contribute to pollution, who are impacted by pollution, who regulate pollution and who can advocate for change and effect change."
Setting behaviours, attitudes, regulations and policies to strike the right balance between conserving our ocean resources for future generations and capturing its economic potential to enhance incomes and livelihoods are essential to Jamaica’s successful sustainable development.
Dr Nadine McCloud highlighted the prospects that the Ocean economy offers for job creation and shares.
"The scope for the ocean economy to create employment and innovation booms and consequently foster economic growth for Jamaica is massive. However, monetizing this critical natural resource must be done sustainably,” Dr Nadine McCloud said.
The JEP acknowledged the multi-sectorial attempts to address many of the foremost issues facing the Ocean. Dr Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator, highlighted however that an ambitious balance must be struck.
“We have some way to go if we are to achieve blue economic transformation for Jamaica, especially one that strikes the right balance between optimising its commercial value and preserving this most valuable resource for future generations. This is the joint responsibility of everyone, and we must all play our part,” Dr Conille said,
As it builds forward better from the COVID-19 pandemic, Jamaica is presented with an important opportunity to chart a new course in this decade of action and champion blue economic transformation that is globally replicable.
For more information on the Jamaican Economy Panel and for the results of this JEP discussion visit here.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/193228-jamaica-has-opportunity-champion-blue-economic-transformation




Date: 02 June 2022
Title: UNICEF calls for accelerated national response to address violence against children
Content: 02 June 2022
Need for the Government of Jamaica to accelerate commitments made to protect our children under the 2019 National Plan of Action for an Integrated Response to Children and Violence (NPACV)

UNICEF Jamaica/Brown
UNICEF is saddened and deeply alarmed by the continued upsurge in violence in Jamaica and is particularly concerned about reports of child victims of this violence.
UNICEF expresses its sympathy to the family and community of mother Kemisha Wright and her four children – Kimara, Shemara, Kafana and Kishaun – who were murdered in Clarendon on Tuesday, June 21, 2022.
This horrific and brutal attack against the most vulnerable members of our society has shocked the entire nation. It also highlights the need for the Government of Jamaica to accelerate commitments made to protect our children under the 2019 National Plan of Action for an Integrated Response to Children and Violence (NPACV), including: investing in programmes addressing conflict resolution, anger management, safety in the homes and community safety, and developing and improving partnerships to strengthen community resilience in relation to violence. As always, UNICEF is ready to continue our support to these efforts.
UNICEF urges every member of society to take action to help protect our children from all forms of violence and abuse.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/221085-unicef-calls-accelerated-national-response-address-violence-against-children




Date: 31 May 2022
Title: Eliminating stigma, discrimination, and violence against vulnerable communities is vital to ending inequalities and achieving Agenda 2030
Content: 31 May 2022
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) published the twelfth round of discussions. For this month’s discussion, the JEP answered questions about stigma, discrimination, and violence faced by vulnerable and marginalised communities. They also shared their perspectives on what is and should be done to reduce exclusion and marginalisation in Jamaican society.
For most of the members of the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP)  stigma, discrimination, and violence perpetrated against vulnerable and marginalised communities are important concerns in Jamaica and a possible hindrance to fully achieving the SDGs. The JEP expressed that those most affected by stigma and discrimination and various forms of violence in Jamaica are women and girls, people from inner-city communities, and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) people. These were followed by people with disabilities, people living with HIV and people who are homeless.
On the heels of the May 17th  International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia 2022, the JEP also considered the impact of discrimination and violence on LGBTQ people as part of this month’s discussions. The majority of panellists expressed that a person’s livelihood and well-being were more likely to be affected by forms of stigma and discrimination that included physical abuse, closely followed by the denial of employment opportunities, as well as displacement and homelessness. The majority of panellists believe that all societal sectors could do more to reduce discrimination and violence against marginalised groups, including LGBTQ people.
When asked what could be done to protect marginalised groups from discrimination and violence, a majority of panellists expressed favour for a multisectoral response which would include the strengthening of anti-discriminatory laws and policies, increased community-based interventions and safer housing and shelter for people experiencing displacement and homelessness. A significant number of panellists also felt that school curricula should integrate human rights principles and non-discrimination.
The JEP was asked about the role of the private sector regarding marginalised and discriminated groups, there was a high preference towards the recommendation for the private sector to develop diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) policies in the workplace to help reduce stigma, discrimination, and violence. The JEP also favoured private sector input in partnering and supporting organisations representing marginalised groups and implementing public education campaigns.
In responding to this JEP discussion, Dr. Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator expressed that stigma, discrimination, and violence pose a real risk to people’s health and hinders their broader development outcomes.
“Stigma, discrimination and violence in all its forms are real human rights concerns that stymie an individual’s ability to contribute to nation-building. The Human Development Report (2000) articulates that human rights and human development share a ‘common vision and a common purpose—to secure the freedom, well-being and dignity of all people everywhere,’” Dr. Conille, said.
Richard Amenya, Director, UNAIDS Multicountry Office based in Jamaica, shared that stigma, discrimination, and violence adversely impact a sound public health response.
“The HIV and AIDS response documents stark examples of the devastating impact of stigma, discrimination, and violence because of one’s health status. Studies show that people living with HIV, who perceive elevated levels of HIV-related stigma, are 2.4 times more likely to delay seeking care until they are severely ill. Such fears often contribute to discouraging uptake of prevention and testing services for HIV,” Amenya said.
“In Jamaica, the Stigma Index (2020) found that 38% of people living with HIV report having delayed testing, and 30% delayed initiating treatment because they feared how others would treat them,” Amenya added.
As in most countries worldwide, additional and accelerated efforts are needed in Jamaica to address stigma and discrimination in order to ensure that everyone can live peacefully with dignity and rights and participate fully in governance, cultural life and the economy while achieving their fullest potential.
Acknowledging the multidimensional urgency of the response, Dr. Nadine McCloud, Head Department of Economics, University of the West Indies said, “Eradicating stigma, discrimination and violence against vulnerable and marginalised groups in Jamaica is no easy commission. However, we must do so. The sentiments echoed by the panellists and other stakeholders strongly signal that there is an urgent need for hard and soft policies and laws that discourage discriminatory and abusive behaviour and hold perpetrators accountable."
For more information on the Jamaican Economy Panel and for the results of this JEP discussion visit here.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/184489-eliminating-stigma-discrimination-and-violence-against-vulnerable-communities-vital-ending




Date: 28 April 2022
Title: United Nations Resident Coordinator pays courtesy call on Pro Vice-Chancellor and Principal of the University of the West Indies Mona Campus on the occasion of the eleventh discussion of the Jamaican Economy Panel
Content: 28 April 2022

Jamaica's catastrophe bond adds a vital tool to the arsenal of disaster preparation strategies - additional tactics recommended
On this occassion, Dr. Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator, met with Professor Dale Webber, Pro Vice-Chancellor and Principal of the University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona Campus.
The two were joined by Professor Ian Boxill, Deputy Principal of UWI Mona, Jonathan Archie, Deputy Campus Registrar, Dr. Nadine McCloud, Head Department of Economics as well as Dr. Olaf J. De Groot, Ciara Patterson & Jomain McKenzie of the UNRCO.
Dr. Conille conveyed the well wishes of the UN System for the strong partnership established between the United Nations in Jamaica and the Department of Economics UWI, Mona.
“Through the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP), UWI’s technical expertise has contributed to and expanded economic analysis within the UN system and has increased the accessibility of economic discourse within the wider population,” Dr. Conille said.
“The JEP is well aligned with UWI’s strategy and is helping us answer and respond to society’s questions,” Professor Webber said.
The parties exchange ideas into the future of the JEP and explored opportunities for greater strategic engagement between the United Nations and the regional university.
This month's topic directly links with the latest report by the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which warned in early April that the Paris commitment of a maximum temperature increase of 1.5 degrees Celsius is becoming more challenging to achieve. The report also highlights that the climate change impact on Small Island Developing States (SIDS), such as Jamaica, is particularly significant, putting the livelihoods of many people at stake.
When ranking different climate-induced hazards, the panellists see the most significant risk in cyclones (hurricanes), drought, the livelihoods of the coast-dependent population, and the long-run risk of rising sea levels. Other risks identified by the latest IPCC report, such as coral bleaching and biodiversity loss, are considered less urgent in the case of Jamaica.
While mitigation continues to be the gold standard for handling climate change, the latest figures show that it is unlikely that climate change can be addressed entirely in time. For this reason, adaptation should be carefully considered and prioritized as well. When asking the JEP panellists about different adaptation strategies, the need for increased financial resources is particularly apparent. One of the key strategies for Jamaica will be to improve coastal defences, especially with nature-based solutions, such as mangroves, but these would be very costly.
Dr. Nadine McCloud, Head of the Economics Department at UWI Mona and co-founder of the JEP, comments that "major investment is required to prepare the country for climate change. However, while financing opportunities through our international development partners should be pursued, we must explore other ways in which financial flows can be unlocked. The private sector, for example, can extract significant benefits from sustainable and climate-sensitive investment opportunities – an untapped and lucrative pool in Jamaica. The tourism sector, a major recipient of foreign direct investment, stands to lose the most from climate change.   So engaging such investors in ensuring that coastlines are protected in the long run would be a logical path to pursue and a win-win for all stakeholders."
For almost a decade (since Sandy in 2012), Jamaica has avoided significant hurricane impacts. This luck could lead to a reduced awareness of the hazards associated with hurricanes and lower vigilance and hurricane preparedness. The respondents generally believe that people are decently prepared but have a somewhat dimmer view of private sector actors.
The JEP panellists applaud the Government's issuance of what is known as a catastrophe bond, which insures the country for up to USD 185 million of hurricane damages. While many panellists believe it is a wise decision to issue such a bond, a substantial number would have liked to see a larger size of such a bond. It was pointed out, for example, that the impact of a hurricane such as Gilbert (1988) would have an estimated impact of up to USD 1.3 billion. While some may view such an enormous catastrophe as very unlikely, its impact would be huge.
Several other respondents also highlighted the need for a broader range of instruments, such as weather derivatives and a more holistic, multisectoral and structural approach to making the country less prone to the impacts of hazards. One respondent pointed out that rigid enforcement of building codes would help lessen the impacts of a cyclone, but that the large construction boom over the past few years may have lessened the attention to such enforcement.
Responding to the survey results, Dr. Conille shared that "the continuing exhaust of greenhouse gases exacerbates existing hazards. While it is crucial to reduce emissions as soon as possible, it is also important to look at ways to alleviate the impacts of disasters that may be exacerbated by continued climate change. SIDS have a great need for additional funds to be able to invest in both mitigation and adaptation. The work of The Hon. Prime Minister Holness with the Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada as co-chairs of Group of Friends of SDG Financing is crucial in the pursuit of such innovative financing accessible to all states."
The Jamaican Economy Panel is a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at The University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panellists.
The full results of this month's discussion are available here.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/179440-united-nations-resident-coordinator-pays-courtesy-call-pro-vice-chancellor-and-principal




Date: 13 April 2022
Title: Caribbean Creative Sector to benefit from ACP-EU 3 million Euro Grant Support Programme
Content: 13 April 2022
The Caribbean Culture Sector has received significant funding from the European Union with support from the Organisation of African, Caribbean and Pacific States, under the ACP-EU 11th EDF Culture Programme as creatives seek to recover from the adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Virtual Launch is set for Thursday, April 21, 2022, at 11:00 EST.
The United Nations, Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, (UNESCO), the CARICOM Secretariat and The University of the West Indies have joined forces to implement the project titled Creative Caribbean - An Ecosystem of “Play” for Growth and Development” in the amount of Euros 3 million.
The three-year project that will be implemented in 15 Caribbean countries aims to develop a robust creative economy in the region by strengthening the enabling environment and providing grant support for industry and training initiatives.
The Creative and Cultural Industries (CCIs) targeted for grant support include music, fashion, festivals, film, animation and new media, visual and performing arts, among other areas of entertainment - a sector that provides millions in revenue and in which thousands of people find full-time and part-time work.
The project is expected to strengthen research and data collection on CCIs, to facilitate market access opportunities, to support the development of national artists registries, Cultural policies and Creative Industry Development Acts to incentivise the sector. It will also provide grants to creative and cultural practitioners to grow more globally competitive businesses and enhance their professional development.
“It is an unquestionable fact that the impact of Covid-19 on the cultural and creative sectors was tremendously significant, yet CCIs play a notable role in the economy and recovery from the pandemic. The Creative Caribbean project seeks to shift the paradigm from "the struggling artist" to creating an enabling environment where creatives are incentivised to produce and thrive and become a key driver of sustainable development in the region," explains Saadia Sanchez-Vegas, Director and Representative of the UNESCO Cluster Office for the Caribbean.
Artists and Cultural Entrepreneurs from the following countries are eligible to apply for grant support under this landmark project: Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago.

UNESCO, CARICOM and The UWI have the pleasure of inviting you to the virtual launch of the Joint Project "Creative Caribbean" on Thursday, 21 April 2022, 10:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m. (GMT-5:00).
Register to join the virtual meeting
https://unesco-org.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_4kY0riN7QeW470_hCfNeIQ
Meeting ID: 848 7174 7994
Passcode: 335198

With the Financial Contribution of the European Union and the Support of the Organisation of ACP States



+++END+++

1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/177987-caribbean-creative-sector-benefit-acp-eu-3-million-euro-grant-support-programme




Date: 12 April 2022
Title: Sharp Rise In Food Insecurity In The Caribbean, Survey Finds
Content: 12 April 2022
An estimated 2.8 million people or nearly 40 per cent of the population in the English-speaking Caribbean is food insecure, 1 million more than in April 2020, according to the results of a recent survey conducted by the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP)
Severe food insecurity continues to increase in the region with the current figure 72 per cent higher when compared to April 2020. Highlighting the lasting impact of the pandemic, two years in, the results demonstrate deteriorating food consumption and diets with 25 percent of respondents eating less preferred foods, 30 per cent skipping meals or eating less than usual and 5 per cent going an entire day without eating in the week leading up to the survey.
“Having the opportunity to assess how the pandemic has impacted the livelihoods and food security of more than 20,000 respondents across the past two years has provided the CARICOM Secretariat with invaluable data that is being used to inform regional priorities in the short and medium term,” said Shaun Baugh, Agriculture and Agro-Industrial Development Programme Manager at the CARICOM Secretariat.

High food prices continue to affect people’s ability to afford a nutritious diet with 93 percent of respondents reporting higher prices for food compared to 59 percent in April 2020. The ongoing crisis in Ukraine is expected to create an even deeper impact on the cost of basic goods and services in the Caribbean.

“An import dependent region, the Caribbean continues to feel the socio-economic strain of COVID-19 which is now being compounded by the conflict in Ukraine. With most COVID-19 assistance programmes having concluded, many families are expected to face an even greater challenge to meet their basic food and other essential needs in the months to come,” said Regis Chapman, WFP Representative and Country Director for the Caribbean Multi-Country Office.

“In the short to medium term, it is increasing pressure on governments to identify solutions to ensure families can meet their essential needs. Innovation in agri-food systems and regional supply chains, coupled with continued support to the most vulnerable households, will be essential to improving the resilience of regional food systems so that prices can be kept as stable as possible.”

Along with the latest survey results, an interactive dashboard allows for comparison between different survey rounds and across several countries. It also provides data on the impact of the pandemic on livelihoods, access to markets and food security by country in the Caribbean.

CARICOM, WFP and other partners continue to work together to increase resilience to shocks through stronger disaster management, social protection and food systems that are more effective, sustainable and responsive in meeting the needs of those most affected by crises.

The survey was supported by the European Union and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Bureau of Humanitarian Assistance.
###

The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

The Caribbean Community (CARICOM) is a grouping of 20 countries: 15 Member States and five Associate Members, with the aims of promoting economic integration and cooperation in foreign policy, human and social development and security.  Caribbean economic integration, and cooperation amongst its members, including in foreign policy.
Follow us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/WFPCaribbean and https://www.facebook.com/caricom.org

For more information please contact:
Carla Alleyne, WFP/ Caribbean 1 (246) 467-6085, 1 (246) 836-6111, Carla.alleyne@wfp.org
Juliette Maughan, WFP/ Caribbean 1 (246) 467-6084,  Juliette.maughan@wfp.org
Shaun Baugh, CARICOM Secretariat (592) 22-0001 Ext 2244,  Shaun.baugh@caricom.org
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/199951-sharp-rise-food-insecurity-caribbean-survey-finds




Date: 04 April 2022
Title: Women and girls should be included in urban planning in the Caribbean
Content: 04 April 2022
Riding on a minibus/maxi taxi/ZR van through the streets of any beautiful Caribbean city, one will see spaces and buildings that once were full of life in desperate need of rejuvenation.
In some cases, they bring gritty character to the neighborhood and in many they create insecurities and discomfort amongst the citizens, with a specific kind of discomfort for women and girls in particular. The spaces may also remind us about what once was – and what still can be.
A vibrant craft shop and café by the lady a few blocks away. Fruits and vegetable stalls operated by the local women’s farmer group. The afterschool gathering spot of the youth from the communities, ‘liming’ safely if not so quietly. A bench along the street for the elderly and differently abled to sit under a shade while waiting for that ZR van that arrives reliably. A relaxing stroll in a lush park before hurrying off to take care of the next errand: going to work, getting groceries, picking up children or helping the elderly family members.
The spaces and buildings are abandoned for many reasons. Economic downturn, criminality, more hazards like hurricanes barreling through and more recently, COVID-19 cutting off the solid stream of tourists. According to the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), Hurricane Ivan (2004) caused damage to homes, buildings and other structures at more than US$3 billion across the region.[1] Hurricane Maria (2018) caused extensive damage to Dominica, totaling at around US$1.3 billion.[2] Hurricane Dorian (2019) resulted in total of US$2.5 billion of damage in the Bahamas.[3] While many spaces and buildings have been rebuilt or given new life since, there are always those that remain unattended, provoking the feeling of lost opportunity.
Resilient, inclusive, smart and safe public spaces enable businesses to thrive and empower the citizens to live their life for the fullest. Reliable and sustainable public transportation is a critical element of this. They both enable access to employment and key services, income generation, recreation and wellbeing, thus influencing gender equality. It is well known that gender and other socio-economic realities shape how women, men, girls, boys, LGBTQI persons and other marginalized groups experience public spaces and public transportation. What may be a safe enough space for an adult man may be a space to avoid for a young woman. Generally, unsafe spaces for women and girls are the canary in the coal mine so to speak for insecurity for all. While there is no data in the Caribbean yet on the prevalence of gender-based violence in public spaces and how this is linked to broader issues of criminality, evidence from different countries in the region tell the unfortunate truth of high prevalence of violence against women, including sexual violence and harassment. Based on prevalence data from 5 Caribbean countries, 46 percent of women have experienced at least one form of violence from their intimate partner.[4] A deeper dive into the data shows that in Grenada, for example, 26.6 percent of women have experienced non-partner sexual harassment in their lifetime.[5]
The design of urban services and infrastructure impact on the time, cost, safety, comfort and psychological burdens of the users. For women and girls, street harassment is so prevalent.  Whether they are riding the minibus, walking on the streets or accessing public spaces, it can often be a frustrating and unpleasant experience. With urban planning processes taking better into account the needs and experiences of women and girls, this can change. When given the opportunity, women and girls have proven to design spaces and systems that work better for everyone.
For example, the Government of Barbados has added electric buses offering specific child and mother seating to the public transport fleet to improve the comfort and safety, as well as to mitigate climate change. Moreover, the Adopt a Stop programme in Barbados improves safety at the bus stop through solar panel powered lighting and proper seating. Furthermore, with the leadership of a Barbados-based woman-led electric vehicle company, charging stations have been placed to places where women felt safer – close to entrances and in vicinity of other amenities. Safer for women, safer for everyone.
As climate change progresses, we can anticipate more intense and frequent tropical storms and sea level rise.[6] Also, that unwelcomed guest, COVID-19 is likely here to stay.[7] Are our public spaces and transport systems prepared to take the hits and bounce quickly back? Let’s make sure that women and girls and all community members are engaged in the conversation and are given the opportunity to lead on the change.
For the month of March - Women’s Month - the world celebrates the contributions of women and girls who are leading the charge on climate change adaptation, mitigation, and response, to build a more sustainable future for all. Under the theme “Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow” UN Women Multi Country Office - Caribbean and UN Habitat stand to support governments, civil society organizations and the private sector in including women and girls as the leaders in sustainable urban planning in the Caribbean.

[1] Hurricane Ivan impacts https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/data/tcr/AL092004_Ivan.pdf
[2] Hurricane Maria impacts in Dominica https://reliefweb.int/report/dominica/dominica-impact-hurricane-maria-disaster-profile-january-2018
[3] Hurricane Dorian impacts in Bahamas https://publications.iadb.org/en/assessment-of-the-effects-and-impacts-of-hurricane-dorian-in-the-bahamas
[4] Data from Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Suriname and Trinidad and Tobago https://caribbeanwomencount.unwomen.org/
[5] https://caribbean.unwomen.org/sites/default/files/Field%20Office%20Caribbean/Attachments/Publications/2021/20210209%20Grenada%20Life%20Experience%20Report%2018%20for%20digital.pdf
[6] WMO (2021) State of the Climate in Latin America and the Caribbean 2020. World Meteorological Organization. WMO-No. 1272. https://library.wmo.int/index.php?lvl=notice_display&id=21926#.YZ497tDMKUk
[7] https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-022-00057-y
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/176790-women-and-girls-should-be-included-urban-planning-caribbean




Date: 31 March 2022
Title: Women must have a seat at the table of climate change and disaster preparations
Content: 31 March 2022
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) publishes the tenth round of its discussions focusing, this month, on how gender intersects with climate change and disaster preparedness. This discussion is the second of a three-month thematic focus on specific climate change issues
This month's topic also acknowledges the celebration of International Women's Day on 8 March. UN Women celebrated this year with a theme of "Gender equality for a sustainable tomorrow", highlighting the significant contributions by women and girls around the world to the discussions on climate change adaptation, mitigation, and response.
UN Women is also one of the agencies leading the EnGenDER project. EnGenDER is a large-scale project funded by Global Affairs Canada and UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, supporting climate change, disaster risk reduction and environmental management interventions in nine Caribbean countries.
The panellists were asked about their perceptions of Jamaica's hazards and whether such hazards are exacerbated by climate change. The panellists agreed that Jamaica is most exposed to the hazards of drought, coastal flooding, and extreme heat. They generally see the hydrometeorological risks as most likely exacerbated by climate change.
Dr. Nadine McCloud, Head of the Economics Department at UWI Mona and co-founder of the JEP, comments that "Jamaica has been lucky in recent years with the paths of different hurricanes dodging us. However, given our experience with Gilbert, we should not be complacent about the impact of a direct hit of an extreme natural disaster on the Jamaican economy and people. Climate change increases air's capacity to hold moisture, which increases the risk of excessive rain even outside hurricane conditions. This pattern is an existential threat to many farmers and Jamaican communities living close to water, as shown in last month's JEP Discussion".
The great majority of respondents agreed that, in the face of many disasters, the risks faced by women and girls are different from those faced by men and boys. Some of the key ingredients to the increased risk level include that women often have lower incomes than men and are more likely to be single parents. In addition to the economic vulnerability of women and girls, they are also seen as being more present in households, thus having to cope with challenges such as interrupted sanitation and water supplies. Finally, there is a real threat of gender-based violence, especially in acute disaster situations that warrant evacuation or shelter movements.
Tonni-Ann Brodber, Representative of the UN Women Multi-country Office for the Caribbean, comments that “in addition to the economic vulnerabilities of women, their care responsibilities for children and the elderly act as an additional responsibiliy. If a disaster causes school closures, societal expectations often demand that women stay home to provide care duties. Additionally, women and girls are often at greater risk of the threat of sexual abuse and exploitation in the aftermath of a disaster. The increased risks are not unique to women and girls, other groups including people living with disabilities, the elderly, and members of the LGBTQ+ community also face increased risk as a result of intersecting vulnerabilities.”
The critical tool in addressing the vulnerabilities of women and girls in hazardous situations is including women in discussions on disaster preparedness and climate change. The participation of civil society organizations that represent women is often forgotten, and women's political representation in Jamaica continues to lag. In Jamaica, one somewhat bright light is the relatively favourable position of girls when it comes to Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), compared to the abysmal situation they find themselves in other countries. After all, when women and girls pursue STEM careers, they will necessarily be engaged in the technical discussions to prepare for disasters and oncoming climate change.
Responding to the survey results, Dr. Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator, shared that
“Gender equality is a core value of the United Nations and a person’s gender should not be a risk factor in emergency situations. Despite progress we still have much to do,  as a collective, to ensure the safety of women and girls during and after crisis events. One of the key strategies to achieve this goal is to ensure that women and girls are included and that their voices are heard long before disaster hits."
The Jamaican Economy Panel is a partnership between the United Nations in Jamaica and the Department of Economics at The University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panellists.
The full results of this month's discussion are available here.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/176213-women-must-have-seat-table-climate-change-and-disaster-preparations




Date: 30 March 2022
Title: UN & Government Launch New Effort to Mitigate COVID-19 Impact
Content: 30 March 2022
Three UN agencies and the Ministry of Labour and Social Security (MLSS) today launched a new effort to lessen the impact of COVID-19 on the most vulnerable and to enhance Jamaica’s social protection system to better respond to future shocks.
The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the World Food Programme (WFP) will be implementing the US $1.1 million joint programme “Modernization of the Social Protection Systems in Jamaica: Towards an Adaptive, Shock Responsive, Inclusive System”.
Globally, evidence shows that vulnerable groups are disproportionately bearing the burden of the health and socio-economic impacts of the COVID-19 crisis, particularly women and persons living in poverty.
A survey conducted recently by the Caribbean Policy Research Institute (CAPRI) and UNICEF revealed the difficult realities faced by Jamaican families in coping with the impact of COVID-19.
The findings showed that 80% of households reported a reduction in income during the pandemic, with significantly greater loss for families in the lower socio-economic brackets. The survey also found that only 50% of families had enough to support the household’s basic needs for a maximum of two weeks. A February 2022 CARICOM and WFP survey found that 57% of respondents had faced job loss or reduced income as a result of the pandemic.
The joint programme will introduce tools to better identify persons who face acute socio-economic challenges due to major shocks, such as pandemics and disasters, and improve the ways that government support is provided to beneficiaries. A key innovation will be the piloting of electronic payments to enable more efficient and faster payments, with an emphasis on payments for persons with disabilities.
One of the major benefits of the programme is that it will provide the most vulnerable groups, including children in poor households and persons living with disabilities, with increased access to shock responsive social protection programmes. In so doing, the programme will be more responsive to the needs of men and women, thereby narrowing the inequalities between them.
“We are confident that this joint programme will help enhance Jamaica’s ‘rainy day’ protection, especially for female-headed households and women working in the informal sector, and families with children and people with disabilities,” said Dr. Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator, speaking at the launch event. “We are proud to be a launching a programme that will see Jamaica developing more robust shock responsive social protection and increasing its capacity to activate rapid responses targeting the most vulnerable groups affected by COVID-19 and other shocks.”
The joint programme builds on strong partnership between the MLSS and UN. Between December 2021 and March 2022, the MLSS and WFP provided cash transfers to households impacted by COVID-19. This programme piloted the use of digital solutions for beneficiaries to receive their cash assistance and supported increased accountability. Lessons learned from this programme are already being used to scale-up a government programme through the same electronic delivery mechanism and will inform joint programme activities.
“Undoubtedly, this joint programme will offer no less than positive results for Jamaica, especially at this time, when the country is rebounding and recovering stronger from the onslaught of the COVID-19 pandemic,” said the Hon. Karl Samuda, Minister of Labour and Social Security. “Today’s launch marks another important milestone in accelerating our efforts to become a more inclusive and socially adaptable society.”
The joint programme is funded through the Small Island Developing States (SIDS) Grant Funding initiative. It is part of a wide set of interventions under the Joint UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Fund that are designed to support Jamaica’s achievement of targets in the national development plan VISION 20230 and several SDG.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/176784-un-government-launch-new-effort-mitigate-covid-19-impact




Date: 28 February 2022
Title: Making Jamaican food systems more climate resilient will require investment in training and infrastructure
Content: 28 February 2022
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) publishes the ninth round of its discussions focusing, this month, on how climate change may further affect food systems in Jamaica. This discussion is the first in a series of thematic foci on climate change issues.
The 2021 Global Food Systems summit raised the visibility of food systems and drew attention to the ways in which food systems are key to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. In the case of Jamaica, agriculture employs around 16% of the population, which in itself already makes it a crucial economic sector. The sector has however registered lower levels of productivity when compared to Jamaica's other industrial sectors but also compared to other countries in the Caribbean.
The panellists were asked about their perceptions regarding Jamaica's low level of agricultural productivity. They identified three key areas of concern: the quality of capital/technology used in production, the quality of infrastructure and the small scale of farms in Jamaica. Each of these results from long-term path dependence and is not easily changed.
Dr. Crispim Moreira, the Representative of the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Jamaica, Belize and the Bahamas, points out that "Jamaica faces many challenges. Farmers' infrastructure including water collection, crop storage and irrigation systems, as well as the road infrastructure required to bring crops to market, both require substantial investment. However, the small scale of farms in Jamaica makes it hard for individual farmers to obtain financing for such investments."
Asked about how farmers should best incorporate climate change, the critical point identified by the panellists is on agricultural management. Agricultural management is a broad area that will require substantial training and skills-building. Other areas include addressing the preceding climate sensitivity of much of the relevant infrastructure and improving soil preservation.
Dr. Nadine McCloud, Head of the Economics Department at UWI Mona and co-founder of the JEP, comments that "water management is of first-order importance to agricultural practices and hence agricultural productivity. Yet, its distribution is not always optimal. Farmers should thus invest more in water harvesting and efficient irrigation systems to prepare for the droughts associated with climate change. Simultaneously, they require the appropriate technology to remove and reuse excess water from flooded areas without damaging the topsoil when affected by excessive rainfall. The current low agricultural productivity level and low returns to many farmers mean that increased access to external finance for this critical sector is warranted to render sizeable and sustainable changes in its water usage."
Many panellists see substantial space for government intervention, especially in skills training amongst farmers. Indeed, it is crucial to provide the right tools to farmers to improve their working methods and make themselves more climate resilient. However, on top of that, recognizing that many farms are small and relatively informal, access to finance is another critical area in which the government can play a crucial role. Weather-related insurance is an example of a tool already in place but can be extended further to cover additional people.
Responding to the survey results, Dr. Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator, shared that "for the United Nations, food systems are absolutely crucial to socio-economic development and the 2030 Agenda. However, I would add that, to be at its most effective, advances to the overall food system must be mindful of Jamaica's proud cultural heritage to be able to contribute most optimally to economic renewal and innovation."
The Jamaican Economy Panel is part of a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at The University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panellists.
The full results of this month's discussion are available here.


1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/173329-making-jamaican-food-systems-more-climate-resilient-will-require-investment-training-and




Date: 01 February 2022
Title: Fighting the obesity epidemic requires an all-of-government approach that includes both taxes and proactive health policies
Content: 01 February 2022
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) publishes the eighth round of its discussions focusing, this month, on the high rate of obesity in Jamaica and possible remedies for this challenge that can be achieved through government policy.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), 39% of adults are overweight (with a Body Mass Index, or BMI, above 25), and 13% are obese (BMI above 30). This prevalence of obesity puts people at greater risk for cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and musculoskeletal disorders. In the case of Jamaica, almost a quarter of the adult population is considered obese, with obesity being more prevalent amongst women than amongst men.
Mr. Ian Stein, PAHO/WHO Representative in Jamaica, comments that “Jamaica has seen an increase in the levels of obesity not only among adults, where females are more affected but there has also been a worrying increase in the levels of childhood and adolescent obesity. The plentiful availability of low-cost, high-fat, high-sugar, high-salt, energy-dense and micronutrient-poor foods exacerbates the risk of obesity and increases the chance of developing non-communicable diseases.”
The JEP panellists collectively agreed that the challenge of obesity deserves to be the subject of public policy, and the single-highest priority area for intervention is in education. Only through education will it be possible to achieve the kind of generational change required to address the root causes of obesity. However, several other areas also play a crucial role, including the agricultural sector, which has to be supported to fully provide the type of food Jamaicans need to make healthy choices.
Finally, there is the issue of taxation. The experience from Mexico, which introduced a tax on sugary drinks in 2014, has been studied extensively and indicated that in response, consumption moved away from sugary drinks towards alternatives with less sugar. Most JEP panellists agree that a policy that levies taxes on highly caloric foods should be explored in Jamaica. A majority of panellists who agree, also added that it would be optimal to earmark the receipts from such a tax to provide further support to the healthcare sector, which has suffered a lot from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Dr. Nadine McCloud, Head of the Economics Department at UWI Mona and co-founder of the JEP, comments that "Taxation can address public policy challenges when a particular practice should be discouraged. However, such a tax would likely be quite regressive. Because the poorest quintile spends a more significant portion of its budget [more than the wealthiest quintile] on the kinds of foods or drinks that this policy would aim to discourage, such a tax would have undesirable side effects. While this is not a reason to reject it, one should consider such effects in the implementation process. A combination of taxes on poor dietary foods and subsidies to reduce prices and render producers more efficient in increasing the supply of the more healthful foods can engender more social benefits."
Beyond fiscal policy, there are also other instruments that the government can use to address the obesity question. The Ministry of Health and Wellness is already pursuing several such initiatives as providing factual information, promoting increased levels of physical activity for all and several policies, such as restricting sugar-sweetened beverages in schools and encouraging front-of-package nutritional labels that help young people choose healthier diets.
Nevertheless, when asked about the expansion of existing programmes or the introduction of new ones, the JEP panellists endorsed several specific ideas. Most importantly, they believe that obesity-inducing diets result from foods that are largely available and accessible. Internationally, there are well-documented examples of food deserts, where it is hard to access healthy options. Addressing this food-environment challenge is one way to induce people to make healthier choices. Another option returns to the critical role played by the educational sector: if children are exposed to healthier diets, research has shown that there are long-term positive impacts. The evidence suggests using the government's influence over school diets to improve what is on offer can be a key instrument.
Responding to the survey results, Dr. Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator, shared that "as a medical doctor, I can only endorse these results. The most important way in which behaviour can be changed is through education. This cannot be done in the short term, but it requires a long-term approach that includes both information and providing young people with quality foods that can help them make the right choices. Linking the education system with the food production system in the country will also provide for potential spillover effects for the overall economy as well."
The Jamaican Economy Panel is part of a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at The University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panellists.
The full results of this month's discussion are available here.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/170283-fighting-obesity-epidemic-requires-all-government-approach-includes-both-taxes-and-proactive




Date: 31 December 2021
Title: Improving living conditions in Jamaica can help to reduce emigration while also helping to increase the benefits derived from the Jamaican diaspora
Content: 31 December 2021
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) publishes the seventh round of its discussions focusing, this month, on the high rate of emigration from Jamaica and the possible consequences for the loss in highly-skilled Jamaican workers.
According to the Economic and Social Survey of Jamaica (ESSJ), published by the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ), net population growth decreased from around 10,000 people yearly in 2010 to a negative number since 2017. The primary cause for this is a significant net outflow of people through migration, reaching around 18,000 people in 2020.
Furthermore, those most likely to leave are of child-bearing age and are often highly educated and skilled, especially females, according to the 2019 ESSJ. With only 9.3% of male workers and 17.7% of female workers having a degree, the loss of highly skilled labour could have a deleterious effect on the Jamaican economy.
The JEP panellists opine that pull factors continue to be more critical than push factors, with most migrants seeking better economic opportunities and higher living standards in other countries. At the same time, the panellists also ascribed migration to substantial push factors, such as the burden of violence and quality of institutions in Jamaica. Keisha Livermore, Head of the Jamaican Office for International Migration in Jamaica, comments that "migration is a human right, but it should always be a choice. People should not feel pushed into migrating just to get away from a bad situation, whether the situation is related to crime and violence or the state of the economy."
In the ESSJ, it is pointed out that there are substantial benefits associated with a significant rate of migration, for example, through integration and building of economic networks. The JEP panellists are somewhat sceptical about this, however, with around half of the respondents believing that Jamaica is not benefitting sufficiently from the process of migration.
Dr. Nadine McCloud, Head of the Economics Department at UWI Mona and co-founder of the JEP, explains that "while it is true that networks help foster economic linkages, it is not clear that these linkages are perpetual. The substantial remittances sent to Jamaica are important for some of the most economically vulnerable recipients, especially during the current COVID-19 pandemic. However, there is little evidence to suggest that remittances are being used to encourage a necessary structural economic transformation in Jamaica".
Looking at policy options, the JEP panellists find that many general prescriptions for socioeconomic development, such as providing improved economic livelihoods in Jamaica and addressing challenges such as crime and violence, will also help reduce net emigration and potentially reduce the impact of a possible brain drain.
The sizeable Jamaican diaspora is the basis of another range of policy options for the Government of Jamaica. One idea is to look at return migration for Jamaicans before or after retirement. This policy would constitute a potential transfer of wealth to the country and reduce the long-term population decline. Such a policy could be accompanied by encouraging investment by the diaspora in Jamaican bonds or other types of equity. However, the underlying stressors regarding crime and violence would still need to be addressed for the policy to be effective. Increasing the socioeconomic impact of remittances can also be pursued, but no single prescription would help do this.
Responding to the survey results, Dr. Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator, shared that he fully agrees that "remittances should be a key part of the long-term development strategy for the Jamaican government. The laudable way in which Jamaica engages its large Diaspora should be an invitation for initiatives engage the diaspora as partners in addressing specific challenges in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals in Jamaica and the Government's Vision 2030."
The Jamaican Economy Panel is part of a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at The University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panellists.
The full results of this month's discussion are available HERE.

For further information, please contact:


1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/167220-improving-living-conditions-jamaica-can-help-reduce-emigration-while-also-helping-increase




Date: 30 November 2021
Title: Reducing violence against women and children is vital to socio-economic development, and more community-based approaches to encourage its reduction are the most desirable
Content: 30 November 2021
KINGSTON - Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) publishes the sixth round of its discussions focusing, this month, on violence against women and children.
According to UN Women, 28% of women in Jamaica have suffered intimate partner violence during their lifetime, and 23% have suffered sexual violence from a non-partner. These levels of violence, especially intra-household violence, have increased during the COVID-19 pandemic due to the increased levels of stress experienced by many people.
On 25 November, the United Nations started its 16 Days of Action against Gender-Based Violence with a range of worldwide activities, including lighting many buildings and monuments orange, the colour of action. This initiative follows this year's theme: "Paint the World Orange: Finance, Respond, Prevent, Collect Data!" urging governments to take concrete action to prevent violence against women and children, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) answered various questions on violence against women and children and what policies the society can pursue to reduce such violence.
Previous research has shown that, in Jamaica, violent discipline has a substantial presence in Jamaican society, with UNICEF reporting that up to 85% of children encounter such violence. At the same time, international research has shown that exposure to violent discipline and violent discipline help to promote a culture of violence. The overwhelming majority of JEP panellists concurred that domestic violence and violent discipline were associated with the increased presence of gender-based and other types of violence.
The panellists supported several courses of action to reduce the violence children encounter, including harsher punishment for perpetrators of violence and stronger laws. However, there was also strong support for the pursuit of better ways for children and teenagers to report violence and for counselling and support to parents to avoid violence altogether.
Dr. Nadine McCloud, Head of the Economics Department at UWI Mona and co-founder of the JEP, explains that " to increase the peacefulness of Jamaican society, it is important to pursue community-based initiatives focused on avoiding violence. This proposition does not imply that perpetrators should enjoy impunity, but the elimination of violence through preemptive action will lead to a faster reduction of the negative consequences thereof".
The JEP panellists answered questions about violence against women specifically. There is some evidence that unequal income and labour distributions can exacerbate intra-household violence. In Jamaica, for example, there is a 14 percentage point gap between female and male labour participation rates and a substantial gap in unemployment rates exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. The panellists achieved an almost even split on whether this economic inequality was a driver behind the trends seen in gender-based violence. Tonni-Ann Brodber, Representative of the UN Women Multi-Country Office, comments that “the research shows that intimate partner violence risks in Jamaica include increased quarreling between couples. The large and increasing inequality in labour participation could lead to increased stress and quarrels among couples in the home. In some cases these arguments provide a gateway to IPV for men who are inclined to resolve conflict with violence.”.
When asked about solutions to the challenge of violence against women, several approaches received majority support from the panellists—the two proposals with the most outstanding support focus on addressing violence through community-based and positive interventions. In particular, the respondents focused on the importance of education as a structural way to address violence in the long run. Responding to the survey results, Dr. Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator, shared that he "could not agree more about the importance of community-based solutions. As a society, I believe we are overly focused on correcting behaviour after the fact when it can be much more effective to pursue mechanisms that reduce the occurrence of a behaviour. In Jamaica, which suffers a culture-of-violence problem, education is a key driver in reducing such unwanted behaviours".
The Jamaican Economy Panel is part of a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at The University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panellists.
The full results of this month's discussion are available HERE
###
For further information, please contact:


1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/160890-reducing-violence-against-women-and-children-vital-socio-economic-development-and-more




Date: 28 October 2021
Title: Partnership For the Goals: United Nations Forum Convenes National Stakeholders in Week Of Activities Recognizing Pandemic Frontline Workers and Reaffirming Commitment To The Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 28 October 2021
On the occasion of the 76th anniversary of the United Nations, government, private and third sectors, civil society and academia coalesced to reaffirm the value of partnerships in achieving Jamaica’s development priorities.
Dr. Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator in Jamaica, played host to the three-day Virtual Partnership Forum where he thanked Jamaica’s frontline workers and underscored that meaningful partnerships invite all members of society to participate in the process of actualizing the sustainable development goals.
“It is only through solid partnerships that we can meet the SDGs and therefore we need your help. So today, I am delighted that this Forum brings together the government, private and third sectors, academia, other international development partners, civil society, and young people. All are important stakeholders whom we are very happy to engage and exchange ideas with,” remarked the Resident Coordinator.
“I call on all stakeholders to expand their support of the development financing agenda– through financial, technical and other resources, as well as through technological advancement, innovation and knowledge sharing,” Dr. Conille continued.
Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of National Security, The Honourable Dr. Horace Chang presented the Forum’s keynote address, which themed the message of partnership as an innovative response to the unique economic and social challenges faced by small island developing states like Jamaica.
“The effectiveness of our national response to the ongoing global public health crisis has been determined by the degree to which we forged strong, collaborative partnerships. The United Nations, and its agencies here in Jamaica, have been consistent and reliable partners. Sir Alexander Bustamante, who spearheaded Jamaica’s entry into the United Nations, understood the importance of a multilateral system in which all Member States, irrespective of size or Gross Domestic Product (GDP), are regarded equally.”
The Honourable Dr. Chang used the occasion to express Jamaica’s commitment to the UN System and UN advocacy towards equitable access to COVID-19 vaccination supplies.
“Today, our government is committed to a reinvigorated United Nations and a multilateral system that facilitates partnerships through which small states, like Jamaica, are able to navigate the global scarcity and have equal access to life-saving vaccines,” the Deputy Prime Minister said.
The opening high-level exchange, facilitated by Dr. Terri Karelle Reid included representation from Senator the Honourable Kamina Johnson Smith, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade who echoed the value of developmental partnership and progress in the lives of everyday Jamaicans.
The UN continues to play a critical role in harmonising the international community’s efforts on promoting gender equality, reducing poverty, and promoting inclusive partnerships for sustainable development,” Senator Johnson Smith said.
“Progress on these issues means a better quality of life for Jamaicans and people everywhere. This is why Jamaica is proud to play an active role in advancing the aims and objectives of the United Nations,” she added.
Other speakers included Mr. Courtenay Rattray, UN Under-Secretary-General and former Jamaican Ambassador to the UN, Ms. Lisa Kurbiel, Head of Secretariat, UN Joint SDG Fund, Ms. Teresa Moll de Alba, Senior Manager Latin America and the Caribbean, UN Global Compact, Ms. Therese Turner-Jones, Country Representative for Jamaica and General Manager Caribbean Country Group, InterAmerican Development Bank, Ms. Barbara Scott, Deputy Director General, the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ), Ms. Imega Breeze McNab, Executive Director, Private Sector Organization of Jamaica, Mr. John Byles, Vice President PSOJ, Dr. Dana Morris Dixon, Assistant General Manager Jamaica National Group.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/157340-partnership-goals-united-nations-forum-convenes-national-stakeholders-week-activities




Date: 27 October 2021
Title: Civil Society Dialogue highlights best practices and need for more diverse set of indicators for measuring organizational readiness for development funding
Content: 27 October 2021
The Dialogue, hosted by the Spotlight Initiative Civil Society National Reference Group, provided a platform for frank discussions among civil society actors, government partners and members of the donor community. It explored and highlighted best practice examples for CSO engagement.
Professor Rosalea Hamilton, Chair, Caribbean Philanthropic Alliance, guided the dialogue through topics including addressing barriers to greater civil society partnerships and collaboration with governments and IDPs. Government and development organizations were also able to provide guidance on capacity strengthening priorities for civil society.
In her presentation, Kimberley Marriot-Blake, Executive Director of Jamaica Association for Deaf, encouraged a need for greater understanding – at all levels – of the nuanced needs of the communities serviced in developmental programming especially people living with disabilities.
“We see and hear stories of women and girls, who are deaf, filing reports with the Police and some Stations do not have the capacity to even receive these reports. And too often there’s lack of empathy. There has to be a greater review of the bottlenecks that impact the greater engagement, provision and access to services for people who are deaf,” Marriot-Blake said.
Professor Hamilton highlighted the need for increased collaboration among CSOs themselves.
“When CSOs partner among themselves they have improved capacity and sustain wider reach,” she said, “collaboration with the government should support institutional development of CSOs to better support the national gaps in service provision.”
Vanna Laurence, Programme Manager with the Delegation of the European Union to Jamaica, stressed the importance of civil society partners in meeting developmental goals.
“There will always be a need for civil society actors and the European Union is committed to supporting civil society in reaching people,” she said.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/157338-civil-society-dialogue-highlights-best-practices-and-need-more-diverse-set-indicators




Date: 25 October 2021
Title: Private and Third Sectors Express Commitment to Greater Collaboration Around National Development Priorities, Including the Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 25 October 2021
Business as usual is not an option. This was the message from participants of Wednesday’s SDG Private and Third Sector half-day Forum.
The Forum provided a platform for critical engagement and for identifying how businesses, foundations and third sector entities can support the build-forward-better pandemic recovery agenda and help advance the SDGs through inclusive, equitable and sustainable approaches that leave no one.
"Sustainable development is the foundation for ensuring business continuity, market security and supply chain stability as we move forward. It is important that [moving forward] Jamaica, and the wider Caribbean region, adopts a comprehensive, collaborative and far-reaching human-centred agenda.” Dr. Garry Conille said.
In motivating the private sector, the Resident Coordinator added, “These measures must go hand in hand with strategies to rebuild industries, create new companies and increase the productivity of those companies that survive the crisis.”
Attendees were also introduced and encouraged to engage in the work of the UN Global Compact – the non-binding United Nations pact to encourage businesses and firms to adopt and report on sustainable and socially responsible policies. In incorporating the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into business strategies, policies and procedures, companies are strategically upholding their responsibilities to people and planet and set a firmer stage for long-term success.
Dr. Dana Morris-Dixon highlighted during her keynote address, that the private and third sector’s roles are far more than dollars and cents.
“Jamaica National has proudly worked with our competitors to respond to a number of challenges during COVID and this approach will have continued relevance in addressing developmental issues – beyond the pandemic as well,” Dr. Morris-Dixon said.
The Forum also spotlighted the work being done by Kingston Creatives, Sandals Foundation and the GK Foundation towards community development, education, poverty alleviation and environmental protection as they too advance national development using the SDG roadmap.
Panel discussions, which included representatives from the private sector, government, UN and academia, zoned in on why human rights and gender equality is good for business and how to integrate the principles of environmental sustainability to support the transition to a healthier, more resource-efficient, green and circular economy.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/157339-private-and-third-sectors-express-commitment-greater-collaboration-around-national




Date: 25 October 2021
Title: Development partners from various sectors engaged in a workshop on effective partnering and scaling up the use of partnerships for the achievement of the SDGs
Content: 25 October 2021
Day 3 of UN Jamaica's Partnership Forum featured a closed-group training workshop of over 45 participants from civil society, private and third sectors and the UN.
The workshop, supported and facilitated by the 2030 Agenda Partnership Accelerator, allowed attendees to share and learn strategies for scaling up the use of partnerships for the SDGs in Jamaica. The workshop also provided participants with some practical tools and building blocks to promote effective partnerships.
Workshop trainer, Mr. Darian Stibbe, Executive Director, The Partnering Initiative, highlighted that multi-stakeholder partnerships and initiatives are well poised to bring to bear a range of levers towards societal transformation and the achievement of the SDG.
Workshop outcomes indicated that current hotspots for multi-actor collaboration include policy development, health, education, risk management, resilience building, violence prevention, digital transformation, disaster response, development of the creative sector and support to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).
The week’s activities, including the training workshop, served as part of a longer-term strategy, and a number of partnerships initiatives which the UN intends to explore following the completion of a partnership landscape assessment aligned with national priorities and the new Multi-Country Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (MSDCF) 2022- 2026.
“This assessment, which will be launched in less than a month, will seek to identify existing mechanisms for engaging stakeholders and sectors towards the SDGs. It will also identify thematic areas and issues where there is strong potential for new partnerships across sectors in Jamaica, as well as with regional and global institutions and donors,” Maxsalia Salmon, Partnerships and Development Finance Officer, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office said.
October 24, UN Day in Jamaica culminated with the publishing of a special 76th-anniversary magazine in a Jamaican newspaper with over 500,000 local viewership and more online. The magazine featured 15 Agencies and Programmes and communicated areas in which the UN and its partners have impacted the lives of Jamaicans. It included human interest stories from beneficiaries and implementing partners, as well as official messages from leaders of the State.
The UN Day virtual events were streamed live via Zoom, the Public Broadcasting Corporation of Jamaica (PBCJ) as well as on social media platforms with over 3000 online viewers. Approximately 50 national and global speakers and panellists participated from over 20 organizations. The Forum also featured an innovative virtual exhibit experience where over 15 UN Agencies, Joint Programmes and Partners showcased over 25 virtual booths. Event recordings/ highlights remain available online.
Additionally, approximately 2 dozen partners, including government and the Governor General, lit their buildings in blue light in support of the UN’s ‘Light Jamaica Blue’ initiative recognizing frontline workers. A UN commissioned tribute video for frontline workers, featuring Jamaicans, has already been viewed over 100,000 times on different online platforms. The week’s activity was the 11th trending topic on Twitter Jamaica.
The UN in Jamaica looks forward to continuing to build a strong presence and partnerships, built upon shared goals and shared vision placing the people at the centre of sustainable development.
-End-
(Accompanying Media)
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/157330-development-partners-various-sectors-engaged-workshop-effective-partnering-and-scaling-use




Date: 17 October 2021
Title: UN commemorates 76 years by paying tribute to Jamaica's frontline heroes and bolstering partnerships to achieve Vision 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 17 October 2021
United Nations Jamaica will mark this year’s UN Day through initiatives including a three-day Virtual Partnership Forum and a week-long campaign dedicated to frontline workers who continue to support Jamaica’s COVID-19 response and recovery.
UN Day recognizes the founding of the intergovernmental organisation on October 24, 1945. Jamaica’s UN Country Team (UNCT) will commemorate UN76 under the theme, “Partnerships for Peace, Planet and Prosperity” – a recognition of the collaborative model with which UN programming engages and empowers partners to achieve national and global goals.
“Framed within the current context of developing a new roadmap for the UN’s engagement with Caribbean member states (the Multi-country Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2022-2026), the week’s events will increase awareness of UN programmes, especially within the context of COVID-19. The initiatives will also influence our upcoming Partnership Landscape Assessment and inform a revised UNCT strategy for partner engagement and resource mobilization for Jamaica,” Dr. Garry Conille, UN Resident Coordinator said.
Dr. Wayne Henry, Chairman and Director General of the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ), one of the UN’s key strategic partners, congratulated the organisation on its achievements and impact.
“Currently, Jamaica is the beneficiary of assistance from 13 UN agencies. We appreciate the often-innovative approaches that the UN brings, as well as the breadth of the international expertise that they are able to mobilize for the benefit of the country. The Planning Institute of Jamaica offers congratulations to the UN for their work locally and globally over 70 years. We are pleased to have been partners with the UN since 1962, and we recognize that the work of this organisation has significantly advanced Jamaica’s development priorities over the period,” Dr. Henry said.
The UN Virtual Partnership Forum will be held on October 20 through 22 to further engage and forge relationships, among development partners, private and third sectors, civil society, academia, and the wider population, for national development.
The event will feature over 50 speakers from the Government of Jamaica, the international development partner community, private sector and private foundations, academia, NGOs, CSOs and other community-based organisations. Speakers include The Hon. Dr. Horace Chang CD, MP, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of National Security; Senator the Honourable Kamina Johnson Smith, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade; Mr. Courtenay Rattray, UN Under-Secretary-General and former Jamaican Ambassador to the UN; Dr. Dana Morris Dixon, Assistant General Manager Jamaica National Group; Andrea Dempster-Chung, Co-founder and Executive Director Kingston Creative; Heidi Clarke, Executive Director Sandals Foundation and Caroline Mahfood, Executive Director, GraceKennedy Foundation.
The Forum will also showcase over 20 organisations and national programmes including the UN’s Human Security Trust Fund Joint Programme for climate resilience and the European Union and UN’s Spotlight Initiative.
“Spotlight represents one of the UN’s most noted joint programmes working to end family violence. Working with the EU, government, women’s institutions and other civil society groups, Spotlight’s whole-of-society approach exemplifies the power of partnerships to tackle developmental challenges like gender-based violence. We are happy to share this progress.” Alicia Bowen-McCulskie, Spotlight Initiative Programme Coordinator said.
“We are pleased to recognize the PIOJ, Private Sector Organisation of Jamaica (PSOJ), Kingston Creative, Sandals Foundation and the GraceKennedy Foundation as our main partners for this event. We invite persons from all sectors to take advantage of this opportunity to share, learn and glean from the best practices that will be on display from the community of national and world changers, which we have convened. Persons may register at unjamaica.vfairs.com to join the exciting multi-platform event which will happen via Vfairs, Zoom, Facebook and YouTube,” Maxsalia Salmon, Partnerships and Development Finance Officer, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office said.
Presenters are expected to echo the value and share examples of how multi-sectoral, inclusive and partnership-driven programmes are producing real results in the lives of Jamaicans.
The week also features Light Jamaica Blue, a special ‘thank-you’ to frontline workers on the heels of Jamaica’s Heroes Day and Heritage Week – in response to the call from the Ministry of Culture, Gender, Entertainment and Sport, to especially recognize frontline heroes at this time. It also serves to increase awareness around UN programmes that have and continue to support recovery from the pandemic.
From October 17 through 24, a growing list of public and private sector organisations across Jamaica will show their appreciation to Jamaica’s heroes of the pandemic by illuminating the exterior of their buildings in blue light as well as through other opportunities. Light Jamaica Blue recognizes the wide range of essential staff, who continue to partner with the people and government to help reduce, avert and recover from the impact of COVID-19.  Lights will run from 6 pm onwards – during the times when many frontline workers traverse the corridors of the country – keeping Jamaicans safe and the heart of the economy beating. The colour blue is integral to the United Nations' visual identity and symbolizes peace and unity.
To date, the UN has invested close to USD $5M in support of the COVID response and recovery in Jamaica. Support has come in the form of PPEs, vaccines and supply chain management, health equipment, cash transfers, tablets for students, agriculture-buyback, and other programmes.
According to Dr. Conille, Light Jamaica Blue brings the wider population into a spirit of gratitude for the often-unsung heroes of this pandemic.
“Through their selfless efforts, our frontline workers have helped us to face unprecedented challenges. From those in healthcare to those in agriculture, education, sanitation and homecare, these heroes deserve to be celebrated by all,” Dr. Conille said.
Light Jamaica Blue partners include The Ministry of Culture, Gender, Entertainment and Sport, The Sandals Foundation, King’s House and the Governor General’s Programme for Excellence, AC Hotel Kingston, ATL Automotive, Spanish Court Hotel, S Hotel Montego Bay, The Playa Group Hotels, Jamaica Stock Exchange, GraceKennedy, The Embassy of Spain, Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany, The Canadian High Commission, The Nigerian High Commission, The Embassy of Japan and others.
Jamaicans at home and abroad are also invited to look forward to a Special Issue UN Day Magazine, in the October 24 Sunday Gleaner and online. The feature will highlight areas in which the UN and its partners have impacted the lives of Jamaicans. Featured content includes human interest stories from the beneficiaries and implementing partners, as well as official messages from leaders in Government.
Details and updates will be posted at unjamaica.vfairs.com and jamaica.un.com.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/151990-un-commemorates-76-years-paying-tribute-jamaicas-frontline-heroes%C2%A0and-bolstering




Date: 27 September 2021
Title: Jamaican Economy Panel says careful implementation of a Caribbean carbon pricing regime could help reduce greenhouse gas emissions but should be associated with a redistribution of any revenues
Content: 27 September 2021
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) publishes the fifth round of its discussions focusing, this month, on carbon pricing.
In August, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) published the latest instalment of its report series warning of the threat of human-induced climate change. It joined a report from May of this year published by the International Energy Agency that called for rapid and significant reductions in the emissions of greenhouse gasses to try and keep climate change under control.
While the Caribbean is only a minor player in global greenhouse gas emissions (responsible for 0.1% of global emissions in 2018 according to data from the World Bank), it is a region that is actually at exceptionally high risk of climate change. For that reason, it ought to be playing a role at the forefront of the fight against greenhouse emissions in any way it can. One meaningful way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is by instituting a carbon pricing regime in the Caribbean so that emitters are held responsible for their emissions rather than wait for the public at large to absorb such costs.
The JEP panellists expressed near-universal support for a carbon pricing regime. Still, they did not all agree on the implementation method for such a pricing regime when presented with the choice between an emissions trading regime and a carbon tax. When asked about the objections against carbon pricing, the panelists saw several challenges. They are afraid that production could move away from the region (causing economic damage without reducing greenhouse gas emissions) and are apprehensive about the economic costs. Most importantly, however, they are worried about the redistributive impact of carbon pricing. Dr. Nadine McCloud, Head of the Economics Department at UWI Mona and co-founder of the JEP, explains that "the panellists are rightly worried that producers would pass on increases in costs from a carbon pricing regime to consumers. Such inflationary pressures could reduce welfare, especially for those consumers that are already financially constrained. Moreover, this inflationary burden would be particularly unfair for the poorest, whose consumption patterns tend to have the lowest carbon impact and, further, are less able to absorb such cost increases. As such, any carbon pricing regime should redound the most benefits to the people who are the least contributors to this negative global externality, greenhouse gas emissions."
When the JEP panellists considered solutions to the challenges in execution, a consensus appeared. The panellists believe that implementing a fair and efficient carbon pricing regime that redistributes its revenues (through tax credits or lower taxes, for example) would overcome the worries expressed earlier. Such redistribution would increase public support as well. Other strategies to overcome some of the perceived challenges would be effecting carbon pricing in a grander international scheme, which would reduce the chance of carbon leakage and a gradual employment thereof. Vincent Sweeney, Head of the Caribbean Subregional Office of the United Nations Environmental Programme explains that “The implementation of a carbon pricing regime would certainly help to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases, especially if it is implemented in a coordinated way in the Caribbean. As greenhouse gas emissions are concentrated in areas such as electricity generation and transport, these may be less prone to suffer from carbon leakage as they are activities that are difficult to move from the region.”
Responding to the survey results, Dr. Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator, shared that "It is certain that the global community should do more everywhere to reduce carbon emissions. Despite its low contribution to global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the Caribbean is very much a climate-vulnerable region and should be at the forefront of global policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Looking at the JEP outcomes, I see potential linkages with other sustainable development challenges such as economic inequality. In a perfect world, a redistribution would take place from those with higher carbon footprints to those with a lower carbon footprint while providing an overall incentive to reduce the emission of greenhouse gasses."
The Jamaican Economy Panel is part of a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at The University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panellists.
The full results of this month's discussion are available HERE.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/145063-jamaican-economy-panel-says-careful-implementation-caribbean-carbon-pricing-regime-could




Date: 30 July 2021
Title: Information campaigns pivotal to combat misinformation and increase vaccine uptake though more forceful measures could be considered says Jamaican Economy Panel
Content: 30 July 2021
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) publishes the fourth round of its discussions focusing, this month, on vaccine hesitancy.
The World Health Organization has approved six different vaccines for emergency use and the distribution of vaccines is moving forward slowly but certainly. The unequal distribution of vaccines, while mostly going to developed countries, is an important issue. Yet, vaccine hesitancy is halting the uptake of vaccines in all countries.
Internationally comparable data shows that, amongst fifteen countries polled, the Russian Federation, the United States and Australia are among the most vaccine-hesitant. There is an increase over time in the willingness to be vaccinated in other countries, but the vaccination rates are still too low to truly fight the COVID-19 pandemic.
The JEP panelists contemplated what they believe drives vaccine hesitancy. Most of the respondents focused on the fact that many people are generally uninformed or unable to estimate the risks associated with COVID-19. Dr. Nadine McCloud, Head of the Economics Department at UWI Mona and co-founder of the JEP, opines that “This pandemic has highlighted that health literacy faces major challenges throughout the world. Suppose individual people cannot correctly reckon their risks associated with COVID-19 and the vaccination. In that case, this can result in greater vaccine hesitancy than what one would expect. Addressing such health literacy challenges requires a structural approach from the basic education level. However, given that this solution is long-term and countries must race against time to reduce vaccine hesitancy and rein in this pandemic,  governments should also employ widespread use of orthodox and unorthodox communication tools to increase health literacy.”
The JEP panelists also voiced their views on several policies applied in different countries to address vaccine hesitancy. The importance of information campaigns for low-information households is almost universally endorsed. Half of the respondents also recognize that distinguishing public-health restrictions between the vaccinated and the unvaccinated can play a key role. Another associated matter is that, whichever policy governments apply, people must be aware of the advantages of vaccination (beyond protection from disease), such as reduced quarantine upon entering the country.
Finally, although very few respondents champion making vaccination compulsory in all circumstances, they were asked about which possible exceptions they could recognize. Two specific groups stand out: healthcare workers and teachers (as long as there are no approved vaccines for children). A large majority of respondents supports making vaccines mandatory for those groups, despite the ethical conundrum associated with doing so.
Responding to the survey results, Dr. Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator, shared that “Vaccine hesitancy is a real challenge in addressing the COVID-19 pandemic. It requires a careful balance of individual rights and the rights of the overall population to be protected. Making vaccination mandatory for everyone is a major rights infringement, but it makes sense to provide the right incentives to encourage individuals to get vaccinated. I believe that distinguishing the public-health requirements between the vaccinated and the unvaccinated would make sense, but only when a substantial portion of the population has had the opportunity to get vaccinated.”
The Jamaican Economy Panel is part of a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at The University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panelists.
The full results of this month’s discussion are available HERE.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/138104-information-campaigns-pivotal-combat-misinformation-and-increase-vaccine-uptake-though-more




Date: 09 July 2021
Title: Rebuilding Jamaica’s Economy with a Gender Lens
Content: 09 July 2021
Jamaican Businesses at Win-Win Webinar Series Agree that Gender Equality must be at the heart of Recovery efforts.
“Investments with a gender lens are important but they alone are not enough. Often times, financial institutions put credit lines in place, but they come and go. What is needed is business support advisory, and evidence.  Often times, we are asked to focus on measuring the gaps and we continue to show the business case in everything, but sometimes I do get a little tired because nobody had to prove the business case for the status quo.”
Henriette Kolb, Manager, Gender and Economic Inclusion at the International Finance Corporation (IFC) in a recent address to the Jamaica business community stressed that too often women have to work harder to make their business case for financing.  This was a recurring theme of the “Win-Win: Building Back Better!” Webinar Series held on June 15,16, 22 and 23, 2021 and organized under the “Win-Win: Gender Equality Means Good Business” programme, which concluded on June 30, 2021. The programme was created in a partnership with UN Women, the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the European Union (EU) to promote gender equality through the private sector.
In the Caribbean, governments, the private sector and financiers have acknowledged that it cannot be business as usual if we are to build back better. The support to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) especially women-led businesses, inclusive value chains, and sustainable access to innovative financial resources are necessary for building a more sustainable, economically resilient and inclusive society. The webinar series brought together more than 70 government and business leaders daily, including the main moderator, Patricia Francis, Chair of the Trade Facilitation Task Force in the Government of Jamaica.
The over 45 local and international presenters (government ministers, heads of multilateral organizations, the private sector and financiers) called for more diversity in business and encouraged other key stakeholders to recognize and remove barriers to economic growth. Lessons learned and better practices were shared to address existing gender gaps in the workplace and to find new investment sources to reboot acceleration for MSMEs.
UN Women Multi-Country Office – Caribbean Representative, Tonni Brodber called on Jamaican financiers to revisit the criteria for viability. Pointing to evidence of return of investment (ROI) in women-owned enterprises and youth-owned enterprises, she shared an initiative to promote equality using the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) to generate more innovative financial instruments.
Brodber said: “Within the framework of the Win-Win Programme, UN Women has developed the initiative, ‘Investors for Equality’ as a space for dialogue between the different actors in the financial, investment and entrepreneurship ecosystem to raise awareness, mobilize investments with gender impact and generate a commitment to the principles involved in promoting gender-lens investments and gender equality within organizations in the financial sector.”
The UN Women report, The State of the Field of Gender Lens Investing is a tool for incorporating a gender analysis into financial analysis to get to better outcomes.
Brodber added: “Women control about $20 billion in consumer spending and generate about $18 billion, which widens their circle of influence. Women entrepreneurs generate 20% more income, even though 50% less is invested in them. As the programme’s name suggests, gender equality really means solid and sound business sense.”
Minister without Portfolio in the Ministry of Economic Growth and Job Creation, Senator the Honourable Aubyn Hill, reemphasized the potential financial benefits to the global and Jamaican GDP if participation and earned income gaps between men and women were decreased.
Senator Hill said: “Women locally earn 62% percent of every dollar earned by their male counterparts so more attention needs to be paid to equal pay for equal work. I hear you speaking to governments (for indeed we make policies); however, this issue of making pay equal between men and women must be addressed by CEOs and board members of large companies. They have to lead the way.”
Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, the Honourable Floyd Green said government was tackling the challenges of participation gaps in the agricultural sector. Agriculture contributes 6.6% percent to local GDP. He explained more women were being engaged through the ‘Agriculture in Bloom’ programme.
Minister Floyd Green said via video recording: “Women face traditional challenges such as access to extension services and land but also offer significant opportunities that when engaged, the data shows that they do much better in relation to productivity and retention of capital. That capital impacts the family and progress especially [in] rural communities, so we decided to dedicate the Ministry’s engagement to women in the agricultural sector.”
Financial Consultant, Development Bank of Jamaica, Audrey Richards implored financial institutions and investors to identify the “why” behind the low number of women being able to access capital from private equity investment and commercial banks.
During the panel discussion, The Road to Recovery – Inclusive Financing, Richards said: “When we move to more established business in Jamaica which are funded mainly by commercial banks, there is a lower percentage, 80% men compared to 20% women. For angel investing, just at the intake level, only 24% of applicants are women resulting in approximately 50% receiving investment. We must step back and identify how women come into the (entrepreneurial) system and identify whether or not there are barriers impeding women’s access to finance.”
Liz Bronder, Managing Director, Global Sustainable Finance, Bank of America compared the journey of the development of green bonds to the current stage of gender lens investing and highlighted how that model could inform the economic recovery for small island developing states (SIDS) with the support of Development Financial Institutions (DFIs), government policies and private sector players.
Bronder explained: “If you look at how the green bond market developed, it had a number of participants in that ecosystem: it had participants, standard setters, institutions that developed targets and indicators to measure success, institutions making commitments about how they would achieve targets and then the financial community stating that ‘we will lend you the money to ensure that you do achieve those targets’ and that is the same model that needs to be developed for gender bonds.”
Minister of Housing, Urban Renewal, Environment and Climate Change, the Honourable Pearnel Charles Jr. explained that Jamaica was also introducing innovative financing mechanisms and the need to do so with a gender lens: “We are creating a platform and a framework (for green bonds) for the private sector to lead in terms of transforming institutions and industries into resilient institutions and industries so that we (Jamaica) can withstand the impacts of climate change. This is happening right now because Covid-19 has taught us we are fragile, but we are also agile, and we can move forward by pinpointing the gender issues that identify our vulnerabilities.”
Watch the Recording for Day 1 of the Webinar Series
Watch the Recording for Day 2 of the Webinar Series
Watch the Recording for Day 3 of the Webinar Series
Watch the Recording for Day 4 of the Webinar Series
General Manager, Caribbean Country Department, Inter-American Development Bank, Therese Turner – Jones urged attendees to focus on the demands for economic recovery and identify possible threats to the gains made for women in the labour force such as the percentage of women in supervisory positions in Jamaica’s public and private sectors.
She said: “The lack of participation of women in the workplace was made worse by COVID-19, more so in developed countries; however, we should monitor this impact, especially since the participatory rates for women in the region was already lower than for men. Recovery will come in a couple of ways but primarily in two categories; by investing in resilient infrastructure such as renewable energy and investing in people.”
A sustainable and inclusive economic recovery will largely depend on how much more we invest in women. One business leader, Doug Hewson, Chairman, Portland JSX Limited acknowledged this importance by committing to the WEPs and becoming a signatory during the webinar series.
UN Women is more committed than ever to attracting private sector investment, strengthening the ecosystem of gender-sensitive investments hand in hand with strategic partners who share this same vision and contributing to the generation of partnerships for the achievement of Sustainable Development Goal 5, mainly through the promotion of capital mobilization and investments enhanced by a gender lens.
Make your first step by committing to the Women Empowerment Principles (WEPs)

1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/135348-rebuilding-jamaica%E2%80%99s-economy-gender-lens%C2%A0




Date: 24 June 2021
Title: Jamaican Economy Panel endorses continued relevance of the Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 24 June 2021
Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) published the third round of its monthly discussion focusing on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The Jamaican Economy Panel is part of a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at The University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to address monthly socio-economic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and the collective expertise of the panelists.
Sustainable Development Goals
Primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic, progress towards the SDGs has stalled. According to the Sustainable Development Report published on 14 June 2021*, a reversion in progress is evident for the first time since the report’s launch; this comes even though much of the relevant data does not yet entail 2020 results due to lags common to international data collection.
In 2021, even the most advanced country (Finland) was only 86% of the way to achieve the SDGs. Despite this result, the members of the JEP fully endorse the continued relevance of the SDGs, with 88% of respondents believing that countries should pursue the SDGs. However, the panelists also acknowledged that due to the pandemic, the timelines might be more complicated.
Dr. Nadine McCloud, head of the Economics Department at UWI Mona and co-founder of the JEP, adds that “While some of the Goals may not be achievable, the majority continues to be relevant to each country, particularly during this pandemic. Moreover, the interlinkages between them mean that a coordinated approach may be more useful than only pursuing individual objectives. Countries must act with dispatch to meet, at a minimum, a significant fraction of the SDGs. Yet, the absence of equitable global vaccine distribution isn’t innocuous; it impedes any coordinated effort towards  positive, sustainable development outcomes.”
With 17 SDGs and 231 underlying indicators, the panelists considered whether they could rank the different Goals by immediate priority. From the results, it became clear that the panelists viewed People-centered Goals as the highest priority, with 63% of respondents putting those as their top priority. The People-centered SDGs are those focused on poverty (SDG 1), hunger (SDG 2), health (SDG 3), education (SDG 4), gender equality (SDG 5) and access to sanitation (SDG 6), aspects that the pandemic has significantly impacted.
Finally, the panelists entertained questions about the impediments to achieving the SDGs. On the one hand, there was much agreement that the primary impediments are a lack of fiscal space (88% of respondents) and COVID-related challenges (57%). On the other hand, the setbacks in socio-economic development due to the pandemic make pursuing the SDGs even more critical than before.
Responding to the survey results, Dr. Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator, stated, “The Sustainable Development Goals are the key to achieving equitable and inclusive socio-economic development throughout the world. There are only nine years left in the current Decade of Action, which highlights the need for countries to come together and cooperate to make sure that nobody gets left behind and that all people in all countries are enabled to achieve their full potential.”
The United Nations in the Caribbean is currently working on a Multi-Country Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for the Caribbean for 2022-2026 to put the SDGs at the center of socio-economic development in the region.
The full results of this month’s discussion are available HERE.
* More on the Sustainable Development Report 2021.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/133079-jamaican-economy-panel-endorses-continued-relevance-sustainable-development-goals




Date: 22 June 2021
Title: UNESCO and Blackboard to train 10,000 teachers with skills for online teaching
Content: 22 June 2021
The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, UNESCO and Blackboard will train 54 Caribbean Master Trainers using the Cascade Model and expand the training to 10,000 Caribbean teachers across the sub-region.
Teachers will be trained in the use of online education tools, resources and interactive platforms to effectively engage students through online learning.
Since the onset of the pandemic, distance education has been a challenge for many teachers due to, for example, little or no connectivity, lack of access to devices and online education resources, and the challenges of moving quickly from traditional classroom instruction to an online environment.
In response to the education crisis, UNESCO and its partners launched the "Education response to Covid-19: Distance Learning and Teacher Training Strategies in the Caribbean Region and Jamaica", in January 2021.
On 22 June 2021, the UNESCO Cluster Office for the Caribbean, based in Kingston, Jamaica, in collaboration with Blackboard, the leading EdTech company for higher education and K-12, the Caribbean Centre for Educational Planning (CCEP) at the University of the West Indies and UNICEF Jamaica, will launch the first series of the three four-week teacher trainings. In a partnership with UNICEF in Jamaica, the initiative aims to train 5000 Jamaican teachers nationally.
"This initiative gives teachers strategies, tools and resources to use in the digital space to create an online classroom environment that meets the needs of both students and teachers," said Dr Faryal Khan, Programme Specialist for Education at UNESCO.
In the pilot phase in September 2020, 40 teachers from the Caribbean sub-region were already trained as master trainers in blended learning and online strategies to enhance the capacity of 300 teachers in their countries.
Faryal Khan, Ed.D, UNESCO, said the joint project is being implemented under the UNESCO Global Coalition for Education, a global, multi-sectoral coalition of 175 institutional partners from the UN, civil society, academia and the private sector, which was established at the outset of the pandemic to ensure continuity of learning.
The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization is a specialized agency of the United Nations with the aim of promoting peace and security through international cooperation in education, the sciences, culture, and communication and information.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/134031-unesco-and-blackboard-train-10000-teachers-skills-online-teaching




Date: 17 June 2021
Title: Caribbean experts highlight opportunities for inclusive recovery from COVID-19 in Caribbean SIDS
Content: 17 June 2021
The COVID-19 pandemic has led to unprecedented disruptive effects on the lives of people in the Caribbean while exacerbating inequalities among already disadvantaged groups in society.
In this context, the Knowledge Series on Inclusive COVID-19 Recovery in Caribbean SIDS released on 17 June 2021, highlights vulnerabilities and development potentials in the Caribbean and offers policy recommendations for a more inclusive, equitable, and people-centered COVID-19 recovery in the sub-region. In ten Think Pieces, experts from academia and civil society discuss how COVID-19 has impacted groups in vulnerable situations such as people with disabilities, youth, LGBTQIA+ persons, female-headed households, and indigenous people in Caribbean Small Island Developing States, SIDS.
The launch event on June 17, which was held virtually under the theme "UNESCO Talk: Spotlight on inclusive COVID-Recovery," provided an opportunity to engage with the contributing authors who discussed concrete policy recommendations grounded on Caribbean realities.
"We do not know how long this pandemic will last and do not understand all the effects it will have on our societies. What we certainly know is that global solidarity, international cooperation, and knowledge exchange are fundamental to transform this crisis into an opportunity," Saadia Sanchez-Vegas, Director, UNESCO Cluster Office for the Caribbean, said.
Addressing the foreword of the Knowledge Series, Saadia Sanchez-Vegas, Ph.D., Director and Representative of the UNESCO Cluster Office for the Caribbean, urged for a “swift and coordinated response that mandates multi-stakeholder coalitions that have sufficient evidence available to make sense of the complex new reality for people and take appropriate actions.” She also emphasized the timeliness of this publication, which aims to contribute to the global discussion on inequalities with new perspectives, while shedding light on ethical concerns and underscoring specific potentials and challenges for people in Caribbean Small Island Developing States.
Providing a regional snapshot, Prof. Dr. Clive Landis, Chairperson of the Regional COVID-19 Task Force, University of the West Indies, Barbados, examines the resilience of people in he Caribbean in dealing with crises. In his Think Piece "COVID-19 among Caribbean SIDS: an effective public health response rooted in resilience", he argues that lessons learned from the annual hurricane season has prepared many Caribbean SIDS in stockpiling strategic supplies and preparing front line services to deal with the emergency.
"Caribbean people are remarkably resilient and generally willing to abide by public health and safety measures invoked for the common good. This level of public and private awareness of health and safety measures that need to be observed when tackling an emergency may explain in part how the Caribbean was able to mount an effective public health response to COVID-19," he adds. However, Prof. Dr. Landis warns that the worst economic consequences are yet to come, which can further impact the widening of social inequalities and the deepening of vulnerabilities in the Caribbean.
To consider these groups in an inclusive COVID-19 response, Carla Moore, lecturer at the Institute for Gender and Development Studies, University of the West Indies, Mona Unit, Jamaica, argues in her Think Piece "Leaving no one behind: Assessing the needs of vulnerable groups in Jamaica", for the need of an intersectional analysis of inequalities as a necessary tool to develop concrete measures “to ensure that no one is left behind”.
Building on the importance of an intersectional lens, Dr. Deborah McFee, Outreach and Research Officer at the Institute for Gender and Development Studies, University of the West Indies St. Augustine, Trinidad and Tobago, analyzed through her Think Piece, the gendered impact of COVID-19. According to her research, women in the Caribbean have been disproportionately affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.
In her Think Piece, Dr. McFee highlights that “gender analysis must be cognizant of the ways in which the compounding old and emerging social classifications and categorizations (including race, geography, age, ability, sexuality, and socioeconomic standing), must form part of analysis of public policy towards the framing of governance committed to an elimination of persistent inequalities.” Furthermore, Judith Wedderburn, Caribbean Gender Expert, underscored in her Think Piece that “any recovery strategy must assume that the end-game is not to go back to where we were, as this would just end up reproducing or perpetuating the same social and gender inequalities.”
"Gender inequalities that were associated with the triple burden that women face in their care responsibilities, have significantly increased in this last year (2020)," Judith Wedderburn, Caribbean Gender Expert, said
With around one million people in the Caribbean living with some form of disability, in his Think Piece, Senator Floyd Morris, Ph.D. CARICOM Special Rapporteur on Disabilities and Member of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, highlights the perspective of people with disabilities during and after COVID-19.
"In order to prevent the exclusion and isolation of persons with disabilities from any COVID-19 related activities, governments within the Caribbean must make a deliberate and strategic effort to include these individuals," Senator Floyd Morris, Ph.D., CARICOM Special Rapporteur on Disabilities, said
The Knowledge Series is part of UNESCO’s broader initiative on Amplifying the Voice of Caribbean Small Island Developing States: Towards an inclusive recovery from COVID-19, which aims to mobilize inclusive social policy research grounded in Caribbean realities.
As the leading UN agency for Social Sciences, UNESCO works to equip Caribbean Small Island Developing States with the capacities, tools and resources to produce and make meaningful use of policy-relevant and human-rights-based social and human scientific research and knowledge, to promote inclusive and peaceful societies. The Knowledge Series represents a Caribbean contribution to UNESCO’s Global Inclusive Policy Lab, a platform that enables knowledge co-creation and translation into inclusive policies.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/134038-caribbean-experts-highlight-opportunities-inclusive-recovery-covid-19-caribbean-sids




Date: 14 June 2021
Title: Aneesah Abdullah appointed United Nations Country Coordination Officer for The Bahamas
Content: 14 June 2021
JUNE 14, NASSAU, THE BAHAMAS -  The United Nations Resident Coordinator Dr. Garry Conille appoints Aneesah Abdullah, as the New Country Coordinator for The Bahamas.
The Bahamas native, who began her career in 2004 as an educator, is the first person to occupy this role. With deep interest in gender equality, human rights, and good governance as critical components of national development, Abdullah has accumulated over 10 years of professional and academic expertise in that regard.
Prior to her role with the United Nations, Abdullah worked with the Bahamas Government since 2015, where she spent years focusing on women’s, human rights, and development issues at the Bureau of Women’s Affairs/Department of Gender and Family Affairs (Ministry of Social Services and Urban Development). She recently concluded an approximate three-year term in the Economic Development and Planning Unit/Sustainable Development Goals Unit within the Office of the Prime Minister where she co-led the national coordination, promotion, and monitoring efforts regarding implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in The Bahamas.
As Country Coordination Officer in the Bahamas her duties will include supporting the United Nations Resident Coordinator in increasing national partnerships and financing development opportunities. She will also provide strategic advice to United Nations agencies and national authorities, to address complex issues in support of Small Island Developing States and Sustainable Development Goals international frameworks and regional institutions.
Resident Coordinator, Dr. Garry Conille, views this appointment as a reaffirmation of the UN’s commitment to the development priorities of the people and Government of The Bahamas. "We firmly believe in strengthening our relationship with The Bahamas, and the appointment of Aneesah Abdullah as Country Coordination Officer will allow for closer collaboration, especially as we move forward in developing a new and stronger Multi-country Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (MSCDF)," Dr. Conille said.
Dr Conille added, “We have committed resources to ensure that her role supports us not only in delivering the transformative results that the Bahamas deserves, but also to tell the rich story of the country’s successes.”
During the recently concluded UN Mission to the Bahamas, the Hon. Darren Henfield, Minister of Foreign Affairs, welcomed the appointment of Ms Abdullah.
“You have made an excellent choice,” Minister Henfield said, adding that Abdullah’s appointment will foster a more collaborative approach to the coordination of UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes.
In accepting her appointment, Abdullah pledged her support for strengthening the ties between the United Nations and The Bahamas. “I recognize the importance of strong collaborations and hope to bolster these relationships, being guided by the priorities of The Commonwealth.”
Aneesah Abdullah holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Public Administration a master’s degree in Public Administration from the University of Southern California, and a Master of Arts Degree in Human Rights from the University of London. Abduallah is also an adjunct lecturer at the University of The Bahamas, School of Social Sciences. The Country Coordinator may be reached at aneesah.abdullah@un.org.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/130885-aneesah-abdullah-appointed-united-nations-country-coordination-officer-bahamas%C2%A0%C2%A0




Date: 29 May 2021
Title: Statement On Recently Concluded Mission To The Bahamas
Content: 29 May 2021
Dr Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator (RC) in the Bahamas thanks the people and Government of The Bahamas for their warm welcome and hospitality during his consultative mission in the country over the past week.
Discussions around development cooperation, the environment, migration, disaster preparedness and response, the economy and recovery from COVID-19 were positive.
The mission ended after tours of the Carmichael Road Detention Centre on Friday and The Farm, Abaco today. The RC thanks the Government for its invitation to view these locations and welcomed the frank, positive, transparent and constructive dialogues around the issues. The RC recognizes the ongoing challenges associated with irregular migration, and the health, sanitation and safety vulnerabilities linked with erecting informal buildings – challenges not unique to The Bahamas. The RC also acknowledges the positive attempts of the Government to treat these sensitive issues with due care and dignity.
Recognizing the observations made by United Nations’ bodies in recent months, Dr Conille commits the Office of the United Nations Resident Coordinator and its country team to support and work alongside the Government of the Bahamas, and partners, to help ensure that all processes to regularize migration as well as housing and building codes, maintain the health and dignity of all populations, are in keeping with Bahamian law, meet international best practice, recognize the human rights of all persons and uphold Bahamas’ human rights commitments.
The RC commends the Government for its management of ‘back-to-back crises,’ – Category 5 Hurricane Dorian and the global COVID-19 pandemic. The RC also thanks the Government for its engagement and support in the development of a new business plan for UN cooperation in the Bahamas. In this regard, consultations, led by the UN, will continue over the coming weeks among a wide cross-section of Bahamian stakeholders.
The Office of the United Nations Resident Coordinator avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the people and Government of The Bahamas the assurance of its highest consideration.
-30-
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/129156-statement-recently-concluded-mission-bahamas




Date: 28 May 2021
Title: Jamaican Economy Panel believes ambitious debt reduction targets should be postponed beyond 2027/28 Fiscal Year
Content: 28 May 2021
KINGSTON - Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) published the second round of its monthly discussion focusing on fiscal policy in Jamaica.
The Jamaican Economy Panel is part of a partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at The University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to address a monthly series of socioeconomic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and shine a light on the collective wisdom of the experts who make up the panel.
Fiscal policy in Jamaica
During the second JEP discussion, panelists were asked about their perspectives on Jamaica’s current fiscal situation. Jamaica has gone through an impressive transformation, substantially reducing its debt between 2012 and 2019. COVID-19 caused a substantial increase in the debt-to-GDP ratio in 2020. Recognizing the challenging environment in which the country now finds itself, the panelists were optimistic about how the Government of Jamaica balances debt reduction with competing priorities.
However, when asked about the stated Government objective to bring the debt-to-GDP ratio down to 60% by the Fiscal Year 2027/28, the respondents were more skeptical. While they overwhelmingly support the 60% target, a substantial majority do not believe it is realistic or recommendable to reach this goal so soon. With the economy still recovering from the COVID-19 pandemic, there is too much uncertainty to achieve the transformation so soon.
Dr. Nadine McCloud, head of the Economics Department at UWI Mona and a co-founder of the JEP adds that “We cannot overstate the importance of reducing Jamaica's debt. However, the debt reduction's celerity should positively weigh the needs of the Jamaican people, particularly those who slipped into financially retrograde positions due to COVID-19.”
Finally, the JEP panelists were asked about the possibility of wealth taxes, responding to a discussion recently promoted by the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) on its use in the post-COVID recovery[1]. This area was more contentious amongst the JEP panelists, although most respondents supported the concept, seeing it predominantly as a structural solution. A recurrent and progressive wealth tax would both increase government revenues and thus reduce the debt and support reducing economic inequality in Jamaica.
Reiterating the high level of economic inequality in Jamaica, Dr. Garry Conille, UN Resident Coordinator, stated: “Income inequality is a major challenge in Jamaica and the region on the whole, but it should be noted that wealth inequality is substantially greater than income inequality. If a recurrent wealth tax can be used to alleviate the socioeconomic situation of those most likely to be left behind, it could be a worthwhile solution.”
On the other hand, it should be noted that a substantial minority objected to the concept of wealth taxes, partly due to the institutional challenges of imposing such taxes, but also because some panelists believe that this may lead to wealth shaming.
The full results of this month’s discussion are available HERE.
[1] https://www.cepal.org/sites/default/files/publication/files/46809/S2100169_en.pdf.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/129016-jamaican-economy-panel-believes-ambitious-debt-reduction-targets-should-be-postponed-beyond




Date: 27 May 2021
Title: Government of The Bahamas Receives UN Official with Discussions on Development Cooperation. UN Announces New Country Coordination Officer in The Bahamas
Content: 27 May 2021
NASSAU – Dr Garry Conille, United Nations Resident Coordinator (RC), today held talks with the Hon. Darren Henfield, Minister of Foreign Affairs Bahamas.
The discussions were had as part of Dr Conille’s consultative mission to The Bahamas where he also met with civil society, business and financial leaders, and the diplomatic community. The Bahamas, it is hoped, will engage in the process of developing and signing a new United Nations Multi-Country Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (MSDCF) for the Caribbean.
The discussions highlighted national priority areas for possible heightened cooperation. These included issues related to emergency preparedness and response, migration, the environment, maritime conservation, safety and security, economic diversification as well as recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Resident Coordinator and the Government of the Bahamas have taken steps to strengthen United Nations collaboration and cooperation in the Commonwealth. The MSDCF is the most important planning and implementation instrument for UN development activities within countries, translating the vision of Member States into UN actions and impacts on the ground. The MSDCF would support a more strategic and accountable engagement with the UN system and would be coupled with a Country Implementation Plan – developed with The Bahamas.
The RC also announced the official appointment of Ms Aneesah Abdullah, United Nations Country Coordination Officer, resident in the Bahamas.
“Ms Abdullah serves as our representative in the island, and we have committed resources to ensure that her role supports us not only in delivering the transformative results that the Bahamas deserves, but also to tell the rich story of its successes,” Dr Conille said.
Ms Abdullah recently concluded a term within the Economic Development and Planning Unit/Sustainable Development Goals Unit in the Office of the Prime Minister, Bahamas.  Here, she co-led the national coordination, promotion, and monitoring efforts regarding the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in The Bahamas. In her new role, Ms. Abdullah will work to foster UN operational coherence and joint programmes at the country level, encourage partnerships and financing for development opportunities and support comprehensive UN coordination for disaster risk management and humanitarian response.
Minister Henfield welcomed the appointment of Ms Abdullah.
“You have made an excellent choice,” Minister Henfield said, adding that Abdullah’s appointment will foster a more collaborative approach to the coordination of UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes.
On the Development Cooperation Framework, the Foreign Affairs Minister welcomed the regional approach to developing the MSDCF while encouraging country-tailored approaches that are fit for purpose and the needs of each country. Key to this, he acknowledged, is the inclusion of climate change particularly for small island states.
“Unless we address climate change, natural disasters will be more nefarious,” Henfield said.
Dr Conille also acknowledged the challenges ahead in building back better from the COVID-19 pandemic and the issues impacting socio-economic recovery.
“Vaccination hesitancy and access remain regional and global challenges. Education and tourism, especially, face uphill processes of transformation in the Caribbean,” Dr Conille said. “The pandemic has also exposed grave inequities associated with country income classifications based primarily on gross national income (GNI) per capita which paint an inadequate picture of development and preclude middle- and high-income countries from overseas development assistance.”
Dr Conille reiterated the continued commitment of the Secretary-General to push for a global multi-vulnerability index that recognizes the nuanced vulnerabilities, social and climatic, which also impact development progress.
Minister Henfield commended the Secretary-General for his efforts in this regard, adding, that countries must also be assessed on these vulnerabilities and not solely on their GNI. The Foreign Minister also welcomed opportunities to support this objective within regional and international bodies with the support of the Resident Coordinator’s Office.
The mission concludes on Saturday, May 29 with a visit by the UN team to the Island of Abaco. Meetings with other members of the government will occur in the coming weeks.
On the occasion, the Minister also formally received the letters of appointment of Dr Conille as United Nations Resident Coordinator in the Bahamas.
“Thank you on behalf of the people and Government of the Bahamas for this spirit of engagement and for UN’s response and recovery after Dorian. My thanks to the [United Nations] Secretary-General for his solidarity and support marked by his visit and activation of UN agencies after the 2019 disaster,” Henfield said.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/129034-government-bahamas-receives-un-official-discussions-development-cooperation-un-announces-new




Date: 30 April 2021
Title: Jamaican Economy Panel expects slow recovery despite positive review of Government policies
Content: 30 April 2021
KINGSTON - Today, the Jamaican Economy Panel (JEP) presented the results of its inaugural discussion which focused on the country’s recovery from COVID-19.
The Jamaican Economy Panel is a new initiative and partnership between the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office (UNRCO) and the Department of Economics at The University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona. The JEP brings together a select group of economic and public sector experts to address a monthly series of socioeconomic questions. These questions help to highlight relevant economic issues and to shine a light on the collective wisdom of the experts who make up the panel.
Dr. Garry Conille, Resident Coordinator said: “The JEP is a great example of how the United Nations can cooperate with academia and other professionals to unearth and utilize their expertise to solve some of our socio-economic issues.” He continued to say that “the cooperation with the Department of Economics at UWI is especially valuable and I look forward to further engaging with the academic sector in Jamaica.” The experts participating in the JEP represent a wide range of academic, private sector and international institutions.
Impact of COVID-19
During the first round of the JEP, panellists were asked about the economic impact of COVID-19. While the respondents were reasonably positive about the government response to COVID-19, they acknowledged that the Jamaican economy has certain weaknesses, including the high level of debt, that have bound the government’s policy space.
As a result, the average respondent predicted that the Jamaican economy will not return to its pre-COVID level of GDP until 2024. Many of the panelists were doubtful that the Jamaican economy would be able to significantly improve on its pre-COVID economic growth record, which would therefore mean that said recovery would necessarily take several years.
Finally, the panellists were asked about the type of policies they believe would support the economic recovery. The overwhelming majority supports increases in capital expenditures, investing in MSMEs, infrastructure, and similar areas. Another large majority also believes that increases in social spending (such as PATH benefits) would help families live through the hardship. Nevertheless, several panellists cautioned that the fiscal challenges for Jamaica continued to be great and that the national debt should not be allowed to get out of hand.
Dr. Nadine McCloud, head of the Economics Department at UWI Mona and a co-founder of the JEP stated that “the results show broad support for current government thinking, even if the panellists are somewhat more pessimistic about the economic recovery than other sources are.” She continued by saying that “the value of this exercise is that it highlights the uncertainty surrounding the recovery, while at the same time, highlighting the importance of vigilance with regards to government policy.”
The other co-founder of the JEP, Dr. Olaf J. de Groot, Economist at the UNRCO highlighted that JEP discussions on key economic issues would occur monthly and would be packaged and presented for the clarity for the wider population.
“We look forward to taking the opportunity on a monthly basis to survey these experts and share the results with the greater public in Jamaica. I believe there is value in collating these different opinions so that one can show both the agreements and the disagreements amongst experts,” Dr. Olaf J. de Groot said.
For more information on JEP and for the complete results of its first discussion visit HERE.

1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/126052-jamaican-economy-panel-expects-slow-recovery-despite-positive-review-government-policies




Date: 16 February 2021
Title: Dr. Garry Conille pays courtesy call on His Excellency Tian Qi Ambassador of China to Jamaica
Content: 16 February 2021
Today, Resident Coordinator Garry Conille made a courtesy call on His Excellency Tian Qi Ambassador of China to Jamaica.
Dr. Conille extended a very warm welcome to His Excellency during their virtual meeting. Ambassador Qi reaffirmed China's commitment to the United Nations and the achievement of the Global Sustainable Development Goals. The United Nations Jamaica and China will continue to explore opportunities for strengthened collaboration in supporting Jamaica's national priorities and the country's vision to be the place of choice to live, work, raise families and do business.

1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/116539-dr-garry-conille-pays-courtesy-call-his-excellency-tian-qi-ambassador-china-jamaica




Date: 14 December 2020
Title: Dr. Garry Conille participates in meeting of Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage
Content: 14 December 2020
Today Resident Coordinator Dr. Garry Conille participated in the virtual meeting of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage. The meeting was chaired by the Hon. Olivia Grange CD, MP, Minister of Gender, Entertainment and Sport.
The 15th staging of the annual event provided guidance on the best practices on measures for the safeguarding of intangible cultural heritage. The session boasted a diverse audience, with the highest number of multi-country nominations, and registered participants from 142 countries. The five-day event will continue through to December 18.

1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/126978-dr-garry%C2%A0conille%C2%A0participates-meeting-intergovernmental-committee-safeguarding-intangible




Date: 09 December 2020
Title: United Nations Resident Coordinator Dr. Garry Conille hosts Virtual Roundtable of Jamaica's Private Sector
Content: 09 December 2020
Today the United Nations Resident Coordinator Dr. Garry Conille brought together key stakeholders from the Private Sector in Jamaica.
These include the Private Sector Organization of Jamaica (PSOJ), the Jamaica Chamber of Commerce (JCC), the Small Business Association of Jamaica (SBAJ), and the ATL Pension Fund. Representatives from several philanthropic organizations also participated including the Caribbean Philanthropic Alliance, the Digicel Foundation, and the VM Foundation.
Joined by other members of the United Nations Country Team, the Resident Coordinator Dr. Garry Conille used the opportunity to ascertain from the private sector leaders their perception of the challenges facing private sector development locally. The dialogue also provided an opportunity to garner recommendations for future engagement between the United Nations Country Team and the Private Sector around specific thematic areas.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/139876-united-nations-resident-coordinator-dr-garry-conille-hosts-virtual-roundtable-jamaicas




Date: 16 September 2020
Title: United Nations Resident Coordinator, Dr. Garry Conille, officially welcomed by Jamaican Government
Content: 16 September 2020
The Prime Minister welcomed Jamaica’s Senior United Nation Official and reaffirmed his country’s commitment to the Organization and the achievement of the Global Goals.
Dr. Conille commended Prime Minister Holness on his successful election campaign and on Jamaica’s exemplary display of democratic process with peaceful elections by its people.
The Resident Coordinator highlighted to the Prime minister that his tenure will be guided by Jamaica’s own national priorities and supporting the government in meeting the mandate of the people.
The various priorities highlighted by the Prime Minister and Resident Coordinator included, crime and violence, noncommunicable diseases, road traffic accidents and rebuilding stronger from COVID-19, to name a few.
“I wish to commend you for Jamaica’s efforts to curtail the impact of COVID-19. The JamCOVID application and regulations being implemented here are significant. I am confident that Jamaica will rebound from COVID-19 even stronger than before,” Conille said.
On Tuesday, September 15, the Resident Coordinator paid a courtesy call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, Senator the Hon. Kamina Johnson Smith. He congratulated Senator Johnson Smith on her re-appointments.
Senator Johnson Smith renewed to the Resident Coordinator, Jamaica’s commitment to multilateralism and the country’s strong partnership with the United Nations.
The United Nations Resident Coordinator is the highest-ranking development representative of the UN system in Jamaica, leading the United Nations Country Team (UNCT) to deliver collective responses to national needs and ensure system-wide accountability on the ground. The Office of the Resident Coordinator facilitates clear and robust lines of accountability, from UN country teams to host governments, from the Resident Coordinator to the Secretary-General, as well as between Resident Coordinators and heads of UN entities at the country level.
More About Garry Conille
Photos
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/91235-united-nations-resident-coordinator-dr-garry-conille-officially-welcomed-jamaican-government




Date: 28 May 2020
Title: Jamaica to benefit from 1 Million USD in grant funding from the UN to aid in COVID-19 response
Content: 28 May 2020
Jamaica is among a small group of Middle Income Countries (MICs) selected to benefit from the United Nations COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund. The grant funding will aid in the country’s response to the COVID 19 pandemic by facilitating the funding of two (2) key projects to be completed over the next 12 to 18 months.
The funds are earmarked to operationalize the “Suppressing Transmission of COVID-19 and Saving Lives” and “Safeguarding and Protecting the Most Vulnerable: Enhancing Jamaica’s Shock Responsive Social Protection Mechanism” projects, which will be spearheaded by the United Nations Country Team in Jamaica.
The first of the two initiatives is aimed at providing direct support to contain the transmission of COVID-19 while continuing basic health services. The second will enhance social protection mechanisms, particularly to support vulnerable groups (including women and children).
In welcoming the grant, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, Senator the Honourable Kamina Johnson Smith affirmed that, “This allocation is yet another excellent example of the United Nations and the multilateral system at work for Member States. We are grateful to the UN and its Agencies which have rallied to support Jamaica in quick time.”
The Minister added that, “these funds will serve to address some of the most pressing and urgent socio-economic challenges we will encounter in the coming months “especially as it relates to protecting and providing for the needs of the most vulnerable”.
Speaking at the handover, UN Resident Coordinator, Ms. Mariko Kagoshima, noted that, “We are proud that this UN Fund has been made accessible to Jamaica. This pandemic has the potential for long-term adverse effects to the people of this country. As such, the UN is happy to be playing its part in mitigating these risks to the people, while helping to sustain Jamaica’s development gains.”
Minister Johnson Smith also emphasised that, “the continued support and solidarity of our multilateral partners, specifically the United Nations development system, will remain critical during these challenging times to ensure no one is left behind.”
The symbolic cheque was handed over to Minister Johnson Smith during a virtual ceremony on Wednesday, May 27.
-30-
Contact the Public Relations and Media Affairs Unit at: (876) 926-4220 | Ext. 3420/3421/3428/3430
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/47607-jamaica-benefit-1-million-usd-grant-funding-un-aid-covid-19-response




Date: 26 May 2020
Title: United Nations Donates $1 Million USD to Jamaica’s COVID-19 Response
Content: 26 May 2020
Mariko Kagoshima, UN Resident Coordinator ad interim, today advised the Government of the donation from the United Nations COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund/ Multi-partner Trust Fund (MPTF).
For Jamaica, the MPTF is earmarked to cover two focus areas or Windows. The first Window, with a budget of $400,000, will provide direct support to the health sector and its effort to suppress the transmission of COVID-19 while continuing basic health services, such as maternal and newborn health among others. In the principle of leaving no one behind, the second Window, with a budget of $600,000, is expected to enhance social protection mechanisms such as the Programme of Advancement Through Health and Education (PATH) and other programmes which support vulnerable groups including women and children.
Upper-middle-income countries like Jamaica, despite being susceptible to geopolitical, economic and environmental shocks, do not generally qualify for funds like these. The island is among a small number of middle-income countries who will access this Fund. The Fund was developed from lessons learnt from the Ebola Crisis, where more people died from the economic break down and the disruption of basic health services than from the Ebola virus itself. The MPTF funding model is the UN’s commitment to a balanced response and recovery effort, which include ensuring basic health and social services continue.
The Fund contributes to financing the three objectives of the UN Secretary General’s Call for global action to stop the COVID-19 pandemic. It will:
“We are proud that this UN Fund, has been made accessible to Jamaica. This pandemic has the potential for long-term adverse effects to the people of this country, as such the UN is happy to be playing its part in mitigating these risks to the people, while helping to sustain Jamaica’s development gains,” Kagoshima, said.
“The degree of impact of COVID-19 is almost always directly proportional to the various levels of inequity people experience. This is why, the second Window aims at adding value to Government’s social protection mechanisms, through immediate impact measures such as; food security, supporting livelihoods, meeting children’s food and educational needs as well as access to learning. Jamaica’s MPTF proposal was developed in consultation with various government Ministries convened by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade,” Kagoshima added.
Within Window One, the health sector will benefit from technical and financial support towards the  implementation of Jamaica’s national plan for combating COVID-19, the acquisition of essential equipment and supplies including personal protective equipment (PPEs), scaling up country-emergency operations centres and laboratories, contact tracing and case management, support to the healthcare workforce as well as strengthening the capacity of non-government and community-level organizations working in health – particularly  those meeting the needs of the most vulnerable.
In addition, the second Window will see financial support to the poorest and most vulnerable households to mitigate social and economic risks of COVID-19. This includes families with children with disabilities, families with children under three years old, pregnant and lactating women and female-headed households in rural areas, to name a few.
The MPTF will also contribute to stabilizing the agricultural sector and keeping local markets and agricultural supply-chains functional, with particular support to female-headed small farms, protecting the livelihoods of rural women in female-headed households as well as providing technical support to develop innovations within the disaster programmes and social development/protection programmes of the Government.
Of note, is that civil society organizations as well as Government entities will access the Fund as implementing partners.
“This allocation is yet another excellent example of the United Nations and the multilateral system at work for Member States. We are grateful to the UN and its agencies which have rallied to support Jamaica in quick time. These funds will serve to address some of the most pressing and urgent socio-economic challenges we will have over the coming months, in particular, the protection and needs of the most vulnerable under the two approved projects,” Sen. The Hon. Kamina Johnson Smith, Minster of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade said.
“COVID-19 will result in unprecedented socio-economic shock. The Fund’s assistance, we hope, will help cushion the blow to Jamaica’s economy as well as the people most vulnerable to economic hardship and social disruption. By protecting life and livelihood, the MPTF will help ensure that we leave no one behind,” Kagoshima said.



1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/47413-united-nations-donates-1-million-usd-jamaica%E2%80%99s-covid-19-response




Date: 29 April 2020
Title: International Labour Organization estimates 12.4 per cent loss of working hours in Q2 for the Americas
Content: 29 April 2020
GENEVA (ILO News) – The continued sharp decline in working hours globally due to the COVID-19 outbreak means that 1.6 billion workers in the informal economy – that is nearly half of the global workforce – stand in immediate danger of having their livelihoods destroyed, warns the International Labour Organization
According to the ILO Monitor third edition: COVID-19 and the world of work, the drop in working hours in the current (second) quarter of 2020 is expected to be significantly worse than previously estimated.
Compared to pre-crisis levels (Q4 2019), a 10.5 per cent deterioration is now expected, equivalent to 305 million full-time jobs (assuming a 48-hour working week). The previous estimate was for a 6.7 per cent drop, equivalent to 195 million full-time workers. This is due to the prolongation and extension of lockdown measures.
Regionally, the situation has worsened for all major regional groups. Estimates suggest a 12.4 per cent loss of working hours in Q2 for the Americas (compared to pre-crisis levels) and 11.8 per cent for Europe and Central Asia. The estimates for the rest of the regional groups follow closely and are all above 9.5 per cent.

Informal economy impact
As a result of the economic crisis created by the pandemic, almost 1.6 billion informal economy workers (representing the most vulnerable in the labour market), out of a worldwide total of two billion and a global workforce of 3.3 billion, have suffered massive damage to their capacity to earn a living. This is due to lockdown measures and/or because they work in the hardest-hit sectors.
The first month of the crisis is estimated to have resulted in a drop of 60 per cent in the income of informal workers globally. This translates into a drop of 81 per cent in Africa and the Americas, 21.6 per cent in Asia and the Pacific, and 70 per cent in Europe and Central Asia.
Without alternative income sources, these workers and their families will have no means to survive.

Enterprises at risk
The proportion of workers living in countries under recommended or required workplace closures has decreased from 81 to 68 per cent over the last two weeks. The decline from the previous estimate of 81 per cent in the second edition of the monitor (published April 7) is primarily a result of changes in China; elsewhere workplace closure measures have increased.
Worldwide, more than 436 million enterprises face high risks of serious disruption. These enterprises are operating in the hardest-hit economic sectors, including some 232 million in wholesale and retail, 111 million in manufacturing, 51 million in accommodation and food services, and 42 million in real estate and other business activities.

Urgent policy measures needed
The ILO calls for urgent, targeted and flexible measures to support workers and businesses, particularly smaller enterprises, those in the informal economy and others who are vulnerable.

“For millions of workers, no income means no food, no security and no future. [...] As the pandemic and the jobs crisis evolve, the need to protect the most vulnerable becomes even more urgent."
Guy Ryder, ILO Director-General

Measures for economic reactivation should follow a job-rich approach, backed by stronger employment policies and institutions, better-resourced and comprehensive social protection systems. International co-ordination on stimulus packages and debt relief measures will also be critical to making recovery effective and sustainable. International labour standards, which already enjoy tripartite consensus, can provide a framework.
“As the pandemic and the jobs crisis evolve, the need to protect the most vulnerable becomes even more urgent,” said ILO Director-General Guy Ryder. “For millions of workers, no income means no food, no security and no future. Millions of businesses around the world are barely breathing. They have no savings or access to credit. These are the real faces of the world of work. If we don’t help them now, they will simply perish.”
For interviews contact: newsroom@ilo.org.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/43610-international-labour-organization-estimates-124-cent-loss-working-hours-q2-americas




Date: 20 April 2020
Title: Public support for international cooperation surges amid global upheaval
Content: 20 April 2020
Data from 186 countries indicates overwhelming public support for international cooperation – with a significant increase since COVID-19 began spreading around the world. Collected through hundreds of conversations and an online survey, the data is part of the United Nations’ 75th anniversary initiative (UN75). Launched in January 2020, UN75 is the largest exercise mounted by the Organization to gather public opinion and crowdsource solutions to global challenges.
New York, April 20, 2020. As the whole UN system unites to tackle the coronavirus pandemic, the Organization is also scaling up its efforts to give voice to the global public through its 75th anniversary initiative (UN75). Launched in January, UN75 will run throughout 2020, to give all people the opportunity to shape global priorities by participating in a UN75 dialogue or completing a one-minute survey available at www.un75.online. [1]
Preliminary findings, based on data collected between 1 January 2020 and 24 March 2020, were published today [2] on www.un.org/en/un75/news-events:
1. An overwhelming majority—95%--of respondents agreed on the need for countries to work together to manage global trends, with a noticeable uptick from late February, as the upheaval caused by COVID-19 spread around the world. Support cut across all age groups and education levels. Ideas on strengthening international cooperation included more effective partnerships with civil society and the private sector, and greater involvement of women, youth, indigenous peoples and vulnerable groups in policymaking.
2. Climate and environment topped the list of issues that will most affect humanity’s future – with more than double the responses of any other issue. Conflict and violence came second, and health risks third, having risen sharply since early March.
3. The top five future priorities that emerged were: environmental protection, protection of human rights, less conflict, equal access to basic services, and zero discrimination.
“I look forward to our continued efforts to ensure a meaningful observance of the seventy-fifth anniversary of our Organization, and to use this milestone for reflection on the multilateral cooperation the world needs at this time, both in addressing the immediate pandemic and in achieving the longer-term goals for which the United Nations was founded.” – United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres
Notes
[1] Launched by the UN Secretary-General, the UN’s 75th anniversary initiative is markedly different from previous commemorations, with less emphasis on communicating the UN’s successes and a strong focus on listening to the global public, especially young people. Over the course of 2020, the UN75 team will gather public perspectives on global challenges and solutions on how to tackle them through a one-minute survey (in 53 languages) and dialogues – now overwhelmingly online – organised by partners across the world. This data will be complemented by representative polling; academic research; and media and social media analysis in some 70 countries. The results will be presented in September 2020, at the official commemoration of the UN’s 75th anniversary, after which UN75 will focus on how best to take them forward, with a final report to be published in January 2021.

[2] The data used was gathered between 1 January and 24 March 2020. During this period, 35,556 in 186 UN Member States took the one-minute survey online, in addition to 5,688 who participated through mobile applications. Over 330 dialogues took place in 87 UN Member States, with 56 summaries from 32 of them included in this preliminary analysis.
Read the UN75 Update in full at: https://www.un.org/en/un75/news-events
Join the UN75 conversation at: www.un.org/UN75
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/42331-public-support-international-cooperation-surges-amid-global-upheaval




Date: 17 March 2020
Title: On the job and open for business: The United Nations in solidarity with the Caribbean on COVID-19
Content: 17 March 2020
As the people and countries of the region confront the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) and work to contain its impact, the United Nations System in the Caribbean confirms its readiness to support the people and governments of the region right to the end of this public health emergency.
The UN has taken steps to safeguard the health of its staff while sustaining its full operations so it can deliver to those most in need, particularly those who are most vulnerable to the impact of COVID-19. For many UN staff this already means working “from different locations, using different technologies” - in the words of the Secretary-General - to ensure the Organisation “remains open for business.”
In the Caribbean, this business includes providing technical assistance to governments on containing the virus and managing its impact; keeping everyone up to date on the latest information about the virus and its effect across the globe; and relaying PAHO/WHO’s advice to everyone on staying healthy and protecting each other while we battle this pandemic.
Our staff are also closely adhering to the guidelines and policies that host governments are introducing to manage the outbreak and protect residents, and we encourage each person to follow this guidance from the authorities in your own country. To complement this guidance, we also invite you to check updates from the UN (https://www.un.org/coronavirus) and advice for personal coronavirus prevention and care from WHO/PAHO (https://www.who.int/health-topics/coronavirus).  We’ll also keep you current about COVID-19 from our social media platforms.
Across the Caribbean, in keeping with the Secretary-General’s global appeal to take care of each other, all staff are working to “keep each other safe, while continuing to deliver for the people we serve.”
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/38382-job-and-open-business-united-nations-solidarity-caribbean-covid-19




Date: 09 March 2020
Title: Spotlight Initiative working to prevent family violence in Jamaica
Content: 09 March 2020
KINGSTON, Jamaica - The Government of Jamaica, the European Union (EU) and the United Nations (UN) system in Jamaica today launched a new collaborative effort to combat the country’s alarming levels of violence against women and girls.
The launch of the Spotlight Initiative included two key events. The first was held at the Office of the Prime Minister and included a keynote address from the Most Honourable Andrew Holness, ON, MP and also included high level representation and remarks from Jolita Butkeviciene Director for Latin America at the European Commission’s Directorate-General for International Cooperation and Development and Michelle Gyles-McDonnough Director, Sustainable Development Unit, Executive Office of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Gyles-McDonnough, is the highest-ranking Jamaican in the United Nations.
The second event was held at the UWI Regional Headquarters and featured a keynote address from the Most Hon. Juliet Holness, MP. 'Edutainment' performances were provided by The Ashe Company, Tanya Stephens, Tarrus Riley, Desmond Dennis and Andrew Bailey.
In Jamaica, the Spotlight Initiative will invest €8 million over three years on a range of efforts – focused in four parishes – to prevent and reduce family violence, which mostly affects girls and women. Family violence refers to acts of abuse and aggression in family or close-knit relationships. This includes domestic violence, intimate partner violence, child sexual abuse and corporal punishment.
According to recent statistics, 28 per cent of women in Jamaica experience physical or sexual violence in their lifetime. In 2018, 71 per cent of girls under 18 who were victims of crime had been raped. Two out of 10 girls aged 15 to 19 years think it is okay for a husband or partner to hit his wife or partner, and 85 per cent of children experience violent discipline at home.
“The recent spike in brutal cases of violence against women is evidence of a long-standing challenge in Jamaica, in which girls and women bear the brunt of family violence,” said Mariko Kagoshima, UN Resident Coordinator ad interim in Jamaica, Bermuda, Bahamas, Bermuda. “The Spotlight Initiative will bring several agencies together to address the root causes of this violence, including harmful cultural beliefs and norms,” she said.
The Spotlight Initiative approaches family violence as a major public health and development issue. A range of interventions will seek to change and influence laws and policies, individual behaviour and wider social norms. Efforts will also be made to strengthen institutions that serve girls and women and improve the delivery of essential services to them.
Implementation will be led by a number of UN agencies, working closely with the Ministry of Culture, Gender, Entertainment and Sport as well as civil society organizations. The four parishes on which Spotlight will focus are Kingston and St. Andrew, St. Thomas, Clarendon and Westmoreland. Interventions will target selected communities in these parishes. Other elements of Spotlight will have national impact.
For further information, please contact:
United Nations and EU: Jomain McKenzie, Development Coordination Officer, Programme Communications & Advocacy, Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
Email: jomain.mckenzie@one.un.org. Mobile: 876-553-8794
Ministry of Culture, Gender, Entertainment and Sport: Dr. Tamika Peart, Coordinator, Bureau of Gender Affairs
Email: tamika.peart@hotmail.ca. Mobile: 876-301-7128
Delegation of the European Union to Jamaica, Belize, The Bahamas, Turks and Caicos and The Cayman Islands: Jovan Johnson, Assistant Press and Information Officer, Political, Press and Information
Email: jovan.johnson@eeas.europa.eu. Mobile: +1 (876) 869-1165
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/38241-spotlight-initiative-working-prevent-family-violence-jamaica




Date: 10 December 2019
Title: UN invites Jamaican Youth to Stand Up for Human Rights
Content: 10 December 2019
Approximately 150 Jamaican young people from youth groups and schools across the country will have the opportunity to present their concerns on several human rights issues during UN Jamaica’s Human Rights Day 2019 celebrations being held on Tuesday December 10 at the Jamaica Conference Centre at 8:30 a.m.
The event, being celebrated under the theme “Youth Standing Up for Human Rights,” will feature youth consultations called “Human Rights Classrooms” in which young people will discuss and develop advocacy points around four key issues: Quality Education and Opportunities, Climate Change, Violence against Children and Mental Health. The classrooms will be facilitated by young advocates within the four areas. Following the classroom discussions, youth reporters will have the opportunity to present their concerns, ideas and solutions to their peers, government officials, the United Nations, other development partners, as well as members of the diplomatic corps. Youth Advocate and attorney Christopher Harper, will deliver a special youth message to the session.
“If we are to achieve sustainable development, we must include young people by providing them platforms to speak as well as opportunities to meaningfully participate in finding innovative solutions to the various human rights challenges we face,” says George Abualzulof, Senior Human Rights Advisor from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.
“Youth have a wealth of ideas, they are innovative and able to create the positive change needed in society. They have the solutions, and the UN in Jamaica is committed to ensuring that they are not only heard, but that we give wings to their thoughts and ideas. Human Rights Day, this year, provides just one forum for this and we charge all duty bearers to facilitate even more ambitious opportunities to empower youth and to amplify their voices,” says Mariko Kagoshima, UN Resident Coordinator ad interim.
The Honorable Delroy Chuck MP, Minister of Justice, will present on behalf of the Government of Jamaica. Remarks will also come from the Office of the Public Defender and the Delegation of the European Union.
Human Rights Day is celebrated annually on December 10, in acknowledgement of the 1948 adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the United Nations General Assembly. It celebrates its 71st anniversary this year.
This Human Rights Youth Consultation is being staged in partnership with Jamaicans for Justice and The Jamaica Youth Advocacy Network with the kind support of the European Union Delegation in Jamaica.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/27776-un-invites-jamaican-youth-stand-human-rights




Date: 04 November 2019
Title: Plastic Recycling Project Launched for Rae Town Community
Content: 04 November 2019
The Rae Town Plastic Recycling Project which seeks to reduce marine litter in the Kingston Harbour and provide alternative livelihoods for residents of the community was officially launched on Tuesday, October 29, 2019, at the AC Marriott Hotel in New Kingston, Jamaica
The project which is to be implemented by the National Solid Waste Management Authority (NSWMA) is one component of the larger Jamaica Plastic Waste Minimization Project, funded by the Japanese Government through the United Nations Environment Programme Caribbean Sub-Regional Office in partnership with the National Environment and Planning Agency.
Vincent Sweeney, Head of the UNEP Caribbean Sub-Regional Office in his remarks, expressed his pleasure to see "this tangible, on-the-ground part of the project being launched." Mr Sweeney further stated that the project would "collectively demonstrate the benefit of new, community-led approaches to address waste management in Jamaica."
Ms Nataki Thompson, President of the Rae Town Community Development Committee (CDC) in her response said that it was a welcome initiative that the community was happy to be apart of, adding that the project was well suited to the objectives of the CDC and the development of the unique culture of the community as food provider and cultural hot-spot.
The activities of the project will see the NSWMA increasing garbage collection as well as the involvement of community members in several initiatives including clean-ups and the separation of waste at source. Other residents will be engaged as environmental wardens.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/23420-plastic-recycling-project-launched-rae-town-community




Date: 22 October 2019
Title: United Nations hosts national youth dialogue on SDGs for UN Day
Content: 22 October 2019
United Nations (UN) agencies, funds and programmes in Jamaica will celebrate 74 years since the entry into force of the UN Charter, 24 October 2019.
United Nations (UN) agencies, funds and programmes in Jamaica will celebrate 74 years since the entry into force of the UN Charter, 24 October 2019.
The event will be addressed by Senator the Hon. Kamina Johnson Smith, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, Hon. Alando Terrelonge MP, State Minister in the Ministry of Education, Youth and Information, Jhannel Tomlinson, Climate Activist and Jamaican delegate to UN Youth Climate Action Summit and Mariko Kagoshima UN Resident Coordinator a.i.
Under the theme ‘I am the SDGs,’ the UN Day will facilitate a national youth dialogue on the SDGs and how young people can lead the actions to achieving the SDGs and Jamaica’s Vision 2030 for all Jamaicans. Key topics will include climate change, gender equality and advancing inclusive quality education.
Over 300 young people from high schools and universities, including those with UN Clubs, are expected to participate.
UN Day promises a fun, culturally relevant and interactive learning experience with the participation of Agent Sasco, The Ashe Company, the Lister Mair/Gilby High School for the Deaf and QUILT.
The day’s programme will be accessible to members of the deaf and blind communities. Persons may also interact and engage online by following #UNDAYJA and #IamTheSDGs on Facebook (@UNJamca) and Twitter (@UNJamaica) as well as via live radio broadcast on ZIP 103FM.
UN Day 2019 will be held at the Courtleigh Auditorium 8 St. Lucia Avenue Kingston 5, starting at 9:30 a.m.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/22052-united-nations-hosts-national-youth-dialogue-sdgs-un-day




Date: 07 October 2019
Title: Secretary General's Message on World Habitat Day
Content: 07 October 2019
World Habitat Day highlights the central role our cities and communities play in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.  Well-planned and smartly managed cities can steer us towards inclusive growth and low-emission development.
At the same time, rapid and unplanned urbanization can generate or exacerbate many challenges, including the climate crisis.
This year’s observance focuses on the problem of waste – and the potential of frontier technologies to transform waste into wealth.
Solutions begin with small steps individuals can take to alter the way our cities function.  We must reduce the amount of waste we produce, and, at the same time, start seeing it as a valuable resource that can be re-used and recycled, including for energy.
Frontier technologies can offer better and cheaper answers to these daily challenges.   For example, automation and artificial intelligence can help sort recyclables more efficiently. Sensors in smart packaging can help reduce food waste, while other innovative technologies are turning organic waste into renewable energy and compost. And new materials – such as advanced biodegradable plastics – can reduce environmental impact.
But we still need to invest much more if we are to improve waste management.
With cities in the lead and frontier technologies in widespread use, we can achieve make major advances on the road to sustainable urban development.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/19564-secretary-generals-message-world-habitat-day




Date: 13 August 2019
Title: United Nations Jamaica Country Team (UNCT) mourns death of Mr Clive Peck
Content: 13 August 2019
The United Nations Jamaica Country Team (UNCT) is mourning the death of Mr Clive Peck. Mr. Peck died while serving in the United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSML). He was one of three UN workers killed in a car-bomb terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya over the weekend.
Mariko Kagoshima, United Nations Resident Coordinator a.i., joined UN Secretary General António Guterres in expressing sincerest condolences to Mr. Peck’s wife, Mrs. Lelieth Peck, and has offered her the support of UN Jamaica in this difficult time.
“On behalf of the entire UN Jamaica Country Team, I express our deepest sympathies to Mrs. Peck, her family and all who mourn this grave loss. We condemn, in the strongest terms, this heinous and outrageous attack on UN staff members who were there with a mandate to provide a more secure future for the people of Libya,” Kagoshima said.
According to Kagoshima, Mr. Peck was an exemplary Jamaican working honorably to lift the hope of peace, stability and prosperity in the world, especially for those living in tough conditions. His death, she said, is a poignant reminder that violence and instability affect people and families far beyond national borders.
In an organized moment of reflection, Country Team members reaffirmed their commitment to promote international peace and security and uphold the core values of the UN.
In honour of Mr. Peck, and other fallen UN colleagues, UN flags within Jamaica’s country offices were flown at half-mast for two days.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/13760-united-nations-jamaica-country-team-unct-mourns-death-mr-clive-peck




Date: 13 March 2019
Title: Pocket Guides handed over as part of human rights training and knowledge sharing between the Police and UN Jamaica
Content: 13 March 2019
The Jamaica Constabulary Force and the United Nations (UN) Jamaica marked a milestone in their ongoing cooperation on human rights training and knowledge sharing with the official handing over of 2500 Pocket Guides on Human Rights in Law Enforcement, at the Jamaica Constabulary Force Headquarters yesterday
The booklets were officially handed over by UN Resident Coordinator in Jamaica Bruno Pouezat to Commissioner of Police, Major General Antony Anderson
UN Jamaica supported the production of the pocket guides as part of a wider human rights collaboration with the National Police College of Jamaica that also includes plans for a series of training workshops, a case manual and an online training course for the Police, Mr. Pouezat disclosed.
He outlined that UN Jamaica was approached by the Police College three years ago to develop curriculum to international standards in order to strengthen human rights interactions of the police, consistent with constitutional and treaty provisions. “Three years in, we are very happy with the products of this cooperation”, he said.
The UN Resident Coordinator, who leads the joint work of 23 UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes in Jamaica pledged further support: “The UN is committed to continue to support the process led by the National Police College of Jamaica to help strengthen human rights in the different levels of training curricula in the NPCJ, whether through the development of training materials, exploring external training opportunities, or the training of trainers.”
In his comments, Commissioner of Police Major General Antony Anderson welcomed the booklet, while recognizing the difficulties faced by officers in a high violent environment where violence can escalate almost instantaneously. “Yet, you have to always respond with measure, with taking care of persons’ human rights in these circumstances even though your own life is threatened”, he said.
The Police Commissioner said, “when our population and people we serve matter, and we show them that they matter, then we are bridging a gap and ensuring that their rights are protected”.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/13730-pocket-guides-handed-over-part-human-rights-training-and-knowledge-sharing-between-police-and




Date: 11 January 2019
Title: The Future of the Caribbean is Single-use Plastic-Free
Content: 11 January 2019
The future of the Caribbean is to be free of single-use plastics and plastic pollution. A Caribbean that is sustainable, resilient and growing economically must take care of the people and the industries upon which it depends. One of the ways we can effectively do this is to reduce our dependency on single-use plastics.
UN Environment’s Waste Management Outlook for Latin America and the Caribbean, released in October 2018 finds that of the 145 tonnes of garbage produced each day, plastic waste contributes to 17 tonnes. This number is steadily increasing every day. Another recent report published by UN Environment, entitled “Legal Limits on Single-Use Plastics and Microplastics: A Global Review of National Laws and Regulations” finds that at least one hundred and twenty-seven (127) out of 192 countries reviewed (about 66%) have adopted some form of legislation to regulate plastic bags. Plastic bags regulations globally include restrictions on the manufacture, distribution, use, and trade of plastic bags, as well as taxation and levies.
Waste management, and in particular, the disposal of plastics has been a great concern for Caribbean ministers; this was reinforced in our discussions with them as recently as last October at the Second High-Level Forum for Caribbean Ministers with Responsibility for Waste.
At that time, the Caribbean Ministers endorsed a Caribbean Waste Management Action plan which includes among others – the priority of reducing plastic waste.
It is for that reason, that the UN Environment Caribbean Sub-Regional Office applauds Jamaica for its bold move to ban single-use plastic bags, straws and Styrofoam.
Jamaica joins approximately seven Caribbean countries who have implemented measures to reduce plastic pollution. This is a forward step in ensuring a future in which we have achieved the Sustainable Development Goals related to Climate Action and preserving land on life and in the water.
Beyond achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, we must also seek to preserve the complex link between the environment, and the social and economic development of the country. This will improve the present economic growth status and ensure that future generations can enjoy and benefit from the rich resources of the island.
The ban is however only one of a number of possible measures needed to reduce pollution. We look forward to continued environmental advances as the activities of the UN Environment-funded Plastic Minimization Project is implemented in conjunction with the Ministry of Economic Growth and Job Creation.
Of course, change does not occur overnight, and we must all go through the teething pains of this transition. However, the long-term effects of plastic pollution on climate change, health, sanitation, food production, tourism, incomes and overall economic growth far outweigh what might now be considered an inconvenience.
We encourage all Jamaicans to get on board, as you support the government in the implementation of the plastic ban.  It is an opportunity for business innovation and to move towards more sustainable alternatives.
UN Environment, through its Caribbean Sub-Regional Office, stands ready and committed to support Jamaica and other Caribbean islands in any way that it can.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/13731-future-caribbean-single-use-plastic-free




Date: 11 December 2018
Title: Resident Coordinator calls on Jamaica to build rule of law, equality and governance
Content: 11 December 2018
United Nations Resident Coordinator, Bruno Pouezat has called on Jamaica to work on building its rule of law institutions, equality for all, and transparent, participatory and accountable governance, as practical steps to securing Human Rights for all citizens.
This is the path to security, prosperity and peace for all, he declared yesterday at the Human Rights Day event, ‘Reasonings, Lecture and Art Exhibition’ in celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The event was supported by the UN Jamaica, European Union Delegation to Jamaica, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade and the Edna Manley College of the Visual and Performing Arts.
Mr Pouezat said rule of law institutions offer the confidence of impartial justice and expressed optimism in the recently announced Cabinet submission on the National Human Rights Institution, noting that this will strengthen the administration and enforcement of all human rights.
He called on all Jamaicans to actively engage in safeguarding the human rights of all by taking a stand. “We are all in this fight together, and all of us can make a difference. In professional functions and in daily activities, in art and in life, I ask you to act to promote peace, fight back against discrimination, and uphold justice,” he said.
“We need to mobilise energetic activism in every country where people are still free to raise their voices without fear. We need to seek out new partners, and act together to uphold fundamental rights and freedoms,” the UN Resident Coordinator declared.
In a keynote address delivered on behalf of Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, Senator the Hon. Kamina Johnson Smith by Permanent Ambassador Marcia Gilbert Roberts, all Jamaicans were invited to partner with government and international partners. “Let us now stand up only for our own rights, but also stand firm in protecting the rights of our fellow citizens. If we each become our brother’s keeper, our own rights are better protected,” she urged.
The Universal Declaration is a milestone document in the history of human rights. Drafted by representatives with different legal and cultural backgrounds from all regions of the world, the Declaration was proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly in Paris on 10 December 1948 (General Assembly resolution 217 A) as a common standard of achievements for all peoples and all nations. It sets out, for the first time, fundamental human rights to be universally protected and it has been translated into over 500 languages.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/13754-resident-coordinator-calls-jamaica-build-rule-law-equality-and-governance




Date: 10 December 2018
Title: UN celebrates 70th anniversary of Universal Declaration
Content: 10 December 2018
The 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is being celebrated by the United Nations system in Jamaica in partnership with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, the European Union in Jamaica and the Edna Manley College of the Visual and Performing Arts.
Partners are suporting a visual art exploration of the rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration, dubbed Art for Human Rights, and are issuing a call to action to all Jamaicans to “Stand up for Human Rights”.
All are invited to join the social media campaign on the Declaration by taking photos of theemselves posing with their favourite rights and tagging the UN Jamaica Facebook  and Twitter pages. Check out your rights in the universal declaration HERE
Other components of the Art for Human Rights series includes: An art competition among students of the Edna Manley College; live painting of 70th anniversary commemorative murals at Emancipation Park on Sunday, 9 December accompanied by drumming; and the main event, an invitation-only Reasoning, Lecture and Art Exhibition on Human Rights Day, Monday 10 December at the College.
The Art exhibition will be on show at the College’s Cage Gallery, debuting at the Reasoning, Lecture and Art Exhibition on Human Rights Day, and featuring visual art pieces entered in the Art competition.The exhibition will be on show at the Cage until January 2019, followed by a nationwide tour in the first quarter of 2019.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/13739-un-celebrates-70th-anniversary-universal-declaration




Date: 10 December 2018
Title: Edna Manley College Students win Art for Human Rights competition
Content: 10 December 2018
Three students of the Edna Manley College of the Visual and Performing Arts won 1800 USD in cash prizes as the top three winners in the Art for Human Rights visual art competition in commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the adotpion of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The three were awarded at the special Art for Human Rights event on Human Rights Day, 10 December supported by the UN Jamaica, European Union Delegation to Jamaica, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade and the Edna Manley College of the Visual and Performing Arts.

First place and US$1000 went to Sashoy Burey, second place and US$500 to Sasha-Kay Hinds and third place and US$300 to Kobi Bailey.
Approximately 30 art pieces entered into the competition will be on show at the College’s Cage  Gallery until January 2019, followed by a nationwide tour in the first quarter of 2019.
The Art for Human Rights series also included: live painting of 70th anniversary commemorative murals at Emancipation Park on Sunday 9 December accompanied by drumming.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/13738-edna-manley-college-students-win-art-human-rights-competition




Date: 24 October 2018
Title: UN DAY 2018: Students urged to take action on SDG by UN RC
Content: 24 October 2018
Young people are being called upon to join the United Nations and other stakeholders in taking action to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Jamaica’s Vision 2030 national development plan as part of their own vision for personal and national development.
The call came from United Nations Resident Coordinator to Jamaica, Bruno Pouezat at UN Jamaica’s United Nations Day 2018 event on 24 October – dubbed Youth Action on the SDGs –  at the University of Technology.
“Every contribution counts. Go for the goals. Leave your mark,” high school students were urged by the Resident Coordinator who facilitates the joint work in Jamaica of 23 resident and non-resident UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes.
Scores of students from high schools, including members of UN Clubs which are coordinated by the UN Association of Jamaica, were told that they were needed on board the journey to achieve the dream of ending poverty, protecting the planet and securing peace and prosperity by the 2030 deadline.
Mr Pouezat said going for the goals means knowing what the goals are; knowing what the nation is doing to achieve the goals, and choosing those goals that resonate most with young people’s dreams and ambitions. He reaffirmed his faith in the energy and the abilities of young people by concluding, “in your hands, young people, the world will become a better place.”
In his message to the young participants, Minister of State in the Ministry of Education, Youth and Information the Hon. Floyd Green also issued a call for greater youth participation in reaching the SDGs.  “If we are really going to achieve those goals, our young people will have to act, both in Jamaica and across the rest of the world. Yes, we want them to continue to speak. Their voice continues to matter, but we also want them to act in their schools and in their communities. Choose a goal that is near and dear to their hearts and do something related to it. Be innovative; be creative,” he urged.
UN Day 2018 was organized in partnership with the United Nation Association of Jamaica to boost awareness of the work and mission of the UN and of the global Sustainable Development Goals. Patrons, including scores of high school students and teachers and representatives of government, civil society and the diplomatic corps had access to a digital hotspot with SDG learning resources including chat rooms, videos, selfie features and quizzes as well as displays on the SDGs.
The interactive expo featured some 30 booths including UN agencies, Planning Institute of Jamaica and Vision 2030, National Library System and UTech. An entertainment package headlined by Agent Sasco also included Wowski and the Ardenne Drummers. Jamaica Moves led a high-paced exercise routine that had most patrons on their feet. A talent competition was won by a student of Knox College.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/13736-un-day-2018-students-urged-take-action-sdg-un-rc




Date: 12 August 2018
Title: Resident Coordinator Call on Governments to Integrate SDGs into Budgets
Content: 12 August 2018
Jamaica is being urged to effectively use its state budget to integrate the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into national and local budgeting and budget reporting to ensure that all of government expenditure is understood and accounted for as contributing to the SDG.
United Nations (UN) Resident Coordinator and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Resident Representative, Bruno Pouezat made the proposal during the United Nations High-Level Political Forum (HLPF) in New York recently where Jamaica and a number of other countries presented their Voluntary National Review (VNR) reports of progress towards the SDGs.  “The objective must be for all resources available nationally to target explicitly the national development priorities”, he stated.
Mr Pouezat said these SDG-aligned budgets and budgetary reports should also tie foreign and domestic private sector investments to the Goals where applicable. Quoting from a UN Development Coordination Office report, he noted as an example that foreign investments amounted to 5.6% of GDP in 2016, and remittances alone amounted to 17% of GDP.
He pointed out that on the other hand, with less than 0.2% of Jamaica’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) sourced from Official Development Assistance (ODA) cannot be relied on as a reliable indicator of progress towards achievement of the SDG. ”At less than 0.2% of Jamaica’s GDP, ODA represents less than 1% of the state budget,” he noted.
Aligning budgets and budgetary reporting to the SDG was necessary to consummate a whole of government approach to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda, he concluded.
Minister of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, Pearnel Charles Jnr. In his contribution to the VNR event in New York reported that 67.2% of the national outcome indicators and targets for Vision 2030 Jamaica have shown improvement over the baseline year, 2007. He said challenges remained: “As a Small Island Developing State, however, we are still faced with significant challenges, given our economic, environmental and social vulnerabilities, narrow natural resource base and limited institutional capacity. Additionally, we are frequently and adversely impacted by extreme weather events, which severely retard our development prospects.”
Minister Charles said Jamaica’s designation as an upper middle income country presents a challenge for access to certain types of aid and concessionary financing but that through engagement with the Group of Friends for SDGs Financing, Jamaica had been seeking to mobilize institutional capital from the private sector for various priority projects. “Strategic resource mobilisation is, therefore, required towards the identification of new, non-traditional and innovative financing modalities,” he observed.
Dr Wayne Henry, Director General of the Planning Institute of Jamaica noted in his VNR contribution that Jamaica had moved to prioritize transformative actions outlined in a Roadmap for implementation of the SDGs in Jamaica with the support of the UNDP. He outlined these accelerators include social protection outreach to those furthest behind; multidisciplinary efforts to tackle the drivers of Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs); strengthening the effectiveness of the judicial system; violence prevention programmes; building disaster risk resilience; and advancing the development of the blue and green economies.
Dr Henry said Jamaica was deliberately integrating climate hazards across all dimensions of sustainable development planning because of repeated impacts including dislocation of population, disruption of livelihoods, and damage and losses, which have historically been equivalent to 1-2% of GDP per annum.
And in reporting on the need for high quality data to guide development priorities in the SDGs, Deputy Director of the Statistical Institute of Jamaica (STATIN),  Leesha Delatie-Budair said that while the National Statistics System  was able to produce 49% of SDG indicators, “a lot more (needs)  to be done to improve official statistics in Jamaica.”
The HLPF is the main United Nations platform on sustainable development and it has a central role in the follow-up and review of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at the global level.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/13734-resident-coordinator-call-governments-integrate-sdgs-budgets




Date: 20 July 2018
Title: UN Jamaica debuts SDG bus promotion
Content: 20 July 2018
UN Jamaica has placed promotional images related to the Sustainable Development Goals and Vision 2030 Jamaica on a Jamaica Urban Transit Company (JUTC) bus for a period of one year starting July 2018.
The bus plies parts of St Catherine and St Andrew via the Nelson Mandela highway daily where it is seen by tens of thousands of motorists on a daily basis.
The promotions, which wrap on three sides of the bus display all 17 SDG and call on Jamaicans to "Go For The Goals".
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/15663-un-jamaica-debuts-sdg-bus-promotion




Date: 19 March 2018
Title: US$6.45 Million Human Security programme to bring water, enhanced governance & livelihoods to Northern Clarendon & West Kingston
Content: 19 March 2018
More than 43 000 residents of Northern Clarendon and West Kingston are expected to benefit from better water and sanitation, entrepreneurial opportunities, enhanced governance and improved adaptation to climate change, under a three year US$6.45 million programme launched Monday (12 March).
The programme,  “Strengthening Human Resilience in Northern Clarendon and West Kingston,’’ was launched at the Spanish Court Hotel in Kingston witnessed by members of the diplomatic corps, international donor agencies, government and community groups. The specific objectives of the programme include: Strengthening local and community governance bodies to design and oversee interventions to address insecurities; enhancing economic, food and nutrition security in selected communities; improving environmental health and water security at the community, local and national level; and strengthening institutional capacity for integration of the Human Security Approach.
Taking the Human Security approach, the programme identifies key threats or insecurities faced by target communities and designs interventions to bolster resilience against identified challenges. It is regarded as the first-ever truly joint project of UN Jamaica, combining the resources of six (6) UN Jamaica members, namely – FAO, PAHO/WHO, UNDP, UNEP, UNESCO, UN Women – in addition to the UNDP Global Environment Facility funded Small Grants Programme. Of note is the fact that the UN Jamaica resources are being combined with financial support from the UN Trust Fund for Human Security and the Government of Jamaica.
Endorsement of the programme came from Minister of Local Government and Community Development, Hon Desmond McKenzie, who expressed confidence in the potential for this collaboration between the Government of Jamaica and the United Nations to elevate the living standards of the people in Western Kingston and in Northern Clarendon.
Referring to the programme's objective number two – that of enhancing economic, food and nutrition security – Minister McKenzie said the Social Development Commission would be a critical partner through its ongoing work on the Local Economic Development Support Programme (LEDSP), which ensures that growth and job-creation are complemented by the creation of business development and job opportunities for communities. “I am looking forward to the fruit of this collaboration,” he said, noting that the this focus was critical to the reduction of rural to urban drift, and to the reduction of crime.
UN Resident Coordinator Bruno Pouezat said that through a comprehensive, people-centred approach the project development team ensured that the Government and communities were consulted and their concerns communicated and incorporated in the action planning. He called on communities in Northern Clarendon and West Kingston to “remain engaged in the process, attend community meetings, tell a friend – even better, bring a friend – and enrich and enlarge the network of concerned citizens, emboldened and empowered to make a difference in their own lives and in the life of their community.”
Chief of the United Nations Human Security Unit, Ms. Mehrnaz Mostafavi said she was confident that the programme will successfully leverage the human security approach towards a new way of advancing progress on Jamaica’s Vision 2030.
“By taking an integrated approach to improve water, sanitation, and natural resource management, the programme will create synergies of expertise towards environmentally sustainable livelihoods,” she said.  Ms Mostafavi also noted that by addressing the root causes of vulnerabilities, the programme “promotes concrete improvements in the daily lives of the people of this beautiful country. And, by linking elements of protection, inclusion and empowerment, the programme provides useful insights and mechanisms for combining policy and community-level efforts to realize the ambitious outcomes outlined in Vision 2030.”
Lead Government partners include the Ministry of Economic Growth and Job Creation, Ministry of Local Government and Community Development, Planning Institute of Jamaica, Social Development Commission, Rural Agricultural and Development Authority, the Clarendon Municipal Corporation, Kingston and St Andrew Municipal Corporation and Civil Society Organisations.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/15664-us645-million-human-security-programme-bring-water-enhanced-governance-livelihoods-northern




Date: 13 November 2017
Title: Prime Minister champions SDG parliamentary action on corporal punishment
Content: 13 November 2017
The government of Jamaica is committed to banning corporal punishment throughout the nation consistent with Sustainable Development Goals number 3 and 16, Prime Minister of Jamaica, the Most Honourable Andrew Holness announced on Tuesday, 7 November in Jamaica’s Parliament.
“I must reiterate the commitment to not only banning corporal punishment in schools but generally in society”, he emphasized noting that this would directly impact on Jamaica’s  achievement of Goal 3 – Good Health and Well-being and Goal 16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. “Jamaica recognizes this and is taking the necessary steps to make the changes required” he said.
The Prime Minister was making a special contribution on the Sustainable Development Goals at the 7 November sitting of the House of Representatives. Earlier, the Prime Minister and nearly all 63 members of the House had been pinned with commemorative SDG pins by high school students under the guidance of the United Nations Country Team to Jamaica.
The Prime Minister said he wanted to remove corporal punishment as an option by changing the means by which children are disciplined and how conflicts are resolved in Jamaican society. “While we highlight the importance of the SDGs today, we must reflect on their all-encompassing influence in making the world a better place for our children,” he said.
Mr Holness in making his case for banning corporal punishment highlighted the findings of a recently launched UNICEF’s global report: A Familiar Face: Violence in the Lives of Children and Adolescentswhich he said indicated “a frightening number of Jamaican children who die violently and who are regularly subjected to sexual violence and violent discipline in their homes, schools and communities.” In launching the report last week, UNICEF Jamaica highlighted relevant local data on violence against children, including the fact that eight in ten Jamaican children in the 2-14 years age group experience some form of violent discipline. UNICEF also noted that Jamaica remains one of the countries where children do not receive full protection against violence at school since corporal punishment is still legal above the early childhood institution level of schooling.
The Prime Minister specially recognized the participation of students in the SDG ‘pinning ceremony’, noting that they would play a pivotal role in leading the charge for SDG implementation. “Their presence clearly symbolizes increasing awareness and interest in the global development agenda, which augurs well for the sustainability of Jamaica’s efforts towards attaining the SDGs,” he said.
UN Jamaica mobilized student leaders from five Kingston high schools for the occasion. They included: Malik Palmer, Head Girl, Excelsior High; Chad Rattray, Student Council President, Kingston College; Kyle Bedassie, Head Boy, St George's College; Andrew Mullings, Head Boy Kingston College; Schenelle Grey, UN Club President, Convent of Mercy Alpha Academy; and Sarah Lee Tucker, UN Club President, Ardenne High School.
UN Jamaica which organised the parliamentary activity is on an ongoing public education and advocacy campaign in collaboration with the Planning Institute of Jamaica to spread awareness about the 17 SDG's, the global plan to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity.
Without changing the means by which we discipline our children and how we resolve conflict; and on that note I must reiterate the commitment to not only banning corporal punishment in schools but generally in society so that it is no longer an option.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/16778-prime-minister-champions-sdg-parliamentary-action-corporal-punishment




Date: 15 September 2017
Title: UN Jamaica joins International Coastal Cleanup Day 2017
Content: 15 September 2017
On behalf of the United Nations Country Team in Jamaica, UN Environment is pleased to lead the United Nations team’s participation in International Coastal Clean-Up Day, Saturday, September 16.
Last year, over 18 million pounds of trash was collected worldwide.
International Coastal Cleanup Day contributes to raising awareness on the importance of protecting our oceans and marine resources from the growing trash problem.
A large part of our own work here at UN Environment is aimed at achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal # 14 on Oceans. All Life under Water must be preserved, through sustainable use of the oceans, seas and other marine resources.
Protecting our oceans also requires actions on land and achieving Goal # 11 on Sustainable cities which calls on everyone to reduce, re-use and recycle waste, thus reducing pollution of our oceans and seas.
In the Caribbean, and especially Jamaica, marine resources are extremely important to the economy, recreation and to industries such as tourism, fishing, manufacturing and agriculture.
This is why it is important for us to keep them clean; for the economy, health, natural beauty, biodiversity and for present and future generations to enjoy.
UN Environment and the UN Country Team are implementing several programmes through the Jamaica Country Implementation Plan to ensure that our goals for the oceans become a reality.
Likewise, International Coastal Clean-Up Teams all over Jamaica, the Caribbean and the world are volunteering for ICC Day 2017. We hope that you too will join us, not only for International Coastal Clean-Up Day, but beyond.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/16780-un-jamaica-joins-international-coastal-cleanup-day-2017




Date: 21 July 2017
Title: Regional Ministers endorse Caribbean Action 2030 Framework Agreement
Content: 21 July 2017
A Partnership Framework Agreement endorsed by Ministers of Government from several Caribbean countries will give targeted guidance for accelerating and advancing action on the Sustainable Development Goals in the region, following the successful conclusion of Caribbean Action 2030 on 30 June.
Conference Chair, Jamaica’s Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade Senator the Hon. Kamina Johnson Smith outlined that the Draft Agreement is to be further reviewed by the participating countries before signing. The Framework Agreement contains specific undertakings to accelerate action and is completed by an appendix of recommendations including from youth in the areas of resource mobilization, civil society engagement, research and capacity building.
She was speaking at the closing ceremony for the three day conference on the global Sustainable Development Goals at the Faculty of Law at the University of the West Indies Mona campus. Minister Johnson Smith was joined by a number of senior government Ministers from other Caribbean countries who also endorsed the Framework Agreement while lauding the conference.
Among the Ministers giving endorsements were The Honourable Carl Greenidge, Vice President of the Cooperative Republic of Guyana, the Honourable Delmaude Ryan, Deputy Premier of Montserrat Hon. Sarah Flood-Beaubrun, Minister for External Affairs, St. Lucia; Hon. Mark Brantley, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Aviation, St. Kitts and Nevis; Hon. Oliver Joseph, Minister of Economic Development, Planning, Trade and Labour, Grenada and Hon. Omar Figueroa Minister of State, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Forestry, the Environment, Sustainable Development and Climate Change, Belize.
The Hon. Mark Brantley of St Kitts and Nevis commended Caribbean Action 2030 as “an excellent event”, noting that it is now time for action. He said Governments and Opposition must agree on the way forward and that implementation must transcend parliamentary cycles.

The closing ceremony marked by performances from the University Singers and an overview of draft framework agreement culminated three packed days of presentations on Agenda 2030 topics from 32 presenters from across the region and beyond and solutions and strategies workshops which refined recommendations for inclusion in the Framework Agreement.
At the Opening Ceremony two days earlier Prime Minister of Jamaica, the Most Honourable Andrew Holness said he would be taking a keen interest in the implementation of the SDGs and their alignment with Vision 2030. He said that recently Government had received a progress report on the implementation process for the SDGs from the Planning Institute of Jamaica and were paying close attention to implementation of the accelerators as recommended in the SDGs Roadmap for Jamaica.
UN Assistant Secretary-General and UNDP Director for Latin America and the Caribbean, Ms. Jessica Faieta, in her comments at the opening noted that key areas of concern to the region in the SDG era included addressing the needs of those often left behind first, especially women, youth, elderly, children and indigenous peoples; the challenge of data availability, access and quality for building more targeted integrated policies and monitoring progress achieved on the SDGs; financing the SDGs given the limited fiscal space of the region’s Governments; and the implementation deficit which she said requires urgent attention to capacity building in this SDG era. “This will require new ways of working and stronger partnerships not only in government but with the private sector, civil society and the international community”, Ms Faieta stated.
United Nations Resident Coordinator and UNDP Resident Representative in Jamaica, Bruno Pouezat, said that the UN in the Caribbean is convinced that while the SDGs are ambitious, they are achievable throughout this region within the remaining timeframe. “We look forward to the coming discussions in helping shape a lasting framework agreement for accelerated action at the regional and national levels, and we commit to the governments and the peoples of this region to continue supporting their efforts, across the Caribbean, to uphold the global 2030 Agenda commitment to ‘Leave No One Behind’, he noted.
Highlights of the conference included the presentation on the SDSN Sustainable Development Goals Index and Dashboard which will monitor implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in the region, a youth forum which generated excellent ideas from young people and a presentation from Dr Idris Jala, a former Minister of Government of Malaysia who presented on Malaysia's breakthrough economic performance on the basis of the Sustainable Development Goals.
The National Planning Committee for the Conference will seek to build a regional post conference movement for the Sustainable Development Goals also branded Caribbean Action 2030.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/16782-regional-ministers-endorse-caribbean-action-2030-framework-agreement




Date: 21 July 2017
Title: Caribbean on track to reach treatment coverage target
Content: 21 July 2017
The Caribbean has achieved strong progress related to getting people living with HIV on treatment and reducing deaths due to AIDS, but gaps remain. In the region four of five (81%) people living with HIV who know their status are accessing antiretroviral therapy.  This means the region as a whole is doing a fairly good job at starting people on treatment following diagnosis. Haiti is the only country in the region to have achieved the second target--at least 90% of diagnosed people on treatment.
 
HIV treatment coverage has contributed to a  52% decline in AIDS-related deaths in the Caribbean over the last decade. Another positive note is that the scale has tipped and more than half of all people (52%)  living with HIV in the region are on antiretroviral therapy. However, there is still a significant proportion of people (48%) not yet accessing treatment.
 
Region lagging behind on testing and viral suppression

Of concern is the fact that the region is lagging behind on HIV testing and viral suppression. Progress must be accelerated for the Caribbean to achieve the 90-90-90 targets that will set it on course to end the AIDS epidemic by 2030.
 
One-third of people (36%) living with HIV in the Caribbean are not aware of their HIV status. Community-centred strategies are urgently needed to reach those who have not yet been diagnosed.

The Caribbean must also improve efforts to keep people in care once they’ve started treatment and to ensure that treatment is successful. Only about half of people accessing antiretroviral therapy in the Caribbean had access to routine viral load testing. In 2016 one-third (33%) of those on treatment were not virally suppressed. (“Viral suppression” means that people living with HIV have been treated to lower the level of HIV in their blood to undetectable levels. This protects their health while preventing transmission of the virus). Notably, several countries are getting closer to reaching the target. Three of four people on treatment achieved viral suppression in Barbados, Dominica, Guyana, Suriname and Trinidad and Tobago.
Dr. Nunez emphasized that “community health workers and civil society are critical to securing early HIV diagnosis and successful treatment”. The report called for greater community involvement in Caribbean health-care provision in order to reach the 90-90-90 targets.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/16784-caribbean-track-reach-treatment-coverage-target




Date: 23 February 2017
Title: Director General of International Labour Organization (ILO) meets UN Country Team
Content: 23 February 2017
Opportunities to collaborate with the International Labour Organization (ILO) on its Decent Work Agenda topped discussions between visiting ILO Director General, Guy Ryder, and Jamaica’s UN Country Team on 23 February 2017.
Mr. Ryder met with the Resident Coordinator and members of the UN Country Team during his recent visit to Jamaica for the Caribbean Future of Work Forum, organized by the International Labour Organization (ILO) in collaboration with the Government of Jamaica, and the 10th Meeting of Caribbean Ministers of Labour.
The meeting with the UN Country Team was convened at the Jamaica Pegasus Hotel, and attended by locally based representatives of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the United Nations Department of Safety and Security (UNDSS) and the International Labour Organization.
The meeting discussed socio economic challenges and conditions facing the Jamaican economy and the Jamaican worker, and explored opportunities for joint collaborations in support of ILO’s Decent Work Agenda.
Mr Ryder’s main engagement in Jamaica, the Caribbean Future of Work Forum brought together Ministers with responsibility for Labour, Permanent Secretaries and high-level officials of the English and Dutch-speaking Caribbean, as well as representatives from the Caribbean Congress of Labour (CCL) and the Caribbean Employers' Confederation (CEC), civil society, academia, development partners and the United Nations.
The Opening Ceremony was addressed by Hon. Shahine Robinson, Minister of Labour and Social Security, Jamaica, Mr Ryder, Jennifer Issacs-Dotson, President, Caribbean Congress of Labour, and Wayne Chen, President, Caribbean Employers' Confederation.
Under the Future of Work Centenary Initiative which the ILO launched in 2013, the Forum examined the drivers of change as they affect the world of work in the Caribbean and identified proactive actions needed to shape the future of work desired.
Panel discussions led by ILO Regional Director, Jose Manuel Salazar Xirinachs, focused on: Decent Jobs for All; Governance of Work; and Organization of Work and Production
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/16785-director-general-international-labour-organization-ilo-meets-un-country-team




Date: 30 January 2017
Title: Jamaica signs on to new 5-year UN programme for the Caribbean
Content: 30 January 2017
The Government of Jamaica signed on to the first combined United Nations (UN) Programme for the English and Dutch-speaking Caribbean on Thursday (January 19th), signaling its support of the new five year development package and endorsing its strong emphasis on improving people’s lives.
Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, Senator the Hon. Kamina Johnson Smith signed the US$197 million Multi-country Sustainable Development Framework (UN MSDF) on behalf of the Government of Jamaica, in the second of 18 official signing ceremonies to be scheduled across the region. UN Resident Coordinator, Mr. Bruno Pouezat signed on behalf of the 23-strong UN Country Team (UNCT) of Jamaica.  The signing ceremony and launch took place at the Spanish Court Hotel in Jamaica’s capital city Kingston, witnessed by Government officials, the diplomatic and international donor partner community and civil society representatives.
“Jamaica particularly welcomes the fact that the UN MSDF provides a common platform for development cooperation, which is strongly rooted and linked to national priorities and our own national development plan, Vision 2030. Further, we are also pleased that the UN MSDF will be anchored in the CARICOM Strategic Plan for 2015-2019,” Senator Johnson Smith said.
She noted that in order to maximize the impact of development efforts in the region, a more integrated and sustainable mechanism is required and that this is best served by the UN MSDF’s multi-country approach. “The UN MSDF, therefore, presents itself as the most suitable instrument to address these common and inter-related development issues at both the regional and national levels over the next five years”, Senator Johnson Smith acknowledged.
UN Resident Coordinator Mr. Pouezat in pointing out the benefits of this new regional arrangement to Jamaica highlighted the decreased administrative burden on the Government; a more coherent UN response to national challenges, needs, and priorities; easier access to the full range of UN expertise and resources across the region – not just nationally.
“From a cost perspective, the MSDF leverages a regional resource mobilization strategy, increases efficiency, and decreases transaction costs. And doing more with less matters, as development resources continue dwindling across the globe and the region,” he said. Mr. Pouezat also noted that other benefits for the Caribbean are likely to be derived from sustained regional and national impact through synergies at the regional level, helping meet the converging efforts of Caribbean countries and enhancing regional integration while localizing action on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Mr. Pouezat acknowledged the Planning Institute of Jamaica and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade for what he called their outstanding leadership in the development of the regional programme.
In Jamaica, the UN MSDF programme will be coordinated by a Joint National/United Nations Steering Committee (JNSC) established under the leadership of the Government of Jamaica and the United Nations Resident Coordinator (UN RC). Existing Thematic Working Groups (TWGs) of Jamaica’s Vision 2030 will strengthen collaboration and results on the Jamaica programme.
The four main priority areas of the programme are:
1.      An inclusive, equitable and prosperous Caribbean
2.      A Healthy Caribbean
3.      A Safe, Cohesive and Just Caribbean
4.      A Sustainable and Resilient Caribbean
The five-year package of technical and financial assistance to Jamaica will focus on Education, Health, Security and Justice, as well as Environment, Ecosystems, Renewable Energy and Sustainable Societies. Jamaica will implement the regional UN MSDF guided by annual Country Implementation Plans (CIPs).
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/16786-jamaica-signs-new-5-year-un-programme-caribbean




Date: 25 January 2017
Title: Office of the Chief Justice & UN Jamaica facilitate International Human Rights Seminar for the Judiciary
Content: 25 January 2017
On January 13 & 14, the United Nations in Jamaica collaborated with the Office of the Chief Justice to deliver a seminar to members of the judiciary at the Jamaica Pegasus Hotel in Kingston.
The seminar explored the following:
- An Overview of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in the Framework of International Human Rights Law
- Fair Trial, Liberty and Security of Person under the ICCPR in General Comments 32 and 35 (including gender considerations)
- The Impact of International Human Rights Law on Domestic Law and the Court System
- Comments/Views on the Role of Regional / International Jurisprudence for Domestic Courts
UN Resident Coordinator, Mr. Bruno Pouezat and Chief Justice, the Honourable Mrs. Justice Zaila McCalla, delivered remarks. Presentations were made by the following persons:
- Dr. Birgit Gerstenberg, UN Senior Human Rights Advisor
- Ms. Tracy Robinson, Lecturer, UWI Law Faculty at Mona
- The Honourable Mr. Justice Adrian Saunders, Judge, Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ)
- The Hon. Mr. Justice C. Dennis Morrison, President, Court of Appeal
The sessions were moderated by The Honourable Mrs. Justice Carol Lawrence-Beswick and The Honourable Mrs. Justice Sarah Thompson- James, Puisne Judges for the Supreme Court.

1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/16787-office-chief-justice-un-jamaica-facilitate-international-human-rights-seminar-judiciary




Date: 30 November 2016
Title: UN Environment Executive Director Solheim opens Jamaica SRO
Content: 30 November 2016
The official launch of the UNEP Caribbean Sub-Regional Office (SRO) in Jamaica took place on 30 November at the International Seabed Authority Building in Kingston. UN Resident Coordinator, Mr. Bruno Pouezat delivered welcome remarks while Ambassador Marcia Gilbert-Roberts, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, spoke on Jamaica’s commitment to the United Nations and to the United Nations Environment Programme.
Under-Secretary General & Executive Director of UN Environment, Mr. Erik Solheim was in attendance at the launch, addressing the audience on the UN Environment in the Caribbean. The Honourable Daryl Vaz, Minister without Portfolio in the Ministry of Economic Growth and Job Creation emphasized the importance being placed on the environment by the Government of Jamaica.
More Photos
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/15717-un-environment-executive-director-solheim-opens-jamaica-sro




Date: 20 November 2016
Title: Access road to Riverton Landfill formally handed over to Community
Content: 20 November 2016
The official hand over of the access road to the Riverton City Landfill took place on 14 November at the Power of Hope Deliverance Church in Riverton Meadows. The session started with a welcome prayer by Bishop Swayne Hazel and greetings from Mr. Denzil Thorpe, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Local Government and Community Development.
The UN Resident Coordinator and the UNDP Resident Representative Mr. Bruno Pouezat, then spoke on behalf the United Nations Office of Project Services (UNOPS), the UN agency responsible for implementing the project. He pointed out that the successful community-based approach has resulted in dramatic improvements in the living and environment conditions in the community. He also highlighted the involvement of women in the construction activities and the acquisition of new skills by community members.
Mr. Dennis Chung, Chairman of the National Solid Waste Management Authority thanked the UNOPS agency and the Mexican government which provided grant funding for the project. The Hon. Anthony Hylton, Member of Parliament, St Andrew West, applauded the community approach of the project which resulted in 250 new jobs for community members. Ambassador Cecilia Jaber from the Embassy of Mexico in Jamaica, congratulated all participants on their inputs and emphasized the importance of the project to the Mexican government.
Comments were shared by a representative of the community and the Hon. Desmond McKenzie, Minister of Local Government and Community Development, who praised the community for the peaceful and collaborative manner in which the project was executed. After a dedication prayer from Bishop Geofrey Stevens, the formal ribbon cutting and drive through on the newly rehabilitated concrete road took place. Several residents interacted with the invited guests and openly expressed their gratitude for the socio-economic and environment improvements which they now enjoy.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/15715-access-road-riverton-landfill-formally-handed-over-community




Date: 02 November 2016
Title: UN Women Executive Director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka pays courtesy mission to Jamaica
Content: 02 November 2016
Under-Secretary-General and UN Women Executive Director, Madame Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka paid a courtesy call on the UNCT team on 2 November 2016, at the UNDP office in Kingston.
Mlambo-Ngcuka also hosted a well-attended and highly interactive public discussion: “Women’s Empowerment Through Leadership”, in association with UWI Leads, at the Mona Visitor’s Lodge, University of the West Indies (UWI),  on 1 November, 2016.
Popular recording artist and Human Rights Advocate, Tanya Stephens, also delivered a special performance at the event.
More Photo
Even More Photos
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/15723-un-women-executive-director-phumzile-mlambo-ngcuka-pays-courtesy-mission-jamaica




Date: 09 October 2016
Title: Visualisation for Development: UNCT members receive Multimedia Capacity Training
Content: 09 October 2016
UN Jamaica staff members participated in a Multimedia Capacity Training session yesterday, 21 June, at the UNDP Country Office in Kingston. The session shared hands-on strategic approaches to imaging, digital audio and digital video techniques, which will visually enhance the packaging of sustainable development project activities and results. The initiative was organised by Ms. Keisha Livermore, Head of Office, IOM Kingston and Ms. Mickelle Hughes, UN Coordination Analyst, on behalf of the UN Communications Group.
The training session was facilitated by the UN/UNDP Communications & Digital Media Consultant, Vilma Gregory, and included three practitioner presentations: Linden Holness -Multimedia Developer and Photographer, Jelanie Thompson – Digital Audio Specialist and Videographer, Onaje Gregory – 3D Animator and Videographics Specialist.
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/15714-visualisation-development-unct-members-receive-multimedia-capacity-training




Date: 27 July 2016
Title: Minister Johnson Smith welcomes UNCT members
Content: 27 July 2016
The members of UNCT Jamaica, paid a courtesy call on 26 July, 2016, on the Hon. Kamina Johnson Smith, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, at her office in Kingston. Other staff members from the Ministry also greeted the UNCT representatives who shared their Sustainable Development projects and programmes with the Minister and her team.
The visiting UNCT members included:
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/16642-minister-johnson-smith%C2%A0welcomes-unct-members




Date: 27 April 2016
Title: Prime Minister Andrew Holness receives Mr. Bruno Pouezat for Presentation of his credentials
Content: 27 April 2016
Today, Prime Minister Andrew Holness received Mr. Bruno Pouezat at the Office of the Prime Minister, for the Presentation of his Credentials.
The following persons joined the new UN Resident Coordinator UNDP Resident Representative, Mr. Bruno Pouezat, at the special occasion.

- Ambassador Sheila Sealy Monteith of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
- Permanent Secretary in the Office of the Prime Minister, Ms. Elaine Foster-Allen
- Ms. Elinor Felix , Chief of State Protocol at Office of the Prime Minister
- Ms. Sheila Roseau , UNFPA Director and Representative of the Sub-regional Office
- Mr. Mark Connolly, UNICEF Representative to Jamaica

More Photos
1-3 Lady Musgrave Road
Kingston Jamaica
URL: https://jamaica.un.org/en/16652-prime-minister-andrew-holness-receives-mr-bruno-pouezat-presentation-his-credentials




