Date: 08 March 2024
Title: Kuwait Marks International Women's Day
Content: 08 March 2024
A word by the United Nations Resident Coordinator Ghada Eltaher
As we commemorate International Women's Day, I am honored to highlight the profound contributions of women in Kuwait and around the world. Today, we celebrate not only their achievements but also acknowledge the formidable challenges many women face daily.
In the State of Kuwait, women have played a vital role in the country's progress, contributing significantly to various sectors. However, we recognize that gender disparities persist, and concerted efforts are required to ensure equal opportunities for women in all aspects of life. The United Nations remains committed to supporting initiatives that promotes women empowerment in leadership, socially, economically, and eliminate barriers that hinder their full potential.
This year's theme, 'Break the Bias,' resonates strongly as we address deeply ingrained stereotypes and prejudices. It is imperative to implement relevant laws and legislations and fostering an environment that values diversity and inclusivity, to pave the way for a more just and equitable society.
Empowering women is not just a moral imperative but a strategic investment in the sustainable development of our communities. As stated in Kuwait vision 2035 pillar 6 on human capital. I command the leadership and our partners in the state of Kuwait, on the efforts done so far, and I call on governments counterparts, civil society, and the private sector to join hands in advancing woman empowerment commitments.
As we mark Women's Day, it is crucial to extend our heartfelt solidarity to the resilient women of Palestine, who face unique challenges amid complex geopolitical circumstances. The UN Resident Coordinator, Ms. Ghada Eltaher, emphasizes our commitment to supporting Palestinian women in their pursuit of rights, dignity, and empowerment. Recognizing the extraordinary strength displayed by Palestinian women, we stand united in advocating for their inclusion, security, and the realization of their aspirations for a just and prosperous future. The UN reiterates its dedication to working with the international community to address the specific needs of Palestinian women, and women in conflicts around the world Im fostering a world where every woman, regardless of her background, can thrive and contribute to positive societal transformations.
I also to take this opportunity to reiterate on UNDSG recent visit, to express my deep appreciation for the collaborative spirit demonstrated at the recent business dinner held hosted by HE Ambassador Sheikha Jawaher Al-Sabah, Assistant Foreign Minister for Human Rights Affairs Kuwait, in honor of HE Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammad, in presence of  distinguished women in leadership and economy from various fields.
The event served as a platform for constructive dialogue, networking, and knowledge exchange, aligning with the UN's commitment to fostering partnerships for global progress on women empowerment and SDG5. The discussion showcased diverse perspectives on gender equality, sustainable development, the regional geopolitical situation and its impact on the region and beyond. The main outcomes of the interaction focused on fostering a foundation for future collaborations, where potential areas for collaboration and future partnerships were identified, emphasizing the shared commitment to advancing common goals in diplomacy, leadership, peace and security, economy and communication.
Ms. Eltaher commends the commitment of all these inspiring women towards building a more inclusive and sustainable future for Kuwait and beyond. The event exemplified the power of collaboration, recognizing the critical role of women in leadership in shaping a positive impact at both local and global levels.
The DSG/UN looks forward to continued engagement and advisory role respectively with these esteemed women in advancing the UN's mission and contributing to the achievement of the Kuwait Vision 2035 and Sustainable Development, the six transitions, particularly in relation to SDG5 and SDG16.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/263195-kuwait-marks-international-womens-day




Date: 29 January 2024
Title: Workshop on the Development of National Human Rights Plans to Follow Up the Implementation of Recommendations Issued by International Human Rights Mechanisms
Content: 29 January 2024
Speech of the Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations and Resident Coordinator in the State of Kuwait at the opening of a training workshop in cooperation with the Kuwait Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on "Workshop on the Development of National Human Rights Plans to Follow Up the Implementation of Recommendations Issued by International Human Rights Mechanisms"
H.E. Sheikha Jawaher Al-Sabah, Assistant Foreign Minister for Human Rights of the State of Kuwait
Mr. Mazen Shaqoura, Regional Representative of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for the Middle East and North Africa
Your Excellencies Ambassadors
Colleagues, friends, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, good morning,
I am honored to stand before you today to address this esteemed assembly on our collaborative efforts and commitments to human rights in the State of Kuwait.
I would like to start by congratulating the State of Kuwait's for its recent membership at the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) which further exemplifies its commitment to promoting and safeguarding human rights on the global stage. Kuwait's active participation in the council provides a platform to contribute its unique perspectives, experiences, and initiatives to the international human rights discourse. This involvement signifies a willingness to not only uphold its own human rights standards but also to contribute constructively to the advancement of global norms and practices.

The United Nations’s partnership with the State of Kuwait reflects a shared dedication to upholding the principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Over the years, we have witnessed Kuwait’s unwavering commitment to fostering an environment where every individual's dignity and rights are respected.

Kuwait's engagement with UN mechanisms at various levels and mandated institutions, with the Esteemed Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the forefront has been instrumental in promoting human rights. Through dialogue and cooperation, we have collectively worked towards advancing social justice, promoting gender equality, and ensuring the protection of vulnerable populations. The Government of Kuwait's initiatives, such as its national action plans and legislative reforms, underscore its determination to create a society where human rights are a cornerstone.

It is imperative to acknowledge Kuwait's strides in aligning its domestic policies with international human rights standards. Our collaborative efforts extend beyond rhetoric, manifesting tangible improvements in areas such as education, healthcare, People with Disabilities, Women’s rights and labor rights. This reflects not only a commitment to human rights but also a dedication to sustainable development.

Kuwait has demonstrated a commendable dedication to improving its human rights record by actively engaging with OHCHR recommendations and following up on Special Procedures towards implementing international mechanisms of human rights. The ongoing dialogue between Kuwait and the UN reflects a commitment to continuous self-assessment and improvement and a willingness to address challenges, implement reforms, and align policies with international human rights standards.

A significant milestone in Kuwait's commitment to human rights is the establishment of the National Diwan of Human Rights. This institution serves as a pivotal platform for fostering dialogue, engagement, and collaboration among various stakeholders, including government officials, civil society organizations, and the public. The National Diwaniya stands as a testament to Kuwait's dedication to transparency and accountability, reinforcing the commitment to creating a society where human rights are not only upheld but actively promoted at every level.

The United Nations has always and continues to stand ready to provide all necessary support. As we move forward, let us reaffirm our joint commitment to strengthening the partnership between Kuwait and the United Nations. By leveraging our collective expertise and resources, we can further enhance mechanisms for the protection and promotion of human rights. This includes strengthening institutions (capacity building), empowering civil society, and fostering inclusive dialogues that amplify the voices of those often marginalized.

Last but not least, I express my sincere gratitude to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs represented by Sheikha Jawaher, Assistant Foreign Minister for Human Rights Affairs, for Kuwait's continuous collaboration and reiterate the UN's steadfast commitment to supporting the nation's efforts in advancing human rights, where the principles of equality, justice, and dignity are not just aspirations but the lived reality for everyone in Kuwait and beyond.

Thank you , Shukran Jazeelan
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/259060-workshop-development-national-human-rights-plans-follow-implementation-recommendations




Date: 16 January 2024
Title: Young Ambassador Programme Season Two - Climate Action: Climate Diplomacy & Climate Justice
Content: 16 January 2024
Remarks by UN Resident Coordinator Ghada Eltahir on the launch of the Young Ambassador Programme Season two - Climate Action: Climate Diplomacy & Climate Justice
Representive of guest of honor Sheikh Salem Abdullah Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Minister of Foreign Affairs,
(Mr. Mohammad Al Amiri, Deputy Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs for International Affairs)

Esteemed Ambassadors, Representatives of the participating Diplomatic Missions, the UN Country Team, Bright young minds “Young Ambassadors” gathered here today, Ladies and Gentlemen…Assalam Alaykom, good evening…

Following the success of last year pilot programme on Generation Equality, I stand before you with great enthusiasm and a profound sense of purpose as we launch the second season of the Young Ambassador Programme on Climate Action under the theme "Climate Justice & Climate Diplomacy."

This initiative comes with the commitment of H.E. Ambassador. Alia Mwani, Canada Ambassador to the State of Kuwait, and H.E. Ambassador Belinda Lewis, United Kingdom Ambassador to the State of Kuwait and the participating Embassies and UN Agencies.

Climate change knows no borders, Global emissions are at record highs, global temperatures are at record highs.  Heatwaves, storms, floods, droughts, and other climate-related disasters are growing in intensity.
It demands collective and collaborative efforts that transcend political and geographical boundaries. It is through shared responsibility and efforts that we can craft meaningful solutions to secure a sustainable future for all.

Dear partners and friends,
your unwavering support is instrumental in empowering these young ambassadors. Your expertise and resources play a pivotal role in shaping their understanding of climate issues and nurturing their potential to become leaders in climate diplomacy.

Dear Young Ambassadors,
Your innovative ideas, passion, and dedication have won you a seat today and set you as an ambassador of change. As you embark on this journey, remember that you carry the hopes of many who look to your generation for solutions. Embrace the power you hold to influence policies, engage communities, drive the change we so urgently need and hold each other and hold us accountable.

Climate justice is not an abstract concept; it is a call to ensure that the burdens of climate change do not fall solely on the most vulnerable. As a young ambassador, you are advocates for fairness, equity, and the right of every individual to live in a world free from the ravages of climate change.

Finally, let us remember that our efforts today lay the foundation for a sustainable and resilient tomorrow. The Young Ambassador Programme is not just a platform; it is a catalyst for change/progress. Together, let us embark on this journey with renewed determination, mindful of our shared responsibility to safeguard our planet for generations to come.

Shukran, Thank you…

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/257912-young-ambassador-programme-season-two-climate-action-climate-diplomacy-climate-justice




Date: 12 March 2023
Title: International Women's Day WEP
Content: 12 March 2023
International Women’s Day (IWD)
DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality”.
8 March 2023
To celebrate International Women’s Day this year, the Supreme Council for Planning and Development and the Women’s Research and Studies Center/Kuwait University, in partnerships with the UN in Kuwait, UNDP and UN Women, will be holding a discussion panel to highlight the importance of Women's Economic Empowerment (WEE) in contributing to the achievement of sustainable development, to discuss the role of Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) as a set of principles offering guidance to businesses on how to promote gender equality and women’s empowerment in the workplace, marketplace and community, and to share and promote achievements and initiatives undertaken by the private sector as well as UNDP and UN Women in promoting Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 5 on gender equality and women’s empowerment, in particular  economic empowerment of women in their workplaces and communities. Optimizing women’s perspectives, skills and innovative ideas – whether in the markets or workplaces – is key to business development and inclusive development.
“A new approach to financing where public and private sector investments are tailored to women’s and girls’ needs, can transform the technology and innovation ecosystem,” said Susanne Mikhail, UN Women Regional Director for the Arab States. “If we apply strategic financial levers such as public sector digital programmes, research grants and procurement, and private sector investments, we can transform innovation ecosystems. Public and private sectors must fund gender analysis and interventions in all digital policies and programmes, research grants and procurement,” she added.  “UN Women has prioritized innovation and technology as one of the drivers of change to achieve gender equality and the SDG
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/222885-international-womens-day-wep




Date: 12 March 2023
Title: Young Ambassador Program closing ceremony
Content: 12 March 2023
Young Ambassador Program closing ceremony
Young Ambassador Program closing ceremony
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/222884-young-ambassador-program-closing-ceremony




Date: 01 May 2022
Title: IOM Kuwait Distributes Food Packages to Migrants During Ramadan
Content: 01 May 2022
The International Organization for Migration (IOM), UN Migration agency in Kuwait distributed food packages to migrant workers in Kuwait during the Holy month of Ramadan, in coordination with the Social Work Society (SWS), a Kuwaiti Civil Society Organization. Through the support of volunteers from the migrant community, essential 2-week supply of food staples were distributed to a group of low-income migrant workers to enable them to have sufficient meals for ‘iftar’ during Ramadan.
This activity was implemented in partnership with Ooredoo telecom, through a joint agreement signed in November 2020, under the My Ooredoo application.  The application allows customers and members of the ‘Nojoom’ program to donate their points to IOM to support community cohesion activities and support migrant workers. Since its signing, several activities to support marginalized migrant populations have been organized. These activities included a series of psychosocial support workshops for residents of the government of Kuwait’s shelter for female foreign workers, the distribution of over one-thousand Personal Hygiene & Protective kits (PPE) to vulnerable populations in Kuwait during the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, and awareness raising activities on the topics of human trafficking and women’s day.
The International Organization for Migration (IOM), UN Migration agency in Kuwait works towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on all migration related issues, as well as partnering with the government of Kuwait in order to provide support to humanitarian crisis around the world.

ENDS
For more information please contact: Dana Al-Othman at IOM Kuwait, Email: dalothman@iom.int
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/180209-iom-kuwait-distributes-food-packages-migrants-during-ramadan




Date: 19 April 2022
Title: المفوضية توقع اتفاقية مع جمعية الشيخ عبد الله النوري لدعم اللاجئين السوريين في الأردن
Content: 19 April 2022
وقعت المفوضية السامية للأمم المتحدة لشؤون اللاجئين وجمعية الشيخ عبدالله النوري الخيرية الكويتية اتفاقية بقيمة 400 ألف دولار أمريكي لدعم اللاجئين السوريين في الأردن.
وقع الاتفاقية كل من ممثلة المفوضية لدى دولة الكويت نسرين ربيعان، في مقر جمعية الشيخ عبدالله النوري الخيرية الواقع في منطقة القادسية وتم الإبرام على الاتفاقية من قبل السيد/ جمال النوري رئيس مجلس إدارة جمعية الشيخ عبدالله النوري الخيرية
تهدف الاتفاقية إلى تقديم المساعدات النقدية لأكثر من 2,000 أسرة لاجئة (بواقع 347 أسرة شهرياً لمدة ستة أشهر) والتي ستعينهم على التزود باحتياجاتهم الأساسية كالغذاء والإيجار والرعاية الصحية والتعليم. هذه الاتفاقية هي نتاج حملة "دثروني" التي أطلقتها المفوضية في الكويت بالشراكة مع جمعية النوري في نوفمبر 2021 واستمرت حتى مارس 2022.
وأعربت ممثلة المفوضية لدى دولة الكويت، نسرين ربيعان، خلال حفل التوقيع عن امتنانها للقائمين على جمعية الشيخ عبد الله النوري الكويتية، وعلى دعمهم المستمر لأنشطة المفوضية الإنسانية، وقالت: "نفتخر بشراكتنا مع جميعة الشيخ عبدالله النوري العريقة، وهي ثاني اتفاقية تبرمها المفوضية مع الجمعية، والتي سوف تسهم في دعم جهودنا للتخفيف من معاناة اللاجئين السوريين. فمع مرور أكثر من 11 عاماً على اندلاع الأزمة السورية، وفي ظل الآثار الكارثية للجائحة وارتفاع مستويات الفقر، فقد أصبح كل يومٍ بمثابة حالة طوارئ بالنسبة للاجئين، ونحن نعول على شركاء المفوضية من جمعيات وشركات وأفراد لسد العجز ودعم الجهود الرامية لمساعدة اللاجئين السوريين، الذين وصل عددهم لأكثر من 6.6 مليون لاجئ حول العالم." وأضافت: "هذه الاتفاقية تدل على الثقافة الإنسانية العالية لدى الشعب الكويتي، ونتطلع إلى توسيع نطاق التعاون مع الجمعيات الخيرية الكويتية لمساعدة اللاجئين والنازحين حول العالم."
من جهته قال رئيس مجلس إدارة جمعية الشيخ عبدالله النوري الخيرية المهندس جمال عبدالخالق النوري إن هذه هي الشراكة الثانية بين الجمعية والمفوضية السامية للأمم المتحدة لشؤون اللاجئين والتي من المقرر أن يستفيد منها 2082 أسرة سورية لاجئة في الأردن لمدة ستة أشهر.
وأوضح النوري أن اتفاقية التعاون التي تمت بين الجمعية والمفوضية خلال العام الماضي استفاد من نتائجها 2053 عائلة من اللاجئين السوريين بالأردن
مؤكداً حرص جمعية الشيخ عبدالله النوري الخيري على استمرار الشراكة الاستراتيجية مع  المفوضية السامية للأمم المتحدة لشؤون اللاجئين من أجل عمل إنساني أفضل ومزيد من النجاحات الميدانية في مساندة النازحين واللاجئين حول العالم.
بدوره، صرح رئيس قسم شراكات القطاع الخاص لدى المفوضية في الكويت، نادر النقيب: "تعزز المساعدات النقدية من قدرة اللاجئين على تلبية احتياجاتهم بكرامة، كما تمنحهم حرية الاختيار من خلال تحديد أولويات الإنفاق لديهم." وأضاف: "تعول المفوضية على الدعم المقدم من شركاء القطاع الخاص والجمعيات الخيرية في الكويت في سبيل الاستجابة للاحتياجات الإنسانية المتزايدة لدى اللاجئين، ونحن نثمن شراكتنا مع جمعية الشيخ عبد الله النوري التي تساهم في إحداث فارق في حياة الكثيرين منهم."
" تعد حملة «دفء الشتاء» لعام 2021 - 2022، والتي تهدف الى تقديم المساعدات العاجلة للاجئين في مختلف الدول وخاصة في الداخل السوري وعلى الحدود التركية السورية وفي الأردن ولبنان، وأيضا في الجمهورية القرغيزية، التي تطلقها المفوضية كل عام من الأدوات الأساسية لدعم اللاجئين الذين يواجهون ظروف الطقس الصعبة في ظل شح مقومات الحياة، والحاجة الماسة للمساعدات اللازمة من خيام وبطانيات والتدفئة وأيضا الغذاء والمأوى والعلاج ".

لمزيد من المعلومات يرجى التواصل مع:

خالد كبارة
المسؤول الإعلامي لمفوضية اللاجئين لدى دول مجلس التعاون الخليجي
+971 50 641 0868
kabbara@unhcr.org

لولوة التركيت
مسؤولة العلاقات الخارجية
مكتب المفوضية السامية للأمم المتحدة لشؤون اللاجئين في دولة الكويت
tarkeet@unhcr.org


URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/177951-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D9%81%D9%88%D8%B6%D9%8A%D8%A9-%D8%AA%D9%88%D9%82%D8%B9-%D8%A7%D8%AA%D9%81%D8%A7%D9%82%D9%8A%D8%A9-%D9%85%D8%B9-%D8%AC%D9%85%D8%B9%D9%8A%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B4%D9%8A%D8%AE-%D8%B9%D8%A8%D8%AF-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%84%D9%87-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%86%D9%88%D8%B1%D9%8A-%D9%84%D8%AF%D8%B9%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%AC%D8%A6%D9%8A%D9%86-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B3%D9%88%D8%B1%D9%8A%D9%8A%D9%86-%D9%81%D9%8A-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D8%B1%D8%AF%D9%86




Date: 31 March 2022
Title: UNHCR and Tanmeia Foundation launch Ramadan campaign to support Rohingya refugees
Content: 31 March 2022
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency in Kuwait has partnered with the Global Charity Association for Development, Tanmeia Foundation, in launching its Ramadan campaign, with the aim of gathering support for Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh during the holy month of Ramadan.
The launching event was held in the UN House "Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al Sabah Building," and attended by UNHCR's Representative in Kuwait, Nisreen Rubaian, Dr. Nasser Al Ajmi, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and General Manager of Tanmeia, UNHCR’s Chief of Private Sector Partnerships in MENA, Houssam Chahine, Kuwaiti Artist, Humood Al Khudher, in addition to UNHCR partners in Kuwait.
The campaign aims to raise funds to support UNHCR's humanitarian response to Rohingya refugees needs in Cox’s Bazaar,Bangladesh, which includes securing adequate shelter solutions and ensuring basic needs, such as food, medicine, healthcare services, education, clean water, and education.
Nisreen Rubaian, UNHCR's Representative in Kuwait, expressed her appreciation for Tanmeia's support to UNHCR's humanitarian activities. "Our private sector and charity partners have supported around half a million Rohingya refugees over the past two years, which is also demonstrated in Tanmeia’s philanthropic role by lending a helping hand wherever refugees are, it also highlights Kuwait's humanitarian leadership." She added “"We look forward to strengthening our cooperation with Kuwaiti charitable associations to help displaced  and refugees worldwide."
On his part, Tanmeia’s Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and General Manager, Dr. Nasser Al Ajmi, commented on the collaboration with UNHCR, stating that, “the pandemic has left the marginalized and most vulnerable communities in dire need of urgent relief." He added: "This collaboration will provide relief assistance to those who are most in need in Bangladesh."
UNHCR’s Head of Private Sector Partnerships in Kuwait and Emerging Markets, Nader El Nakib, said: “'Tanmeia has contributed more than US$ 1 million since 2020 to support UNHCR's projects in the sectors of shelter, food, education, water, and healthcare, which were implemented in Bangladesh, Lebanon, Jordan, and Yemen. Tanmeia was the first charity to launch a public fund-raising campaign in Kuwait alongside UNHCR, during Ramadan 2020."
In this year's event, Kuwaiti artist Humood Alkhudher also launched his collaboration with UNHCR on an anthem titled "Ekhtiary" which conveys a message of peace and solidaarity on behalf of forcibly displaced people worldwide during the holy month of Ramadan.
Around one million Rohingya refugees in Cox's Bazaar camps remain in need of healthcare, education, and livelihood opportunities. UNHCR and its partners are working to scale up health and education services, as well as skills and livelihood programmes.

FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT:
Khaled Kabbara
Communications Officer - GCC Countries
+971 50 641 0868
kabbara@unhcr.org

Loulwah Al-Tarkeet
Assistant External Relations Officer - UNHCR Kuwait
+965 97883866
tarkeet@unhcr.org
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/176630-unhcr-and-tanmeia-foundation-launch-ramadan-campaign-support-rohingya-refugees




Date: 30 March 2022
Title: From Concepts to Implementation: Health Economics and Financing for Universal Health Coverage
Content: 30 March 2022
Kuwait - 30 March 2022,This workshop has been jointly organized in a collaborative effort by World Health Organization (WHO), the International Health Relations Department and Directorate of Planning at The Ministry of Health (MOH) , Kuwait.  The purpose of the workshop is to increase understanding of health economics and financing concepts and how these tools can contribute to improved design, implementation, and evaluation of health financing reforms for Universal Health Coverage (UHC), and to enable participants to apply them to the health financing landscape of Kuwait.

The workshop is co-facilitated by WHO team in collaboration with Kuwait University’s Faculty of Public Health, Providing for Health (P4H) Network for UHC, International Labour Organization (ILO), and International Organization for Migration (IOM). Participants of the workshop include representatives from directorates of International Health Relations, Pharmaceutical Services, Budget & Control, Dental Services, Quality and Accreditation, Non-Communicable disease, Undersecretary Office, National Center for Health Information, Health Insurance, and Travel Abroad.

The workshop is part of the ongoing technical support being provided by WHO to the Ministry of Health, Kuwait and is accompanied by a detailed and collaborative review of the health financing system in Kuwait around the different functions of health financing, support to the MOH in the creation of a Health Economics and Financing Unit (HEFU) in the MOH, and capacity building of MOH and other key stakeholders across the government and external partners on health economics and financing, based on an assessment of needs, existing capacity, and remaining gaps.

Dr Assad Hafeez, WHO Representative in Kuwait said: “To 'Invest better in Health and put better quality on par with expanded service coverage', countries require political commitment and technical skills. WHO's ongoing support to Ministry of Health in strengthening health economics and financing capacity across the system is a step in the same direction and will help the country harmonize its health investments and 'Leave No One Behind' in its progress towards Universal Health Coverage”

End.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/176255-concepts-implementation-health-economics-and-financing-universal-health-coverage




Date: 29 March 2022
Title: In Kuwait, UNHCR's Iraq Representative sheds light on the growing humanitarian needs of Syrian refugees
Content: 29 March 2022
The UN Refugee Agency’s representative in Iraq Jean-Nicolas Beuze concluded a two-day visit to Kuwait, to shed light on humanitarian needs and the situation of Syrian refugees in Iraq. This is Jean Nicolas first visit to Kuwait.
The visit accentuates Kuwait's strategic partnership with UNHCR and its leading role in supporting the agency's humanitarian work, ensuring refugee and displaced people have the assistance they need around the globe.
The visit included meetings with Governmental bodies and UNHCR’s partners from the private and philanthropic sector. During which, Beauze met with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, represented by His Excellency Walid Al-Bahr, the Kuwait Fund's Deputy Director General for Operational Development, and discussed the latest developments related to infrastructure projects financed by the Fund in northern Iraq as well as the latest humanitarian situation of displaced persons in Yemen.
In Addition, Jean-Nicolas met with Kuwait’s Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs for Development and International Cooperation H.E. Hamad Al Meshaan and discussed the support provided by the private and charitable sectors in Kuwait. Also, in a meeting with the Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs for International Organizations Affairs, His Excellency Mr. Abdulaziz Al-Jarallah, Beauze expressed his sincere appreciation for the contributions and support provided by Kuwait since the outbreak of the Syrian refugee crisis in 2011, enabling UNHCR to assist over 8 million refugees and internally displaced Syrians.
The visit also saw meetings with officials and representatives from Kuwait based charitable, humanitarian, and philanthropic associations, including the Kuwait Relief Society, the Kuwaiti Society for Humanitarian Endowment and Development, and the Direct Aid Society.
Upon concluding, Jean-Nicolas stated, “This visit aims to shed light on the field and humanitarian situation facing refugees and displaced persons, and to show how aid and donations have impacted their lives." He added "Our partnership with the government of Kuwait, along with the private and charitable sectors, is founded on the principles and values of humanity. Kuwait has always been a pioneer in aiding the most vulnerable. Its humanitarian role is necessary and essential to meet the developments and the enormous humanitarian needs around the world."
Kuwait has long been a strategic partner of UNHCR, supporting humanitarian efforts globally and providing support to UNHCR field operations in terms of protection and assistance to refugees and internally displaced persons, having provided approximately 435 million dollars in humanitarian aid, most of these funds went to Syria and Yemen.

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/176631-kuwait-unhcrs-iraq-representative-sheds-light-growing-humanitarian-needs-syrian-refugees




Date: 13 March 2022
Title: IOM Kuwait, the Embassy of Sri Lanka, and Ooredoo Telecom Celebrate the International Women’s Day Through Arts
Content: 13 March 2022
Kuwait/13 March 2022, To mark International Women’s Day, the International Organization for Migration (IOM), UN Migration agency in Kuwait, brought together women from different walks of life and organized an art event that allowed them to express themselves through painting, while socializing with others.
The event came in coordination with the Embassy of Sri Lanka in Kuwait and took place at its premises, and was in partnership with Ooredoo telecom, the first to introduce innovative digital services in Kuwait, through a joint agreement signed in November 2020, under the My Ooredoo application.  The application allows customers and members of the ‘Nojoom’ program to donate their points to IOM to support community cohesion activities and support migrant workers.
“It is critical to recognize that women, including migrant women, are also powerful agents and leaders in their families and communities, and at national and international levels, providing resources for their families, facilitating migration, and adapting during displacement.” said Mazen AboulHosn, IOM Kuwait Chief of Mission “Utilizing the contributions and ensuring the participation of all genders is key to addressing climate change and disaster impacts and ensuring that any solutions build on the capabilities, knowledge and perspectives of women. It is essential also to share mutual benefits between genders and empower women to be active agents in mitigating climate change and pursuing adaptation responses “.
“Expression through arts is an activity that is educational, social and cultural. Art-based activity can have a positive effect on several aspects of the being. We are glad to organize this activity with the Sri Lankan embassy through the Nojoom program of Ooredoo.
The International Women’s Day is dedicated by the United Nations (UN) on March 8th of each year to celebrate the effective participation and role that women play in our societies. This year’s theme is “Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow”, recognizing the contribution of women and girls around the world, who are leading the charge on climate change adaptation, mitigation, and response, to build a more sustainable future for all.
“We are honored to work with and celebrate this very important day with the IOM and the Ooredoo telecom.” Said H. E. Mohammed Jauhar, Ambassador of Sri Lanka “I am pleased to note that, Sri Lankan women, along with men, have been exercising the universal franchise, since 1931, and access to free education since 1945, which contributed immensely in their empowerment. We, at the Embassy in Kuwait, are very pleased with the contribution of our women in Kuwait as well as in Sri Lanka. We have tirelessly been working with Kuwait authorities and our international partners, in addressing all matters related to women empowerment and we are committed to do more”
Mr. Mijbil Alayoub, Senior Director, Corporate Communications, Ooredoo Kuwait, said: “Women empowerment is essential for all-round development of societies and nations as a whole. It falls under our responsibility to support women through equipping them with equal opportunities so they realize their full identity and power in all spheres if life. In the State of Kuwait, one can see a long list of women who have great roles in society, as leaders, educators, entrepreneurs and business-women, and that is something we take pride of. At Ooredoo Kuwait, we take serious steps that allows all women to work in a safe and caring environment, which allow them to grow at all levels; professionally, personally, socially, emotionally and physically.”
IOM takes this opportunity congratulate Kuwaiti women and all women around the world and wishes them a happy International Women’s Day.

ENDS
For more information please contact: Dana Al-Othman at IOM Kuwait, Email: dalothman@iom.int

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/175346-iom-kuwait-embassy-sri-lanka-and-ooredoo-telecom-celebrate-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-through




Date: 08 March 2022
Title: Workshop on Technical Support for Members of the Standing Committee for Reporting and Follow-up
Content: 08 March 2022
Kuwait, March 8th, 2022 The Resident Coordinator’s office in Kuwait and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, participated in a workshop to discuss the commitment of the State of Kuwait to implement its voluntary pledge presented in its third national periodic report within the universal periodic review of 2020, which includes preparing a comprehensive national plan for human right through providing technical support in cooperation with the Kuwait’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs represented in the Permanent Committee for Human Rights in writing and reviewing reports.
The State of Kuwait works to promote and protect human rights through its constitution, which includes many articles that comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and relevant international charters and conventions, and through Kuwait’s close cooperation with the United Nations Office and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights represented in The Middle East and North Africa Department, as these provide technical support for the implementation of the international set recommendations  issued through the periodic review and the concluding observations of the human rights treaty bodies.Kuwait has set several laws and legislations that display the state’s commitments to human rights as well as Its establishment of national mechanisms that contribute to the implementation of those laws and legislations.
The State of Kuwait also established the Permanent National Committee to prepare and review reports on the basis of international set standards related to human rights. The committee will be lead by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the membership of other governmental agencies. The Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Talal AlMutairi, stated that the workshop was designed to enhance the committee’s members on reporting and following-up as well as promoting better implementation of Recently established recommendations regarding human rights. The state of Kuwait has made voluntary pledges to develop a national action plan for the protection and promotion of human rights, this will be a crucial step.
Dr. Tariq Al-Sheikh, representative of the United Nations Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator, confirmed that this workshop will contribute to enriching the necessary steps for preparing an agreed action plan for human rights and to follow up on recommendations by various entities. This action plan aims to enhance the state of Kuwait's submission of reports to the various committees concerned with human rights at the United Nations. We also thank the efforts of His Excellency Ambassador Talal Al-Mutairi, Assistant Foreign Minister for Human Rights Affairs, the concerned team and the National Committee from various governmental sectors, in achieving this effective step, which will help support and build special capacities in developing a national action plan based on best practices and exchange of knowledge and experience.
Dr. Dhafer Al-Husseini, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights expressed that is pleased to be here today at the Sheikh Saud Al-Nasser Al-Sabah Diplomatic Institute to work together towards a national plan to implement the recommendations of the international mechanisms for the members of the Standing Committee for Reporting and Follow-up in Kuwait for the period from 8-10 March 2022. The team also looks forward to more constructive cooperation between the State of Kuwait and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in order to promote and protect human rights for all.

The primary aim of this workshop is represented through enhancing the committee member’s capacities in utilizing tools available in promoting and protecting human rights in Kuwait. These include 1) Provide a general understanding of the functions of international human rights mechanisms. 2) Enhance participants’ skills and knowledge regarding the implementation of recommendations issued by the UN  3) Enhance participants’ capacity to develop the national human rights action plan for Kuwait.
Kuwait has taken positive steps in establishing the National Institution for Human Rights - the National Human Rights Office as an independent entity aimed at promoting and protecting human rights and in light of the Constitution and the provisions of international agreements ratified by the State of Kuwait. Kuwait also established a national inter-ministerial mechanism in 2014, this was entrusted with the preparation of reports and follow-up on the implementation of recommendations and observations of international human rights practices.

Additional information
The State of Kuwait has ratified seven of the nine basic human rights treaties and two optional protocols:

At the third session of the International Periodic Review of the Human Rights Council on January 29, 2020, the State of Kuwait made the following voluntary pledges:

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/174670-workshop-technical-support-members-standing-committee-reporting-and-follow




Date: 08 February 2022
Title: Innovation is the Path to Excellence Towards a Sustainable Society Webinar
Content: 08 February 2022
Kuwait- 8 February 2022, The United Nations in the State of Kuwait participated in a webinar entitled “Innovation is the path to excellence towards a sustainable society,” in partnership with the Embassy of the United Arab Emirates in the State of Kuwait, and in cooperation with the United Nations Development Program and ESCWA, and with the participation of the Mohammed bin Rashid Center for Governmental Innovation and Al-Sabah Al-Ahmad Center for Innovation. The workshop provided an opportunity to exchange experiences on how to stimulate innovation in the work environment, discuss the importance of introducing a culture of innovation in the workplace, and discuss how to attract and encourage school students to innovate.
In today’s digital era, innovation plays its leading role in social, economic and environmental transformation since within-sector productivity growth entails the adoption of new technologies and management practices that increase the efficiency of production while influencing the ways to influence behavior change among institutions and individuals. The concept of innovation significantly accelerated by the radical digital technology begun after the introduction of the World Wide Web and the digital transformation of the global economy has hardly been slow in the past 20 years. Since then, an integration of innovative technologies has been employed into all aspects of life, which fundamentally changes the way people study, work and live.
The use of machinery supersedes repetitive manual labor, renewable resources replace traditional energies, and creative tools are deployed to facilitate everyday life. Innovative technologies and ways of practices incorporate all socio-economic activity reliant on, or significantly enhanced by the use of digital inputs, including digital technologies, infrastructure and services for innovation and data. It refers to all producers and consumers, including government, communities and individuals, that are utilizing these digital inputs in their socio-economic activities. It would also affect the improvement of human capital in a way of how people acquire knowledge and then utilize in their daily life and workplace in particular. In general, innovative technological progress has been a key force behind sustaining economic growth, improving living standards and offering better health outcomes.
Even though innovation’s track record on the environment is mixed, new innovation has also contributed to lowering pollution levels and promoting greater sustainability, positively shaping sustainability trend in the economy. Furthermore, such economy enabled by innovative technologies is bourgeoning and growing under the context of the 4th Industrial Revolution (4IR). Ranging from cloud computing and artificial intelligence (AI) to blockchain and Internet of Things (IoT), 4IR related innovative technologies have radically transformed the concept, materials, and production patterns throughout business processes, while significantly changing ways of individual practices and even thinking. Designed by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) – the Global Innovation Index (GII) 2021 captures the innovation ecosystem performance of 132 economies and tracks the most recent global innovation trends.
In effect, Kuwait ranks 72 among 132 countries in GII 2021 improving its ranking by 6 places compared to the 2020 rankings. Compared to other GCC countries, the United Arab Emirates has the highest ranking in global GII index ranking 33 globally.
Even though innovation’s track record on the environment is mixed, new innovation has also contributed to lowering pollution levels and promoting greater sustainability, positively shaping sustainability trend in the economy. Furthermore, such economy enabled by innovative technologies is bourgeoning and growing under the context of the 4th Industrial Revolution (4IR). Ranging from cloud computing and artificial intelligence (AI) to blockchain and Internet of Things (IoT), 4IR related innovative technologies have radically transformed the concept, materials, and production patterns throughout business processes, while significantly changing ways of individual practices and even thinking.
HE the Ambassador of the United Arab Emirates, Dr. Matar AlNeyadi, emphasized that: “Innovation is a way of life, as the United Arab Emirates has striven in the past years to invest in innovation as a national priority and is called to be an incubator for innovation and an incubator for the efforts of innovators and motivates and tightens their hands to bring out their creativity in all aspects of life, and seeks To develop everything around us for one goal only, which is to facilitate services, overcome the challenges facing the community, and provide the best for it.”
Dr Tarek Elsheikh, Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator to the State of Kuwait highlighted that: “Despite the importance of innovation in the society, it is important to look at the level of performance in terms of the innovation index, designed by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) – the Global Innovation Index (GII) 2021 captures the innovation ecosystem performance of 132 economies and tracks the most recent global innovation trends. In effect, Kuwait ranks 72 among 132 countries in GII 2021 improving its ranking by 6 places compared to the 2020 rankings. Compared to other GCC countries, the United Arab Emirates has the highest ranking in global GII index ranking 33 globally”.
“With the network of over 115 countries, UNDP accelerator labs have been experimenting and implementing development solutions to advance sustainable development in countries with different development challenges. I am happy to share the latest examples of UNDP’s technical support by bringing innovation and development solutions together.” – Said Ms. Jennifer Colville, Chief, Innovation Unit, UNDP Regional Hub for Arab States.
From her end, Dr. Nibal Idlebu, Chief of Innovation Section, UN-ESCWA said:“The formulation and implementation of national innovation strategy that enhances the National innovation System (or innovation eco-system) and links innovation to productive sector will strengthen knowledge-based society in Kuwait and  support the achievement of “New Kuwait”.
As it is worth noting, today marks the World Safer using Internet Day, and the "Safe Internet Day" aims to create a better and safer space, and the campaign aims to reach children, youth, parents, teachers, social workers, as well as industry, innovation and decision-makers, to encourage everyone to Play their part in creating a better and safer visual world.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/171343-innovation-path-excellence-towards-sustainable-society-webinar




Date: 24 January 2022
Title: #Education4PeaceQ8 Changing Course, Transforming Education
Content: 24 January 2022
International Day of Education
Kuwait - 24 January 2022; “The time has come to reignite our collective commitment to education." As rightly said UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. This year the UN marks the International Day of Education under the theme “Changing Course, Transforming Education”. As highlighted in the recently published UNESCO’s global Futures of Education report, transforming the future requires an urgent rebalancing of our relationships with each other, with the nature as well as with technology that permeates our lives, bearing breakthrough opportunities while raising serious concerns for equity, inclusion and democratic participation.
This year’s International Day of Education will be a platform to showcase the most important transformations that have to be nurtured to realize everyone’s fundamental right to education and build  more sustainable, inclusive and peaceful futures. It will generate debate around how to strengthen education as “a public endeavour and a common good”, how to steer the digital transformation, support teachers, safeguard the planet and unlock the potential in every person to contribute to collective well-being and our shared home.
Dr Tarek Elsheikh, Representative of UN Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator to the State of Kuwait said: “In Kuwait, is no different, the UN is collaborating with AbdulAziz Al-Babtain Foundation, through marking a series the UN international events, to promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, the provision of access to justice for all, and building effective, accountable institutions at all levels locally and internationally”. Al-Babtain Foundation is a key partner who translates the true meaning of culture of peace through education. Prof. Abdulaziz Al-Babtain, an eminent Kuwaiti Poet and writer was awarded recently by UNESCO on Arabic Language Day in recognition of his well-known and pioneering achievements in communication between civilizations. It is a great opportunity for the UN in Kuwait to join forces to promote quality education for peace and development in achieving the global goals in Kuwait and beyond” Dr Elsheikh added.

Prof. Abdulaziz Saud Albabtain refer to his book “Contemplation for Peace, p32” where he says: “We must all understand that if we want to enshrine something and make it eternal as a value, a symbol, or a wisdom, then it must be taught to an entire generation, and this generation will carry its banner and advance it make it part of the culture. There is no doubt that education is a right to all human beings: it is the highest right, or in other words, the universal right of all human rights”.

Dr Anna Paolini, Director of the UNESCO Office in Doha and Representative to the countries of the Gulf and Yemen, emphasized: “This year we celebrate the International Day of Education in a moment when education systems are still recovering from the COVID19 pandemic and grappling with additional challenges given by the new waves of the virus spread. More than ever, we are reminded of the multiple dimensions of learning institutions as learning, well-being, social and protection sites for children and youth. UNESCO’s flagship report on the Futures of Education calls for a new social contract where all involved actors share a similar vision of the public purposes of education. Concerted and coordinated efforts, principles of participation, effective partnerships, including the private sectors, are key to deliver on the Sustainable Development Agenda. It is time now to reimagining learning institutions as sites of inclusion and equity, where the well-being of children and youth is promoted to build the societies and futures we strive for and lifelong learning opportunities are more widely made available”.

As we continue to work with the government of Kuwait and national partners on advancing this national priority, and promoting Human Capital & Knowledge Economy - Redirecting Education and Training in Kuwait ,where strategic investment in education is identified as one of the most critical development areas to accelerate the process of the knowledge economy in the country. The United Nations in Kuwait collaboration with Al-Babtain foundation will be announced today 24th January 2022, launching an initiative to mark the “International Day for Education”, targeting university students in Kuwait between the age of 18 to 25. Participating students should submit papers which generate innovative solutions for transformations - in view with the current situation - to build/accommodate more equitable and inclusive education systems that will accelerate progress towards SDG4 (Quality Education) and SDG16 (Peace, justice, and strong institutions).

Main objectives of the initiative is to:

Without inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong opportunities for all, countries will not succeed in achieving gender equality and breaking the cycle that is leaving millions of children, youth and adults behind.

For more info please visit @UNinKuwait #Education4PeaceQ8

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/169495-education4peaceq8-changing-course-transforming-education




Date: 16 January 2022
Title: Diversifying Kuwait’s Economy: Myth or Reality?
Content: 16 January 2022
Seung Jin Baek, Ph.D.
Chief Economist
United Nations in Kuwait
When deciding how to diversify Kuwait’s economy, I would start by focusing on three core areas.

First, Kuwait can aim to reduce oil-related activities. However, the question may then ask whether the country would simply force oil companies to reduce their oil refinery and production volumes? If oil companies were willing enough to do so accordingly, then Kuwait is likely to experience serious, albeit short-term, fiscal challenges given the fact that around 90 per cent of the country’s fiscal revenues currently stem from oil export revenues. In this regard, Kuwait would most likely prefer to redirect oil-related activities into more sustainable ones by institutionalizing the following three modalities.

The first is to provide incentives to oil companies, which could fill the expected revenue gap resulting from the reduction of oil activities, for instance, through tax incentives or regulatory governance that can allow their operations to be expanded into the non-oil sector. This can be considered an initiative towards “diversification” while at the same time balancing the sectoral shift.

The second is to promote carbon tax initiatives and Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) reporting as well as possibly supporting the adaption of green technologies that can be of immediate benefit to business operations. Such an approach will be the first yet the most fundamental step towards putting the country on the path of “green growth”.

The third is to implement awareness raising initiatives related to the reduction of CO2 emissions and further link these to public health concerns. These initiatives should primarily target the general public, academia, civil society organizations and especially youth. This approach is particularly crucial as community-demand can be one of the most effective nudging tools for behavioral change at both the consumer and corporate level.

Second, Kuwait can simply target an increase in non-oil sector activities. Considering the relatively small domestic market, it is wiser to focus on two development dimensions in this regard, namely the construction sector and private sector engagement.

Construction can be one of the most effective sectors for non-oil sector growth in Kuwait. However, question marks may be raised as to where the technical engineering capacity would come from with respect to handling such projects. Unfortunately, the most likely answer is abroad, meaning that Kuwait may have to rely heavily once again on technical expertise from outside the country. As a result, Kuwait is unlikely to establish a core of expertise, and therefore the vicious circle of relying on external engineering expertise is thus also likely to continue for a while.

It should be of the upmost urgent consideration to develop a home-grown engineering capacity capable of internalizing this up-until-now external expertise and strengthening the national knowledge base accordingly. This is not a simple task and requires mid- to long-term investment in education especially in the area of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). In this regard, only about 30 per cent of students major in STEM-related subjects whereas the majority are enrolled in the field of arts and humanities, with the aim of finding public sector employment after graduation due to higher wages.

In a broader sense, making human capital more productive and relevant to the labor market context is imperative. It may be somewhat surprising that for Kuwait, only 24 per cent of national wealth comes from human capital accumulated internally whereas the global rate reaches over 60 per cent. Tackling this would require interconnected interventions into various dimensions simultaneously, including early childhood development, pre-primary, primary, secondary and territory education systems, and even Technical Education and Vocational Training (TEVT) to align with labor market needs. In addition, maximizing human capital for youth and women should also be a critical consideration.

As for private sector engagement, attention should focus on how this can lead the country’s development process. Three key aspects can be explored in this regard.

The first is to create a conducive environment where private companies can easily partner with oil companies who plan to expand their business into the non-oil sector. This should be further encouraged by various government authorities in the form of Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs), which can be expanded into collaborations in social infrastructure projects regarding the likes of school, university and medical facilities, among others.

The second is to remove any unnecessary regulations and administrative requirements that would not be beneficial for the private sector to respond timely to the rapidly changing business environment. As such, it would be practical to address a number of factors affecting institutional bottlenecks, clearly articulated by sub-indices under the ‘Doing Business Index,’ as part of efforts in reshaping sustainable and innovation ecosystem.

The third is to prioritize the national policy agenda for attracting foreign capital. Note that Kuwait is ranked last among its GCC peers in terms of foreign direct investment performance. In other words, it is widely accepted that the less the inbound foreign capital is, the less likely innovative ideas and technologies will contribute to the development process.

Embracing this logic can further imply that the private sector in Kuwait may not be competitive enough to compete in the global market. Partly owing to such, this may explain why the country’s youth would prefer to work in the public sector than in the private sector or why many of the country’s young people appear to lack an entrepreneurial spirit with innovative in mind.

Lastly, most of these societal problems and the persistent challenges surrounding diversifying Kuwait’s economy are likely associated and/or embedded in the country’s rentier welfare system. Kuwait’s rentier welfare system appears constrained by a path dependence (e.g. oil-based and an external knowledge-dependent growth model), implying that a societal shift moving away from an exclusive focus on such traditional growth model will likely encounter strong resistance to change. With this in mind, restructuring the rentier welfare system cannot be done in the short or medium term.

The positive news is that the Kuwait National Development Plan 2020-2025 is already in place. Mindful of this, a type of transformational process will likely be determined not externally, but rather internally. In the next few decades, Kuwait’s economy will be greatly shaped by development planning strategies of integrating, prioritizing and/or sequencing policy interventions among the three dimensions of sustainable development (social, economic and environmental). So, let’s start with gradual change, and embrace the digital transformation era that is already upon us, and to collectively envision Kuwait’s society underpinned by the core principles set out in the country’s Vision 2035.

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/168652-diversifying-kuwait%E2%80%99s-economy-myth-or-reality




Date: 19 December 2021
Title: In association with International Organization for Migration (IOM)
Content: 19 December 2021
Ooredoo Kuwait Takes Part in International Migrants Day and Honours its Successful Humanitarian Philanthropy
Kuwait, Kuwait City: In continuation of its successful humanitarian journey, and in line with its commitment to raising public awareness and contribution in various issues that affect the community as a whole, as well as promoting sustainable development, Ooredoo Telecom, the first to launch innovated digital services in Kuwait, highlights   its continuous collaboration  with the International Organization for Migration (IOM), UN migration agency in Kuwait.
The collaboration on an awareness video came in celebration of the International Migrants Day on December 18th 2021 , a day dedicated by the United Nations (UN), and is celebrated each year on the 18th of December to highlight the positive contributions that migrants bring to our societies, as well as the challenges that they may face along the way. Hence, Ooredoo Kuwait constantly creates awareness campaigns that promote sustainable development and achieves safer environments for all society members.
Further, Ooredoo Kuwait encourages its customers to be part of this campaign and take serious steps through offering them the opportunity to donate their points - which are collected by purchasing Ooredoo products and services in the Nojoom program, to charitable organizations and the International Organization for Migration.  Doing so will allow IOM to organize a number of activities that benefit migrants, which include psychosocial support sessions, the distribution of essential non-food items and personal protective equipment kits to vulnerable migrants, as well as several awareness raising campaigns.
Mijbil Alayoub, Senior Director, Corporate Communications, Ooredoo Kuwait, said: “Ooredoo has always been a pioneer in humanitarian philanthropy that aims to achieve sustainable and social development, and the development of intellectual enlightenment through efforts and campaigns that promote and strengthen the relationship between members of society. Therefore, we seek to build a strong networking relationships with entities and organizations with common visions, and our partnership with the International Organization for Migration is a living proof of our common goals, responsibility and commitment.”
From his side, Mazen AboulHosn, IOM Kuwait’s Chief of Mission said: “IOM celebrates its 70th anniversary this month. Since its establishment, the IOM has been working closely with governments and partners to tackle migration-related issues at a global, regional, and local level. IOM is always delighted to establish partnerships with the private sector on areas of mutual interest and shared values to reach the goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.  Our collaboration with Ooredoo Kuwait on a video to mark the International Migrants Day, sheds light on the linkage between migration and the sustainable development goals (SDGs) and the importance of migrants in achieving these goals, as well as promoting inclusion and diversity.  We look forward to our continuous cooperation with Ooredoo on several joint initiatives.”
IOM Kuwait works to provide technical support for the Government on migration governance, including labor migration and migrant protection. IOM Kuwait also  provides support to migrant workers, including vulnerable groups and potential victims of trafficking.

-END-
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/165984-association-international-organization-migration-iom




Date: 19 December 2021
Title: On the occasion of International Human Rights Day
Content: 19 December 2021
The signing ceremony of a Memorandum of Understanding between the National Diwan for Human Rights and the United Nations in the State of Kuwait
19 December 2021, The National Diwan for Human Rights and the United Nations Office in the State of Kuwait have signed a memorandum of understanding to promote joint cooperation between the two sides and coordination in the areas of human rights.
The areas of cooperation between the United Nations and the National Diwan for Human Rights set out in the memorandum of understanding covered many aspects of common interest and intersections between the strategic objectives of both sides in order to achieve the objectives of that step.
The head of the Kuwaiti National Diwan for Human Rights, Ambassador Jassem Al-Barki, said in a press release on Sunday, on the sidelines of the signing, that the whole step was aimed at establishing a joint cooperation mechanism that would strengthen the role of the two sides and strengthen their coordination in accordance with the objectives and areas of competence of the parties.
This step, Ambassador Al-Mubarak added, is the added value of strengthening the role of the Cabinet in this regard, aimed at strengthening cooperation between the two sides through capacity-building, promoting awareness of and ensuring the exercise of human rights values, in recognition of the importance of joint cooperation in the areas of human rights.
In a similar statement, the representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Resident Coordinator of the State of Kuwait, Dr. Tariq El-Sheikh, paid tribute to Kuwait's efforts to develop human rights mechanisms and to ensure their protection and promotion.
Dr. El-Sheikh noted Kuwait's strong interest in international human rights treaties and charters through the integration of those goals into the State's development plans, particularly in support of women, children, older persons, education and health care.
He referred to the State of Kuwait's humanitarian footprints at the local, regional and international levels, which had led it to gain the appreciation of world organizations.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/166177-occasion-international-human-rights-day




Date: 15 November 2021
Title: IOM Launches Workshops for Frontline Workers on  ‘Combatting Trafficking in Persons’
Content: 15 November 2021
Kuwait/15 November 2021 - The International Organization for Migration (IOM) - UN Migration agency in Kuwait concludes its two consecutive workshops on ‘Combatting Trafficking in Persons’ in cooperation with the National Committee to Combat Trafficking in Persons and the General Secretariat of the Supreme Council for Planning and Development (GSSCPD).
The two workshops that took place on 10th-11th and 14th – 15th of November - included participants from various governmental entities, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Social Affairs, Public Authority for Manpower and the Public Prosecution – all of whom are frontline workers that deal with issues relating to human trafficking.  Topics related to victim identification, Kuwait’s trafficking law No. 91 of 2013, the international legal framework on human trafficking, contributors to identifying victims of human trafficking, the national referral mechanism (NRM) from an international and national perspective and techniques to interviewing victims of trafficking, amongst other topics, were discussed.
“The workshop comes as one of the tools to enhance the pillar of Kuwait’s global status within the framework of the Kuwait National Development Plan (KNDP) 2035, especially with regard to indicators to combat trafficking in persons.” Mazen AboulHosn, IOM Kuwait Chief of Mission said during his opening remarks “It is also part of the local and regional strategies of the International Organization for Migration and the organization's strategy in the Gulf countries, which we are working to accomplish in the coming months and that are aligned with objective 10 of the GCM”.
These two workshops, that are part of an ongoing project in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) are an introduction to a comprehensive project that the International Organization for Migration (IOM) is working on under the title "Supporting the Efforts of the State of Kuwait to Implement the National Strategy to Combat Trafficking in Persons" which will be implemented in partnership with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Justice, under the framework of the strategic cooperation of the United Nations and the State of Kuwait. The workshops will pave the way for enhanced direct cooperation between all entities involved.

ENDS
For more information please contact: Dana Al-Othman at IOM Kuwait, Email: dalothman@iom.int

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/158514-iom-launches-workshops-frontline-workers-%E2%80%98combatting-trafficking-persons%E2%80%99




Date: 15 November 2021
Title: IOM Concludes Workshops for Frontline Workers on  ‘Combatting Trafficking in Persons’
Content: 15 November 2021
Kuwait/15 November 2021 - The International Organization for Migration (IOM) - UN Migration agency in Kuwait concludes its two consecutive workshops on ‘Combatting Trafficking in Persons’ in cooperation with the National Committee to Combat Trafficking in Persons and the General Secretariat of the Supreme Council for Planning and Development (GSSCPD).
The two workshops that took place on 10th - 11th and 14th – 15th of November - included participants from various governmental entities, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Social Affairs, Public Authority for Manpower and the Public Prosecution – all of whom are frontline workers that deal with issues relating to human trafficking.  Topics related to victim identification, Kuwait’s trafficking law No. 91 of 2013, the international legal framework on human trafficking, contributors to identifying victims of human trafficking, the national referral mechanism (NRM) from an international and national perspective and techniques to interviewing victims of trafficking, amongst other topics, were discussed.
“The workshop comes as one of the tools to enhance the pillar of Kuwait’s global status within the framework of the Kuwait National Development Plan (KNDP) 2035, especially with regard to indicators to combat trafficking in persons.” Mazen AboulHosn, IOM Kuwait Chief of Mission said during his opening remarks “It is also part of the local and regional strategies of the International Organization for Migration and the organization's strategy in the Gulf countries, which we are working to accomplish in the coming months and that are aligned with objective 10 of the GCM”.
These two workshops, that are part of an ongoing project in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) are an introduction to a comprehensive project that the International Organization for Migration (IOM) is working on under the title "Supporting the Efforts of the State of Kuwait to Implement the National Strategy to Combat Trafficking in Persons" which will be implemented in partnership with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Justice, under the framework of the strategic cooperation of the United Nations and the State of Kuwait. The workshops will pave the way for enhanced direct cooperation between all entities involved.

ENDS
For more information please contact: Dana Al-Othman at IOM Kuwait, Email: dalothman@iom.int

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/158521-iom-concludes-workshops-frontline-workers-%E2%80%98combatting-trafficking-persons%E2%80%99




Date: 15 November 2021
Title: The United Nations delegation's Visit to a Tire Recycling Plant in the Salmi area in the State of Kuwait
Content: 15 November 2021
Kuwait 15 November 2021, The United Nations Team in Kuwait, led by Dr. Tarek ElSheikh, Representative of the United Nations Secretary General and Resident Coordinator in the State of Kuwait with the participation of Mr. Mazen AbulHosn, Chief of the International Organization for Migration Office in Kuwait and members of the UN Resident Coordinator Office visited the tire recycling factory at Al-Salmi Area and discussed topics related to climate action, environment, waste management and sustainability during their visit.
Representative of the United Nations Secretary General and Resident Coordinator in the State of Kuwait, Dr. Tarek ElSheikh addressed the team involved in the tire recycling project and highlighted to the enormous efforts that have been made by EPSCO and partners in cooperation with various governmental entities related to the tire recycling project in Rohya. Dr. ElSheikh also expressed the importance of working on sustainable projects related to waste management and recycling complex materials such as tires in order to reduce waste and boost the Kuwaiti economy in terms of exports and supporting sustainable industries, hoping that this step would be a beginning towards contributing to the State’s aspiration for a sustainable future and a symbol to represent perseverance and persistence to sustainable industries globally.
Mr. Mazen AbulHosn, Chief of the International Organization for Migration Office in Kuwait expressed his pride of the work of Kuwaiti women, Engineer Alaa Hasan, Founder and Representative of EPSCO and associates, especially in her and the team efforts towards supporting a sustainable environment in the State of Kuwait, which epitomizes Kuwait’s climate action commitment locally, regionally and globally.
In return, Engineer Alaa Hasan, Representative of EPSCO International said that the idea to establish a factory to recycle tires in Kuwait and specifically at Al-Salmi area came to her during seeing the big number of tires at South Saad Al-Abdullah Area and it was possible to use this area to house a big number of citizens and make use of the area. Approval of the establishment of a national project to create a recycling factory for tires (EPSCO) from the Council of Minister and the Environment Public Authority came at the end of 2017.
During her speech, She spoke about the process of transferring the tires from (Rohya) South Saad Al-Abdulla Area at the beginning, after cutting them and transferring the equivalence of 1 million and a hundred tires monthly according to the time plan provided by the Council of Ministers which was led by Minister of Commerce and other related agencies.
During the visit, she also indicated that tires were moved and stored according to a certain criteria that is in accordance to Kuwait Fire Force and Environment Public Authority in order to avoid fires.

She also explained that the work began in the construction of a tire plant in the Salmi Area over an area estimated at 20,000 square meters in 2019, consisting of a production line with a production capacity for recycling tires estimated at 1 million to 3 million tire annually, equivalent to 8300 tires per month. Knowing that the number of damaged tires annually in Kuwait ranges from 1.5 million to 2 million tires, which would lead to the production line at the plant and its capacity to solve the problem of tires and storing them significantly. The construction of the factory would lead to major and effective resolution of the problem of tires, the prevention of occupation of large areas for storage and final resolution of the tire problem and the fires that have caused numerous accidents over the previous years.
Construction of the plant and installation of production line were completed by the beginning of 2020, In addition, Engineer Alaa Hasan spoke about exports in 2021 to surrounding gulf countries, particularly Qatar and Saudi Arabia, Asia, specifically India.
With the success of this project many difficulties have been encountered during the establishment of the factory, The main obstacle was that that factor is in Area that has no source of water and electricity making the factory sources self-sufficient and preventing weighing the country with that responsibility. That obstacle was solved with the efforts and commitment to deliver water and electricity to the factory and the resumption of its work at the highest level.
Such projects are considered one of the most important in our current times, as the problem of waste management and recycling is with no doubt a way to achieve a goal that people all over the world hope to reach, which is to live in a clean environment free from waste and harmful emissions to the atmosphere and other resources.

End

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/158896-united-nations-delegations-visit-tire-recycling-plant-salmi-area-state-kuwait




Date: 17 October 2021
Title: Mental Health Promoting Schools Webinar
Content: 17 October 2021
Kuwait, 17 October - The United Nations in the State of Kuwait Represented by the Resident Coordinator Office, the WHO Office in Kuwait and UNICEF in partnership with the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education organized an expert-led webinar to highlight the needs and opportunities for a mental health strategy to be considered, adopted and actioned by all schools in Kuwait. This webinar also aimed to build consensus into the mental health needs and interests of children and adolescents whilst highlighting the responsibility and respective contribution of a wide range of stakeholders. The webinar will form an early stage of a mental health policy planning exercise for schools by identifying the need for and key features of a school mental health policy.
Mental health problems can manifest in children as sadness or worry, attention deficits, behavioural difficulties, and deterioration in school performance. Early screening and deployment of effective interventions can reduce the likelihood of continuity and exacerbation of mental health associated impairments into adulthood. The rise in violence, drug addiction and depression amongst adolescents in Kuwait over the past few years has been alarming. A number of contributory factors have been found to exert impact on mental health; these include stressful events in early life such as child abuse and neglect, social isolation and negative lifestyle habits including increased passive screen time and lack of physical activity. The pandemic has underscored the urgency of putting in place collective action plans and policies that protect those most vulnerable and promote their wellbeing. Plans must recognise that children’s and adolescents’ development stage can influence his/her degree of vulnerability to mental health disorders. Accordingly, schools must be well positioned and prepared to identify the need for early interventions to reduce risk factors for mental health disorders and promote protective factors.
Dr. Tarek El-Sheikh, Representative of United Nations Secretary-General Resident coordinator noted that “Schools need to adopt innovative solutions to keep linkages open with students, particularly in states of emergencies,” further emphasizing that every school should be a mental health-promoting school through a holistic approach that builds on relationships with students, families and teachers.

Dr. Assad Hafeez, WHO Representative in Kuwait called all stakeholders to attend to the global statistics which reaffirm a need for urgent action, Dr. Hafeez followed that “globally the largest burden of mental health falls in young people.”
The Ministry of Health was represented by Dr. Abdullah AlSanad, who left a vivid image of friendships of early childhood and their formative impact on a child’s development.  He stressed that “Schools are central to nurturing a child’s skills of social connection and emotional regulation,” and that the Ministry of Health in Kuwait in partnership with the Departments of School Health and Primary Healthcare are in the midst of preparing a Mental health plan for school aged pupils.
Schools are one of several critical systems of care that ensure the delivery of essential health services to children including protection, and psycho-social support. The unprecedented length of school closures imposed because of COVID-19 may have thus contributed to significant imperilments to children’s overall wellbeing and development, not just their learning. With school reopening plans and the focus on accelerating learning to remediate losses, it is crucial that effective mental health and wellbeing plans are put in place so as not to lose sight of the unequivocal link between mental health and educational attainment. Equally so, these plans must necessarily factor in teacher preparedness to take on this responsibility and their personal wellbeing by mainstreaming into them the requisite capacity building exercises, tools, and modalities for the sharing of best practices by educational psychologists, and considerations to the appropriate strategies to mitigate teacher burnout. Indeed, teachers are important role models to students and formative agents in shaping their developmental experience and motivation.
Global statistics and evidence-based interventions guided the discussion thereafter, highlighting potential opportunities to tap into the promise of innovative technologies such as technology assisted teachers’ training platforms, Chatbots that aid the implementation of interventions and a games-based platform to promote the uptake of life skills and participation in students.   The webinar ended with a call to continue the conversation towards actional mental health strategies for schools across the nation.

Speakers in the webinar were: Dr. Bibi Alamiri, MD, ScD Kuwait Center for Mental Health Adult, Child & Adolescent Psychiatrist; Ms. Shaimaa Allami Psychologist at Ministry of Education Department of Mental Health and Wellbeing; Dr. Tatjana Colin Head of UNICEF Office in Kuwait, Chief, Early Childhood Development UNICEF; Professor Atif Rahman Professor of Child Psychiatry, University of Liverpool 5. Ms. Fatema Albader Middle school English Teacher, Bayan Bilingual School Kuwait.

End
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/155478-mental-health-promoting-schools-webinar




Date: 21 September 2021
Title: International Day of Peace
Content: 21 September 2021
Kuwait, 21st September 2021 – Each year the International Day of Peace is observed around the world on 21 September. The UN General Assembly has declared this as a day devoted to strengthening the ideals of peace, through observing 24 hours of non-violence and cease-fire. The 2021 theme for the International Day of Peace is “Recovering better for an equitable and sustainable world” as it stresses on the need to think creatively and collectively about how to help everyone recover better, how to build resilience, and how to transform our world into one that is more equal, just, equitable, inclusive, sustainable, and healthier, especially in lights of COVID-19 outbreak.
In a video recorded by the Secretary General Mr. António Guterres, he stated that “This year’s International Day of Peace comes at a crisis point for humanity.  COVID-19 has turned our world upside-down; conflicts are spinning out of control; the climate emergency is worsening; inequality and poverty are deepening, and mistrust and division are driving people apart at a time when solidarity and collaboration are needed more than ever. As a human family, we face a stark choice — Peace or perpetual peril … We must choose peace.”

The State of Kuwait has been and remains to be a global cornerstone in the maintenance and promotion of the culture of peace in its internal and external policy, which was evident through its relentless efforts and tireless work in promoting peace and security in the region and beyond. Kuwait spared no effort in taking decisions, especially in issues of concern to the Arab region and maintaining international peace and security. Kuwait reaped the fruits of its labors in solving the Gulf crisis after 3 years of its role as a mediator calling for an end to the Gulf crisis. Besides its leading efforts during its non-permanent membership at the United Nations Security Council, during which it ensured promotion of the culture of peace through drafting and proposing many resolutions calling for ceasefire in Syria, namely the resolution which was proposed on September 19th 2019, when the State of Kuwait, alongside Kingdom of Belgium and Federal Republic of Germany, as the penholders of the Syrian humanitarian file, produced a resolution aiming for an immediate cease to hostilities in the Governorate of Idlib, Syria, and requiring all parties to adhere to international humanitarian laws.

In a statement by, Dr. Tarek Elsheikh, Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator in the State of Kuwait commended Kuwait for its long-lasting position in promotion of peace “The State of Kuwait serves as a global role-model for the promotion of peace. It has proved in multiple instances that the solution to the global challenges the world is facing, namely our region, is peace. The State of Kuwait promotes the culture of peace through encouraging dialogue between rival parties as was demonstrated during its hosting of the Yemen Peace Talks and providing urgent humanitarian aid as was demonstrated during the past years to the Syrian and Yemeni humanitarian crises.”
Global Peace Index (GPI) 2021 - Measuring Peace in a Complex World
The Global Peace Index (GPI) is an effort by the Institute for Economics and Peace to measure the degree of peacefulness in countries across the global and rank them accordingly. The first list was created in 2007 and has since then been published annually. The index includes a number of indicators relating to both domestic and international peacefulness. The GPI is the world’s leading measure of global peacefulness.
The 2021 edition of the Global Peace Index ranks 163 independent states and territories according to their level of peacefulness. Produced by the Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP), The report presents comprehensive data driven analysis on trends in peace, its economic value, and how to develop peaceful societies.
The average level of global peacefulness deteriorated by 0.07 per cent. This is the ninth deterioration in peacefulness in the last thirteen years, with 87 countries improving, and 73 recording deteriorations; however, the change in score is the second smallest in the history of the index. The 2021 GPI reveals a world in which the conflicts and crises that emerged in the past decade have begun to abate, only to be replaced with a new wave of tension and uncertainty as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and rising tensions between many of the major powers.
Only three of the nine regions in the world became more peaceful over the past year. The largest improvement occurred in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), followed by Europe and South Asia. However, MENA still remains the least peaceful region in the world. An improvement in the level of Ongoing Conflict in MENA was the biggest driver of increased peacefulness, with every indicator on the domain, recording an improvement.
Qatar and Kuwait were the most peaceful countries in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, and also among the GCC countries according to the 2021 GPI results. Kuwait score has improved compared to the previous year and the country’s place moved up significantly in the global ranking form 42nd in 2018 to 36th in 2021.

2021 Global Peace Index
The International Day of Peace was established in 1981 by the United Nations General Assembly. Two decades later, in 2001, the General Assembly unanimously voted to designate the Day as a period of non-violence and cease-fire.

End
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/145475-international-day-peace




Date: 19 August 2021
Title: World Humanitarian Day
Content: 19 August 2021
#TheHumanRace
Kuwait 19th of August 2021 – On 19 of August of each year The United Nations likes to remind the world of the humanitarian situation faced by millions of people around the globe as a result of natural disasters and armed conflict. Emphasizing the role of workers and humanitarians who risk their lives to deliver humanitarian aid and humanitarian services to those affected and in need. many staff of the United Nations and local and international humanitarian organizations have been and are still trying to tackle the difficulties and obstacles while performing their duty. The severity and ferocity of these conditions have recently increased, which has made it more difficult for humanitarian institutions to secure entry to their staff safely and to provide aid in many countries. In 2003, The United Nations headquarters in Baghdad was attacked, killing 22 staff members of the United Nations and non-governmental organizations, including the United Nations Special Representative in Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello, and wounding more than 100 people, since then, August 19 has been marked by the general assembly to commemorate World Humanitarian Day.
Each year, World Humanitarian Day focuses on a theme, bringing together partners from across the humanitarian system to advocate for the survival, well-being and dignity of people affected by crises, and for the safety and security of aid workers. This year, the United Nations Secretary General Representative, the Resident Coordinator in Kuwait and the United Nations Country Team invites the local communities to join the global event highlighting the immediate human cost of the climate crisis, under the theme “#TheHumanRace” and how it is affecting the humanitarian and aid workers in delivering the needed assistance to those effected.
The United Nations Secretary General António Guterres stated that “The climate emergency is a race we are losing, but it is a race we can win”
The United Nations secretary general Representative and Resident Coordinator in Kuwait, Dr. Tarek El-Shiekh stated that “ On World Humanitarian Day, the United Nations would like to remind the world that we are caught in a climate emergency which COVID19 pandemic did not slow down, The climate crisis is right before our eyes – from wildfires in Turkey, Algeria, Australia and California, heatwaves in Canada, and floods in Africa and Europe, to severe storms in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. Last year Cyclone Amphan in South Asia displaced nearly 5 million people – 2.5 million of them in Bangladesh amid the worst flooding in a decade. Excessive rainfall caused major flooding and landslides across East Africa. The link between increasing global temperatures and extreme weather-related events is clear: Last year was one of the warmest on record; the last decade was the warmest on record. We live in a world where the average global temperature is already 1.2°C warmer than the pre-industrial (1850-1900) level. We are headed for a catastrophic temperature rise of 3 to 5°C this century. And Last year alone, 12 of the 20 countries most vulnerable to the effects of climate change had an inter-agency humanitarian appeal and are suffering from conflict.  This has a chain effect on famine, conflict, and the most effected of these changes are women and girls. It is crucial to invest in building resilience from the ground up, provide access to vaccines for everyone as soon as possible. Kuwait has always been in the forefront of the humanitarian and development assistance around the world, the support provided by the Government of the State of Kuwait to elevate the suffering of the humanitarian crises around the world has been visible internationally, with the recent support Kuwait has been providing to many countries directly (i.e Turkey, Lebanon, Yemen, Greece, Tunisia and India) or in partnership with the united Nations , proves genuine deep rooted commitment of the government of the State of Kuwait to humanitarianism and multilateralism during difficult times  yesterday, today and in future.”
Mr. Marwan Al-Ghanem - Acting Director General of Kuwait Fund stated that “Throughout its history, The Kuwait Fund (KFAED) has been _considered as an_ example of cooperation between south-south developing countries. KFEAD has been continually recognized as  _an active_ actor in humanitarian relief and development assistance  _to developing countries_ focusing on people not contingent on religion, ethnicity or economic or political belief, but instead is based strictly on the depth of need.
The KFAED contribution reflects on Kuwait’s pioneering humanitarian efforts and is a real commitment to creating a brighter future for people in need. We have worked closely with countries and institutions across the world to support immediate responses to help people most in need and to ensure a quick recovery. "
Representative of UNHCR to the State of Kuwait Dr. Samer Haddadin noted “The impacts of climate change are numerous and may both trigger displacement and worsen living conditions or hamper return for those who have already been displaced. Limited natural resources are becoming even scarcer in many parts of the world that host refugees leading to increased risk. Its impact also widens to risk the safety and security of our humanitarian workers who risk their lives amidst hardest conditions to reach people in need.”
Ms. Maha Al-Barjas, Secretary-General of the Kuwait Red Crescent Society, said, “Climate change is a humanitarian emergency, as at present a climate-related disaster occurs every day or two, and it is estimated that about 108 million people needed humanitarian assistance to survive In 2018, that number could double by 2050.
The poorest groups in the world suffer and will continue to suffer more than others, such as the poorest people who do not have the resources necessary to protect themselves from disasters and who suffer from climatic effects such as floods and hurricanes, who often live in areas most affected by droughts and storms. We in KRCS suffer from the effects of recurring climate crises in terms of: the increase of humanitarian crises and increase of needs resulting from climate crises when they occur in countries that suffer from prolonged turmoil, as well as the scarcity of natural resources of food and water and difficulties in obtaining appropriate nutrition with the disruption of farming seasons due to climate change, In addition to the affected sources of potable water, the displacement of many from their homes in the midst of natural disasters and the spread of diseases and epidemics resulting from difficult living conditions.
Thus, it is difficult to respond to disasters and crises in terms of the difficulties resulting from the climate crisis in the safe passage of aid delivery, and what affects our work in the Kuwait Red Crescent is the challenge of sustaining these financial resources that enable us to respond effectively to humanitarian needs in light of the massive increase of crises due to climate change. Such as what is happening in the Congo volcano and the fires in Algeria, Greece, Turkey and now in France, we are constantly thinking about continuing how to reach communities affected and displaced by the disasters caused by recent climate change.”

Mazen AboulHosn, IOM Kuwait’s Chief of Mission, “IOM honors the thousands of men and women on the front lines providing humanitarian relief, protecting the most vulnerable and serving others. The humanitarians are working in evolving challenging situations, amid crisis and pandemic while showing extraordinary acts of humanity. Every year, IOM humanitarian teams reach millions of people living in crisis situations in many countries, including those affected by climate change. Humanitarian workers need to be protected, supported and acknowledged so that they continue performing their inspiring and exceptional work”
The Director General of the International Islamic Charitable Organization, Mr. Bader Saud Al-Sumait expressed his solidarity with the victims of the phenomenon of climate change that is sweeping the world. On the occasion of the World Humanitarian Day, Al-Sumait said, "The charitable organization has spared no effort in working with its humanitarian partners to support these vulnerable groups through its health, educational and development projects that included more than 70 countries around the world. the world".
Al-Sumait praised the efforts of the United Nations to support these vulnerable groups under the slogan "#TheHumanRace", in order to draw the world's attention and urge developed countries to play the expected roles of them towards protecting the population of affected countries from the repercussions of climate change and supporting their humanitarian needs”


Mohammed Zeid Khater, Head of the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs in the Middle East and North Africa said “The climate emergency is wreaking havoc across the world at a scale that the humanitarian community and people on the front lines cannot manage, and the Arab World is no exception. In addition to the humanitarian crises resulting from the several conflicts in the region, serious water scarcity is facing countries like Iraq, Syria and Egypt among others. Lack of access to water threatens current levels of food insecurity and may to public health. Wild fires in Syria, Lebanon, Tunisia, Algeria and Morocco are resulting in deaths and injuries. In Yemen, bee keeping is seriously hit by climate change thus livelihoods. This is exactly what brings us to campaign for climate action.”

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/141429-world-humanitarian-day




Date: 12 August 2021
Title: International Youth Day
Content: 12 August 2021
Transforming Food Systems: Youth Innovation for Human and Planetary Health
Kuwait, 12th August 2021 – The United Nations commemorates today the International Youth Day, who amounts to over 1.2 billion young men and women between the ages of 15-24. This day provides an opportunity to celebrate young people and to amplify their voices, actions, initiatives, and meaningful participation. In addition to highlighting the importance of their active and equal role in addressing global issues. The theme for this year’s celebration is “Transforming Food Systems: Youth Innovation for Human and Planetary Health” which stresses on the important and pivotal role of young people in achieving this global aspiration.

COVID-19 affected all segments of the population, with young people playing a key role in the management of this outbreak and the recovery following the outbreak. Though much is still unknown on how the disease affects young people, governments are mandated in the World Programme of Action for Youth (WPAY) to ensure their services meet the needs of young people. In these circumstances, it is important to ensure that youth are heard alongside other community and patient voices in the rollout of health and non-health interventions in response to COVID-19. “Young people are on the frontlines of the struggle to build a better future for all. The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the dire need for the kind of transformational change they seek – and young people must be full partners in that effort.” – UN Secretary General, Antonio Guterres.

In Kuwait, the youth population constitutes most of the demographic scene. Thus, youth play an integral role in the advancement of society and proposing innovative solutions to prospected future challenges. During the pandemic, the Kuwaiti youth rose above and exceeded expectations as they were providing vital support to the Government in multiple domains including human health, the environment, and food systems. Dr. Tarek Elshiekh – UN Secretary General Representative and Resident Coordinator in Kuwait stated that “many youth communities in Kuwait voiced their belief that greening empty spaces remains one of the most effective ways to reduce atmospheric CO2, many of these communities initiated their own initiatives in greening their local communities to elevate their lifestyle and livelihood, by growing their organic foods and vegetables throughout the year. this act falls under the core of the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations and the responsibility for the sustainability of the future generation. these youth communities look into change and its positive impact in educating others on the importance of involving all population in learning and contributing to life on land and responsible production and consumption of foods.  Different youth groups are initiating projects of green products that are environment friendly, recycling food waste to use as fertilizers, and greening neighborhoods, these small acts have a large impact on the globe. Kuwait’s efforts have been visible through the series of national dialogues in collaboration with the public, private sectors and youth groups who are invested in improving the food chain supplies leading to their involvement in the United Nations Food Summit 2021”

From her end, Mrs. Hideko Hadzialic – UNDP Resident Representative to the State of Kuwait noted that “Youth constitutes the majority of Kuwaiti national volunteers who worked days and nights during the pandemic to deliver support and food to migrant workers and needed family. GSSCPD, UNDP and UNV jointly developed a volunteer manual to help organizations to support and develop capacity of volunteers and facilitate collaborative management. Youth engagement was distinct during the SME hackathon organized last year to seek innovative ideas to address supply chain challenges during COVID19”

In 1999, General Assembly resolution 54/120 endorsed the recommendation made by the World Conference of Ministers of Youth (Lisbon, 8-12 August 1998) that 12 August be declared International Youth Day. Such a day provides an opportunity to celebrate young peoples’ views and initiatives on a global scale.



- End
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/141426-international-youth-day




Date: 30 July 2021
Title: الأمم المتحدة في الكويت تحتفل بـ "اليوم العالمي لمكافحة الاتجار بالبشر"
Content: 30 July 2021
بيان صحفي مشترك
الكويت  30 يوليو 2021 - في عام 2013 ، أعلنت الجمعية العامة للأمم المتحدة يوم 30 يوليو "اليوم العالمي لمكافحة الاتجار بالبشر". في هذا اليوم ، تؤكد الأمم المتحدة في دولة الكويت والوكالات التابعة لها وهي المنظمة الدولية للهجرة التابعة للأمم المتحدة ، التزامها بمكافحة جريمة الاتجار بالبشر.
وتحقيقا لهذه الغاية ، تم التوقيع على العديد من الاتفاقات ، بما في ذلك بروتوكول منع وقمع ومعاقبة الاتجار بالأشخاص ، الذي يكمل اتفاقية الأمم المتحدة لمكافحة الجريمة المنظمة والذي يعرّف ببروتوكول الاتجار بالأشخاص على أنه تجنيد أو نقل  أو إيواء أو استقبال الأشخاص عن طريق التهديد أو استخدام القوة أو غير ذلك من أشكال الإكراه ، أو الاختطاف ، أو الاحتيال ، أو الخداع ، أو إساءة استخدام السلطة أو حالة ضعف أو تقديم أو تلقي مدفوعات أو مزايا للحصول على موافقة شخص له سيطرة على شخص آخر ، لغرض الاستغلال ويجب أن يكون الاستغلال جزء لهذه الممارسات كحد أدنى ، استغلال بغاء الآخرين أو غير ذلك من أشكال الاستغلال الجنسي أو الخدمات  أو العبودية أو الممارسات الشبيهة بالرق ، أو الاستعباد أو نزع الأعضاء.
الاتجار بالبشر جريمة خطيرة وانتهاك جسيم لحقوق الإنسان حيث أن في كل عام  يتم الاتجار بآلاف الرجال والنساء والأطفال في بلدانهم وخارجها. لا توجد دولة محصنة ضد جريمة الاتجار سواء كانت الدولة الأم، أو دولة عابرة أو وجهة للضحايا ، وتتطلب تعاونًا دوليًا لمكافحتها من خلال زيادة الوعي وتعزيز حقوق الضحايا وحمايتها.
وصرح الدكتور طارق الشيخ ، ممثل الأمين العام للأمم المتحدة المنسق المقيم في دولة الكويت ، "إن النزاع المسلح والنزوح وتغير المناخ والكوارث الطبيعية والفقر تؤدي إلى تفاقم نقاط الضعف واليأس التي تمكن أزدياد الاتجار بالبشر. يتم استهداف المهاجرين حيث لقي آلاف الأشخاص حتفهم في البحر وفي الصحاري ومراكز الاحتجاز على أيدي المتاجرين بالبشر ومهربي المهاجرين الذين يمارسون مهنتهم الوحشية التي لا ترحم. هناك الكثير من العمل الذي يتعين القيام به لتقديم شبكات الاتجار إلى العدالة ، والأهم من ذلك ضمان تحديد الضحايا وتمكينهم من الوصول إلى الحماية والخدمات التي يحتاجون إليها  والأمم المتحدة من خلال الوكالات المكلفة بها وصناديقها وبرامجها  بالتعاون مع المجتمع الدولي لمكافحة الاتجار بالبشر وتقديم المتاجرين إلى العدالة.
وأضاف الدكتور الشيخ: "استفادت خطة عمل الأمم المتحدة في الكويت من دعوة الأمين العام للعمل من أجل حقوق الإنسان وإطار عدم ترك أحد خلف الركب وتنفيذ أهداف التنمية المستدامة كأدوات للسياسة والمناصرة للفت الانتباه التي بحاجة إلى حماية حقوق الإنسان للعمال المهاجرين ، بما في ذلك منع الاتجار وأشكال الاستغلال الأخرى ضمن جهود خطتنا ، تدعم شبكة الأمم المتحدة للهجرة قدرات حكومة دولة الكويت لتعزيزة وتحسين حوكمة الهجرة ، بما في ذلك تسهيل مسارات الهجرة النظامية ، ومعالجة مواطن الضعف التي يواجهها المهاجرون والحد منها. وشمل ذلك على سبيل المثال  قراءة الخارطة الحالية والتحديث المستمر للتعليمات والعمليات الإجرائية لتوجيه حكومة دولة الكويت وأصحاب المصلحة الوطنيين الآخرين ، بما في ذلك المهاجرون أنفسهم ، على مسارات الهجرة النظامية.
وأوضح الدكتور الشيخ أن "أهداف التنمية المستدامة تشمل أهدافًا واضحة لمنع الإساءة والاستغلال ، والقضاء على جميع أشكال العنف ضد جميع النساء والفتيات ، والقضاء على العمل الجبري وعمالة الأطفال. في هذا اليوم العالمي لمكافحة الاتجار بالبشر ، دعونا نؤكد من جديد التزامنا بمنع المجرمين من استغلال الناس بلا رحمة من أجل الربح ومساعدة الضحايا على إعادة بناء حياتهم.
في السنوات الأخيرة ، قامت المنظمة الدولية للهجرة في الكويت بالعديد من المشاريع والمبادرات التي تهدف إلى مكافحة الاتجار بالبشر. وشمل ذلك خمس حملات توعوية للجمهور لتسليط الضوء على قضية الاتجار بالبشر وحقوق العمالة المنزلية ، بالشراكة مع وزارة الخارجية والداخلية والإعلام. كما قدمت المنظمة الدولية للهجرة الخبرة الفنية في المجالات البرنامجية ذات الصلة ، بما في ذلك ورش العمل التدريبية حول حماية العمل التعاقدي المؤقت وضحايا الاتجار المحتملين لممثلي الحكومة والمجتمع المدني. عملت المنظمة الدولية للهجرة في شراكة وثيقة مع حكومة الكويت على تعزيز قدرات الجهات الوطنية ذات الصلة والوزارات المكلفة بحماية ضحايا الاتجار ومقاضاة المتجرين ، بما في ذلك موظفات الهيئة العامة للقوى العاملة التي تديرها الحكومة لإيواء النساء والعمال الأجانب وتعمل المنظمة الدولية للهجرة أيضًا على مكافحة الاتجار بالبشر بالتعاون مع وكالات الأمم المتحدة منها مكتب الأمم المتحدة المعني بالمخدرات والجريمة، والمجتمع الدبلوماسي ، والمنظمات غير الحكومية (NGO) والقطاع الخاص - بشكل أساسي من خلال مبادرات المسؤولية الاجتماعية للشركات (CSR).
وصرح مازن أبو الحسن ، رئيس بعثة المنظمة الدولية للهجرة في الكويت أن “في كل عام ، تنتهز المنظمة الدولية للهجرة (IOM) هذه الفرصة لرفع مستوى الوعي بخطورة جريمة الاتجار بالبشر الجسيمة وتسليط الضوء على معاناة الناجين ، والترويج لحقوقهم والحمايهم. تعتمد المنظمة الدولية للهجرة في الكويت على نهجين لمكافحة الاتجار بالبشر ؛ أولاً: الوقاية من خلال التوعية والتدريب على قضية الاتجار بالبشر ، وثانياً: الحماية من خلال تقديم المساعدة للناجين ، والعمل مع الحكومات على سياسات مكافحة الاتجار بالبشر ، شريطة أن تتم الملاحقة من قبل الدول المعنية. أولويتنا هي العمل مع دولة الكويت لمكافحة الاتجار بالبشر ".
أطلق مكتب الأمم المتحدة المعني بالمخدرات والجريمة حملة بعنوان "أصوات الضحايا تقود الطريق" للاحتفال بـاليوم العالمي لهذا العام بهدف زيادة الوعي بالدور المحوري للضحايا في مكافحة الاتجار بالبشر. وبهذه المناسبة ، صرح الدكتور حاتم علي ، ممثل مكتب الأمم المتحدة المعني بالمخدرات والجريمة لمنطقة مجلس التعاون الخليجي ورئيس البعثة: "بصفته الوصي على اتفاقية الأمم المتحدة لمكافحة الجريمة المنظمة والبروتوكولات الملحقة بها حيث قال "يحتفل مكتب الأمم المتحدة المعني بالمخدرات والجريمة كل عام بهذا اليوم لدعم الدول الأعضاء لتسليط الضوء على النمو المتزايد وتحدي الاتجار بالبشر والحاجة الملحة لتوفير كافة وسائل الحماية والرعاية لضحاياها. نقدر شراكتنا مع دولة الكويت وجهود اللجنة الوطنية لمكافحة الاتجار بالبشر (NCCHT) وكياناتها الأعضاء في مجال منع ومكافحة الاتجار بالبشر وحماية الضحايا. لا سيما في إطار برامجنا التدريبية المشتركة مع وكالتنا الشقيقة للأمم المتحدة ، المنظمة الدولية للهجرة ".
واختتم الدكتور علي بالقول: نتطلع إلى استمرار النجاحات التي تحققت من خلال جهود المركز الوطني لمكافحة الاتجار بالبشر ، وإلى تطوير الإستراتيجية الوطنية الأولى لدولة الكويت في مجال مكافحة الاتجار بالبشر ورعاية ضحاياه. . "
تماشياً مع التزامها بمكافحة الاتجار بالبشر ، أصدرت دولة الكويت القانون رقم 91 لسنة 2013 بشأن "مكافحة الاتجار بالبشر وتهريب المهاجرين" وأنشأت وحدة مكافحة الاتجار بالبشر بوزارة الداخلية في عام 2015. وهذا يشير إلى تزايد وجهود دولة الكويت في مكافحة هذه الجريمة النكراء ، واتخاذ إجراءات لحماية ضحايا الاتجار ، ومنع جرائم الاتجار ومحاكمة مرتكبيها.

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/141454-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D9%85%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D8%AA%D8%AD%D8%AF%D8%A9-%D9%81%D9%8A-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%83%D9%88%D9%8A%D8%AA-%D8%AA%D8%AD%D8%AA%D9%81%D9%84-%D8%A8%D9%80-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%8A%D9%88%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D9%8A-%D9%84%D9%85%D9%83%D8%A7%D9%81%D8%AD%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%AA%D8%AC%D8%A7%D8%B1-%D8%A8%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A8%D8%B4%D8%B1




Date: 30 July 2021
Title: In association with International Organization for Migration (IOM)  Ooredoo Kuwait Promotes a World Free of Human Trafficking
Content: 30 July 2021
Kuwait, Kuwait City: Given the crucial need for collaborative actions and joint efforts to enhance the national security, raise awareness on the plight of millions of people in the country and around the world who are victims of human trafficking, and direct public opinion to combat and abolish this contemporary form of slavery, Ooredoo Telecom, the first to introduce innovative digital services in Kuwait, in association with the International Organization for Migration (IOM), UN migration agency in Kuwait, launched an awareness campaign calling for a world free of human trafficking
The campaign came as a continuation of the success achieved by Ooredoo and IOM in their previous collaborations that shed light on several phenomena that aim to protect human rights, freedom, safety and dignity. In its part, Ooredoo Kuwait have sent text messages to its customers and published awareness posts on its social media pages to develop a national consensus on the concept of human trafficking and what practices are included within the concept of slavery. The campaign also came in celebration of the World Day Against Trafficking in Persons happening in July 30, 2021.
Human Trafficking is the recruitment, transportation, transfer, harboring or receipt of people through force, fraud or deception, with the aim of exploiting them for money. The phenomenon of human trafficking is the third largest crime industry in the world, it is a serious crime and a grave violation of human rights. It is a global phenomenon calling on all businesses, individuals and governments to intensify their collective efforts to address and combat such practices that are considered as a crime against humanity and promote the concepts of slavery and gender inequality.
Abdulaziz Yaqoub Al-Babtain, Chief Executive Officer, Ooredoo Kuwait, said: “Victims of human trafficking including women and children are countless, hence, child labor is just one form of human trafficking, even with their parent’s consent without being subjected to violence, threats or coercion, the child remains a victim of trafficking. As long as the phenomenon of human trafficking is still existing, our continuous efforts to fight it and raise awareness among the community remain our top priority until an end to trafficking is put.”
"The text messages that were sent included advices and instructions that ensure the achievement of the educational and societal role, increasing their awareness and enlightening them on the various aspects that serve the country and its people" Al-Babtain added.
Mazen AboulHosn, IOM Kuwait’s Chief of Mission said: “At IOM we adapt a victim-centered methodology that provides assistance to potential victims of trafficking. Today, through our continuous collaboration with Ooredoo, we work hand in hand to shed light on various practices that negatively affect the national health and safety.”

-END-
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/138220-association-international-organization-migration-iom-ooredoo-kuwait-promotes-world-free




Date: 12 July 2021
Title: Signature Ceremony Memorandum of Understanding
Content: 12 July 2021
Between the Kuwait Chamber of Commerce and Industry
12 July 2021
Kuwait -  Monday 12 July 2021, Driven by mutual objective of promoting sustainable development, Agenda 2030 among private sector in Kuwait within Kuwait vision 2035, the Kuwait Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) and the United Nations (UN) in Kuwait signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that articulate their partnership and potential collaboration in support of Kuwait private sector active engagement in national, regional and international collective actions to achieve sustainable development.
The partnership is based on goodwill, active collaboration as well as mutually beneficial activities and will among other things:

This MoU will focus on areas of promoting sustainable development among the chamber constituents in Kuwait; strengthening partnerships and cooperation to support youth-led innovation initiatives in Kuwait; supporting the activities for community led initiatives in support of National Development Plan of State of Kuwait through private sector activities and initiatives, in addition to information/ knowledge exchange and organization of joint events, workshops, webinars and activities to advance private sector effective engagement and dialogue as the leading force for the advancement of sustainable development and the economy for the upcoming era in Kuwait.
Dr Tarek Elsheikh, the Representative of the United Nations Secretary General and the Resident Coordinator to the State of Kuwait emphasized that : “This collaboration comes in a timely manner allowing both partners to build on existing efforts and explore opportunities in many areas such as environment, socioeconomic, governance (ESG) and policies, to ensure sustainable business practices. The MoU also covers areas of support to capacity building and development of policy papers, assessments, and situation analysis, providing support from UN Specialized Agencies, programmes and Funds through the One UN approach in accordance with the Kuwait/UN Strategic Cooperation Framework 2020-2025”.
“The UN is committed to actively provide support through its own resources, networks, systems and tools, bringing top notch expertise and best practices to support bridging the gap and enhancing practices and strengthening ‘skills. Amidst the current circumstance and in our collective fight against COVID-19 Pandemic, we look forward to this opportunity for both parties to support investing in SMEs and promoting competitiveness in the emerging job market among youth. In addition, the UN in Kuwait is keen to support initiatives related to financing for development and how Kuwait could play a key role in attracting international partners and hosting private sector and businesses led dialogues at the international level” Dr. Elsheikh added.
Based on the common goals aimed at promoting sustainable development, the Kuwait Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the United Nations (Kuwait Office) signed a memorandum of understanding on cooperation between the two sides that promotes the role of the private sector in performing its societal role and promoting the principle of sustainable development in its activities at all local levels. Regional, international and achieve common goals.
Mr. Muhammad Jassim Al-Sager – Kuwait Chamber Chairman of the Board of Directors signed the MOU, while by the United Nations, Dr. Tarik Azmi ElSheikh - Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator in the State of Kuwait, and the signing ceremony took place in the presence of a number of members of the Chamber's Board of Directors and representatives of the United Nations office in Kuwait namely the Resident Coordinator Office, Representatives of IOM, UNHCR and UNICEF.
Mr. Al-Sager also indicated: “The memorandum of understanding focuses on promoting the principle of sustainable development in the Kuwaiti private sector by urging the establishment of projects compatible with the pillars of sustainable development and in line with Kuwait Vision 2035, as well as giving a leading role to the youth category and encouraging them to take initiative and innovate and provide advanced and new solutions, The Chamber and the United Nations Office will also cooperate in organizing joint events such as virtual seminars, discussion workshops and other events that encourage the participation of the private sector in economically, socially and environmentally sustainable activities and projects, as well as spreading societal awareness among entrepreneurs in Kuwait and developing skills and expertise to ensure consistency with the requirements of the labor market and enhance competitiveness.
This partnership is a major milestone for Kuwait and UN to enter into a critical partnership, as it opens a wide door to attract small and strategic initiatives, where business leaders and Innovators get to have open dialogues, know international peers and share experience and best practice on grassroots issues that have a direct impact on the national commerce and industry community and reflecting Kuwaiti businesses commitment to advancing and support Kuwait efforts to achieve sustainable development and ensuring the Kuwait businesses presence in global international fora’s as the United Nations.
End.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/141432-signature-ceremony-memorandum-understanding




Date: 12 July 2021
Title: Signature Ceremony Memorandum of Understanding  Between the Kuwait Chamber of Commerce and Industry
Content: 12 July 2021
Kuwait -  Monday 12 July 2021, Driven by mutual objective of promoting sustainable development, Agenda 2030 among private sector in Kuwait within Kuwait vision 2035, the Kuwait Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) and the United Nations (UN) in Kuwait signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that articulate their partnership and potential collaboration in support of Kuwait private sector active engagement in national, regional and international collective actions to achieve sustainable development.
The partnership is based on goodwill, active collaboration as well as mutually beneficial activities and will among other things:

This MoU will focus on areas of promoting sustainable development among the chamber constituents in Kuwait; strengthening partnerships and cooperation to support youth-led innovation initiatives in Kuwait; supporting the activities for community led initiatives in support of National Development Plan of State of Kuwait through private sector activities and initiatives, in addition to information/ knowledge exchange and organization of joint events, workshops, webinars and activities to advance private sector effective engagement and dialogue as the leading force for the advancement of sustainable development and the economy for the upcoming era in Kuwait.
Dr Tarek Elsheikh, the Representative of the United Nations Secretary General and the Resident Coordinator to the State of Kuwait emphasized that : “This collaboration comes in a timely manner allowing both partners to build on existing efforts and explore opportunities in many areas such as environment, socioeconomic, governance (ESG) and policies, to ensure sustainable business practices. The MoU also covers areas of support to capacity building and development of policy papers, assessments, and situation analysis, providing support from UN Specialized Agencies, programmes and Funds through the One UN approach in accordance with the Kuwait/UN Strategic Cooperation Framework 2020-2025”.
“The UN is committed to actively provide support through its own resources, networks, systems and tools, bringing top notch expertise and best practices to support bridging the gap and enhancing practices and strengthening ‘skills. Amidst the current circumstance and in our collective fight against COVID-19 Pandemic, we look forward to this opportunity for both parties to support investing in SMEs and promoting competitiveness in the emerging job market among youth. In addition, the UN in Kuwait is keen to support initiatives related to financing for development and how Kuwait could play a key role in attracting international partners and hosting private sector and businesses led dialogues at the international level” Dr. Elsheikh added.
Based on the common goals aimed at promoting sustainable development, the Kuwait Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the United Nations (Kuwait Office) signed a memorandum of understanding on cooperation between the two sides that promotes the role of the private sector in performing its societal role and promoting the principle of sustainable development in its activities at all local levels. Regional, international and achieve common goals.
Mr. Muhammad Jassim Al-Sager – Kuwait Chamber Chairman of the Board of Directors signed the MOU, while by the United Nations, Dr. Tarik Azmi ElSheikh - Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator in the State of Kuwait, and the signing ceremony took place in the presence of a number of members of the Chamber's Board of Directors and representatives of the United Nations office in Kuwait namely the Resident Coordinator Office, Representatives of UNHCR, UNICEF and IOM.
Mr. Al-Sager also indicated: “The memorandum of understanding focuses on promoting the principle of sustainable development in the Kuwaiti private sector by urging the establishment of projects compatible with the pillars of sustainable development and in line with Kuwait Vision 2035, as well as giving a leading role to the youth category and encouraging them to take initiative and innovate and provide advanced and new solutions, The Chamber and the United Nations Office will also cooperate in organizing joint events such as virtual seminars, discussion workshops and other events that encourage the participation of the private sector in economically, socially and environmentally sustainable activities and projects, as well as spreading societal awareness among entrepreneurs in Kuwait and developing skills and expertise to ensure consistency with the requirements of the labor market and enhance competitiveness.
This partnership is a major milestone for Kuwait and UN to enter into a critical partnership, as it opens a wide door to attract small and strategic initiatives, where business leaders and Innovators get to have open dialogues, know international peers and share experience and best practice on grassroots issues that have a direct impact on the national commerce and industry community and reflecting Kuwaiti businesses commitment to advancing and support Kuwait efforts to achieve sustainable development and ensuring the Kuwait businesses presence in global international fora’s as the United Nations.
End.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/136595-signature-ceremony-memorandum-understanding-between-kuwait-chamber-commerce-and-industry




Date: 20 June 2021
Title: HCR: World leaders must act to reverse the trend of soaring displacement
Content: 20 June 2021
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is urging world leaders on the occasion of World Refugee Day to step up their efforts to foster peace, stability and cooperation in order to halt and begin reversing nearly a decade-long trend of surging displacement driven by violence and persecution.
Despite the pandemic, the number of people fleeing wars, violence, persecution, and human rights violations in 2020 rose to nearly 82.4 million people, according to UNHCR’s latest annual Global Trends report released today in Geneva. This is a further four per cent increase on top of the already record-high 79.5 million at the end of 2019.

The report shows that by the end of 2020 there were 20.7 million refugees under UNHCR mandate, 5.7 million Palestine refugees and 3.9 million Venezuelans displaced abroad. Another 48 million people were internally displaced (IDPs) within their own countries. A further 4.1 million were asylum-seekers. These numbers indicate that despite the pandemic and calls for a global ceasefire, conflict continued to chase people from their homes.

“Behind each number is a person forced from their home and a story of displacement, dispossession and suffering. They merit our attention and support not just with humanitarian aid, but in finding solutions to their plight.”

“While the 1951 Refugee Convention and the Global Compact on Refugees provide the legal framework and tools to respond to displacement, we need much greater political will to address conflicts and persecution that force people to flee in the first place,” said the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Filippo Grandi.

Girls and boys under the age of 18 account for 42 per cent of all forcibly displaced people. They are particularly vulnerable, especially when crises continue for years. New UNHCR estimates show that almost one million children were born as refugees between 2018 and 2020. Many of them may remain refugees for years to come.

“The tragedy of so many children being born into exile should be reason enough to make far greater efforts to prevent and end conflict and violence,” said Grandi.

The report also notes that at the peak of the pandemic in 2020, over 160 countries had closed their borders, with 99 States making no exception for people seeking protection. Yet with improved measures - such as medical screenings at borders, health certification or temporary quarantine upon arrival, simplified registration procedures and remote interviewing, more and more countries found ways to ensure access to asylum while trying to stem the spread of the pandemic.

While people continued to flee across borders, millions more were displaced within their own countries. Driven mostly by crises in Ethiopia, Sudan, Sahel countries, Mozambique, Yemen, Afghanistan and Colombia the number of internally displaced people rose by more than 2.3 million.

Over the course of 2020, some 3.2 million IDPs and just 251,000 refugees returned to their homes –a 40 and 21 per cent drop, respectively, compared to 2019. Another 33,800 refugees were naturalized by their countries of asylum. Refugee resettlement registered a drastic plunge - just 34,400 refugees were resettled last year, the lowest level in 20 years – a consequence of reduced number of resettlement places and Covid-19.

The Middle East and North Africa region hosted a quarter of the world’s forcibly displaced (some 20.3 million persons). Syrians remained the biggest refugee population worldwide, with some 6.7 million Syrian refugees outside their home country. Five out of six Syrian refugees were hosted in neighbouring countries.  In addition, 6.7 million Syrians remained displaced within the country. In Yemen, displaced families faced an acute risk of famine amid violence, collapsing services and protracted displacement. More families were driven from their homes last year bringing the total number of IDPs to 4 million.  Displacement also was at high levels in Iraq (1.2 million persons) and Libya (278,000 persons).

This year, we mark World Refugee Day amid a continuing pandemic, which has abated in some parts of the world but continues to rage in others. COVID-19 has put a strain on health care, schools and our communities. It has exposed social and economic inequalities and devastated economies.

“COVID-19 interrupted education for children around the world. Many refugees couldn’t afford to pay for internet or for a phone for their children to study remotely.  We must support refugees who left school during the pandemic and who are at risk of never returning. An approximate of 48% of refugee children are out of school due to the pandemic. When we support the enrolment of refugee children in schools, we contribute to a raise of 23% of income raise per capita in the society.” Said Secretary General Representative and the UN Resident Coordinator in the State of Kuwait, Dr. Tarek ElSheikh.

Amidst all these global challenges, the State of Kuwait continues to show its solidarity and support to refugees all over the world, through its generous contributions to UNHCR’s humanitarian activities and programs.  Over the past 10 years, the State of Kuwait is amongst top donor countries to UNHCR with total contributions exceeding USD 430 million. Besides its generous financial aid, the State of Kuwait has always played a pivotal role in creating international humanitarian mechanisms and strategies that showcased its leadership in international diplomacy and resource mobilization during humanitarian emergencies. The state of Kuwait continues to join efforts with UNHCR through advocating for the refugee cause and raising awareness on refugee needs and plight. This support was exerted in many forms including the open-door policy with the government counterparts and encouraging local foundations, NGOs, private sector, media, and the local public to support UNHCR and collaborate in many humanitarian initiatives.

“We often refer to Kuwait as an international role model for other countries to follow. The State of Kuwait is, and will remain, a strategic partner to UNHCR. On this day, we express our gratitude to the State of Kuwait for all the support it has given throughout the years which contributed to the enhancement of the dire situations of millions of refugees worldwide” said UNHCR Representative to the State of Kuwait, Dr. Samer Haddadin

Additionally, UNHCR values its strategic partnership with the prominent government development arm the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, which was formalised through the signature of MoU in 2016, followed by signing a grant agreement worth USD 10 million in 2017 and another USD 2.6 million in 2020 to aid Syrian Refugees and Iraqi Internally Displaces in Northern Iraq. The 2 Infrastructure based projects has contributed generously to improving the situation in the refugee camps in Northern Iraq and provide them with clean water and electricity. The Acting Director General of Kuwait Fund H.E Ghanem AlGhunaiman noted that “The role of the Kuwait Fund for Development in aid and relief for refugees and distressed people in the world is inseparable from the role of the State of Kuwait. Since its establishment, the Fund has played a prominent role in providing support and assistance to the displaced in Palestine, Iraq, Syria, Yemen and Myanmar in the host countries, such as Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey, Egypt and Bangladesh”.


END

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/132482-hcr-world-leaders-must-act-reverse-trend-soaring-displacement




Date: 15 June 2021
Title: Joint Ministry of Health- UN presse release on the inauguration of the WHO Office in  the UN House in Kuwait
Content: 15 June 2021
Kuwait, 15 June 2021 – The World Health Organization (WHO) today opened a Country Office in Kuwait in a move set to strengthen its presence and cooperation with the Government to support its efforts in advancing the health and well-being of the country’s population. The newly established office will enable WHO to work on the ground with United Nations agencies, partners, the authorities, and other stakeholders in health, development and other sectors to foster public health collaboration at the national, regional and international levels.

Kuwait has long been an influential and strategic Member State and partner for WHO in the Eastern Mediterranean Region. Kuwait contributed to and enhanced the global and regional response to the COVID-19, while the Ministry of Health led a well-coordinated multisectoral response to the pandemic within the country and strengthened national capacity across all levels of government.

The Minister of Health of Kuwait, Dr Bassel Humoud Hamad Al-Sabah, formally inaugurated WHO’s new premises in Kuwait City in a ceremony, in presence of HE Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Ambassador Majdi AlDhafiri. The ceremony was attended virtually by WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean Dr Ahmed Al-Mandhari, and was hosted by the Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator in Kuwait, Dr. Tarek El-Sheikh, and WHO’s Representative in Kuwait, Dr Assad Hafeez.

“With the establishment of the new WHO Country Office, we look forward to forging an even stronger partnership and greater collaboration, and to seeing its impact on improving public health in Kuwait,” said WHO Director-General Dr Tedros. “As one of the first responders to the COVID-19 appeal, Kuwait’s contributions have played a critical role in helping WHO and health partners respond to the pandemic and in saving lives, particularly of the most vulnerable.”

From his side Dr Tarek Elsheikh said: “We are happy to announce the official opening of the WHO office in the State of Kuwait, a major milestone in our longstanding partnership for continued and sustainable  national health achievements (that are excelling during this challenging times) and to complement its sister agencies in the United Nations Development system effective partnerships with Kuwaiti stakeholders. Kuwait has also been at the forefront of efforts to secure lifesaving support to millions under emergency and humanitarian crises. As a partner and advocate of WHO’s mandates, it has upheld the guiding principles of the United Nations Charter to Leave No One Behind through enabling the provision of life-saving interventions to affected communities in Syria, Iraq, Yemen amongst other countries. In doing so, Kuwait has supported UN Agencies, funds and programmes to protect access rights to essential preventive and curative care for millions of vulnerable people.  The great contribution made to WHO’s Contingency Fund for Emergencies (CFE) has played an unequivocal role in the rapid scale up of healthcare delivery during states of emergency such as the COVID-19 pandemic.  This commitment is resonant in the country’s most recent pledge to the COVAX facility, which will ensure equitable global vaccine coverage; and which is reinforced on the ground in Kuwait in the United Nations collaborative campaign with the Ministry of Health to promote vaccine confidence and uptake by migrant workers. Nationally, this close coordination has aligned national health strategies with WHO guidance for the ultimate goal of strengthening health system preparedness and capacities to respond to emergencies and to intervene sustainably for population health and wellbeing against preventable morbidity and mortality”.

On this occasion, the Minister of Health Dr. Bassel AlSabah, appreciates the support of Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director General of the World Health Organization, and  Dr. Ahmed bin Salem Al-Mandhari, Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean, and its keenness to take executive measures for the opening of the permanent headquarters of the Organization in the State of Kuwait within the United Nations system Where the will of the two parties met the importance of this step, especially at the present time when the world is living through the new Corona pandemic, which represents an unprecedented challenge and faces health systems worldwide, including the health system in the State of Kuwait, which requires strengthening international solidarity and cooperation to exchange experiences gained and lessons learned from Implementing surveillance, preparedness and response procedures and policies for the emerging corona pandemic and benefiting from them to support the global system to confront pandemics and epidemics. Dr. Asaad Hafeez has been chosen as a permanent representative of the World Health Organization in its permanent office in Kuwait. We welcome him among his family and brothers. We wish him success and look forward to joint work by developing and updating the joint cooperation strategy between the State of Kuwait, the World Health Organization and all partners, which will define the axes and areas of joint action in accordance with the national health priorities. And the state’s development plan and commitment to achieving global goals and objectives for sustainable development related to health until 2030, and ensuring the commitment of the State of Kuwait before the international community in this regard, in implementation of the decisions of the United Nations and the World Health Organization.

The Organization’s Regional Director, Dr Ahmed Al-Mandhari, said on this important occasion “enhancing national and regional collaboration with Kuwait was a major priority. “Kuwait has historically been a generous supporter of WHO causes and initiatives, especially in the context of emergency response, and has always provided its support where and when it is most needed. The inauguration of this new Country Office will further advance our collaboration and bring us closer towards achieving our vision of Health for All by All in the Eastern Mediterranean Region.”

Reaffirming WHO’s aim to provide support to the Kuwaiti Ministry of Health, Dr Assad Hafeez, WHO Representative in Kuwait, commented: “We are looking forward to working closely with the Kuwaiti government and all stakeholders, especially the UN family, to advance the health and well-being of the population in Kuwait. I have the privilege of being the first WHO Representative in Kuwait and I am committed to exerting all efforts to support the Ministry of Health and other sectors in their endeavors to achieve national and global health goals, including the response to COVID-19 pandemic.”

Reaffirming WHO’s aim to provide support to the Kuwaiti Ministry of Health, Dr Assad Hafeez, WHO Representative in Kuwait, commented: “We are looking forward to working closely with the Kuwaiti government and all stakeholders, especially the UN family, to advance the health and well-being of the population in Kuwait. I have the privilege of being the first WHO Representative in Kuwait and I am committed to exerting all efforts to support the Ministry of Health and other sectors in their endeavours to achieve national and global health goals, including the response to COVID-19 pandemic.”

The opening of the Kuwait Country Office reflects the critical importance of close contact with states and governments in WHO’s work. Country offices represent a link between the Organization and governments. The WHO Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean Region comprises 22 countries and territories, most of which have a presence on the ground: the opening of the Kuwait Country Office brings the number of WHO country offices in the Region to 19. WHO country offices play a key role within the Organization in ensuring appropriate WHO technical cooperation with countries and leadership in the health sector. Functions of country offices include: policy advice and technical support; information, public relations and advocacy; and management and administration.

End.


URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/131509-joint-ministry-health-un-presse-release-inauguration-who-office-un-house-kuwait




Date: 05 June 2021
Title: World Environment Day: TOGETHER WE CAN BE #GENERATIONRESTORATION
Content: 05 June 2021


5 June 2021, Kuwait – The United Nations has proclaimed June 5 the International Day for Environment to increase understanding and awareness of Environment issues. The Day offers an opportunity to reflect on accomplishments and renew our resolve in overcoming the environmental challenges facing the world today. Held annually since 1974, World Environment Day is a vital platform for promoting progress on the environmental dimensions of the Sustainable Development Goals. The 2021 Environment day is being celebrated under the slogan “Reimagine. Recreate. Restore. This year, the Day will also serve as the formal launch of the United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration 2021-2030. Led by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration (UN Decade) is a rallying call for the protection and revival of ecosystems all around the world, for the benefit of people and nature. The official hashtags for the Day are #GenerationRestoration and #WorldEnvironmentDay.

Ecosystem restoration means assisting in the recovery of ecosystems that have been degraded or destroyed, as well as conserving the ecosystems that are still intact. All kinds of natural as well as human-made ecosystems can be restored, including forests, farmlands, cities, wetlands and oceans. Healthier ecosystems, with richer biodiversity, yield greater benefits for the planet and its people. These include, among many others, more fertile soils, bigger yields of timber and fish, and larger stores of greenhouse gases. Restoring ecosystems, large and small, protects and improves not only our planet but also the livelihoods of billions of people who depend on them.

The United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guteress highlights that: “the degradation of the natural world is already undermining the well-being of 3.2 billion people – or 40 per cent of humanity. By restoring ecosystems, we can drive a transformation that will contribute to the achievement of all the Sustainable Development Goals. It will create millions of new jobs by 2030, generate returns of over $7 trillion dollars every year and help eliminate poverty and hunger.
Science tells us these next 10 years are our final chance to avert a climate catastrophe, turn back the deadly tide of pollution and end species loss”.

Tarek Elsheikh, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in the State of Kuwait said:.Dr
“Today we celebrate World Environment Day, as the UN we dedicate this year to a global call for the restoration of our ecosystem and launch a comprehensive community call for preserving the ecosystem by amending many consumer practices, that pollute our waters, oceans and beaches, which contribute to the ecological imbalance in our deserts and cities, increase air pollution, losing many of our environmental resources and spreading waste”.

“In contrast to the consumption patterns affecting our environmental system, we are witnessing a growing community awareness in Kuwait, especially among promising young people. We see a major shift in life practices to a system that is less consuming, healthier and less waste production. We see an increase in energy conservation and community solutions and innovations that promote this.
We see Governmental commitments by switching to renewable energy and promoting its use in open areas, walkways and gardens. We see young people and children in schools raising awareness and advanced classes in order to preserve their ecosystem, and in the United Nations, the United Nations Environment Organization and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization invite everyone to join us with their initiatives in our International Compact to Restore Our Ecosystem movement. We care to listen to the challenges that you have faced and the innovative solutions that you have taken to preserve the ecosystem, biological diversity and natural resources of water, air and energy. We call upon everyone to put our hands together for a better future, for us, for our health, our life and well-being: Dr Elsheikh added.

The Public Authority for Agriculture Affairs and Fish Resources is participating in the World Environment Day, June 5, 2021, which is dedicated this year to a global call for the restoration of our ecosystems. The Director-General Sheikh / Mohamed Al-Yousef Alsbah, stressed: “the importance of protecting and developing ecosystems, including their biological diversity and natural resources, through the role of the authority in carrying out work related to agricultural development in its plant and animal sectors, developing and protecting fish wealth. With regard to restoring and repairing degraded terrestrial and marine ecosystems, the contract set by the United Nations General Assembly for the years between 2021-2030, the authority manages and implements a series of projects to rehabilitate the environment from the damage caused to it as a result of the Iraqi invasion funded by the amounts approved by the United Nations for compensation and the supervision of the Secretariat General of the Kuwaiti link point for environmental projects. The authority also participated with a group of state authorities with the aim of enriching the ecosystems and wildlife in the State of Kuwait, including the Kuwait Oil Company, by establishing the Abdali Reserve by planting more than 150,000 wild seedlings, as well as the rehabilitation of Al-Liah Reserve with the Kuwait Institute for Scientific Research, and the Kuwait National Petroleum Company Center project For the development and propagation of fungal plants located in the agricultural Wafra area, and other important projects to combat the threat of land degradation and restore ecosystems”.

Sheikh Mohammad Al-Youssef AlSabah added that:” there must be concerted efforts between government agencies, civil society and the private sector to reach the best results in protecting the environment at all local, regional and global levels”.

Sami Dimassi, UNEP Regional Director and Representative for West Asia stated “Kuwait consists of a diverse environment which includes vital ecosystems and ecosystem services that we depend on. Deserts contribute to around 90% of the total area of the country, hosting a unique diversity of species. However, we have seen the impact of climate change firsthand. The increased number and intensity of dust storms, the rising sea temperatures affecting coastal areas and marine resources, and other factors further degrading the diverse ecosystems. In response to this, the State of Kuwait has increased its ambitions and commitments in tackling these environmental challenges and enhanced actions towards environmental protection and conservation – and we see this across the board, through government, NGOs, as well as the private sector.”

He continued, “The upcoming Decade will be critical in addressing these challenges and will require the action of many. Achieving successful ecosystem restoration in the region will require deep changes to grasp the economic, social and ecological benefits, creating an enabling environment for private-public partnerships, taking action on food waste, making more efficient use of agricultural land, mangrove and coral reef protection and water management to further support adaptation to climate change. Only with healthy ecosystems can we enhance people’s livelihoods, counteract climate change, and stop the collapse of biodiversity”

Dr. Dino Francescutti Subregional Coordinator for the GCC states and Yemen stated “Biodiversity for food and agriculture is indispensable to food security and sustainable development. Sustainable agricultural practices can help safeguard the adaptive capacity of food production through the conservation of genetic diversity while also contributing to healthy and culturally relevant nutrition”.

He added “We need to encourage production systems that support biodiversity and harness its power, such as agroforestry, agroecology, conservation agriculture and silvopasture. Biodiversity based production systems have the capacity to produce food and secure livelihoods while minimizing the cost to the environment.”

2021 is a year of reimagine, recreate and restore. It is the year of building back better. One of the critical components of biodiversity is genetic resources for food and agriculture. The diversity of genetic resources for food and agriculture (i.e. plants/crops, animals, aquatic resources, forests, micro-organisms and invertebrates) plays a crucial role in meeting basic human food and nutritional needs. It is essential for maintaining and enhancing the efficiency and the resilience of production systems, as well as for healthy diets and the delivery of ecosystem services, such as pollination and pest and disease regulation. These resources need to be assessed and inventoried for their sustainable use and conservation for current and future generations.

A better understanding of the role of ecosystems and biodiversity in addressing diseases and other threats to people's lives, health, and livelihoods will enable us to overcome the COVID-19 challenges and prevent the re-emergence of such devastating outbreaks in the future.


--- END  ---

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/130257-world-environment-day-together-we-can-be-generationrestoration




Date: 16 May 2021
Title: Op-ed by Dr. Tarek Elsheikh  UNSG Representative and Resident Coordinator to Kuwait
Content: 16 May 2021
International Day of Living Together in Peace
Kuwait, 16th of May 2021 - The United Nations celebrates the International Day of Living Together in Peace on the 16th of May of each year. A day that invites countries of the world to live and act together, united in differences and diversity to build a sustainable world of peace, solidarity, and harmony.
Since its admission to the United Nations in 1963, the State of Kuwait has always emphasized on its commitment to regional and world peace and human dignity, promoting the use of dialogue among nations and fighting all forms of terrorism. Now, in 2021, Kuwait stresses on the importance of dialogue to empower the values of equity, acceptance and co-existence between the different civilizations, cultures, and religions, and hence live together in peace. With this belief asserted in actions, the State of Kuwait developed a State Vision of New Kuwait 2035, harmonizing its national development plan with the international development vision by adapting the plan to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG's) 2030 agenda.
In 1961, the year of its political independence, the state of Kuwait established the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED). A generous declaration to the world that Kuwait is willing to share its wealth with other developing countries and hence lead in that vital and noble role of enhancing the regional and international peace and development. Since that date, KFAED has provided loans to 107 countries, for the purpose of implementing development projects in sectors such as education, transportation, industry, energy, water and sewerage, peacebuilding, and many others.
This year, while the world is bravely fighting an unprecedented global crisis unleashed by   COVID-19, it is important more than ever to promote equity, solidarity, compassion, and kindness to help ensure peace, under the motto ‘Nobody is safe until everyone is safe’. People from different groups volunteered together to respond to the pandemic. Stemming from this belief, on 10 August 2020, The State of Kuwait pledged 10 million US dollars to Gavi, the vaccine alliance for supporting COVAX Advance Market Commitment Countries. On 15 November 2020, The Kuwait Fund has contributed 4 million US dollars to UNICEF’s COVID-19 response in Syria, supporting the most vulnerable children and families. On 6 July 2020, the World Health Organization acknowledged the generous funding of Kuwait that supported the implementation of Jordan's COVID-19 national preparedness and response plan. In 2021, The state of Kuwait has donated oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, ventilators, and other medical supplies to aid India in their fierce fight against COVID-19. These are only few examples however the State of Kuwait still has much more to open-handedly contribute to the world, it is a destiny Kuwait is proud to fulfill.
Such destiny was commended during the General Assembly in its Seventy-Sixth Session, October 2020, when Secretary-General António Guterres celebrated the life of Sheikh Al-Sabah also known as “dean of Arab diplomacy” and described him as a bridge‑builder and a messenger of peace.  With foresight and political wisdom, Sheikh Al-Sabah shaped Kuwait’s preventive diplomatic engagement, he said, recalling how in the thick of the Syrian refugee crisis, Sheikh Al-Sabah convened the first conference of solidarity, and started it off with a generous offer that inspired other countries to step up their response. In a recent update from WHO, the Executive Director Tedros Ghebreyesus expressed his gratitude to the government of Kuwait for providing over USD 200 million between 2015-20, enabling WHO to progress towards achieving #HealthForAll, address health emergencies and save millions of lives around the globe. The partnership between the UN and Kuwait goes beyond mobilizing resources for UN programmes and includes collaboration on global projects. These are focused on advocacy, capacity development and technical collaboration with the aim of achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and providing assistance that alleviates the suffering of millions around the world.
Two days ago, 14th May marks the 58th anniversary of the State of Kuwait as a member State to the United Nations. I take this opportunity to congratulate the government of Kuwait under the leadership of HH the Amir Sheikh Nawaf Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah and wisdom of HH the Prime Minister Sheikh Sabah Al-Khaled Al-Sabah for the continuous and tireless efforts in promoting peace and prosperity through our long-standing strategic partnership to provide much needed support and assistance to communities around the world and particularly in support of various humanitarian operations including in Iraq, Palestine, Syria, Yemen and for the Rohingya, to name a few.
When declaring the International Day of Living Together in Peace; the United Nations invited countries to observe the Day in accordance with the culture and other appropriate circumstances or customs of their local, national and regional communities, including through education and public awareness-raising activities.
End.

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/126957-op-ed-dr-tarek-elsheikh-unsg-representative-and-resident-coordinator-kuwait




Date: 03 May 2021
Title: World Press Freedom Day
Content: 03 May 2021
Each year on May 3, UNESCO celebrates the World Press Freedom Day. Proclaimed in 1993 by the UN General Assembly, following a Recommendation adopted at the twenty-sixth session of UNESCO’s General Conference in 1991, this date celebrates the fundamental principles of press freedom, and acts as a reminder to governments of the need to respect their commitment to press freedom. It is also a day of reflection among media professionals about issues of press freedom and professional ethics and an occasion to show support for media, which are targets for the restraint, or abolition, of press freedom.
This year, UNESCO is celebrating the 30th anniversary of the Windhoek Declaration on media pluralism and independence that paved the way to the creation of the World Press Freedom Day. This declaration made in 1991 by African independent journalists, focuses on the importance of a free, independent and pluralistic media. It had a global impact, influencing journalists in other regions of the world to gather and proclaim the same. In the Arab region, the Sana’a Declaration concluded the seminar on Promoting Independent and Pluralistic Arab Media that took place in Yemen in 1996, and reaffirmed the principles proclaimed in the Windhoek Declaration.
This year’s World Press Freedom Day is placed under the theme “Information as a Public Good”. It seeks to highlight the importance of information as a public good and calls to think about what could be done in the production, distribution and reception of content to advance transparency and empowerment. This theme is particularly relevant in our digital era with a rapid evolution of communication systems that have an impact in the different aspect of our life. It is also especially important after the COVID-19 pandemic that was followed by an infodemic that increased threats on our societies and spread defiance at a time when we should all be united.
On behalf of the United Nations Country Team in the State of Kuwait Ms. Hideko Hadzialic, , The United Nations Resident Coordinator ad interim, recognize the efforts the State of Kuwait for the measures put in place using innovative approach and technology to reach out to the wider public including all members of the society considering the diversity. The Ministry of Information launched a number of initiatives and platform to combat fake news, to avoid rumors and misinformation as a tool to verify. Furthermore, the Government of Kuwait is continuously reminding the public and the media to take the government decisions seriously and not listen to rumors, requesting citizens to help not to contribute to their spread. Ms. Hadzialic is also recognizing all the efforts before and during COVID19 pandemic. The United Nations in Kuwait is happy to provide all necessary tools and resources to support the government’s efforts and to coordinate closer collaboration with UN Specialized Agencies such as “the


Role of Media in Promoting Social Cohesion” session and “Empowering Media Professionals on Reporting Responsibly”, focused on promoting ethical and informed journalism, embracing sensitive reporting that is fair and balanced, especially when working with vulnerable groups  and communities such as foreign workers”.
The Ministry of Information affirmed its keenness to promote freedom of the press in Kuwait through its various platforms and support the professionalism of its work, represented by the transfer of local and foreign events to its followers, in a way that guarantees the success of its work while preserving the rights of individuals and preserving their freedoms.
Deputy Minister of Information Ms. Munira Al-Huwaidi says in this joint press statement today Monday: “on the occasion of the celebration of World Press Freedom Day, which falls on the third of May of each year, that the ministry facilitates the procedures for issuing licenses for paper and electronic newspapers and encourages them to do their part by providing honest and distinctive content. Al-Al- Huwaidi added that, to confirm this trend, the ministry signed yesterday evening, Sunday, a cooperation agreement with the Kuwaiti Journalists Association to support Kuwaiti journalists working in Kuwaiti daily, weekly and periodical newspapers to achieve further progress in this important field.”
“She stated that the ministry granted licenses to more than 400 electronic newspapers that are broadcast over the Internet, in addition to tens of newspapers and paper magazines, as well as the working private television and radio channels, considering that the private media is an essential tributary of the Kuwaiti media in addition to the official state media.
She praised the role of the print, audio, viewing and electronic press in enriching the press and media movement in the country and following up all events to deliver correct information to the recipient on all local, economic, social, health, cultural, artistic, sports and other issues.
Al-Huwaidi praised the role of the official and private Kuwaiti media in educating citizens and residents on the land of Kuwait during the Corona pandemic that we are living in, urging them to follow health and precautionary measures, as well as encouraging them to take vaccinations for this virus, which contributed to the accurate delivery of these messages. Ms. Al-Huwaidi expressed her wishes for all journalists working in Kuwaiti institutions to achieve more success and distinction in a way that serves the Kuwaiti press and its development through follow-ups, news, analyzes, reports and distinguished journalistic investigations, especially since the history of the Kuwaiti press is known for its leadership in the Gulf and the Arab world for decades.
COVID-19 pandemics increase threats and difficulty for the media industry, forcing closures and journalistic job cuts as well as an increased closing of media outlets. To ensure that information is still available as a “public good”, we need to draw policies to support the viability of free and pluralistic media. Sustainable media can provide citizens with important information that can make a real difference in their lives. Anna Paolini, Director of UNESCO office to the Gulf States and Yemen, highlighted the fact that “COVID-19 reminded us how critical information is in our lives. In times of crisis, information becomes a matter of death or life.” She insisted on the fundamental importance to “ensure free access to information to build knowledge societies”.


If we consider information as public good, the way information is shared and promoted should be more transparent and public accountability should be supported. In our digital world, citizens can get easily access to information through social media and online platforms, but this does not go without any risks. Indeed, online disinformation and hate speech, the lack of control from internet companies globally, threatens not only the available information quality but also erodes the public trust in media and can be even more dangerous in case of conflicts and pandemics. Internet companies should play their part in supporting journalism by prioritizing professional journalistic content and being more transparent about the way they promote information and fight against disinformation.
Media and Information Literacy (MIL) plays a central role in our support to media development and to ensure access to information. Indeed, citizens must have the tools and be able to recognize disinformation and avoid sharing unverified and biased information. They should become defenders of information and be part of the control process of its quality by supporting verified sources of information and informed analysis.
Freedom of the press and freedom of expression are at the core of UNESCO’s mandate: our organization strongly believes that those freedoms are critical to mutual understanding and to build a sustainable peace. Progress depends on having a free, pluralistic and independent press and urgent action must be taken to support the right to information, and to protect journalists that are at the very source of its production, and whom too often face harassment, attacks, and detention. This day is also a tribute to all the journalists who have lost their lives in the exercise of their profession, and commit to defend media freedom.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/126359-world-press-freedom-day




Date: 28 April 2021
Title: World Day for Safety and Health at Work 2021
Content: 28 April 2021
Kuwait, 28 April 2021,
COVID-19 pandemic has led governments, employers and workers to face unprecedented challenges in relation to the virus and the many effects it has had on the world of work.
The United Nations marks the World Day for Safety and Health at Work on 28 April of every year, and the International Labour Organization (ILO) first observed this World Day in 2003. The World Day for Safety and Health at Work 2021 focuses on leveraging the elements of an OSH system as set out in the Promotional Framework for Occupational Safety and Health Convention, 2006 (No. 187).
This year on the World Day for Safety and Health at Work, the ILO released the report “Anticipate, prepare and respond to crises - Invest Now in Resilient Occupational Safety and Health Systems”. The report will focus on strategies to strengthen national occupational safety and health (OSH) systems to build resilience, in order to face crises now and in the future, drawing on lessons learned and experiences from the world of work. It outlines the critical roles played during the pandemic by occupational safety and health regulatory frameworks and institutions, compliance mechanisms, health and advisory services, data, research and training. The report also examines how the current crisis demonstrates the importance of strengthening these OSH systems, including occupational health services, at both the national and undertaking level.
According to the report, one in five health care workers around the world have reported depression and anxiety symptoms during the pandemic and 14% of all Covid-19 infections occurred among healthcare workers. As such, the ILO values the effort, sacrifices and resilience of frontline workers in Kuwait, especially emergency and health care workers who face higher occupational and safety risks.
Hideko Hadjialic, United Nations Resident Coordinator ad . interim said: “On this day, and on behalf of the United Nations Country Team, I take this opportunity to congratulate the government and people of Kuwait on the consistent and exemplary planning and implementation of nationwide measures for over a year now, to prevent and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 as well as phased approach of gradual reopening taking epidemiological analyses and potential economic impacts into account. The preventive measures were regularly monitored and updated by government entities, the private sector, educational institutions, but most importantly the health sector and front-line workers. These were and still are in very difficult times. All of us are affected by this change but we all are in this together. Like any other countries, COVID-19 has brought us a range of concerns, such as fear of falling ill and dying, of being socially excluded, placed in quarantine, or losing a job or a loved one. The GSSCPD/UNDP joint sample survey of 680 respondents revealed that 42 percent of females and 37.8 percent of males are under psychological distress, and about 20 percent of female and 13.6 percent of male respondents are experiencing severe depression. As such, mental health and psychosocial support is an important element as part of longer-term recovery plans in general.”
The ILO also notes the relentless work undertaken by its social partners in the country that focus on raising awareness among all employers and workers, especially migrant workers. ILO’s social partners launched various information campaigns in traditional and social media in targeting migrant workers in their own languages with guidelines on how to protect against COVID-19.
In the past few years, the ILO has, in collaboration with Kuwait government, conducted a comprehensive assessment of the labour inspection system and OSH services and, based on the assessment's results, provided recommendations for reforms that are in line with  relevant International Labour Standards. It also conducted many capacity-building programmes for the Public Authority for Manpower officials and Social Partners, on modern labour inspection procedures, national OSH policy and programme, OSH management systems and OSH inspection in specific sectors. In addition, the ILO produced a number of flash videos, posters and infographics on occupational safety and health, targeting workers, including migrant workers in five different languages.
Dr. Assad Hafez, WHO Representative in the State of Kuwait said that the covid-19 pandemic has exposed an occupational health crisis in workplaces worldwide. WHO in collaboration with partners has been in the forefront to advocate and ensure safe working environment for all and with specific focus on health workers who have suffered the most. Covid safe policies, free access to personal protective equipment, mental health services and protection from victimization for raising health & safety concerns is the right of all workers. The pandemic demonstrates why health and safety must be a right for everyone. WHO will continue to work with Ministry of Health, UN partners and all stakeholders to improve and strengthen OSH systems in Kuwait.
On this occasion, the ILO and the WHO will participate in an event by Kuwait University’s Department of Environmental and Occupational Health in the Faculty of Public Health. Both UN agencies will share the best practices in OSH in regard to Covid-19 and discuss relevant international OSH and Hygiene conventions.

The COVID-19 pandemic has had a profound impact on nearly every aspect of the world of work - from the immediate threat of acquiring the virus to widespread job losses in key sectors, the closure of businesses, restrictions on mobility and air travel, lockdowns, school closures and impacts on global supply chains. These rapid changes in response to the pandemic have resulted in high levels of unemployment, a loss in working hours and business closures, and precarious employment for many workers.

Informal workers and enterprises have been particularly vulnerable during the crisis to occupational safety and health (OSH) risks as they lack sufficient protections.

Investing in the strengthening of OSH systems will not only help governments, employers and workers to respond to the current pandemic, safeguard health at the workplace and recover faster by avoiding further contagion, building up these resilient systems will also provide a foundation to respond to other unforeseen events and crises that may occur in the future, says the report.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/125841-world-day-safety-and-health-work-2021




Date: 27 April 2021
Title: On International Day of Education, the UN reiterates support for Kuwait’s national education system
Content: 27 April 2021
Kuwait, 24 January 2021 - This year’s celebration of the International Day of Education - the third since its proclamation by the UN General Assembly - occurs amidst an unprecedented global disruption in education caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The statistics in terms of scale and severity are truly devastating: The closure of schools, universities, and other learning institutions, as well as the interruption of many literacy and lifelong learning programmes, has affected the lives of 1.6 billion students in over 190 countries.
Even today, one year into the pandemic, 258 million children and youth worldwide still do not attend school. Without inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong opportunities for all, countries will not succeed in breaking the cycle of poverty, leaving millions of children, youth and adults behind.
In line with the global 2021 theme of “Learning for People, Planet, Prosperity and Peace”, celebrations of the International Day of Education in many countries, including Kuwait, will focus on the ways that government can help strengthen educational systems to empower people, protect the planet, build shared prosperity, and foster peace.
On this occasion, under the leadership of the Office of the United Nations Resident Coordinator in coordination with UNICEF and UNESCO Representatives in GCC and Kuwait are using this occasion to reiterate their resolve to support the Government of Kuwait and its line ministries to strengthen the education system and build back better after the COVID-19 pandemic.
“As we celebrate the International Day of Education, We must continue to prioritize education for all children in Kuwait, including the youngest ones. Now is the time to power education by stepping up collaboration and solidarity to place education and lifelong learning at the centre of the recovery. Recovering from the pandemic offers an opportunity to strengthen the Kuwaiti society to ensure that no one is left behind” points out Dr. Tarek El-Sheikh, Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator to the state of Kuwait.
The pandemic has caused the most profound disruption to education ever experienced in our lifetime and has amplified social, economic and digital inequalities; it has put a generation at risk of a learning catastrophe, as the UN Secretary-General warned in his Policy Brief on Education and COVID19.
Simultaneously, the pandemic has highlighted the importance and centrality of education for every society, as a public common good and the bedrock of social cohesion, well-being and opportunity. This is evident in many countries, including the highly developed and high-income ones, that are facing second and third waves of COVID-19, but are prioritizing reopening of schools and learning institutions.
“This third International Day of Education takes place in the wake of the largest ever educational disruption: at the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, 1.6 billion students were affected by the closure of schools, universities and other learning institutions in 190 countries. We estimate that two thirds of the student population – one billion students – are still facing major interruptions to their schooling, ranging from across-the-board school closures in over 20 countries to reduced or part-time academic schedules in many others. Education acts as bulwark against inequalities; a driver of economic and social development and the basis for nurturing responsible, democratic citizenship. It contributes to all the Sustainable Development Goals. It must be a top priority in the recovery. This Day aims to mobilise all education actors, and our collective partnerships to protect and mobilize equitable funding for education; give voice to 'community heroes' who acted to leave no learner behind during school closures and present innovations that pave the way towards more resilient and inclusive education systems” mentioned Dr. Anna Paolini, UNESCO Representative in the Arab States, the Gulf and Yemen, Doha Office.
Mr. Faysal Maqseed, Acting Undersecretary of the Ministry of Education said that: “Kuwait joins the world in celebrating the International Day of Education as a renewable basic resource for humanity and a fundamental human right and in Kuwait we take advantage of this occasion to highlight the development and progress in education through development plans to achieve the fourth goal of sustainable development goals, which is quality education, as well as ensure the right of citizens to education, ensuring financial coverage by the government to educational institutions in accordance with national laws and regulations, complying with compulsory education from kindergarten to secondary school with regular follow-up. The child and his care and continuity in education.”
He added: “In the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, Kuwait sought to support actions to bring about change for inclusive and equitable education, and the positive results of distance learning were monitored and challenges continue to be addressed through the training, implementation and follow-up of the educational system, as in other countries in the world. The COVID-19 pandemic has imposed a radical transformation unprecedented in Kuwait's history. This sudden reform of teaching methods has affected the lives of more than 414,000 students in three school stages: primary, middle and high school. In fact, by complying with the directives of the health authorities, which have demanded full containment since the beginning of the crisis, the Ministry of Education has chosen teaching remotely since August 2020.”
“In case the lockdowns and COVID constraints are necessary, schools should be among the first to reopen once authorities start lifting restrictions. Catch-up classes should be prioritized to ensure that children who have been unable to learn remotely are not left behind,” underlined the UNICEF Representative to the Gulf Area, Mr. Eltayeb Adam.
“Ideally, children should continue their education in their classrooms, but if this is not possible, they must be assured a conducive environment to study and learn from home. Additional learning loss can devastate children for years to come”, adds Tatjana Colin, Head of UNICEF Programmes in Kuwait.
Despite the quick move to online and distance learning in Kuwait and the government’s speedy response to offer alternative solutions to mitigate learning losses caused by months of school closures, there is a real risk that as the pandemic resurges, education could further suffer.
This must be averted by making education systems more resilient to crisis, more inclusive, flexible and sustainable. Therefore, it is fitting that this year’s International Day of Education emphasizes recovery and revitalization of education for the COVID-19 generation, aiming to highlight learning heroes, innovations, and financing.
Education powers every Sustainable Development Goal and should be treated by every government as a public good and the wisest investment in peace and prosperity. Education needs ambition and innovation to narrow inequalities and end exclusion that is keeping close to 260 million children and adolescents out of school. More importantly, education requires increased financing and more substantial cooperation to narrow the digital divide that has deprived millions of learning through the pandemic, train teachers and reform systems for inclusion and resilience.
End.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/125744-international-day-education-un-reiterates-support-kuwait%E2%80%99s-national-education-system




Date: 27 April 2021
Title: "Valuing water"
Content: 27 April 2021

Kuwait, 22 March 2021 – The World Water Day celebrates water and raises awareness of the global water crisis, and a core focus of the observance is to support the achievement of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 6: water and sanitation for all by 2030, but also on its contribution to enhance food security and nutrition in the world. The theme of World Water Day 2021 is valuing water. The commemoration is an occasion to value water and raise awareness of the water crisis that is affecting approx. 2.2 billion people living without access to safe water. It is time to tackle the global water crisis.

Dr. Tarek Elsheikh, Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator highlighted that : “ One of the seven pillars of Kuwait Vision 2035 revolves around achieving a “Sustainable Living Environment”.  Kuwait is one of the world’s most water-stressed countries, with the lowest per capita renewable internal freshwater availability of any country. The country is highly water-stressed with internal renewable less than 70 mm/y, and high dependency on trans-boundary aquifers.  Due to the large and continuous increases in population size, urbanization rates, income levels and economic activities, consumption of potable water in Kuwait has
witnessed record increases since the start of production of water desalination plant.  Rising per capita income together with government-fixed low prices have caused a steep rise in average per capita water consumption. Alternative measures should be seriously considered to reform the water saving system and the new smart metering system to ensure balanced water and rational use, and to develop innovative awareness plans that have a greater impact on reducing the current consumption pattern and saving water.

H.E Engineer Jassim Mohammed Al-Nouri, The undersecretary of the Ministry of Electricity, Water and Renewable Energy also mentioned: “ Kuwait, represented by the Ministry of Electricity, Water and Renewable Energy, joins the world in celebrating World Water Day, where water is the main pillar of life and all related aspects of movement, work and energy. Wherever there is water, the more it is available, cities have been established, land has been repaired, crafts, industries and trade are active. This year's World Water Day theme is "Valuing Water", which is part of the 2010 United Nations Recommendations and is the 6th United Nations Sustainable Development Goal, providing sustainable water management for all by 2030, which provides safe drinking water to disadvantaged communities. The way of valuing water determines how water is managed and shared, is much more than its financial worth. Water is of enormous and complex value to our families, culture, health, education, our economy and the safety of our environment, and if we ignore any of these values, we may mismanage this limited and irreplaceable resource”.

“This theme reminds us of the continuous efforts of the State of Kuwait and belief on its noble mission in maintaining peace and security and spreading the principles of justice and equality by ensuring a decent living and the welfare of the peoples of the world. The ministry is developing its future plan to meet the needs of the state, with the ministry's water production reaching nearly 1 billion gallons per day by 2035”. Al-Nouri added.

The Ministry of Electricity, Water and Renewable Energy is leading various interventions to achieve all SDG 6 targets including enhancing both the water and wastewater networks; undertaking research on water resources and water pollutants; making better use of all treated wastewater; conducting community sensitization activities starting from schools to impart a more responsible behaviour in consuming and recycling water resources; enforcing laws in vigour to ensure proper usage of water, and building water tanks and drilling of wells to ensure long-term water reservation.  Kuwait resorted to the establishment of seawater desalination facilities, to produce fresh water for drinking (93 %), and treatment of wastewater for domestic and irrigation purposes.

According to Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), GCC region is one of the most water-scarce regions of the world, while there is an increasing demand for water  Freshwater resources have decreased by 2/3 during last 40 years and is expected to fall over 50 percent by 2050. In the meantime, 90 percent of the total land in the region lies within arid, semi/arid and dry sub/humid areas, while 45% of the total agricultural area is exposed to salinity, soil nutrient depletion and wind water erosion. Agriculture alone uses approximately 85 percent of the total available freshwater. Innovative approaches are thus needed to ensure its sustainability and establish food security. GCC countries are investing heavily in desalinisation technology and the use of treated wastewater to increase water availability for various purposes, including in the agricultural sector.

“Although the value of water for food security is high, it is rarely assessed. Estimating the full value of water allows policy makers to see the direct and indirect benefits for rural communities and society in general, which may be economic, sociocultural or environmental” said Dr. Dino Francescutti Motis, FAO Subregional Coordinator for the GCC States and Yemen and FAO Representative in the UAE. “Improving the sustainability of water use in agriculture means guaranteeing environmental flow requirements to sustain ecosystem functions, which are often overlooked - it has been estimated that 41 per cent of current global irrigation water use occurs at the expense of environmental flow requirements. FAO has launched a Regional Initiative on Water Scarcity in the Near East. The initiative aims to support FAO member countries in identifying and streamlining policies and best practices in agriculture water management, and beyond, that can significantly contribute to boosting agriculture productivity, improving food security and sustaining water resources”.

Dr. Francescutti Motis added. “When freshwater is a scarce resource, it is critical to maximize every drop to produce food. Aquaculture is a good venue for this, because it can be efficiently integrated with crops, using traditional and modern technologies like aquaponics, but also because it can make use of more abundant sources of brackish, marine or unconventional water for food or biomass production”

Mr. Sami Dimassi, UN Environment Programme West Asia Office Regional Representative said: “Water connects and underpins all aspects of the environment and human well-being. The health of our economies and societies depend on the availability and quality of water ecosystems. The triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution and waste take a heavy toll on our freshwater resources. UNEP and that is why UNEP cooperates with member states to support management and protection of these resources as it is central to environmental protection. Today on World Water Day, it is important to understand the value of water and how supporting progress on SDG 6 can help us achieve the sustainable development goals”.

On 22 March, 2021, World Water Day will be celebrated in an online event. The United Nations World Water Development Report will be also launched including recommendations of policy direction to decision makers.  The UN World Water Development Report 2021 will be launched.
https://fao.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_EfhV6cSATYS7CogOAPbq_g

How about you? What does water mean to you?

- End –

MEDIA CONTACT
United Nations Resident Coordinator Office
State of Kuwait
Asmae.aitssi@un.org
Twitter/ Instagram: @UNinKuwait
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/125746-valuing-water




Date: 27 April 2021
Title: Conference on Sustainable Development in Kuwait: Reality, Ambition and Challenges “Education As a Model”
Content: 27 April 2021
Statement of Dr. Tarek El-Sheikh, UN Secretary General Representative and Resident Coordinator
The COVID-19 pandemic has created the largest disruption of education systems in history, affecting nearly 1.6 billion learners in more than 190 countries and all conti­nents. Closures of schools and other learn­ing spaces have impacted 94 per cent of the world’s student population, up to 99 per cent in low and lower-middle income countries.
The crisis is exacerbating pre-existing educa­tion disparities by reducing the opportunities for many of the most vulnerable children, youth, and adults – those living in poor or rural areas, girls, refugees, persons with disabilities and forcibly displaced persons – to continue their learning. Learning losses also threaten to extend beyond this generation and erase decades of progress, not least in support of girls and young women’s educational access and reten­tion. Some 23.8 million additional children and youth (from pre-primary to tertiary) may drop out or not have access to school next year due to the pandemic’s economic impact alone.

Similarly, the education disruption has had, and will continue to have, substantial effects beyond education. Closures of educational institutions hamper the provision of essen­tial services to children and communities, including access to nutritious food, affect the ability of many parents to work, and increase risks of violence against women and girls.
As fiscal pressures increase, and development assistance comes under strain, the financing of education could also face major challenges, exacerbating massive pre-COVID-19 education funding gaps. For low income countries and low­er-middle-income countries, for instance, that gap had reached a staggering $148 billion annu­ally and it could now increase by up to one-third.

On the other hand, this crisis has stimulated innovation within the education sector. We have seen innovative approaches in support of edu­cation and training continuity: from radio and television to take-home packages. Distance learning solutions were developed thanks to quick responses by governments and partners all over the world supporting education conti­nuity, including the Global Education Coalition convened by UNESCO. We have also been reminded of the essential role of teachers and that governments and other key partners have an ongoing duty of care to education personnel.
But these changes have also highlighted that the promising future of learning, and the accelerated changes in modes of delivering quality educa­tion, cannot be separated from the imperative of leaving no one behind. This is true for children and youth affected by a lack of resources or enabling environment to access learning. It is true for the teaching profession and their need for better training in new methods of educa­tion delivery, as well as support. Last but not least, this is true for the education community.
at large, including local communities, upon whom education continuity depends during crisis and who are key to building back better.

The COVID-19 crisis and the unparalleled edu­cation disruption is far from over. As many as 100 countries have yet to announce a date for schools to reopen and across the world, governments, unions, parents and children are grappling with when and how to approach the next phase. Countries have started planning to reopen schools nationwide, either based on grade level and by prioritizing exam classes, or through localized openings in regions with fewer cases of the virus. However, given the continued virulence of the virus, the majority of countries surveyed in May–June 2020 had yet to decide on a reopening date. These decisions carry enormous social and economic implications and will have lasting effects on educators, on children and youth, on their parents – especially women – and indeed on societies as a whole.
Recommendations
Preventing a learning crisis from becoming a generational catastrophe requires urgent action from all.
Education is not only a fundamental human right. It is an enabling right with direct impact on the realization of all other human rights. It is a global common good and a primary driver of progress across all 17 Sustainable Development Goals as a bedrock of just, equal, inclusive peaceful societies. When education systems collapse, peace, prosperous and productive societies cannot be sustained.
In order to mitigate the potentially devastating consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, gov­ernments and stakeholders are encouraged to pursue the following policy responses:

SUPPRESS TRANSMISSION OF THE VIRUS AND PLAN THOROUGHLY FOR SCHOOL RE-OPENINGS: The single most significant step that countries can take to hasten the reopening of schools and education institutions is to suppress transmission of the virus to control national or local outbreaks. Once they have done so, to deal with the complex challenge of reopening, it is important to be guided by the following parameters: ensure the safety of all; plan for inclusive re-opening; listen to the voices of all concerned; and coordinate with key actors, including the health community.1
> PROTECT EDUCATION FINANCING AND COORDINATE FOR IMPACT: The pandemic has pushed the world into the deepest global recession in living memory which will have lasting effects on economies and public finances. National authorities and the international community need to protect education financing through the following avenues: strengthen domestic revenue mobilization, preserve the share of expenditure for education as a top priority and address inefficiencies in education spending; strengthen international coordination to address the debt crisis; and protect official development assistance (ODA) for education.
> BUILD RESILIENT EDUCATION SYSTEMS FOR EQUITABLE AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT: Strengthening the resilience of education systems enables countries to respond to the immediate challenges of safely reopening schools and positions them to better cope with future crises. In this regard, governments could consider the following: focus on equity and inclusion; reinforce capacities for risk management, at all levels of the system; ensure strong leadership and coordination; and enhance consultation and communication mechanisms.

> REIMAGINE EDUCATION AND ACCELERATE CHANGE IN TEACHING AND LEARNING: The massive efforts made in a short time to respond to the shocks to education systems remind us that change is possible. We should seize the opportunity to find new ways to address the learning crisis and bring about a set of solutions previously considered difficult or impossible to implement. The following entry points could be to the fore of our efforts: focus on addressing learning losses and preventing dropouts, particularly of marginalized groups; offer skills for employability programmes; support the teaching profession and teachers’ readiness; expand the definition of the right to education to include connectivity; remove barriers to connectivity; strengthen data and monitoring of learning; strengthen the articulation and flexibility across levels and types of education and training.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/125747-conference-sustainable-development-kuwait-reality-ambition-and-challenges-%E2%80%9Ceducation-model%E2%80%9D




Date: 24 April 2021
Title: International Day of Multilateralism and Diplomacy for Peace
Content: 24 April 2021
Kuwait, 24th April 2021 – The United Nations commemorates this year the third anniversary of the International Day of Multilateralism and Diplomacy for Peace. A day that represents the reaffirmation of the UN Charter and its principles of resolving disputes among countries through peaceful means. It acknowledges the use of multilateral decision-making and diplomacy in achieving peaceful resolutions to conflicts among nations. On this occasion, the United Nations Resident Coordinator (ad interim) Ms. Hideko Hadzialic stressed on the importance of highlighting this day in lights of the current challenging circumstances stemming from the outbreak of COVID-19, unresolved disputes, climate change, exacerbated inequalities, deterioration of the humanitarian situation and other tragedies being witnessed by the world. These challenging factors undoubtedly affirm the need to work together and promote diplomacy for peace on the local and global levels. While stressing on the cruciality of strengthening cooperation between states, companies, individuals and all spectrums of society, and partnering with international organizations to find solutions to local, regional and global challenges.

The State of Kuwait plays a pioneering role in the field of multilateral partnerships and peace diplomacy, which was evident through its relentless efforts and tireless work in promoting peace and security in the region and beyond. Kuwait spared no effort in taking decisions, especially in issues of concern to the Arab region and maintaining international peace and security. It also reaped the fruits of its labors in solving the Gulf crisis after 3 years of its role as a mediator calling for an end to the Gulf crisis. A historic achievement was made in the 41st Gulf Summit (Al-Ula Summit) to heal the Gulf rift by the State of Kuwait, resulting in naming the summit after the late Amir of Kuwait H.H Sheikh Sabah AlAhmed AlJaber AlSabah, as a recognition of the endeavors of His Highness, may God have mercy on him, and the efforts of the leaders of the State of Kuwait in resolving this crisis. Besides the leading efforts of the State of Kuwait in hosting international donor conferences to end the Syrian crisis and the generous contribution in support of the Syrian humanitarian situation, hosting the Yemeni peace talks and the International Conference for the Reconstruction of Iraq, and its generous contributions in support of the countries affected by the spread of COVID-19.

Through the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, whose activities extended to include 107 countries in the world, Kuwait contributed towards various humanitarian and development issues, the last of which was the commitment of the State of Kuwait on September 17, 2020  during the Ministerial Meeting on the Republic of Yemen, which was held on the sidelines of the 75th session of the United Nations General Assembly with an amount of 20 million USD, which will be allocated through the Fund. In addition, the Kuwait Fund has wide-ranging contributions covering a wide scope and geography in terms of supporting host communities for Syrian refugees, as the State of Kuwait has committed financial contributions and hosted conferences to support Syrian refugees. These commitments, which amounted to 1.8 billion USD, out of which about 377.5 million USD spent from the resources of the Kuwaiti Fund in support of Syrian refugees in the Republic of Turkey, the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Republic of Iraq, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, and Lebanon. In addition to various contributions with international and local organizations mandated to protect refugees and providing them with a decent life. On the other hand, the State of Kuwait has activities in Iraq that commenced after the end of the Iraq Reconstruction Conference held on February 14, 2018, which resulted in mobilizing several international resources amounting to about 30 billion USD, from which the Kuwait’s share amounted to 2 billion USD in the form of loans and investments. The Kuwait Fund has initiated the implementation of this fund through an educational project worth 23.5 million Kuwaiti Dinars, and other health projects are being discussed with the Iraqi counterparts.

The Kuwaiti Fund has also contributed to addressing the epidemics and diseases sweeping the world. The latest of these contributions is the support provided to countries in facing the emerging COVID-19 virus pandemic, as the Kuwaiti Fund contributed to the Debt Service Postponement Initiative launched by the G20 and the World Bank Group in April 2020, which aims to empower poor countries to mobilize and focus their own resources to face the negative repercussions of the pandemic. Besides  providing a set of emergency humanitarian grants that have been allocated to various entities, including UN agencies such as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the World Health Organization (WHO) And the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) and in Palestine implemented by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Programme of Assistance to the Palestinian People (PAPP), through the Islamic Development Bank, Kuwait Fund contributed US$42,000,000 for the construction of a comprehensive, functional and operational wastewater treatment plant serving over 217,000 residents of Khan Younis - Gaza. All these grants were mainly aimed at facing the repercussions of the existing health crisis and supporting the humanitarian situation in the beneficiary communities.

Ms. Hadzialic stated that the State of Kuwait constitutes an international model to be followed in terms of providing aid and assistance in support of international peace and security under the leadership of His Highness the Amir Sheikh Nawaf Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, may God protect him, and building international and regional partnerships and pursuing peace and preventive diplomacy. These effective political efforts and positions are nothing but an extension of a history deeply rooted in the establishment of the State of Kuwait. On behalf of the United Nations team in the State of Kuwait, she expressed her sincere thanks and appreciation for the Kuwaiti pioneering efforts at all levels to enhance security and peace and strengthen plural partnerships, mainly the tireless efforts of the Kuwaiti Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

The United Nations Charter constitutes a tool to enhance the role of diplomacy for peace, and charts the approach that should be taken in light of multilateralism and strengthening our commitment to achieving the goals of sustainable development and building a safer and just world for future generations. And that commitment is essential to the United Nations, states and to all spectrums of society around the world, more than ever.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/125662-international-day-multilateralism-and-diplomacy-peace




Date: 12 April 2021
Title: Seminar to discuss infrastructure for people with special needs on World Health day
Content: 12 April 2021
The United Nations in Kuwait represented by the United Nations Human Settlements Program Habitat for the Arab Gulf States and the UNICEF Childhood Program held a symposium to discuss integrate urban policies for developing common spaces that are more inclusive for children with disabilities in Kuwait.
The symposium was organized in cooperation with the Arab cities, the World Blind Union, the Kuwait Municipality, the Municipal Council, and several specialists, workers, and activists in the field of the disabled, education, childhood, and city affairs.
The Director of the UN-Habitat Program for the Arab Gulf States, Dr. Prince El Hassan inaugurated the session. He remarked that the agenda of the session is to arrive at a joint recommendation for improving the education system city-wide for handicapped children.
Resident Coordinator of the United Nations in Kuwait, Dr. Tariq Al-Sheikh, said in his speech that about 6.25 billion people, 15 percent of whom are persons with disabilities, are expected to live in urban cities by the year 2050.
Urbanization can be a major factor in achieving inclusiveness and sustainable development. The current lack of accessibility faced by persons with disabilities, particularly in many cities of the world is a major challenge.
Dr. Tariq stressed that the United Nations Disability Inclusion Strategy 2018 provides the basis for sustainability and progressive transformation with the inclusion of persons with disabilities. “The realization of the human rights of all persons with disabilities is an integral part of collective action, which cannot be compromised or divided from human rights and fundamental freedoms,” said Dr. Tariq.
The United Nations Secretary-General in April 2018 developed a strategy to promote system-wide access for people with disabilities. The strategy includes a system-wide policy, accountability framework, and other implementation tools.
The accountability framework includes two coherent components:
(a) The United Nations system accountability framework, focusing on four areas: Leadership, strategic planning and management,  Inclusiveness, and lastly Programming and organizational culture.
(B) Accountability of the United Nations country team through the Disability Inclusion Scorecard.
H.E The Secretary-General of the Arab Towns Organization, M. Ahmed Al-Subaih focused on the positive role of the Organization in cooperation with Arab cities for achieving ease of movement and access to special infrastructure.
The regional representative of UN-Habitat Dr. Irfan Ali stressed the willingness of the UN-Habitat program for technical cooperation with all relevant authorities, including the Kuwait Municipality, to implement projects following the new urban agenda for ease of people with disability.
Tayeb Adam, UNICEF Representative in the Gulf region gave a speech in which he stated that over the next decade UNICEF will intensify its efforts to support services for children with disabilities and their families. “On behalf of UNICEF, I am delighted to be a part of this initiative in Kuwait. I wish you fruitful and successful deliberations today, and I look forward to continuing to support more efforts. He reiterated UNICEF’s commitment to the Government of Kuwait and the Kuwait City Municipality in their efforts.” said Tayeb.
On the one hand, Mr. Hans Lagreelius, the World Blind Union stressed the importance of comprehensive pre-planning instead of improving the conditions of cities by introducing amendments to them, to respond to special needs.
Ms. Tatiana Cullen, Head of Early Childhood Development Tatiana Cullen – UNICEF Kuwait Office – explained the different types of disabilities and what UNICEF can do in terms of services.
Municipal Council member Eng. Hammoud Aqlah Al-Enezi stressed the need of developing the designs of the housing facilities, cities, utilities, public facilities, and building regulations to suit the needs of people with disabilities.
Al-Enezi revealed that many recreational and cultural facilities have been established with a commitment to the international standards for the requirements of building for people with disabilities.
For his part, Assistant Undersecretary and Head of Information Technology and Development Sector, Kuwait Municipality, Eng. Saad Al-Muhailbi stressed that people with special needs should not be marginalized as they are an important group in society.
Therefore, urban cities should integrate new designs suiting the specific needs of people with disabilities., including public buildings and public squares.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/125749-seminar-discuss-infrastructure-people-special-needs-world-health-day




Date: 25 March 2021
Title: IOM Organizes Two Workshops on ‘Responsible Reporting’ on Migrants for Media Professionals
Content: 25 March 2021
Kuwait/25 March 2021, the International Organization for Migration (IOM), UN Migration agency in Kuwait in partnership with the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Kuwait organized workshops from the 21st until the 25th of March, on ‘Responsible Reporting’ for media professionals , to provide a better understanding of the local migration context and enhance their skills and accuracy of information when covering their stories in the media using a compassionate and humane approach.

This training event was implemented under IOM’s cooperation project agreement signed with the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Kuwait in November of 2020, and in cooperation with the Ministry of Information. The two workshops were organized within a duration of a week, 3 days workshop targeting media professionals and an additional two-day workshop for social media influencers and university students.
“Beyond these institutional responsibilities, the reality is that thousands of people post negative and hateful content on their social media accounts every day, and at some point, explicitly call for violent action against migrants and other vulnerable groups” Mazen AboulHosn, IOM Kuwait Chief of Mission said during his opening remarks “Comments on social networks are more than just words, and they should not be seen as harmless, especially when social networks are a source of information for migrants and the general public , and contribute to their experiences.”.
H.E. Laurens Westhoff, Ambassador of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Kuwait said “In the past 10 years, social media has had increasing influence. Many people on social media do not adhere to the principles of responsible reporting and the algorithms make the receiver hear the same opinion over and over again. We need to be inclusive and allow as many voices as possible to express their opinion then leave it to the receiver to make own decision. I am very happy to be sponsoring this event on behalf of the Netherlands. I also thank IOM and the Ministry of Information in Kuwait for making this workshop possible”.
IOM invited speakers from various concerned entities to present, including the Ministry of Information (MoInf), the Public Authority for Manpower (PAM), Kuwait University, and the Gulf Cooperation Council Joint Program Production Institution (GCCJPPI) as well as renowned news and reporting agencies such as the BBC, Thomson Reuters Corporation and Agency France-Presse (AFP).
Through these workshops, IOM Kuwait aims to empower media professionals to promote ethical and informed journalism by embracing sensitive reporting that is fair and balanced. This is of particular importance when working with migrant workers, including vulnerable persons and communities, who are often portrayed in a negative manner in the media, and yet are amongst the most affected by the current health and consequential financial crises.
The training sessions are a way to inform reporters on the comprehensive migratory situation and the importance of understanding the context in full, with emphasis on human trafficking and its underlying issues. They further aim to guide media professionals on accurate terminology related to the migration management and enhance their skills and provide tips and techniques required for conducting interviews with vulnerable individuals and covering stories on sensitive issues.
Ethical and well-informed journalism is a key element in combatting misinformation and hate speech and promoting social cohesion within each society.

Reaven D'souza – Managing Editor, The Times Kuwait said “Very glad to attend the Responsible Reporting workshop conducted by IOM and Ministry of Information on Migrant Labour. The workshop was very illuminating and gave me a better understanding and insight into the issue. This will greatly help us as we are constantly faced with many dimensions of the issue. “
Iqbal Ahmed, News Producer at Sky News Arabia, Kuwait Office “ I really enjoyed attending the training course over a period of three days, they were fruitful and useful at all levels, especially with the amount of information provided to us by the distinguished lecturers from various entities. It was very important and an added value to our work as media professionals and editors from various agencies. The session topics chosen are very important for all media professionals, because they will actually contribute to strengthening the writing of reports in a more responsible way that takes into account all the social and psychological effects and the extent of its impact.”
Salem Abdul-Halim Al-Kaabi, Senior Media Specialist -Programs, Ministry of Information “The session aimed at promoting the values of free and responsible media work and focusing on the central role of the media in producing responsible reports that are fair and balanced and that supports the Sustainable Development Goals, that are in line with the global agenda”.
ENDS
For more information please contact: Dana Al-Othman at IOM Kuwait, Email: dalothman@iom.int

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/123559-iom-organizes-two-workshops-%E2%80%98responsible-reporting%E2%80%99-migrants-media-professionals




Date: 20 March 2021
Title: International Day of Happiness
Content: 20 March 2021
Dr. Tarek Elsheikh

Representative of United Nations Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator

Dr. Tarek Elsheikh
Representative of United Nations Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator
On
International Day of Happiness
20 March 2021


Kuwait, 20 March 2021 – Today the world celebrates the International Day of Happiness, to commemorate the importance of happiness in people lives.  It was established by the United Nations General Assembly on 28 June 2012. In 2015 the UN launched the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, recognizing the relevance of happiness and well-being as universal goals and aspirations in the lives of human beings around the world. It also recognized the need for a more inclusive, equitable and balanced approach to economic growth that promotes sustainable development, poverty and hunger eradication, happiness and the well-being of all peoples. This is also a way to look at the current state of how cities/ countries are actually doing when it comes to their citizens' subjective well-being.

The World Happiness Report is a landmark survey of the state of global happiness that ranks 156 countries by how happy their citizens perceive themselves to be. The World Happiness Report 2020 for the first time ranks cities around the world by their subjective well-being and digs more deeply into how the social, urban and natural environments combine to affect our happiness.

The importance of cities for global development has long been recognised in Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 11, Sustainable Cities and Communities, which includes targets with clear relevance for citizens' life satisfaction, such as strengthening public transport systems to reduce congestion and commuting times, reducing ambient air pollution, and improving access to green and public open spaces for all citizens.

The State of Kuwait ranked 60th on the Global Ranking of Cities index in 2020, just after Jeddah, KSA and before Manama, Bahrain. It also dropped 9 places from 51st on 2019. Kuwait is keen to enhance Kuwait’s global status to establish concepts and applications of happiness and quality of life at various levels. Kuwait has attached great importance to achieving the happiness of all citizens, residents and visitors to the country in all circumstances. This goal comes within its sustainable development priorities, by providing stability to all residents on its land. It has worked tirelessly during the covid-19 crisis to provide security and safety, provide decent livelihoods, and take proactive measures in fortifying the safety of its society and the health of its people. In the 2019 VNR Review i.e., “empowering people and ensuring inclusiveness and equality”, Kuwait committed itself to achieving a resilient society, free of inequalities and discrimination.

As the United Nations, we are happy to support Kuwait achieve its aspirations to it’s main message “commitment to all” inclusive, rights-based, equal-opportunity and dignifying development of human capital and to economic, social and environmental sustainability. The state is also committed to regional and world peace and human dignity, and to global partnership and international solidarity.

It’s a day to be happy, of course!
- End –


MEDIA CONTACT
United Nations Resident Coordinator Office
State of Kuwait
Asmae.aitssi@un.org
Twitter/ Instagram: @UNinKuwait
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/123555-international-day-happiness




Date: 20 March 2021
Title: World celebrates International Day of Happiness
Content: 20 March 2021
By Dr Tarek Elsheikh
Representative of United Nations Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator
Today the world celebrates the International Day of Happiness, to commemorate the importance of happiness in people lives.  It was established by the United Nations General Assembly on 28 June 2012. In 2015 the UN launched the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, recognizing the relevance of happiness and well-being as universal goals and aspirations in the lives of human beings around the world. It also recognized the need for a more inclusive, equitable and balanced approach to economic growth that promotes sustainable development, poverty and hunger eradication, happiness and the well-being of all peoples. This is also a way to look at the current state of how cities/ countries are actually doing when it comes to their citizens’ subjective well-being.
The World Happiness Report is a landmark survey of the state of global happiness that ranks 156 countries by how happy their citizens perceive themselves to be. The World Happiness Report 2020 for the first time ranks cities around the world by their subjective well-being and digs more deeply into how the social, urban and natural environments combine to affect our happiness.
Kuwait is keen to enhance it’s global status to establish concepts and applications of happiness and quality of life at various levels, Kuwait democracy and preserving a refined democratic character and structure has been always and will continue to be Kuwait source of pride and happiness as well as our appreciation in United Nations. Kuwait has attached great importance to achieving the happiness of all citizens, residents and visitors to the country in all circumstances. This goal comes within its sustainable development priorities, by providing stability to all residents on its land. It has worked tirelessly during the covid-19 crisis to provide security and safety, provide decent livelihoods, and take proactive measures in fortifying the safety of its society and the health of its people. In the 2019 VNR Review i.e., “empowering people and ensuring inclusiveness and equality”, Kuwait committed itself to achieving a resilient society, free of inequalities and discrimination.
As the United Nations, we are looking forward to the day when we formalize our yearly cooperation to collaborate with State of Kuwait’s people, residents and government to help achieve their aspirations for health, prosperity and happiness with rights-based, equal-opportunity  to economic, social and environmental sustainability. The United Nations in Kuwait appreciate Kuwait renewed commitment to regional/world peace and human dignity, and to global partnership and international solidarity.
Let us put our difference aside and be happy today and the days after!
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/126361-world-celebrates-international-day-happiness




Date: 16 March 2021
Title: Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world
Content: 16 March 2021
Statement of Tarek El-Sheikh, Representative of UN Secretary General and Resident Coordinator – State of Kuwait
on
International Women’s Day
Kuwait - 7 March 2021, This year’s theme to mark the International Women’s Day,"Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world", celebrates the tremendous efforts by women and girls around the world in shaping a more equal future and recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic.

It is also aligned with the priority theme of the 65th session of the Commission on the Status of Women, "Women in public life, equal participation in decision making", and the flagship Generation Equality campaign, which calls for women’s right to decision-making in all areas of life, equal pay, equal sharing of unpaid care and domestic work, an end all forms of violence against women and girls, and health-care services that respond to their needs.

Women stand at the front lines of the COVID-19 crisis, as health care workers, caregivers, innovators, community organizers and as some of the most exemplary and effective national leaders in combating the pandemic. The crisis has highlighted both the centrality of their contributions and the disproportionate burdens that women carry.
I also wish to highlight that we had many Women leaders across history who opened the doors for more women equality, yet still long way. I recall Jessy Astrait (Australia) the first women to participate in the United Nations Establishment conference in 1945 and she was behind the formulation of article 8 of the United Nations Charter that gave women equal access to United Nations positions as men. We are seeing it ourselves at the United Nations, where I am proud that we have achieved gender parity in UN leadership posts for the first time in history. Also at the Resident Coordinator Office, we are 60% females, 40% males.
In Kuwait, Mariam Al-Saleh established in 1937, the first school for girl’s education and we remember the first seminar in Kuwait calling for Women Rights was held in November 1953.
Across all sectors, communities and societies, women have key contributions to make to leadership. From politics and corporations to sports and STEM, diverse leadership benefits everyone. Leaders need to represent the people they serve to best understand their wants and needs. This year’s International Women’s Day highlights the transformative power of women’s equal participation. The evidence is clear. When women lead in government, we see bigger investments in social protection and greater inroads against poverty. When women are in parliament, countries adopt more stringent climate change policies. When women are at the peace table, agreements are more enduring. And with women now serving in equal numbers at the top leadership posts at the United Nations, we are seeing even more concerted action to secure peace, sustainable development and human rights.
The United Nations in the State of Kuwait this year is colleaborating with partners from all sectors to mark this important day:

The united Nations has several successful practices and experiences in south-south cooperation working with community leaders, parliamentarians and their committees to advance gender equality and women expanded leadership roles. Strengthening women specialized councils and developing gender equality and accessibility strategies and policies are embedded in countries commitment to Agenda 2030 and Sustainable Development Goals.
As we recover from the pandemic, support and stimulus packages must target women and girls specifically, including through investments in women-owned businesses and the care economy. Pandemic recovery is our chance to leave behind generations of exclusion and inequalities.
Whether running a government entity, a business or a popular movement, women are making contributions that are delivering for all and driving progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals.
It is time to and build an equal future. This is everyone’s job – and for the benefit of everyone.
END.



URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/116482-women-leadership-achieving-equal-future-covid-19-world




Date: 16 March 2021
Title: Statement of Dr. Tarek El-Sheikh, UN Secretary General Representative and Resident Coordinator Conference on Sustainable Development in Kuwait: Reality, Ambition and Challenges “Education As a Model”
Content: 16 March 2021
The COVID-19 pandemic has created the largest disruption of education systems in history, affecting nearly 1.6 billion learners in more than 190 countries and all conti­nents. Closures of schools and other learn­ing spaces have impacted 94 per cent of the world’s student population, up to 99 per cent in low and lower-middle income countries.
The crisis is exacerbating pre-existing educa­tion disparities by reducing the opportunities for many of the most vulnerable children, youth, and adults – those living in poor or rural areas, girls, refugees, persons with disabilities and forcibly displaced persons – to continue their learning. Learning losses also threaten to extend beyond this generation and erase decades of progress, not least in support of girls and young women’s educational access and reten­tion. Some 23.8 million additional children and youth (from pre-primary to tertiary) may drop out or not have access to school next year due to the pandemic’s economic impact alone.
Similarly, the education disruption has had, and will continue to have, substantial effects beyond education. Closures of educational institutions hamper the provision of essen­tial services to children and communities, including access to nutritious food, affect the ability of many parents to work, and increase risks of violence against women and girls.
As fiscal pressures increase, and development assistance comes under strain, the financing of education could also face major challenges, exacerbating massive pre-COVID-19 education funding gaps. For low income countries and low­er-middle-income countries, for instance, that gap had reached a staggering $148 billion annu­ally and it could now increase by up to one-third.

On the other hand, this crisis has stimulated innovation within the education sector. We have seen innovative approaches in support of edu­cation and training continuity: from radio and television to take-home packages. Distance learning solutions were developed thanks to quick responses by governments and partners all over the world supporting education conti­nuity, including the Global Education Coalition convened by UNESCO. We have also been reminded of the essential role of teachers and that governments and other key partners have an ongoing duty of care to education personnel.
But these changes have also highlighted that the promising future of learning, and the accelerated changes in modes of delivering quality educa­tion, cannot be separated from the imperative of leaving no one behind. This is true for children and youth affected by a lack of resources or enabling environment to access learning. It is true for the teaching profession and their need for better training in new methods of educa­tion delivery, as well as support. Last but not least, this is true for the education community.
at large, including local communities, upon whom education continuity depends during crisis and who are key to building back better.

The COVID-19 crisis and the unparalleled edu­cation disruption is far from over. As many as 100 countries have yet to announce a date for schools to reopen and across the world, governments, unions, parents and children are grappling with when and how to approach the next phase. Countries have started planning to reopen schools nationwide, either based on grade level and by prioritizing exam classes, or through localized openings in regions with fewer cases of the virus. However, given the continued virulence of the virus, the majority of countries surveyed in May–June 2020 had yet to decide on a reopening date. These decisions carry enormous social and economic implications and will have lasting effects on educators, on children and youth, on their parents – especially women – and indeed on societies as a whole.
Recommendations
Preventing a learning crisis from becoming a generational catastrophe requires urgent action from all.
Education is not only a fundamental human right. It is an enabling right with direct impact on the realization of all other human rights. It is a global common good and a primary driver of progress across all 17 Sustainable Development Goals as a bedrock of just, equal, inclusive peaceful societies. When education systems collapse, peace, prosperous and productive societies cannot be sustained.
In order to mitigate the potentially devastating consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, gov­ernments and stakeholders are encouraged to pursue the following policy responses:

SUPPRESS TRANSMISSION OF THE VIRUS AND PLAN THOROUGHLY FOR SCHOOL RE-OPENINGS: The single most significant step that countries can take to hasten the reopening of schools and education institutions is to suppress transmission of the virus to control national or local outbreaks. Once they have done so, to deal with the complex challenge of reopening, it is important to be guided by the following parameters: ensure the safety of all; plan for inclusive re-opening; listen to the voices of all concerned; and coordinate with key actors, including the health community.1
> PROTECT EDUCATION FINANCING AND COORDINATE FOR IMPACT: The pandemic has pushed the world into the deepest global recession in living memory which will have lasting effects on economies and public finances. National authorities and the international community need to protect education financing through the following avenues: strengthen domestic revenue mobilization, preserve the share of expenditure for education as a top priority and address inefficiencies in education spending; strengthen international coordination to address the debt crisis; and protect official development assistance (ODA) for education.
> BUILD RESILIENT EDUCATION SYSTEMS FOR EQUITABLE AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT: Strengthening the resilience of education systems enables countries to respond to the immediate challenges of safely reopening schools and positions them to better cope with future crises. In this regard, governments could consider the following: focus on equity and inclusion; reinforce capacities for risk management, at all levels of the system; ensure strong leadership and coordination; and enhance consultation and communication mechanisms.

> REIMAGINE EDUCATION AND ACCELERATE CHANGE IN TEACHING AND LEARNING: The massive efforts made in a short time to respond to the shocks to education systems remind us that change is possible. We should seize the opportunity to find new ways to address the learning crisis and bring about a set of solutions previously considered difficult or impossible to implement. The following entry points could be to the fore of our efforts: focus on addressing learning losses and preventing dropouts, particularly of marginalized groups; offer skills for employability programmes; support the teaching profession and teachers’ readiness; expand the definition of the right to education to include connectivity; remove barriers to connectivity; strengthen data and monitoring of learning; strengthen the articulation and flexibility across levels and types of education and training.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/116481-statement-dr-tarek-el-sheikh-un-secretary-general-representative-and-resident-coordinator




Date: 16 March 2021
Title: Education As a Model
Content: 16 March 2021
The COVID-19 pandemic has created the largest disruption of education systems in history, affecting nearly 1.6 billion learners in more than 190 countries and all continents. Closures of schools and other learning spaces have impacted 94 percent of the world’s student population, up to 99 percent in low and lower-middle-income countries.
The crisis is exacerbating pre-existing education disparities by reducing the opportunities for many of the most vulnerable children, youth, and adults – those living in poor or rural areas, girls, refugees, persons with disabilities, and forcibly displaced persons – to continue their learning. Learning losses also threaten to extend beyond this generation and erase decades of progress, not least in support of girls and young women’s educational access and retention. Some 23.8 million additional children and youth (from pre-primary to tertiary) may drop out or not have access to school next year due to the pandemic’s economic impact alone.
Similarly, the education disruption has had and will continue to have, substantial effects beyond education. Closures of educational institutions hamper the provision of essential services to children and communities, including access to nutritious food, affect the ability of many parents to work and increase risks of violence against women and girls.
As fiscal pressures increase and development assistance comes under strain, the financing of education could also face major challenges, exacerbating massive pre-COVID-19 education funding gaps. For low-income countries and lower-middle-income countries, for instance, that gap had reached a staggering $148 billion annually and it could now increase by up to one-third.
On the other hand, this crisis has stimulated innovation within the education sector. We have seen innovative approaches in support of education and training continuity: from radio and television to take-home packages. Distance learning solutions were developed thanks to quick responses by governments and partners all over the world supporting education continuity, including the Global Education Coalition convened by UNESCO. We have also been reminded of the essential role of teachers and that governments and other key partners have an ongoing duty of care to education personnel.
But these changes have also highlighted that the promising future of learning, and the accelerated changes in modes of delivering quality education, cannot be separated from the imperative of leaving no one behind. This is true for children and youth affected by a lack of resources or enabling environment to access learning. It is true for the teaching profession and their need for better training in new methods of education delivery, as well as support. Last but not least, this is true for the education community at large, including local communities, upon whom education continuity depends during the crisis and who are key to building back better.
The COVID-19 crisis and the unparalleled education disruption are far from over. As many as 100 countries have yet to announce a date for schools to reopen and across the world, governments, unions, parents, and children are grappling with when and how to approach the next phase. Countries have started planning to reopen schools nationwide, either based on grade level and by prioritizing exam classes, or through localized openings in regions with fewer cases of the virus. However, given the continued virulence of the virus, the majority of countries surveyed in May–June 2020 had yet to decide on a reopening date. These decisions carry enormous social and economic implications and will have lasting effects on educators, on children and youth, on their parents – especially women – and indeed on societies as a whole.
Recommendations
Preventing a learning crisis from becoming a generational catastrophe requires urgent action from all.
Education is not only a fundamental human right. It is an enabling right with a direct impact on the realization of all other human rights. It is a global common good and a primary driver of progress across all 17 Sustainable Development Goals as a bedrock of just, equal, inclusive peaceful societies. When education systems collapse, peaceful, prosperous and productive societies cannot be sustained.
In order to mitigate the potentially devastating consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, governments and stakeholders are encouraged to pursue the following policy responses:
SUPPRESS TRANSMISSION OF THE VIRUS AND PLAN THOROUGHLY FOR SCHOOL RE-OPENINGS:
The single most significant step that countries can take to hasten the reopening of schools and educational institutions is to suppress transmission of the virus to control national or local outbreaks. Once they have done so, to deal with the complex challenge of reopening, it is important to be guided by the following parameters: ensure the safety of all; plan for inclusive re-opening; listen to the voices of all concerned; and coordinate with key actors, including the health community.
> PROTECT EDUCATION FINANCING AND COORDINATE FOR IMPACT: The pandemic has pushed the world into the deepest global recession in living memory which will have lasting effects on economies and public finances. National authorities and the international community need to protect education financing through the following avenues: strengthen domestic revenue mobilization, preserve the share of expenditure for education as a top priority and address inefficiencies in education spending; strengthen international coordination to address the debt crisis; and protect official development assistance (ODA) for education.
> BUILD RESILIENT EDUCATION SYSTEMS FOR EQUITABLE AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT: Strengthening the resilience of education systems enables countries to respond to the immediate challenges of safely reopening schools and positions them to better cope with future crises. In this regard, governments could consider the following: focus on equity and inclusion; reinforce capacities for risk management, at all levels of the system; ensure strong leadership and coordination; and enhance consultation and communication mechanisms.
> REIMAGINE EDUCATION AND ACCELERATE CHANGE IN TEACHING AND LEARNING: The massive efforts made in a short time to respond to the shocks to education systems remind us that change is possible. We should seize the opportunity to find new ways to address the learning crisis and bring about a set of solutions previously considered difficult or impossible to implement. The following entry points could be to the fore of our efforts: focus on addressing learning losses and preventing dropouts, particularly of marginalized groups; offer skills for employability programmes; support the teaching profession and teachers’ readiness; expand the definition of the right to education to include connectivity; remove barriers to connectivity; strengthen data and monitoring of learning; strengthen the articulation and flexibility across levels and types of education and training.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/126360-education-model




Date: 08 March 2021
Title: Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world
Content: 08 March 2021
This year’s theme to mark International Women’s Day, “Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world”, celebrates the tremendous efforts by women and girls around the world in shaping a more equal future and recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic.
It is also aligned with the priority theme of the 65th session of the Commission on the Status of Women, “Women in public life, equal participation in decision making”, and the flagship Generation Equality campaign, which calls for women’s right to decision-making in all areas of life, equal pay, equal sharing of unpaid care and domestic work, an end all forms of violence against women and girls, and health-care services that respond to their needs.
Women stand at the front lines of the COVID-19 crisis, as health care workers, caregivers, innovators, community organizers and as some of the most exemplary and effective national leaders in combating the pandemic. The crisis has highlighted both the centrality of their contributions and the disproportionate burdens that women carry.
I also wish to highlight that we had many Women leaders across history who opened the doors for more women’s equality, yet still a long way. I recall Jessy Astrait (Australia) the first woman to participate in the United Nations Establishment conference in 1945 and she was behind the formulation of article 8 of the United Nations Charter that gave women equal access to United Nations positions as men. We are seeing it ourselves at the United Nations, where I am proud that we have achieved gender parity in UN leadership posts for the first time in history. Also at the Resident Coordinator Office, we are 60% females, 40% males.
In Kuwait, Mariam Al-Saleh established in 1937, the first school for girl’s education and we remember the first seminar in Kuwait calling for Women’s Rights was held in November 1953.
Across all sectors, communities, and societies, women have key contributions to make to leadership. From politics and corporations to sports and STEM, diverse leadership benefits everyone. Leaders need to represent the people they serve to best understand their wants and needs. This year’s International Women’s Day highlights the transformative power of women’s equal participation. The evidence is clear. When women lead in government, we see bigger investments in social protection and greater inroads against poverty. When women are in parliament, countries adopt more stringent climate change policies. When women are at the peace table, agreements are more enduring. And with women now serving in equal numbers at the top leadership posts at the United Nations, we are seeing even more concerted action to secure peace, sustainable development, and human rights.
The United Nations in the State of Kuwait this year is collaborating with partners from all sectors to mark this important day:
The United Nations has several successful practices and experiences in south-south cooperation working with community leaders, parliamentarians, and their committees to advance gender equality and women’s expanded leadership roles. Strengthening women’s specialized councils and developing gender equality and accessibility strategies and policies are embedded in countries’ commitment to Agenda 2030 and Sustainable Development Goals.
As we recover from the pandemic, support and stimulus packages must target women and girls specifically, including through investments in women-owned businesses and the care economy. Pandemic recovery is our chance to leave behind generations of exclusion and inequalities.
Whether running a government entity, a business, or a popular movement, women are making contributions that are delivering for all and driving progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals.
It is time to and builds an equal future. This is everyone’s job – and for the benefit of everyone.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/125750-women-leadership-achieving-equal-future-covid-19-world




Date: 08 March 2021
Title: IOM and Partners Mark International Women’s Day by Providing Psychosocial Support to Women in Shelter
Content: 08 March 2021
Kuwait/08 March 2021, To mark International Women’s Day, the International Organization for Migration (IOM), UN Migration agency in Kuwait – in partnership with the telecommunication company, Ooredoo - has launched a series of psychosocial support workshops through the month of March for women residing in the government of Kuwait’s shelter for female foreign workers.

IOM has been working in Kuwait to provide the needed support to female breadwinners, who have left their country of origin to provide financial support for their families back home and who have faced some challenges along the way.
The International Women’s Day dedicated by the United Nations (UN) to celebrate the effective participation and role that women play in our societies. This year’s theme is Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world.
“The workshops are primarily aimed to offer women the very much needed safe space to discuss and share their psychosocial challenges, concerns and experiences in a structured and non-stigmatizing manner.” Mazen AboulHosn, IOM Kuwait Chief of Mission said. “We are pleased to celebrate the International Women’s Day by organizing such an important activity, recognizing the importance of psychosocial well-being.” This is possible thanks to the continuous collaboration of the Public Authority for Manpower (PAM), and our partnership with the Nojoom program of Ooredoo, we had the opportunity to mark the International Women’s Day - through organizing such an important activity.
Mr. Abdulaziz Yaqoub Al-Babtain- Chief Executive Officer, Ooredoo Kuwait, said: “Woman's Day started as a mean by which to unite the community around a set of common goals and shared values that are meant to fight for gender equality in every aspect of life, and shade light on women’s ability to lead and provide role models for other women worldwide. Today, we, at Ooredoo, take pride of all women of Kuwait who partake and positively impact our society.”
Xandra Spijker, a certified life coach and psychosocial support expert, said: “Through these workshops, we create a sense of togetherness and support in times of stressful events. With this psychosocial support program, the women in the shelter acquire information on how to be more resilient and with higher self-esteem; all needed to enable women to be survivors rather than victims.”
Sheikha Bibi Nasser Al-Sabah, IOM Goodwill Ambassador for Kuwait and the Gulf Countries “ I am really pleased with my partnership with the International Organization for Migration as we share a common vision and goal, which it to advocate for, and protect the rights of migrant workers and to highlight their important role in our society.”
In addition to the series of psychosocial workshops and in light of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, IOM also provided 200 Personal Hygiene & Protective kits to around 100 women residing in the shelter as a preventive measure against the virus.
In November 2020, IOM and Ooredoo signed a joint agreement under the MyOoredoo application which allows customers and members of the ‘Nojoom’ program to donate their points to IOM to support community cohesion activities and support migrant workers.
IOM takes this opportunity to thank Ooredoo and its Nojoom members that have donated their points to IOM and have recognized the importance of giving back to society and leaving no one behind.
Recently, IOM has hosted two days event (24-25 February 2021) on its first Regional Review of the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly, and Regular Migration (GCM) in the Arab region. As vaccine roll-outs are bringing back hope that the end of the pandemic might be in sight, The United Nations Network on Migration calls on States to guarantee rapid, fair and equitable access to vaccines for all and the inclusion of migrants, regardless of their status, in their national COVID-19 vaccination programmes and other public health interventions.
ENDS
For more information please contact: Dana Al-Othman at IOM Kuwait, Email: dalothman@iom.int
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/115816-iom-and-partners-mark-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-providing-psychosocial-support-women-shelter




Date: 07 March 2021
Title: Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world
Content: 07 March 2021
Statement of Tarek El-Sheikh, Representative of UN Secretary General and Resident Coordinator – State of Kuwait
on
International Women’s Day
Kuwait - 7 March 2021, This year’s theme to mark the International Women’s Day,"Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world", celebrates the tremendous efforts by women and girls around the world in shaping a more equal future and recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic.

It is also aligned with the priority theme of the 65th session of the Commission on the Status of Women, "Women in public life, equal participation in decision making", and the flagship Generation Equality campaign, which calls for women’s right to decision-making in all areas of life, equal pay, equal sharing of unpaid care and domestic work, an end all forms of violence against women and girls, and health-care services that respond to their needs.

Women stand at the front lines of the COVID-19 crisis, as health care workers, caregivers, innovators, community organizers and as some of the most exemplary and effective national leaders in combating the pandemic. The crisis has highlighted both the centrality of their contributions and the disproportionate burdens that women carry.
I also wish to highlight that we had many Women leaders across history who opened the doors for more women equality, yet still long way. I recall Jessy Astrait (Australia) the first women to participate in the United Nations Establishment conference in 1945 and she was behind the formulation of article 8 of the United Nations Charter that gave women equal access to United Nations positions as men. We are seeing it ourselves at the United Nations, where I am proud that we have achieved gender parity in UN leadership posts for the first time in history. Also at the Resident Coordinator Office, we are 60% females, 40% males.
In Kuwait, Mariam Al-Saleh established in 1937, the first school for girl’s education and we remember the first seminar in Kuwait calling for Women Rights was held in November 1953.
Across all sectors, communities and societies, women have key contributions to make to leadership. From politics and corporations to sports and STEM, diverse leadership benefits everyone. Leaders need to represent the people they serve to best understand their wants and needs. This year’s International Women’s Day highlights the transformative power of women’s equal participation. The evidence is clear. When women lead in government, we see bigger investments in social protection and greater inroads against poverty. When women are in parliament, countries adopt more stringent climate change policies. When women are at the peace table, agreements are more enduring. And with women now serving in equal numbers at the top leadership posts at the United Nations, we are seeing even more concerted action to secure peace, sustainable development and human rights.
The United Nations in the State of Kuwait this year is colleaborating with partners from all sectors to mark this important day:

The united Nations has several successful practices and experiences in south-south cooperation working with community leaders, parliamentarians and their committees to advance gender equality and women expanded leadership roles. Strengthening women specialized councils and developing gender equality and accessibility strategies and policies are embedded in countries commitment to Agenda 2030 and Sustainable Development Goals.
As we recover from the pandemic, support and stimulus packages must target women and girls specifically, including through investments in women-owned businesses and the care economy. Pandemic recovery is our chance to leave behind generations of exclusion and inequalities.
Whether running a government entity, a business or a popular movement, women are making contributions that are delivering for all and driving progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals.
It is time to and build an equal future. This is everyone’s job – and for the benefit of everyone.
END.



URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/123556-women-leadership-achieving-equal-future-covid-19-world




Date: 24 January 2021
Title: The UN reiterates support for Kuwait’s national education system
Content: 24 January 2021
International Day of Education
Kuwait, 24 January 2021 - This year’s celebration of the International Day of Education - the third since its proclamation by the UN General Assembly - occurs amidst an unprecedented global disruption in education caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The statistics in terms of scale and severity are truly devastating: The closure of schools, universities, and other learning institutions, as well as the interruption of many literacy and lifelong learning programmes, has affected the lives of 1.6 billion students in over 190 countries.
Even today, one year into the pandemic, 258 million children and youth worldwide still do not attend school. Without inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong opportunities for all, countries will not succeed in breaking the cycle of poverty, leaving millions of children, youth and adults behind.
In line with the global 2021 theme of “Learning for People, Planet, Prosperity and Peace”, celebrations of the International Day of Education in many countries, including Kuwait, will focus on the ways that government can help strengthen educational systems to empower people, protect the planet, build shared prosperity, and foster peace.
On this occasion, under the leadership of the Office of the United Nations Resident Coordinator in coordination with UNICEF and UNESCO Representatives in GCC and Kuwait are using this occasion to reiterate their resolve to support the Government of Kuwait and its line ministries to strengthen the education system and build back better after the COVID-19 pandemic.
“As we celebrate the International Day of Education, We must continue to prioritize education for all children in Kuwait, including the youngest ones. Now is the time to power education by stepping up collaboration and solidarity to place education and lifelong learning at the centre of the recovery. Recovering from the pandemic offers an opportunity to strengthen the Kuwaiti society to ensure that no one is left behind” points out Dr. Tarek El-Sheikh, Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator to the state of Kuwait.
The pandemic has caused the most profound disruption to education ever experienced in our lifetime and has amplified social, economic and digital inequalities; it has put a generation at risk of a learning catastrophe, as the UN Secretary-General warned in his Policy Brief on Education and COVID19.
Simultaneously, the pandemic has highlighted the importance and centrality of education for every society, as a public common good and the bedrock of social cohesion, well-being and opportunity. This is evident in many countries, including the highly developed and high-income ones, that are facing second and third waves of COVID-19, but are prioritizing reopening of schools and learning institutions.



“This third International Day of Education takes place in the wake of the largest ever educational disruption: at the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, 1.6 billion students were affected by the closure of schools, universities and other learning institutions in 190 countries. We estimate that two thirds of the student population – one billion students – are still facing major interruptions to their schooling, ranging from across-the-board school closures in over 20 countries to reduced or part-time academic schedules in many others. Education acts as bulwark against inequalities; a driver of economic and social development and the basis for nurturing responsible, democratic citizenship. It contributes to all the Sustainable Development Goals. It must be a top priority in the recovery. This Day aims to mobilise all education actors, and our collective partnerships to protect and mobilize equitable funding for education; give voice to 'community heroes' who acted to leave no learner behind during school closures and present innovations that pave the way towards more resilient and inclusive education systems” mentioned Dr. Anna Paolini, UNESCO Representative in the Arab States, the Gulf and Yemen, Doha Office.
Mr. Faysal Maqseed, Acting Undersecretary of the Ministry of Education said that: “Kuwait joins the world in celebrating the International Day of Education as a renewable basic resource for humanity and a fundamental human right and in Kuwait we take advantage of this occasion to highlight the development and progress in education through development plans to achieve the fourth goal of sustainable development goals, which is quality education, as well as ensure the right of citizens to education, ensuring financial coverage by the government to educational institutions in accordance with national laws and regulations, complying with compulsory education from kindergarten to secondary school with regular follow-up. The child and his care and continuity in education.”
He added: “In the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, Kuwait sought to support actions to bring about change for inclusive and equitable education, and the positive results of distance learning were monitored and challenges continue to be addressed through the training, implementation and follow-up of the educational system, as in other countries in the world. The COVID-19 pandemic has imposed a radical transformation unprecedented in Kuwait's history. This sudden reform of teaching methods has affected the lives of more than 414,000 students in three school stages: primary, middle and high school. In fact, by complying with the directives of the health authorities, which have demanded full containment since the beginning of the crisis, the Ministry of Education has chosen teaching remotely since August 2020.”
“In case the lockdowns and COVID constraints are necessary, schools should be among the first to reopen once authorities start lifting restrictions. Catch-up classes should be prioritized to ensure that children who have been unable to learn remotely are not left behind,” underlined the UNICEF Representative to the Gulf Area, Mr. Eltayeb Adam.
“Ideally, children should continue their education in their classrooms, but if this is not possible, they must be assured a conducive environment to study and learn from home. Additional learning loss can devastate children for years to come”, adds Tatjana Colin, Head of UNICEF Programmes in Kuwait.
Despite the quick move to online and distance learning in Kuwait and the government’s speedy response to offer alternative solutions to mitigate learning losses caused by months of school closures, there is a real risk that as the pandemic resurges, education could further suffer.


This must be averted by making education systems more resilient to crisis, more inclusive, flexible and sustainable. Therefore, it is fitting that this year’s International Day of Education emphasizes recovery and revitalization of education for the COVID-19 generation, aiming to highlight learning heroes, innovations, and financing.
Education powers every Sustainable Development Goal and should be treated by every government as a public good and the wisest investment in peace and prosperity. Education needs ambition and innovation to narrow inequalities and end exclusion that is keeping close to 260 million children and adolescents out of school. More importantly, education requires increased financing and more substantial cooperation to narrow the digital divide that has deprived millions of learning through the pandemic, train teachers and reform systems for inclusion and resilience.
End.
https://www.education-progress.org/en/

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/123553-un-reiterates-support-kuwait%E2%80%99s-national-education-system




Date: 18 December 2020
Title: The United Nations in Kuwait Celebrates the International Migrants Day
Content: 18 December 2020
Press Release
Kuwait/18 December 2020- Today marks the International Migrants Day, a day dedicated by the United Nations (UN) to highlight the positive contributions that migrants bring to our societies. This year theme is Reimagining Human Mobility.
Since the beginning of 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the whole world, affecting all people including migrants.
Dr. Tarek El-Sheikh, Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator to the State of Kuwait said that the UN in the State of Kuwait plays an important role in confronting the consequences of the pandemic.

“Our response is in several areas, including, helping the government overcome the social and economic impact and preparing society to face the upcoming challenges,  working to protect vulnerable groups, including migrant workers in difficult living situations, creating media content,  addressing development and health issues and developing policy papers, strategies and response plan in coordination with government institutions.”

“My message to the Kuwaiti society, foreigners in the country, and everyone who contributes to dealing with this pandemic: this is a time for solidarity, action, humanitarian support and respect for human rights. We cannot defeat this enemy without unity and agreement on a basic strategy. The UN is working hand in hand with all government and society to move forward to fully recover and build back better."

In commemoration of the IMD, Mr. Mazen AboulHosn, IOM Kuwait Chief of Mission said: “Now more than ever, the safety of our societies depends on the effective protection of the most vulnerable. Respect for the rights of all, including migrants, will maximize our success in curbing the pandemic and promoting an inclusive recovery.”

The International Migrants Day is an opportunity to acknowledge the significant role that migrants play in every society. In the State of Kuwait, migrants (foreign workers) were working on the front lines across different sectors that contributed to the efforts of the State of Kuwait in its response to the Covid-19 pandemic.”

Mr. Talal Al-Mutairi, Assistant Foreign Minister for Human Rights Affairs at the Kuwaiti Ministry of Foreign Affairs, stated that: “The international community witnessed exceptional circumstances that affected various aspects of life due to the repercussions of the COVID-19 pandemic.”



Referring to the efforts made by the State of Kuwait in the past months, Mr. Al-Mutairi emphasized providing public safety to everyone without exception, including foreign workers.  Many work sectors have been suspended to ensure the availability of health requirements for foreign workers before returning to work by providing them with the necessary medical examinations. In addition, Al-Mutairi reflected on using media to help raise the awareness of  workers on the dangers of this pandemic on human health, and to shed light on the State of Kuwait’s efforts to support voluntary return of workers affected by the pandemic, in accordance with relevant procedures.
On this occasion  we focus on the Global Compact for Safe and Regular Migration (GCM)[1], which provides an effective framework for international cooperation on the governance of international migration in all its dimensions,  and can be leveraged by states to respond to the COVID-19 crisis. Resolve for International cooperation and global partnership must be strengthened to develop and implement effective responses articulated in the GCM and guide collective action to support the COVID-19 response and recovery. It is important to mention the support of the State of Kuwait and the coordination of the United Nations Network on Migration in the State of Kuwait, which includes members of various United Nations agencies, supporting the government in implementing the objectives of this agreement. Well-governed migration can mitigate the negative impacts of COVID-19, stimulate strong socioeconomic recovery and build more inclusive societies that protect human rights and are better prepared to address future crises.

[1] The Global Compact is the first inter-governmentally negotiated agreement, prepared under the auspices of the United Nations, covering all dimensions of international migration in a holistic and comprehensive manner. See Global Compact for Migration: https://www.iom.int/global-compact-migration
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/106423-united-nations-kuwait-celebrates-international-migrants-day




Date: 18 December 2020
Title: The United Nations in Kuwait Celebrates the International Migrants Day
Content: 18 December 2020
Press Release
Kuwait/18 December 2020- Today marks the International Migrants Day, a day dedicated by the United Nations (UN) to highlight the positive contributions that migrants bring to our societies. This year theme is Reimagining Human Mobility.
Since the beginning of 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the whole world, affecting all people including migrants.
Dr. Tarek El-Sheikh, Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator to the State of Kuwait said that the UN in the State of Kuwait plays an important role in confronting the consequences of the pandemic.
“Our response is in several areas, including, helping the government overcome the social and economic impact and preparing society to face the upcoming challenges,  working to protect vulnerable groups, including migrant workers in difficult living situations, creating media content,  addressing development and health issues and developing policy papers, strategies and response plan in coordination with government institutions.”
“My message to the Kuwaiti society, foreigners in the country, and everyone who contributes to dealing with this pandemic: this is a time for solidarity, action, humanitarian support and respect for human rights. We cannot defeat this enemy without unity and agreement on a basic strategy. The UN is working hand in hand with all government and society to move forward to fully recover and build back better."
In commemoration of the IMD, Mr. Mazen AboulHosn, IOM Kuwait Chief of Mission said: “Now more than ever, the safety of our societies depends on the effective protection of the most vulnerable. Respect for the rights of all, including migrants, will maximize our success in curbing the pandemic and promoting an inclusive recovery.”
The International Migrants Day is an opportunity to acknowledge the significant role that migrants play in every society. In the State of Kuwait, migrants (foreign workers) were working on the front lines across different sectors that contributed to the efforts of the State of Kuwait in its response to the Covid-19 pandemic.”
Mr. Talal Al-Mutairi, Assistant Foreign Minister for Human Rights Affairs at the Kuwaiti Ministry of Foreign Affairs, stated that: “The international community witnessed exceptional circumstances that affected various aspects of life due to the repercussions of the COVID-19 pandemic.”
Referring to the efforts made by the State of Kuwait in the past months, Mr. Al-Mutairi emphasized providing public safety to everyone without exception, including foreign workers.  Many work sectors have been suspended to ensure the availability of health requirements for foreign workers before returning to work by providing them with the necessary medical examinations. In addition, Al-Mutairi reflected on using media to help raise the awareness of  workers on the dangers of this pandemic on human health, and to shed light on the State of Kuwait’s efforts to support voluntary return of workers affected by the pandemic, in accordance with relevant procedures.
On this occasion  we focus on the Global Compact for Safe and Regular Migration (GCM)[1], which provides an effective framework for international cooperation on the governance of international migration in all its dimensions,  and can be leveraged by states to respond to the COVID-19 crisis. Resolve for International cooperation and global partnership must be strengthened to develop and implement effective responses articulated in the GCM and guide collective action to support the COVID-19 response and recovery. It is important to mention the support of the State of Kuwait and the coordination of the United Nations Network on Migration in the State of Kuwait, which includes members of various United Nations agencies, supporting the government in implementing the objectives of this agreement. Well-governed migration can mitigate the negative impacts of COVID-19, stimulate strong socioeconomic recovery and build more inclusive societies that protect human rights and are better prepared to address future crises.
[1] The Global Compact is the first inter-governmentally negotiated agreement, prepared under the auspices of the United Nations, covering all dimensions of international migration in a holistic and comprehensive manner. See Global Compact for Migration: https://www.iom.int/global-compact-migration
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/106424-united-nations-kuwait-celebrates-international-migrants-day




Date: 07 December 2020
Title: United Nations Officials Visit the Migrant Workers Shelter
Content: 07 December 2020
Kuwait- 7 December 2020, Kuwait is host country to a vast number of foreign workers, where 70 % of its population is comprised of expatriates from countries in the Arab region, South and South-East Asia and Africa, who are predominately employed in the construction sector and service industry. The single largest expatriate community in Kuwait is comprised of Nationals from India, whereas Egyptian nationals are the second largest and is the largest foreign Arab population. Temporary labour mobility is the most predominant form of migration in Kuwait and the GCC, especially from countries in South Asia.
The United Nations in the State of Kuwait with its mandated agencies at the forefront have been working in close partnership with the Government of Kuwait on strengthening the capacity of relevant national counterparts and ministries tasked with the protection of victims of trafficking and the prosecution of traffickers, . Several awareness raising campaigns on the topic of labor exploitation, human trafficking and the rights of domestic workers were organized throughout the past few years, whereby substantive technical support and policy advise have been and continue to be provided to support the government’s efforts to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic challenges, though comprehensive solutions, that are in accordance with international laws and standards.
The new Government-run Shelter for Female Foreign Workers in Kuwait was established in 2014 provides shelter and helps irregular female workers as they seek to regulate their work modality in Kuwait or safely return to their countries of origin. With its oversight on the Shelter, PAM has initiated a number of partnerships and collaborative efforts with UN agencies, and IOM in particular on repatriation, capacity development of shelter staff, and facilitating generous in-kind donations to the female beneficiaries.
Dr Tarek Elsheikh, Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator to the Stat of Kuwait said: “to mark the International Day and 16 days of activism 25 November through 10 December leading to Human Rights Day, The United Nations in Kuwait in close coordination with the public Authority of Manpower has delightfully arranged a visit to the shelter. We are happy to see the progress Kuwait has made in addressing issues of foreign workers, including domestic workers notably women, in relation to non-payment of wage, visa trading or other forms of exploitation and to ensure foreign workers’ rights continue to be adequately protected. We particularly appreciate the amnesty programme launched by MOI during the COVID19 crisis response plan, including granting a new one-month deadline for workers in irregular situations to avail themselves to the amnesty and leave the country without paying fines, with the possibility to return under proper legal terms.  We encourage the government to benefit from more amnesty plans, especially due to the huge effect the coronavirus pandemic has had on the socio-economic and financial situation of many citizens and expats. PAM’s role remains key in ensuring eliminating such negative trends has been continuous and notable, notwithstanding the efficient oversight of the Shelter facility.””

On his part, Dr. Mubarak Al-Azmi - Deputy Director General for Manpower Protection, expressed that the Public Authority for Manpower is harnessing all its material and human capabilities to ensure full protection for all workers, especially domestic workers.
Where PAM provides all legal, health and psychosocial support services to the workers present at the shelter center. The Authority succeeded in facing all the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and was able to continue to provide all its services to workers and ensure that they are not exposed to any form of exploitation or undermine their rights during the period. The Authority continues its cooperation with all international organizations to develop its services and raise the capabilities of workers in its various sectors in order to reach the best application of international standards in the field of human rights.
From his side, Mazen Aboulhosn, IOM Chief of Mission, explained that “IOM works everywhere to prevent gender-based violence, which is often exacerbated by crises. Kuwait has been and continues to be a major donor in response to humanitarian crisis around the world. This includes programs dealing with protection of migrants including GBV. As we are committed to ensuring survivors have the right to dignified care and support in any country, this shelter can be an example on how to ensure a continuum care for female beneficiaries. Thus, we encourage PAM to continue providing this support and sustain it in the COVID time. The Global Compact on Migration,  endorsed by Kuwait and 150 countries around the world,  addresses both gender inequalities and GBV and seeks to reduce women vulnerabilities by increasing their access to labor; mitigating, responding to and preventing GBV is a collective endeavor and we count on our partners such as PAM to address it. And for that, we are always on standby to support in many ways.”
Joining the visit to the shelter, Ms Hideko Hadzialic spoke of how "World-wide, the UN family is working together with national counterparts in supporting women in shelters to heal and get back on their feet. By visiting courageous ladies in the shelter managed by the Public Authority for Manpower today, we received a sense of hope and positive spirit – the true strengths coming from those ladies who came to this country in support of their families and children thousands of miles apart."
The UN especially appreciates the amnesty period launched by the Ministry of Interior as a response plan to the Covid-19 pandemic, including granting a new period of time for workers in irregular situations to take advantage of the amnesty and leave the country without paying fines, with the possibility of returning under the appropriate legal conditions. We encourage the government to provide wider options and solutions for more amnesty plans, especially due to the huge impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the social, economic and financial situation of many citizens and expatriates. We would like to note the importance and efficacy of the great human role of the Public Authority for Manpower, which is a basic and main element in ensuring the elimination of all negative aspects in the continuous and remarkable recruitment of labor, and we appreciate its effective supervision of the facilities of the center for migrant workers. What we have seen during our cooperation with the authority and during his visit by the representative of the United Nations Secretary-General, the Resident Coordinator, and the accompanying UN delegation.




URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/104315-united-nations-officials-visit-migrant-workers-shelter




Date: 03 December 2020
Title: Joint press release between the United Nations in Kuwait and the Public Authority of the Disabled On the occasion of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities
Content: 03 December 2020
International Disability Day is celebrated annually on 3 December to promote the full and equal participation of persons with disabilities and to take action to integrate persons with disabilities into all aspects of society and development. This year's theme is “Building Back Better: toward a disability-inclusive, accessible and sustainable post COVID-19 World”
"Persons with disabilities are greatly affected by the health, social and economic consequences of the global COVID-19 pandemic," said Dr. Tarik Elsheikh, Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator to the State of Kuwait. In this context, this year's theme emphasizes the importance of strengthening our collective efforts for universal access to basic services, including immediate health and social care, education, digital infrastructure, available information, employment and other socio-cultural opportunities, to ensure the full involvement and inclusion of persons with disabilities in times of crisis and beyond."
Dr. Tarek Elsheikh added that: “the Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities praised some of the steps taken to prepare legislation, policies, programmes and the establishment of entities, as well as the introduction of a system to provide social protection for the promotion and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, including:
The establishment of the National Council for Human Rights, in 2018, which we are looking forward to see starting its activities soon, as an encouraging effort to begin promoting and monitoring the implementation of the Convention and other international treaties; The inclusion of goals and targets relating to persons with disabilities in the National Development Plan (2015–2020) and the 2035 Vision development plan; and the adoption of a code of universal design and a national framework for web accessibility and the national framework to facilitate access to the internet. We also appreciate the efforts and effective role of the Public Authority of the Disabled through a human rights-based approach to disability, particularly, being among the most affected by the Coronavirus (COV-19) in the world.
"Children with disabilities are at greater risk of pandemic complications, yet they face many obstacles in accessing prevention measures and care, so all programmes must take into account different special needs," said Mr. Tayeb Adam, UNICEF's Representative in the Gulf. For example, awareness campaigns should include means of facilitating access to information for persons with disabilities, distance education programmes should include the special needs of students with disabilities and we must make sure that psychosocial support programmes are appropriate for everyone."








Ms. Hideko Hadzialic, UNDP Resident Representative, added: “UNDP is encouraged by the Government of Kuwait's effort for the inclusion of people with disabilities, as the State Party to the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The PADA, the General Secretariat for the Supreme Council for Planning and Development and civil society have been our long-standing partners. Our Kuwait partners achieved a few milestones with “Kuwait Digital Accessibility Framework” on web accessibility guidelines and strategy, as well as Kuwait Universal Design Code, which was developed in consultation with various stakeholders and adopted by the Cabinet. This International Day brings us together to reflect and act on further supporting and empowering people with disabilities so that they can optimize their abilities and talent in Kuwait”.
From her side, Dr. Shafiqa Al-Awadhi, Director General of the Public Authority for the Disabled (PADA) stressed: that "The State of Kuwait pays special attention to persons with disabilities and believes in their role and abilities, as the interest of communities in the rights of persons with disabilities is one of the basic criteria for measuring the level of civilization of the country, adding that Kuwait is keen to provide all rehabilitation, training and educational services to various groups of disabilities in order to be able to integrate into the society. One of the main objectives of this day is to advocate for raising awareness on the inclusion of persons with disabilities in political, economic and cultural life.”
“Dr. Shafiqa added that: “The State of Kuwait is keen to implement the law No. 2010/8 on the rights of persons with disabilities, through the joint cooperation between PADA and all ministries and government bodies and civil. For the Ministry of Interior to implement the laws such as activating penalties related to the exploitation of disabled parking spaces and to reduce the violations related to persons with disabilities rights in cooperation with friends of people with disabilities from all sectors. We also work closely with the Ministry of Education to explore the possibilities of children returning to the classes and centers, as well as ways to guarantee that the qualification outcomes are in accordance with the needs of the labor market. In addition to the need of implementing the law with regard to the obligation for companies to employ people with disabilities in the civil and oil sectors." Al-Awadhi expressed her appreciation to all the children on their international day and addressed them with greetings and praise because they are a source of pride for Kuwait, stressing to continue to provide the best means of care for this group dear to our hearts, wishing them a decent life. Under the leadership of His Highness the of the Amir of the State of Kuwait Sheikh Nawaf Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah and His Highness the Crown Prince, Sheikh Mashal Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, and His Highness The Prime Minister Sheikh Sabah Al-Khalid Al-Sabah"
The International Day for Persons with Disabilities is a world day dedicated by the United Nations since 1992 to the category of people with disabilities to express their hopes and aspirations, to achieve their goals and ensuring their rights.

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/104320-joint-press-release-between-united-nations-kuwait-and-public-authority-disabled-occasion




Date: 25 November 2020
Title: 16 Days of Activism
Content: 25 November 2020
Kuwait, 25 November 2020 – The 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence is an international campaign that takes place each year since 2008. It commences on 25 November, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, to 10 December, Human Rights Day, indicating that violence against women is the most pervasive breach of human rights worldwide. In support of this civil society initiative, under the leadership of the UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, the United Nations initiated UNiTE by 2030 to End Violence against Women campaign (UNiTE Campaign). UN Secretary General calls for global action to increase awareness, galvanise advocacy efforts and share knowledge and innovations. UNiTE also calls on governments, women’s organizations, young people, the private sector, the media and the entire UN system to join forces in addressing the global pandemic of violence against women and girls.
On April 6 2020, the UN Secretary-General urged all governments to make the prevention and redress of violence against women and girls a key part of their national response plans for COVID-19. The appeal was answered in a statement by 146 Member States and Observers. The EU and its Member States support wholeheartedly this call and have already taken action to promote the rights of women and girls amid the pandemic.
On June 24th 2020, the UN Secretary-General  call for action has been further accompanied by the Inter-Agency Statement on Violence against Women and Girls in the Context of COVID-19 with the objective to highlight six critical areas for action, providing the UN system with the common set of key advocacy messages and coordination for action: 1) Make urgent and flexible funding available for women’s rights organizations and recognize their role as first responders 2) Support health and social services to continue their duty of care to violence against women survivors and to remain accessible, especially to those most likely to be left behind 3) Ensure that services for violence against women and girl survivors are regarded as essential, remain open and are resourced and made accessible especially to those most likely to be left behind 4) Place a high priority on police and justice responses 5) Put preventative measures in place, and 6) Collect data to be used to improve services/programmes for ethical and safety standards can be met.

The Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator Dr. Tarek Elsheikh stated: “Kuwait has shown great progress in this regard through its commitment to CEDAW and UPR and other global mechanisms. As we recall on August 19 this year, a new Law on Protection from Domestic Violence passed by the National Assembly, which was then issued September 20. The law allows the creation of a national committee formed of different ministries and civil society representatives, to draw up policies to combat and protect women from domestic violence. This committee is expected to submit recommendations to amend or repeal laws that contradict the new domestic violence law. We at the United Nations command this milestone which will ensure establishing appropriate services for women and girls who are victims of gender-based violence, including sufficiently staffed and equipped shelters, telephone hotlines, legal aid, medical assistance, psychological counselling and rehabilitation around the clock. Furthermore, we are optimistically looking forward to the adoption and enforcing laws and regulations that include adequate legal remedies and complaints mechanisms, to protect documented and undocumented violence acts against women; The efforts exerted in collaboration between the Government of Kuwait and United Nations to carry out research and collect data on the extent of all forms of gender-based violence, including domestic violence, as well as collect statistical data on complaints, prosecutions and sentences has been supportive to tailor government authorities actions. Ensuring implementation and emphasizing prevention remains key to the process”.
The Head of the European Union Delegation to the State of Kuwait and the State of Qatar, Ambassador Dr. Cristian Tudor stated: “The European Union is committed to continue working tirelessly with our international partners to address the root causes of violence against women and girls, ensure support for victims and reinforce the legal frameworks. Change is possible, but it requires action and determination. Gender equality and women empowerment is an important part of the European Union external action, therefore I consider it one of my priorities to support Kuwait in its efforts to encourage women’s political participation and advance gender equality.”

Our message is loud and clear. It is time to stand firm and act to fulfil the promise and ensure zero tolerance with all forms of Gender based violence.” Says Dr. Luay Shabaneh, UNFPA Regional Director, The Arab States Region. “The fact is that we should accelerate the efforts to face the emerging needs where COVID-19 has locked women and girls at home with those who may abuse them. UNFPA and partners’ hotlines witnessed its highest levels so far. Let us all be the voice of the voiceless.” added Shabaneh. UNFPA is providing medical & psychosocial support services to survivors of violence, especially In humanitarian settings. We pledge to continue our prevention and response efforts to millions of women and girls in our region.

UNDP Resident Representative, Hideko Hadzialic points out that the 2020 Law on Protection from Domestic Violence is a major milestone for Kuwait. Together with UN Women, UNDP is working closely with national authorities and the Women Studies and Research Center of Kuwait University to design training in support of the implementation of the Law.
UN Women Regional Director, Ms. Susanne Mikhail : “UN Women is proud to partner with the General Secretariat of the Supreme Council for Planning and Development, the Women’s Research and Studies Centre of Kuwait University, and UNDP, to support Kuwait to reach its national development objectives in accordance with State Vision Kuwait 2035. The legislative reform enacted by the National Assembly in 2020 was a significant step forward in Kuwait’s efforts to eliminate violence against women and girls, and demonstrates what can be achieved by government, civil society and academia coming together to promote the advancement of Agenda 2030 and the SDGs.

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/102752-16-days-activism




Date: 23 November 2020
Title: Private Sector Led Economy Innovation knowledge-based partnerships UN75Talk webinar
Content: 23 November 2020
Kuwait, 23 November 2020
The United Nations in the State of Kuwait organized a UN75Talk webinar in collaboration with the Supreme Council for Planning and development, around “The Private Sector led Economy: Innovation knowledge-based partnerships”. The webinar aims at engaging private sector leaders to spearhead the transformation of the sector through the principles of Sustainable Development as they join efforts with the United Nations in the response to this unprecedented global crisis, through 1) Establishing a local consultative network of private and public partners 2) Engaging with key partners in series of dialogues to support the private sector needs 3) Leverage the benefits of the Global Compact network to create a local movement compatible with UN global goals, and 4) Encourage the private sector to engage in partnerships for innovation in sustainability. This comes as a follow on discussion to our first private sector dialogue held last July 2020 targeting universal sustainable principles, and the importance of increasing engagement of the private sector in supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals, help build back a better Kuwait and sustained communities in support of Kuwait Vision 2035.
Kuwait’s efforts in shifting the economy from public sector-led, and resource – dominated economy to private sector knowledge – based innovation led economy has been visible in recent years. Through the implementation of the strategies set in the National Development Plan, Kuwait aims to transform the country into a financial, trading, cultural and institutional centre in the region towards the new Kuwait vision 2035. Moreover, Kuwait has the necessary tools to implement their new vision given its robust financial reserves, its strategic location, in addition to its entrepreneurial initiatives and culture. However, the impact of the pandemic of COVID-19 and the resulting economic crisis calls for a more strategic and dynamic partnerships, which is needed more than ever.

In his opening remarks, the Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator Dr. Tarek Elsheikh stated: “The investment environment in the GCC region decreased in 2020 due to the exceptional situation resulting from the economic impact of the "Covid-19" pandemic, especially the effect on global trade movement and foreign direct investment flows. The new Kuwait strategy 2035 aims to transform the country from a resource-based economy to an innovation-based knowledge economy to a cultural, financial, commercial and institutional centre for the region, which is the roadmap towards smart Kuwait, but there is still a long way ahead to reach that goal and be less dependent oil revenues.”
The General Secretary of the Supreme Council for Planning and Development Dr Khaled Mahdi emphasized: “The efforts of the State of Kuwait in recent years to transform the economy from an public sector-led economy that depends entirely on oil to an economy based on knowledge and innovation, by implementing the policies contained in the development plan for the State of Kuwait”.

Ms. Abeer Tahlak - Director of Mohammed Bin Rashed Center of Government Innovation and Director of Opportunities (MBRCGI), UAE highlighted that:” The UAE successful experience lies it’s believe in opportunities and in promoting partnership between the government and private sectors. A forward-looking policy and commitment and preparations for the future is amongst the most important pillars. This secured an international positioning for UAE as a leader in innovation, the country’s aspirations for the future aren’t traditional and needs unconventional systems to make it a reality… the future holds many challenges that requires constant change”
H.E Sheikh Dr. Abdullah Sabah Humoud Al-Sabah, Deputy Director General for Investments Operations at Kuwait Direct Investment Promotion Authority stated: “KDIPA continues to support the State of Kuwait’s direct investment vision of being an added value and innovation-based investment hub. KDIPA’s mission is to actively contributing to enhance Kuwait’s economic diversification by fostering sustainability towards a knowledge based economy”.
Dr. Tarek Elsheikh added: “Kuwait has great potential to be an important destination for attracting investment in the region. Kuwait has the capacity and the tools to achieve the new Kuwait vision 2035. From this standpoint, the United Nations seeks to open a ground for forming partnerships based on innovation and invention to create sustainable opportunities for a future capable of self-sufficiency and self-awareness that includes all Sectors. At the present time and in light of dealing with the current Covid-19 pandemic, this period is one of the most difficult periods the world is going through, and it can be considered an obstacle standing in the way of development. This crisis has taught us all the importance of resilience as well as future opportunities to build back better”.
Dr. Bassam Alfeeli, Director of Corporate and Innovation Department at Kuwait Foundation for the Advancement of Sciences, explained: “KFAS pays great attention to the Kuwaiti private sector based on the institution’s strategy, which in one of its most important axes is concerned with developing human resources and research in private sector companies, to help identify difficulties and draw inspiration from. Solutions to meet the challenges of the Kuwaiti economy. KFAS provides training programs on building the capacity of innovative workers in the private sector, as well as creating strategic partnerships with major international institutions in order to promote business development and research, to achieve a sustainable knowledge-based economy”.
Mr. Ismail Radwan of World Bank said: “In the 21st century, innovation and knowledge will be the most important factors driving economic growth for high income countries.  Kuwait has a tremendous potential to reorient its economy and society towards this new paradigm built on improved education and strong coordination between academia and the public and private sectors”.
Mr. Abdulmajeed Alshatti, Economic Advisor, Vice Chairman of the Scientific Center, commented: “Knowledge is an economy that depends on the production of knowledge. Can we produce knowledge and convert it into monetize? Do we have the required ecosystem: Strategy, technology, Laws and regulatory authorities, Economy? What is the size of knowledge capital? We know the size of our oil reserves. Can we measure the knowledge capital? Is what we spend on research and development sufficient to transform into a knowledge economy? Why do not we benefit from the experiences of other countries, such as Finland?  How did it transform from a country dependent on forests and wood to a country that exports technology? “He further added: ”The age structure of citizens, in which those under the age of 25 represent more than half, represents a great challenge to the economy, but also represents a great opportunity to transform into a knowledge economy. We must convert this mighty energy of negative energy into positive energy. I believe that the covid-19 pandemic, despite its cruelty, has presented us with a valuable opportunity to transform into the knowledge and digital economy.  The pandemic has accelerated digital transformation, created new job opportunities, and uncovered talents".
The United Nations Global Compact (GC) was introduced to participants. GC is a voluntary initiative where more than 10,000 companies and entrepreneurs have committed to align their strategies and operations with ten universal principles addressing human rights, labour, anti-corruption and environment taking actions to achieve their goals. For the last 20 years, the Global Compact has mobilized a global movement of sustainable companies and private sector stakeholders in 156 countries, united for a better world with an emphasis on collaboration and innovation (https://www.unglobalcompact.org/).

The webinar was in partnership with the KFAS, Kuwait Direct Investment Promotion Authority, Kuwait University, Mohammed Bin Rashed Center of Government Innovation, the World Bank and Global Compact. It was well attended by partners from the private sector and other sectors including academia, research institutions and the international community.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/104321-private-sector-led-economy-innovation-knowledge-based-partnerships-un75talk-webinar




Date: 20 November 2020
Title: IOM Distributes Personal Protective Equipment Kits to Vulnerable Populations in Partnership with the Social Work Society
Content: 20 November 2020
The International Organization for Migration (IOM) in partnership with the Social Work Society (SWS), and in cooperation with a community volunteering group and re:food, distributed personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to over four thousand foreign workers, covering all 6 governorates in the State of Kuwait, and including residents at the Public Authority for Manpower’s (PAM) government-run shelter for female foreign workers.
This initiative was generously funded by private sector partners, in support to the government of Kuwait’s continuous efforts and response to contain the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. This was mainly focused on the inclusion of vulnerable foreign workers who continue to perform daily tasks without preventive equipment, in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organizations’ (WHO) for maintaining personal hygiene and preventing contagion.
Mr. Mazen AboulHosn, Chief of Mission of the International Organization for Migration (IOM), “Personal protective equipment (PPE) is effective in preventing infection for everyone, especially foreign workers who work in highly exposed environments; everyone can do their part to reduce the risk that COVID-19 has imposed on our societies”.
For his part, Dr. Mubarak Al-Azmi, Acting Director General of the Public Authority for Manpower (PAM), appreciated the continuous cooperation with the International Organization for Migration in the State of Kuwait, adding that the personal protection equipment kits were distributed to the residents of the shelter for female foreign workers. He stressed on the Public Authority for Manpower's keenness to adhere to international health standards and ensure full compliance in all areas, including the shelter for female foreign workers, in aim to limit the spread of Covid-19.
The International Organization for Migration takes pride in its successful partnership with private sector partners, government key stakeholders and non-governmental and civil society organizations. With the support provided by various entities, IOM is enabled to respond more efficiently and effectively to the needs of foreign workers in the State of Kuwait.

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/104325-iom-distributes-personal-protective-equipment-kits-vulnerable-populations-partnership-social




Date: 18 November 2020
Title: Virtual Strategic Dialogue “The Private Sector & It’s Humanitarian Role During the Pandemic”
Content: 18 November 2020
Kuwait City, Kuwait, November 18th, 2020: UNHCR, The UN Refugee Agency, held yesterday a strategic dialogue titled “The Private Sector and its Humanitarian Role During the Pandemic” to discuss best practices, success stories, and shaping policies and processes to support vulnerable refugees and internally displaced populations worldwide.
The strategic dialogue is part of a series of in-depth and collaborative dialogues organized by UNHCR to highlight the role of the private sector in supporting refugees and internally displaced people (IDP) across the globe. The first virtual event of the series was held on November 17th and brought together high-level decision makers from the UN refugee agency and international private sector companies including Tarek Abdulaziz Sultan Al Essa, Vice Chairman & CEO of Agility from Kuwait, H.R.H. Prince Jaime de Bourbon de Parme, Senior Advisor to UNHCR from Switzerland; Iman Al Barwani Director & Vice Chairperson of MB Holdings and Foundation from Oman; and  Jim Estill, Chairman of DDE Media from Canada. At the heart of these discussions participants shared experiences and shaping actions to generate long-term solutions and impact in support of refugees.
“Private sector engagement and cross-sector partnerships are more important than ever when it comes to the support of vulnerable refugees, especially with the current pandemic and its economic repercussions, which has disproportionately affected those living on the margins of society and in low to mid income countries, where 85% of refugees globally live ” explained Dr. Samer Haddadin, Head of UNHCR Kuwait Office. “Therefore, we are delighted to be providing this platform in Kuwait, which will enable us to find long-term solutions to support forcibly displaced worldwide as well as to foster their economic inclusion,” he added.
Improving the livelihoods of refugees and displaced persons through economic inclusion is a key component of UNHCR’s operations as part of the efforts to provide protection and solution outcomes for vulnerable populations.
“Our ability to protect refugees and vulnerable populations depends on the strength of partnerships between UNHCR and the private sector. UNHCR does the extremely difficult, on-the-ground work to provide refugees with vital assistance and equip them with the necessities to protect themselves and cover their basic needs” stated, Mr. Tarek Sultan. Adding that “UNHCR knows what vulnerable populations need, and where obstacles lie, but without the commitment and expertise of private-sector partners, many of those needs would go unmet. So our challenge for the future is to figure out how to work together to be even more effective.”
Key topics from the discussion focused on the empowerment of refugees. This includes innovative solutions on responding effectively to the refugee crisis amid the COVID-19 pandemic, and how private partnerships can take the lead in designing equitable and sustainable responses that position empowered refugees at the center of their design. Other topic focuses included the ways in which long-term and financially sustainable solutions can alleviate the effects of forced displacement, the private sector’s role in providing a safety net around humanitarian issues, and how to raise the interest of other business leaders when it comes to the support of refugees.
“As companies, CSR is more than simply donating money in a hope that the challenges facing society will magically disappear. Corporate Social Responsibility is really an investment in the good of society, and we should treat it as such, with proper planning and coordinated effort with governments and NGOs to create sustainable positive impact,” explained Mrs. Al Barwani.
Currently, displaced populations come primarily from five countries including Syria, Venezuela, Afghanistan, South Sudan, and Myanmar. Through strategic dialogues as well as other activities, campaigns, and partnerships, UNHCR is working towards building a better future for refugees, forcibly displaced communities and stateless people across the globe.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/104302-virtual-strategic-dialogue-%E2%80%9C-private-sector-it%E2%80%99s-humanitarian-role-during-pandemic%E2%80%9D




Date: 17 November 2020
Title: Ooredoo Kuwait and IOM Collaborate in Light of Supporting Community Initiatives
Content: 17 November 2020
https://www.instagram.com/p/CHpYKzPjZ2r/?igshid=mqvqtxbo629f
Kuwait, Kuwait City: Ooredoo Telecom, the first to introduce innovative digital services in Kuwait, collaborated with the International Organization for Migration (IOM), a related organization of the United Nations (UN), that plays a leading role in the field of migration governance globally. The collaboration allows Nojoom members who are also Ooredoo customers to donate their points to IOM on MyOoredoo Application.

The signing ceremony took place on 15th of November 2020 in Ooredoo Tower, with the attendance of Abdulaziz Al-Babtain, Chief Executive Officer, and Mijbil Alayoub, Senior Director, Corporate Communications, Ooredoo Kuwait, and Mr. Mazen AboulHosn Chief of Mission, and Dana Al-Othman, External Relations and Project Assistant of IOM Kuwait.

Nojoom is Ooredoo’s loyalty program and the biggest and only one of its kind in Kuwait by a telecom operator with free enrolment for all Ooredoo customers. Customers can earn points based on their Ooredoo spending to benefit from an attractive range of rewards, services and experiences. Customers can then redeem their points for cash vouchers from Ooredoo’s network of partners such as Kuwait Finance House, eureka, and west elm, exchange their points to miles with leading airline companies such as; Kuwait Airways and Qatar Airways, select specific Ooredoo services and top-ups and transfer their points to friends or charity donations. The newest redemption option is Nojoom Deals, offering the chance to unlock unique merchant discounts and deals.

Ooredoo Kuwait has a long history of entrepreneurial activities that pay back to society and contribute to human development. With this in mind, Ooredoo Kuwait recognizes the positive contribution of migrants in inclusive growth and sustainable development. Thus, Nojoom members will be able to transfer their points to IOM and at the end of each month, and Ooredoo-Nojoom will transfer cash value in KD to the organization with the purpose of supporting community initiatives that will benefit vulnerable foreign workers communities in Kuwait.

“We, at Ooredoo draw a bright line in every single humanitarian initiative we conduct, to maintain awareness of the importance of supporting communities, touching people's lives and enhancing the public wellbeing” said Abdulaziz Al-Babtain, Chief Executive Officer-Ooredoo Kuwait.

“Through our collaboration with the International Organization for Migration, we create a coherent framework and expand our contribution to the local community, supporting the notion of equality, human rights, and freedom of all migrants regardless of their migratory status” Al-Babtain added.

“IOM as an intergovernmental organization works closely with entities from different fields to tackle migration issues at a global, regional, and local levels. In Kuwait, we work with the government on technical subjects and with other partners to promote harmony between vulnerable foreign workers and the local community by organizing events and activities that inform, transform and promote inclusion, attracting a wide range of audiences.” Said Mr. Mazen AboulHosn, Chief of Mission-IOM Kuwait.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/102733-ooredoo-kuwait-and-iom-collaborate-light-supporting-community-initiatives




Date: 24 October 2020
Title: United Nations Day: The World We Want
Content: 24 October 2020
The year 2020 marks the 75th anniversary of the United Nations and its founding Charter, and the 57th anniversary for the State of Kuwait as a member of the United Nations. This anniversary comes in a time of great disruption for the world, compounded by an unprecedented global health crisis due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with severe economic and social impacts. But it is also a reminder that times of struggle can become an opportunity for positive change and transformation. As part of marking this historical year, Leading to the UN75 celebrations, joint activities by the United Nations Resident Coordinator Office in Kuwait have mainly focused on playing a pivotal role in open dialogues such as the “UN75Talk”, a monthly platform bringing UN Agencies and national partners across sectors, through open discussions and igniting people’s debate for positive solutions, as part of the UN Secretary-General largest and furthest-reaching call for a global conversation, the role of global cooperation in building the future we want and activating the Decade of Action.
Quoting the UN Secretary General: ”The 75th anniversary of the United Nations falls in the middle of a global pandemic. Our founding mission is more critical than ever. To promote human dignity. Protect human rights. Respect international law. And save humanity from war. When the pandemic hit, I called for a global ceasefire. In our world today, we have one common enemy: COVID-19. Now is the time for a stepped-up push for peace to achieve a global ceasefire.  The clock is ticking. We must also make peace with our planet. The climate emergency threatens life itself. We must mobilize the whole world to reach carbon neutrality - net zero emissions of greenhouse gasses by 2050. A growing number of countries and companies have already pledged to meet this goal”.
We must build on progress.  A remarkable global collaboration is under way for a safe, affordable and accessible COVID-19 vaccine for all. The Sustainable Development Goals give us an inspiring blueprint for recovering better. We face colossal challenges.  With global solidarity and cooperation, we can overcome them”. UN Secretary-General added.
This day is an opportunity to remind ourselves of the long-standing diplomatic relations and partnership Kuwait enjoys with the United Nations, the joint neutrality and collaboration to resolve Arab, regional and global issues, which laid the foundations of the preventive diplomacy concept and moderation that has borne fruit in the darkest circumstances. Supporting reform, fighting corruption and establishing the pillars of sustainable development, peace and human rights.

To continue building on the abundant generosity of Kuwait leadership as messengers of peace and a bridge-builders, distinctive humanitarian support, always at the front lines to motivate the international community to show solidarity and promoting multilateralism. We rest assured that our strong partnership with the State of Kuwait will remain intact, moving towards our common strategic objectives to support the State’s priorities and aspirations in a steady pace and a firm approach under the leadership of His Highness the Amir of the State of Kuwait Sheikh Nawaf Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, as we are confident that His Highness will continue to support/rise to the integral role of United Nations as an vital global advocate for peace, sustainable development and rights for all.

To mark the day, the United Nations has also launched #TheWorldWeWant virtual exhibit, a special collection of 75 photos curated from more than 50,000 images from over 130 countries and is a creative response to the UN Secretary-General’s call to hear directly from the peoples of the world about their vision for the future. The exhibit features the winning images. At the local level, to highlight the UN Day, amid the constrains imposed by the public health measures in place, a photography contest aspiring to showcase the different milestones, landmarks and human development aspects of a #SustainableSmartKuwait was launched recently involving the wider public. The activity will spotlight the fruitful collaboration between the State of Kuwait and the United Nations in implementing the Agenda 2030 for sustainable development and reflection of the ongoing and future plans.
“On this anniversary, I ask people everywhere to join together. The United Nations not only stands with you…The United Nations belongs to you and is you: “we the peoples”. Together, let us uphold the enduring values of the United Nations Charter. Let us build on our advances across the decades. Let us realize our shared vision of a better world for all”.  UNSG said.

Last but not least, to commemorate the 75 years of the United Nations, Member States including the State of Kuwait held a high-level event on 21 September 2020, where they reaffirmed and recognized that our challenges are interconnected and can only be addressed through reinvigorated multilateralism.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/102759-united-nations-day-world-we-want




Date: 21 October 2020
Title: UNHCR hosts a regional discussion on the role of Islamic Social Finance in addressing global displacement
Content: 21 October 2020
Kuwait City, Kuwait, October 21st 2020: With global displacement now affecting one percent of humanity, according to UNHCR, TheUN refugee agency’s global trends report for 2020, humanitarian actors from the  Gulf Cooperation Council Countries (GCC) have come together to discuss new avenues for collaboration to help scale-up aid, both in the MENA region and globally.
The regional webinar, hosted yesterday by UNHCR and with participation Dr. Aize Dabsan Al-Qahtani, CEO for the Thani Bin Abdullah Foundation for Humanity, Mrs. Kawthar AlMusallam, Vice President of the Zakat House of Kuwait, Mr. Jamal Al Nouri, Chairman of Sheikh Abdullah Al Nouri Charity Society, touched on key avenues for Islamic social finance (ISF) to meet this goal, as well as discussed potential barriers to efficiently mobilize innovative and sustainable sources of humanitarian funding, such as Waqf.
Dr. Samer Hadaddin, Head of UNHCR’s Kuwait Office said: “The private sector, through philanthropic business leaders, socially responsible businesses, Islamic NGOs and financial institutions, is increasingly providing further support to mobilize networks and the business community around the cause of refugees that requires strategic attention and investment”.
“Islamic social finance tools can have a significant and sustainable impact on beneficiaries, especially considering the current global COVID-19 health emergency. UNHCR can learn from many institutions that have historically been distributing such funds, in return these institutions have the opportunity  to increase their positive impact and realize the sustainable development goals- noting that over 60% of refugees and internally displaced people come from countries within the Organization of Islamic Cooperation,“ Dr. Hadaddin added.
The role of Islamic social finance, especially in emergency times such as COVID-19, took centre stage during the discussions, with speakers closely examining ISF tools such as Zakat, Sadaqah and Waqf, which have enormous potential to be leveraged and scaled to deliver much-needed financing for humanitarian challenges such as the refugee crisis.
Islamic social finance, a form of social solidarity, was developed in adherence to the Sharia principles of socioeconomic justice, equality and collective prosperity. Gaining increasing prominence among the humanitarian community in considering its potential, sustainability, and impact.
“Through new models of cooperation and partnerships, such as strategic ISF alliances between local/ regional NGOs and international organizations, ISF can find ways to accelerate the use of philanthropic resources to address pressing issues across MENA, including refugees by increasing social investment in education, healthcare, shelter, livelihoods, clean water, and providing cash assistance for those most in need,” explained by Mrs. Kawthar AlMusallam, Vice President of the Zakat House of Kuwait.
In December 2019, the United Nation’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development introduced an indicator framework dedicated to refugees. UNHCR has firmly committed to this agenda pledging to ‘leave no one behind’.
The UN Refugee Agency is working with governments and humanitarian partners to ensure that refugees and internally displaced people are included in national COVID-19 response plans and is expanding cash and other forms of assistance. But urgent and additional financial support is needed before the start of winter to help ensure that people can survive the season’s harsh conditions.

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/104308-unhcr-hosts-regional-discussion-role-islamic-social-finance-addressing-global-displacement




Date: 16 October 2020
Title: World Food Day
Content: 16 October 2020
Every year on 16 October, the world celebrates World Food Day, and this year it marks the 75th anniversary of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). This year, on 24 October, the United Nations also celebrates its 75th Anniversary. Therefore, the World Food Day is an occasion to recognize the contributions of the United Nations in general.
The FAO75 and UN75 anniversaries come during a very exceptional time as many countries are dealing with the widespread effects of the COVID19 global health crisis. The global pandemic has been a time to reflect on our health and our most basic, everyday needs: undoubtedly food is one of them. Food is the essence of life and bedrock of cultures and communities.
Preserving access to safe and nutritious food is and will continue to be an essential part of the response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Resilient, inclusive and sustainable food systems are key to ensure a world with “Zero Hunger”. Even before COVID-19 hit, estimates were that about 690 million people are hungry. Over 2 billion people do not have regular access to safe, nutritious and sufficient food. Economic disruption linked to the pandemic may add another 130 million. At the same time, unhealthy diets and sedentary lifestyles have led to soaring overweight and obesity rates, not only in the developed counties, but also in low-income countries, where hunger and obesity coexist.
Today the world produces more than enough food to feed everyone, however, food systems in recent decades are out of balance. Hunger, obesity, environmental degradation, loss of agro-biological diversity, food loss and waste are only some of the issues that underline this imbalance. Given exponential dynamics of COVID-19, the supply chain is critical to getting goods and services quickly, safely and securely. Business leaders must make rapid decisions and take immediate actions to sustain business operations to serve their customers, clients and communities, as well as protect and support their workers. The supply chain sustainability is particularly essential for Kuwait as its economy is highly vulnerable to the global and regional value chain, with more than 80% of goods exported to and imported from outside the region and in fact as a net importer when oil related exports are excluded” highlighted Dr Tarek Elsheikh, The Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator to the State of Kuwait.
“Kuwait displayed a high level of competence in its emergency planning and implementation. As we all witnessed the great potential and the corporate-level financial resiliency which was placed at the centre of the Plan. The pandemic has seriously enlightened the need to invest in the local agri-enterprises and strengthen their ability to build back better. Especially small businesses comprised of farm enterprises, traders, food manufacturers, distributors and retailers across food chains. In a moment like this, it is more important than ever for the government authorities to recognize the need to support our food heroes - farmers and workers throughout the food system - who are making sure that food makes its way from farm to fork and the critical role that these companies can play in maintaining functioning food systems even amid disruptions as unprecedented as the current COVID-19 crisis”. Dr. Elsheikh added.
Efforts in securing the supply chain In this context, there is a pressing need for the government and businesses to build long term resilience in their value chains for managing future challenges with effective supply chain strategy for planning, execution and monitoring. This requires holistic approaches to manage the broken supply chain by building in enough flexibility to protect against future disruptions. The Supply-Chain Response Plan in COVID-19 setting is a “must” in this regard. The planning priorities should include: (1) developing a Resilience Plan and Supply Chain Strategy and sensitizing and analyzing risks to supply chain scenarios. Dino Francescutti, FAO Sub-regional Coordinator for the GCC States and Yemen stated that Kuwait is defining short to long-term goals for the food and agricultural sector. The country requires a robust strategic plan to transform its food systems to achieve food security and stable food supply chain.
FAO and the UN in general stand ready to support Kuwait authorities to develop and implement such a strategic plan. “FAO and Kuwait’s partnership aims at reinforcing the interaction and synergies between the different parties towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals in Kuwait and other countries of the Near East“ Kayan Jaff, Coordinator of FAO-Kuwait Partnership Programme and Senior Policy Advisor in the Regional Office in Cairo stated.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/104324-world-food-day




Date: 15 October 2020
Title: UNHCR Signs Agreement with Direct Aid Society in Kuwait to Support those Displaced by the Beirut Explosion
Content: 15 October 2020
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, today signed a grant agreement with local NGO Direct Aid Society to assist in providing shelter to those affected by the devastating Beirut explosion of August 4th, 2020. The agreement worth USD 58,000 will contribute to UNHCR’s ‘Project of Rehabilitation of Residential Shelters’ in the Lebanese capital and will support those displaced by the tragic incident, of the most vulnerable Lebanese families and refugees who had sought safety in the country.
“We have been profoundly affected by the enormous losses faced by Lebanon, a country that has historically provided shelter and protection to millions of refugees and which hosts the largest number of refugees per capita in the world,” said Dr. Samer Haddadin, Head of UNHCR’s Kuwait Office.
“Collaborations and partnerships are at the core of our commitment to respond to crises and we are honoured to partner with the reputable and respected Direct Aid Society to help mitigate the after-effects of the explosion. Their contribution will support us in providing lifesaving shelter for the victims while also protecting them from the COVID-19 outbreak that has taken its toll on the country.”
The donation, which will benefit over 34 homes affected by the Beirut port explosion, marks the beginning of a long-term partnership between both parties. Although the Kuwaiti NGO has previously implemented various projects to support vulnerable populations across the globe, this will be its first intervention in Lebanon delivered through UNHCR as a result of the organization’s opening of its outreach to implement humanitarian projects in the Middle East.
Commenting on the agreement signing, Dr. Abdullah AlSumait, Vice Chairman and General Manager of Direct Aid Society said: “We are extremely pleased to embark with UNHCR on this journey of giving to support the victims who have lost their homes as a result of the devastating explosion. At Direct Aid Society, we have pledged towards UNHCR’s emergency response as a commitment to providing the necessary funds needed for the rehabilitation of shelters.”
On his part, the head of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in the State of Kuwait, Dr. Samer Haddadin, said that this agreement is the beginning of a distinguished partnership between the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in the State of Kuwait and the Direct Aid Society, in an initiative that is the first of its kind and an extension of the role and endeavours of the Charity Organization. Direct Aid, as a charitable body, has been providing humanitarian support in various parts of the world. Dr. Samer Haddadin expressed his sincere thanks and gratitude to the Direct Aid Society for its adoption of the issue of the displaced and its contribution through its generous donation to support the projects of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, especially the UNHCR response plan project after the Beirut Port incident.
Beirut’s port explosion rocked the city, killing more than 190 people and leaving over 6,500 injured, with massive damage sustained to buildings and infrastructure. Dozens of people remain missing and an estimated 300,000 Lebanese, refugees and other populations have lost their homes because of the tragic incident. The Lebanese government estimates state that 1.5 million Syrian refugees are currently present in the country, along with over 16,000 refugees from Iraq, Sudan and other places of origin.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/104301-unhcr-signs-agreement-direct-aid-society-kuwait-support-those-displaced-beirut-explosion




Date: 10 October 2020
Title: Op-Ed on the occasion of the World Mental Health Day
Content: 10 October 2020
Kuwait – We commemorate the World Mental Health Day annually on the 10th of October; however, this year it is corresponding at times when it is crucial more than ever to address it and be aware of its consequences. The outbreak of COVID-19 has impacted our lives drastically in different sectors. The past months have brought many challenges for health-care workers, providing care in difficult circumstances, going to work fearful of bringing COVID-19 home with them; for students, adapting to taking classes from home, with little contact with teachers and friends, and anxious about their futures; for workers whose livelihoods are threatened; for the vast number of people caught in poverty or in fragile humanitarian settings with extremely limited protection from COVID-19; and for people with mental health conditions, many experiencing even greater social isolation than before.
The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted or halted critical mental health services in 93% of countries worldwide while the demand for mental health is increasing, according to a new WHO survey. In response to the rising need for mental health and psychosocial support services among responders and the community at large, the State of Kuwait has demonstrated a leading role in launching initiatives and ensuring access to mental health services. The Kuwait Ministry of Health through Kuwait’s Center for Mental Health and Central Administration for Primary Care launched a number of novel initiatives to improve access to care and overcome limitations imposed by lockdowns and quarantines during the COVID-19 pandemic. Amongst these initiatives are the launching of a hotline (+965 2462 1770) to deliver online consultations by the Kuwait Center for Mental Health. In addition to launching of an interactive application “Shlonik” by the Ministry of Health that aims to engage with citizens and residents to ensure their safety, provide health information, and monitor patients. While also conducting all the outpatient psychiatric consultations and primary mental health clinics online from since end of March 2020. Specialized psychiatric clinics delivered psychotropic medicines to the homes of their registered patients to ensure continuity of their treatment regimens. Also, Specialized psychiatric clinics delivered psychotropic medicines to the homes of their registered patients to ensure continuity of their treatment regimens. Dr. Tarek AlSheikh, Representative of the Secretary-General and Resident Coordinate of United Nations in Kuwait underscored the importance of maintaining a healthy mental state at such times “The COVID-19 pandemic challenged all previous norms to it, while introducing a “new normal” to our daily lives. It is crucial for us to take a moment and ensure that our mental health state is equipped to deal with such challenging times.”
Building on this, the United Nations Resident Coordinator Office in Kuwait organized a UN75 webinar session on “Health and Wellbeing During COVID-19” in collaboration with the keynote speaker Dr. Naif Al-Mutawa for the UN staff.
This year on World Mental Health Day, as part of a campaign launched by WHO titles “Move for Mental Health”, WHO is inviting the global community to take part in The Big Event for Mental Health, an unprecedented online advocacy event that will call for increased investment in mental health at all levels  ̶  from individuals to businesses to countries to civil society  ̶  so that the world can begin to close the gaps highlighted by today’s report. The Big Event is free and open to the public and will be broadcast on 10 October from 16:00 to 19:00 CEST on WHO’s YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, TikTok and LinkedIn channels and website.
End.


URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/100063-op-ed-occasion-world-mental-health-day




Date: 03 September 2020
Title: The International Organization for Migration and the UN Development Programme Sign ‘Tamkeen’ initiative Project with GSSCPD and PAM
Content: 03 September 2020
Under the auspices of HE Mariam Al-Aqeel, Minister of State for Economic Affairs and Minister of Social Affairs, the Supreme Council for Planning and Development (GSSCPD) along with the Public Authority for Manpower (PAM) signed the STRENGTH initiative project agreement with the United Nations Migration (IOM) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
The signing took place in the presence of Dr. Khaled Mehdi, Secretary General of the General Secretariat for The Supreme Council of Planning and Development, Mr. Ahmed El Moussa, Director General of the Public Authority for Manpower, Ms. Iman Ereiqat, Chief of Mission of the International Organization for Migration and Hideko Hadzialic, Resident Representative of the United Nations Development Programme in Kuwait.
The ‘Tamkeen’ Initiative aims to contribute towards the strengthening of Kuwait’s Global Positioning pillar under the Kuwait National Development Plan (KNDP) 2035, predominantly in the context of secondary COVID-19 response, by promoting national mechanisms on good migration and mobility governance, and to enhance the facilitation of labour mobility for an improved recruitment experience.
HE Mariam Al-Aqeel, Minister of State for Economic Affairs and Minister of Social Affairs commented on the initiative for which she had coined the name, “Tamkeen is another step in the right direction that will essentially contribute to a better Kuwait both as a leading humanitarian center and a progressive government with modernized business and mobility governance technologies and procedures. We are always working towards growth and development.”
Dr. Khaled Mehdi, Secretary General of the General Secretariat for The Supreme Council of Planning and Development exclaimed, “Kuwait is making strides in the era of digital transformation. All endeavors and resources that we devote must be both efficient and responsive to market needs, and to regulate the recruitment of foreign workers in addition protecting employers and workers simultaneously.”
“We are looking forward to take this initiative forward and we are positive about the outcomes with IOM’s coordination and cooperation to develop this initiative and partner on bringing ethical recruitment to a new level so that we can better protect all members of our society,” Mr. Ahmed El Moussa, Director General of the Public Authority of Manpower
Ms. Iman Ereiqat, Chief of Mission of the International Organization for Migration (IOM) also shared her pride when she described digital transformation “is not just the way forward, it is the new lifestyle that everyone should adopt. It is a marker of transparency and integrity. It is also a marker of development and progressive attitudes.”
Hideko Hadzialic, Resident Representative of the United Nations Development Programme, commented "UNDP has long been partnering with GSSCPD and PAM to support the implementation of KNDP towards the fulfilment of New Kuwait Vision 2035, We are glad to have facilitated concluding this initiative with IOM that will further contribute to the overall objective of KNDP, particularly the Global positioning Pillar. STRENGTH is a timely support initiative to the Government of Kuwait in its effort to promote integrity and transparency of recruitment of migrant workers at all levels. The mobile technology of this initiative will also connect employees, and labour inspectors together to promote sound employment relationships."
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/102796-international-organization-migration-and-un-development-programme-sign-%E2%80%98tamkeen%E2%80%99-initiative




Date: 19 August 2020
Title: World Humanitarian Day 2020: A tribute to workers on the front lines
Content: 19 August 2020
Today, on World Humanitarian Day, Kuwait joins the global campaign to honour humanitarians across the world who are going to extraordinary lengths in extraordinary times to help women, men and children whose lives are upended by crises and the global COVID-19 pandemic.
The dedication, perseverance and self-sacrifice of these real-life heroes reflect the best of humanity as they respond to the COVID-19 crisis and the massive increase in humanitarian needs it has triggered. They include women and men from governmental organisations, civil societies, and volunteers in the community.
First responders are being tested like never before. These unsung heroes bring food, shelter, health care, protection and hope to millions around the world in need.  The State of Kuwait’s solidarity with the international humanitarian community has further been emphasized through its contribution towards the COVID-19 response, of which partially allocated to the WHO Strategic Preparedness and Response Plan in Jordan, Lebanon, Palestine, Iraq, Sudan, and Pakistan. Additional solidarity has also been given with Kuwait’s pledge to support humanitarian response efforts to the tragic events that shook Lebanon on 4 August.  The country was quick to respond through the creation of air bridges created to deliver daily emergency aid through the Kuwait Red Crescent Society, with NGOs and volunteers participating in helping the victims of this tragedy.
This is the eleventh World Humanitarian Day, designated by the UN General Assembly. It falls on the day of the attack on the UN compound in Baghdad on 19 August 2003, which claimed the lives of 22 people including the Secretary-General's Special Representative for Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello. Since then, nearly 5,000 humanitarians have been killed, wounded or abducted, and the 2010-2019 decade experienced a 117 per cent increase in attacks compared to 2000-2009.
Dr Samer Haddadin, UNRC a.i and Head of UNHCR Kuwait Office noted that “One of the purposes of the United Nations, as stated in its Charter, is to achieve international co-operation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character. On this day, we pay tribute to all Humanitarian workers around the globe who are sparing no efforts and risking their lives in order to provide help and aid to the people in need. 2019 was the most dangerous year for aid workers to date: the world witnessed the highest number of major attacks against humanitarians, with 483 aid workers were attacked, 125 killed, 234 wounded and 124 kidnapped in a total of 277 separate incidents.
H.E Nasser Muhareb Al-Hain – Assistant Foreign Minister for International Organizations noted that ‘ On this Occasion of World Humanitarian Day, we remember the historic role of the unknown soldiers who have been tirelessly working for each human. We salute them, we appreciate them, and we acknowledge their incredibly important sacrifice and their support to others. Additionally, we are very proud of the blessed efforts of the humanitarian country, under the leadership of his Royal Highness Sheikh Sabah Alahmad Aljaber Alsabah. May Allah protect him and guard him and heel him, and return him to us in good health.”
“While the entire world fights the COVID-19 pandemic, today we pay tribute to the efforts of all humanitarians around the world. I hereby, call for their protection and providing them with a safe working environment. I admire and appreciate Kuwait’s efforts and contributions to this end on this occasion,” Iyad Nasr, Head of the Regional Office for UN OCHA for the Middle East and North Africa (ROMENA) in Cairo, said.
This year's World Humanitarian Day comes as the world fights the COVID-19 pandemic. To pay tribute to the efforts of humanitarians, there is a call for the local communities in participating in the campaign by giving thanks to those who have helped.


URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/100075-world-humanitarian-day-2020-tribute-workers-front-lines




Date: 16 July 2020
Title: On Supply Chain Webinar Series “Controlled environment agriculture, food cold chain logistics and digital technologies”
Content: 16 July 2020
Kuwait, 16 July 2020, the United Nations Resident Coordinator Office in the State of Kuwait in collaboration with FAO sub-Regional Office for GCC and Yemen and in partnership with Kuwait Foundation for the Advancement of Sciences (KFAS), Public Authority Of Agriculture Affairs And Fish Resources  (PAAF) organized the 3rd Supply Chain Webinar session on “Controlled environment agriculture, food cold chain logistics and digital technologies”.
Covid-19 has caused global disruptions to the food supply chains highlighting the universal concern about food security. Among many negatively affected, the Government of Kuwait preserved to curb the ensured food shortages and keep the supply chains as alive as possible given the unanticipated circumstances.
Dr Tarek Elsheikh, the Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator to the State of Kuwait, emphasized on the importance of this continuous discussion in order to stress on the potential of technology examples to effectively tackle challenges in food supply chains. The webinar also aims to contribute to the collaboration between the Government of Kuwait, the United Nations with FAO as the mandated agency on the lead in support for developing a national strategy for food security and nutrition.
Dr Tarek Elsheikh added that “COVID-19 revealed the fragility of food systems, and the importance for Kuwait to be even more attentive to food and nutrition security. Issues of domestic production, food loss and waste, overweight and obesity and diet-related non-communicable diseases (NCDs) is receiving a much greater attention. Kuwait, likewise, other GCC countries, with the dominating dry climate, land and freshwater scarcity, face limitations in expanding agricultural capacity. Challenges are many; innovative agricultural technologies and solutions are required to enlarge production, distribution and marketing.
HE the Permanent Representative of the State of Kuwait to FAO Dr. Youssef Juhail expressed his great interest in this important national priority and is working closely with the United Nations and the government authorities at the national level to ensure establishing an FAO office in Kuwait to enable direct technical expertise and provision of international recent technologies and resources to support mandated government institutions’ strategies and national initiatives in advancing the agriculture and aquaculture process, as an important natural wealth of the State of Kuwait, especially in these times of crisis and to tackle the obstacles and negative impact of COVID19 pandemic.
Dr Dino Francescutti, Sub-Regional Coordinator for GCC and Yemen and FAO Representative in the UAE, highlighted that natural resources sustainability, including water use optimization, among other constraints, challenge Kuwait to look for various strategic options for sustainable food production to both protect the environment and increase food security and enhance nutrition. In these efforts, utilization of innovation technologies is critical; especially the use of those that target increased water productivity such as new generations of greenhouses, agri-aquaculture systems, other. Now, the technological progress and innovation, through controlled environmental agriculture, allow producing high-quality and nutrient-rich products sustainably almost everywhere, including in the desert and arid areas.
Dr. Bassam Alfeeli, Director of Innovation & Enterprise at KFAS mentioned that continuing on its role as an enabler and promoter of technological solutions, KFAS issued in last April a special call for practical solutions that could address the implications of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on national food security and supply chain disruption. The goal is to encourage and accelerate the adoption of new technology solutions and/or adaptation of more mature technologies proven elsewhere to Kuwait conditions through funding of polit projects. Then used these pilot projects to demonstrate and showcase the capabilities and limitations of such applied solutions to the concerned entities.
Dr Francescutti explained that developing shorter food supply chains through improved food cold chain logistics so as digital platforms, connecting farmers and producers to markets, are becoming important tools. They provide a unique opportunity to extending the shelf life of produces from production to markets and bring greater efficiency, transparency and traceability to the exchange of value and information in the agri-food sector.
The Webinar was well attended by various partners from all sectors, government, NGOs, Private Sector, Research Institutions and interested individuals from the general public who shared examples and case studies achieving the sole aim of the webinar in exchanging knowledge between the Government, UN and FAO on experiences and best practices related to the topics discussed. This will contribute to the production of a joint policy report on “Managing broken supply chain in the context of COVID-19 in Kuwait,” and a continuous policy dialogue in the area of sustainable agriculture, food security and nutrition. This webinar comes in a timely coincidence with FAO, IFAD, UNICEF, WFP and WHO 2020; The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2020 report, Transforming food systems for affordable healthy diets. Rome, FAO[1].This flagship publication is part of THE STATE OF THE WORLD series of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
End,
[1] https://doi.org/10.4060/ca9692en
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/100065-supply-chain-webinar-series-%E2%80%9Ccontrolled-environment-agriculture-food-cold-chain-logistics




Date: 15 July 2020
Title: Joint Press Release on World Youth Skills Day
Content: 15 July 2020

Kuwait – This year we are commemorating World Youth Skills Day in a challenging context. The outbreak of the COVID-19 enforced countries to take precautionary measures including the lockdown of schools, universities, and other institutions. Currently nearly 70% of the world’s learners are affected by school closures across all education levels, with more than 1 in 6 young people are out of work due to COVID-19. Hence, the World Youth Skills Day this year will be focusing on resilience and taking stock of the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on skills development and explore strategies in response to the unfolding economic crisis. This entails preparing young people with the capacities to respond to rapid changes in employment and entrepreneurship in the sectors that are hardest hit by the crisis. This will ensure that the great skills possessed by the youth are utilized for the greater good rather than being wasted.
His Excellency the Minister of Information: Empowering youth is a top priority for the government
His Excellency the Minister of Information and Minister of State for Youth Affairs Mohamed Nasser Al-Jabri stated that, in light of Kuwait’s celebration of the International Day for Youth Skills adopted by the United Nations on July 15 of each year, we are interested in recalling the Kuwaiti government’s efforts in empowering young people and preparing them to face future challenges by adopting a number of programs and the support that was reflected positively on Kuwaiti youth, whether from a scientific, intellectual or sporting aspect, as well as in the relevant aspects of entrepreneurship.
Al-Jabri stressed that the Office of the Minister of State for Youth Affairs works to implement the national youth policy adopted by the Council of Ministers by setting a road map for its implementation in order to revitalize the role of youth in Kuwait and support it by all means in implementation of the directives of His Highness the Amir of Kuwait and activate the directives of His Highness the Prime Minister. He explained that the Ministry is making great efforts in developing modern strategies to keep pace with the developments of the events imposed by the pandemic.
His Excellency Minister Muhammad Al-Jabri praised Kuwaiti youth, who were highly responsible, as they demonstrated qualitative skills during the Corona crisis and stressed that it is one of the important aspects that depend on them in times of crisis. Confronting the spread of the virus, and their sincere national efforts contributed to reducing the burden on the facilities that they volunteered with such as: the assistance of elderly, the sick and others, and their commitment to the health measures adopted by the government to reduce the spreading of the virus, following the preventive measures, obtaining official information from its source, confirmed the extent of the high level of awareness among Kuwaiti youth which greatly contributed to the fight against inaccurate information.
Minister Mohamed Al-Jabri indicated that the Ministry of State for Youth Affairs had launched a number of programs and events through remote communication, in which a large number of young people participated, taking advantage of the quarantine period that the country went through during previous periods to raise the level of their skills and communicate with them effectively and that the Ministry would spare no effort in Implementing its vision to support youth, as it will launch a number of programs during the coming periods that will be in line with the conditions of the stage the country is going through.
Minister Al-Jabri indicated that the State of Kuwait celebrates the International Day for Youth Skills confirms its continuation of its regional and international role in the success of all endeavors aimed at empowering youth and providing job opportunities appropriate to their aspirations.
Dr. Tarek Elsheikh: Skills for a Resilient Youth in the Era of COVID-19 and Beyond
Dr Tarek Elsheikh added that this day offers an opportunity to be reminded of the vision of the Incheon Declaration: “Education 2030” that is captured by Sustainable Development Goal 4 “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all”. Education 2030 devotes considerable attention to technical and vocational skills development, specifically regarding access to affordable quality Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET); the acquisition of technical and vocational skills for employment, decent work and entrepreneurship; the elimination of gender disparity and ensuring access for the vulnerable. Kuwait is a leading country in fostering youth skills and providing all the needed support to equip them with the needed skills for the future. The Kuwaiti youth set a global example on the efforts exerted by them during the COVID-19 pandemic as we have seen them as volunteers in the frontline delivering aid to the most vulnerable, complementing the Government’s efforts in the response and initiating local advocacy campaigns. The youth in Kuwait constitute most of its population, thus; stressing on the importance of the role of the youth in the advancement and development of the society.
Building on this, and in alignment with the 75th anniversary of the creation of the United Nations, the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in Kuwait in collaboration with the UNESCO Office for the Gulf States and Yemen, and UNICEF Regional Office for GCC, will be organizing a discussion on the meaning and promise of inclusive education in the Covid-19. The UN75 Talk on Education aims to unpack the above challenges and opportunities, take stock of the current education situation in Kuwait and, with support of education partners and stakeholders, identify opportunities and map out recommendations to address them. In doing so, this Talk will draw lessons and build upon insights and perspectives from speakers and participants to the support the ongoing efforts of the State of Kuwait in developing and enhancing its response to education disruptions.
Dr. Meshal Al-Shaheen Al-Rabie: Corona pandemic obliges us to renew our vision to support young people
The Undersecretary of the Ministry of State for Youth Affairs, Dr. Meshaal Al-Shaheen Al-Rabie’ stressed that the office is currently working on developing its perceptions to keep pace with the changes brought about by the Corona pandemic through the creation of programs and setting priorities that are in line with the issues imposed by this crisis of issues that require us to keep pace with the state’s efforts in preparing and empowering young people. Al-Rabie' said that Kuwait, as it celebrates the International Youth Skills Day, which falls on July 15th, has set a series of government measures to meet the needs of young people in all fields to reduce the consequences and negative effects of the emerging Corona virus Covid-19.
Dr. Al-Shaheen Al-Rabie’ explained that this pandemic imposed on us the renewal of our strategies to implement the vision of the Office of the Minister of State for Youth Affairs to ensure the development and participation of community-based youth and enable them to lead and creative leadership in the State of Kuwait. Before the distinguished cabinet, the state’s efforts to gradually return to life will be kept up with a simulation of the ministry’s perceptions of the future.
Dr. Al-Rabie' also indicated that the role of the Minister of State for Youth Affairs in empowering and supporting youth comes within the state’s direction in directing youth towards work and scientific expansion and protecting them intellectually and physically. The role of the Ministry will be the guide for the Kuwaiti youth to enable and support them in their academic, knowledge or sporting interests, and the Ministry will have a role in preparing young people to join the labor market and innovative entrepreneurship.
Designated by the General assembly in 2014, the World Youth Skills Day is an opportunity for young people, technical and vocational education and training (TVET) institutions, and public and private sector stakeholders to acknowledge and celebrate the importance of equipping young people with skills for employment, decent work and entrepreneurship.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/100061-joint-press-release-world-youth-skills-day




Date: 06 July 2020
Title: Countering Hate Speech
Content: 06 July 2020
Since the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus and declaration of the pandemic, the world is faced with an increase in “infodemic” or misinformation and disinformation pandemic. Among other negative consequences, COVID-19 has created conditions that enable the spread of disinformation and fake news to stimulate violence and divide communities. It is critical to counter misinformation as a toxic driver of secondary impacts of the pandemic that can heighten the risk of conflict, violence, human rights violations and mass atrocities. Quoting the UN Secretary General, “as COVID-19 spreads, a tsunami of misinformation, hate, scapegoating and scare-mongering has been unleashed.”
Hate speech is not formally defined by the conventional international law. The Human Rights Committee underscores its vagueness, and the lack of consensus around its meaning, can be abused to enable infringements on a wide range of lawful expression .[1]
The COVID-19 crisis has demonstrated the crucial need for access to free, reliable, trustworthy, factual, multilingual, targeted, accurate, clear and science-based information, as well as for ensuring dialogue and participation of all stakeholders and affected communities during the preparedness, readiness and response. It also has confirmed the key role of free, independent, responsible and pluralistic media to enhance transparency, accountability and trust, which is essential to achieving adequate support for and compliance by the general public with collective efforts to curb the spread of the virus.
States, organizations, the UN system and other stakeholders such as media workers, social media platforms and NGOs have a clear role and responsibility in helping people to deal with the “infodemic’. In this regard, the United Nations Communications Response initiated the “Verified”[2]  campaign announced by the UN Secretary General on April 14, 2020, to provide content that cuts through the noise to deliver life-saving information, fact-based advice and stories from the best of humanity.
The Ministry of Information in Kuwait launched a parallel platform entitled “Tahaqaq”[3] as a tool to verify the credibility of news, photos and videos, control misinformation and avoid fake news. Furthermore, the Kuwaiti authorities  is taking serious measures against people spreading rumors. In addition to the negative impact the rumors can have in these hard times, damaging society's morale, and obstacles to the state’s efforts and ability to overcome the serious health challenges. Rumors harm the society and spark panic and fear among its members.
The United Nations had put significant recommendations to tackle this issue, such as the United Nations Guidance Note on Addressing and Countering COVID-19 related Hate Speech[4]. And because hate speech is something that every society must take seriously, it is important for us to know what the concept is all about, the root causes, implications and the way forward.
The United Nations Human Rights Council Resolution 16/18 on ‘combating intolerance, negative stereotyping and stigmatisation of, and discrimination, incitement to violence, and violence, against persons based on religion or belief.’11 Resolution 16/18 recognises that the promotion of inclusion, diversity, and pluralism is the best antidote to ‘hate speech,’ along with policies and laws to tackle the root causes of discrimination.[5]
[1] A/HRC/38/35
[2] Shareverified.com
[3] Tahaqaq
[4] UNITED NATIONS STRATEGY AND PLAN OF ACTION ON HATE SPEECH
[5] A/HRC/RES/16/18
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/102853-countering-hate-speech




Date: 02 July 2020
Title: FAO and the UN family hail Kuwait’s aid to improve livelihood of vulnerable people in Syria
Content: 02 July 2020
“Kuwait sat up a role model for response to the humanitarian emergencies in Syria and other parts of the world'' said Dr the UN Resident Coordinator for Kuwait, Dr. Tarek Elsheikh.
Amid a continuing crisis of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, the international community grows concerns about its impact on people across Syria, whose livelihood and resilience have been decimated by almost a decade of war. However, with the efforts of the United Nation’s member countries, a glimpse of hope is always there within the most vulnerable communities affected by conflict and crises. The voluntarily and broad support from a handful of United Nations’ member states is the backbone for humanitarian aid to countries in need.
In that context, Dr. Tarek Elsheikh, the Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator for Kuwait and Mr. Abdessalam Ould Ahmed, Regional Representative of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) for the Near East and North Africa havepraised and welcomed the Government of Kuwait’s continuous and generous humanitarian aid to the people of Syria and other vulnerable communities in the Middle East.
Dr. Tarek El Sheikh acknowledged the UN-bestowed status of Kuwait, as an International Humanitarian Center. “Kuwait sat up a role model for response to the humanitarian emergencies in Syria and other parts of the world throughout the recent months, in a statement of its content to help countries in crises anywhere on the planet”, he stated.
“Like many other countries in crisis, the consequences of COVID-19 control measures in Syria are impacting the agriculture sector. The accessibility to markets is reduced, leading to higher prices for inputs, including seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, fuel and labor. The generous Kuwaiti contribution came at a time for us to address and tackle these impacts. However,  there’s always more we can do”, Ould Ahmed stated, thanking the Government of Kuwait for its latest donation of $3 million.
The State of Kuwait and FAO: Restoring livelihoods
Since August 2019, Kuwait’s generous contribution helped FAO assist 18 000 highly vulnerable people and their extended families in Syria through the provision of quality agricultural inputs, such as cereal and vegetable seeds, irrigation kits and feed for their animals, combined with training on good agricultural practices.
By reaching 8,500 farming families in Daraa, As-Sweida and Hama governorates with wheat and seasonal vegetable seed, farmers will be harvesting tomatoes, eggplants and cucumber by mid-July. Rehabilitating of two fodder nurseries, will benefit about 10 000 small-scale livestock herders and contribute to feeding availability for their animals at  Al Badia in Hama and Deir Ez-Zor governorates. The intervention will also help to restore natural grazing areas in these locations.
FAO and Kuwait have collaborated to improve the most vulnerable farmers’ living situation by providing improved wheat seed. Each farmer received 200 kg seed, enough to plant a one-hectare plot of land. The enhanced security situation from September 2019 allowed a large number of farmers to return to their lands and resume their activities. Yet, they lacked access to agriculture inputs and needed to find good quality seed if they were to go ahead with cultivation.
More broadly, Kuwait and FAO are increasingly working together to fight hunger and malnutrition, and come to the aid of disaster-stricken communities in the NENA region and beyond, in countries such as Yemen, Somalia, South Sudan and Nigeria.
A multi-layered economic crisis
According to a recently published situation report:
A total of 9.3 million people are facing severe and acute food insecurity, and an additional 1.9 million people are at risk of food insecurity. The number of internally displaced people (IDP) rose to 6.2 million, the largest population of IDPs in the world. Concurrently, displaced people have begun to return to their land and are facing severe challenges in resuming their production.
Returnees in Syria require support, including the provision of agricultural inputs, infrastructure rehabilitation and veterinary services. "Without the adequate support, returnees could be forced to leave their land again, and that puts unwanted pressure on Syria's economy and livelihood of its people. Partnerships are essential in our efforts to reverse the impact of COVID-19 and make sure vulnerable people are not left behind" Ould Ahmed emphasized.
The report added that of the USD 155 million requested for 2020 to assist 11.72 million people in Syria, FAO still requires USD 141 million, including in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Last but not least, Dr Tarek Elsheikh, concluded by thanking the state of Kuwait for their continuous support to the Syrian cause and Syrian refugees, and for their participation to the 4th  Brussels Conference on "Supporting the Future of Syria and the Region" co-hosted by the European Union and the United Nations, where $7.7 billion  was pledged for humanitarian aid by around 60 governments and non-state actors, to help ease the challenges of the war-town country faced by  additional shock of the coronavirus pandemic.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/102856-fao-and-un-family-hail-kuwait%E2%80%99s-aid-improve-livelihood-vulnerable-people-syria




Date: 26 June 2020
Title: International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking
Content: 26 June 2020
Background
The trade in drugs was already recognized as a global problem requiring a global solution at the beginning of the 20th century, with the first international conference on narcotic drugs held in Shanghai in 1909. Over the following decades, a multilateral system to control production, trafficking and abuse of drugs was developed. Three drug control conventions were adopted under the auspices of the United Nations (in 1961, 1971 and 1988). Adherence is now almost universal.

UN Action
The Commission on Narcotic Drugs (CND) was established by Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) resolution 9(I) in 1946, to assist ECOSOC in supervising the application of the international drug control treaties. By resolution 42/112 of 7 December 1987, the General Assembly decided to observe 26 June as the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking as an expression of its determination to strengthen action and cooperation to achieve the goal of an international society free of drug abuse. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) supports Member States in implementing a balanced, health- and evidence-based approach to the world drug problem that addresses both supply and demand and is guided by human rights and the agreed international drug control framework. This approach involves: treatment, support, and rehabilitation; ensuring access to controlled substances for medical purposes; working with farmers who previously cultivated illicit drug crops to develop alternative sustainable livelihoods for them; and establishing adequate legal and institutional frameworks for drug control through using international conventions.

Recent Milestones
In 2009, Member States adopted the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation Towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem, which includes goals and targets for drug control. Progress towards addressing the world drug problem was assessed at a UN General Assembly Special Session (UNGASS) in 2016, which resulted in over 100 operational recommendations in seven thematic chapters.

At the CND in March 2019, Member States adopted a Ministerial Declaration in which they reaffirmed their determination “to address and counter the world drug problem and to actively promote a society free of drug abuse in order to help ensure that all people can live in health, dignity and peace, with security and prosperity, and reaffirm our determination to address public health, safety and social problems resulting from drug abuse[1].”

Kuwait National Drug Use Prevention Policy and Management Program
The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) through its Regional Office in the GCC (OGCCR) supported Kuwait in implementing the National Drug Use Prevention Policy and Management Program. The project is guided by the Kuwait National Development Plan (KNDP), and was developed in direct response to the identified issues, gaps, and needs in the country’s drug use problem. Situation-appropriate actions have been advanced for effect in improving drug use prevention, as well as treatment, rehabilitation, and community reintegration for users, with streamlined, decentralized policies and services, and capacity building to support the implementation of these, alongside parallel public awareness campaigns.

The project aims to develop a National Drug Use Prevention Policy and Management Program, one that is tailored to local problems and needs, in order to ensure a healthier, more productive, satisfied local population with a decreased prevalence of dependent drug use and related deaths. To this aim, the project works to support the formulation and implementation of policies that contribute to limit drug-related crimes (and decrease local crime rates as a whole), leading to a safer, more secure environment in both the short- and long run, towards the safety and security envisioned in the KNDP.

Some of the important points of the policies and programs being developed in alignment with the compatible Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), include: improved in-depth knowledge of drug use prevention-related services and familiarity of the national situation; establishment of a national policy and management body for national streamlined efforts for the problem; increased streamlining of needed services by working within an agreed upon Drug Use Prevention Policy and Management Strategy; establishment of a working operational plan that integrates considerations for gender equality, human rights issues, and local cultural sensitivities, for better, more efficient provision of services; and enhanced institutional services, human capacities, and implementation of targeted services and interventions, to reinforce national awareness of the problem and to reach the affected users and their families

UNODC worked with United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in partnership with the General Secretariat for the Supreme Council for Planning and Development (GSSCPD) and the Drug Control General Department of Kuwait’s Ministry of Interior in this project to reduce both the extent and effects of drug use, as well as death from drug overdose in Kuwait. UNODC provided technical expertise to achieve the following objectives: A national, in-depth assessment of drug use prevention-related services, to be published as a report; Establishment of a national drug technical team as well as a functioning technical team and technical working groups; Development of a Local Drug Use Prevention Policy and Management Strategy; Development of capacity building plan and related training programs.

[1] https://www.un.org/en/observances/end-drug-abuse-day/background

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/102855-international-day-against-drug-abuse-and-illicit-trafficking




Date: 20 June 2020
Title: Op-ed on World Refugee Day
Content: 20 June 2020
World Refugee Day this year, comes in the midst of dramatic changes surrounding us. COVID-19 has exacerbated the vulnerability of refugees and internally displaced people, particularly women and persons with disabilities.  On its dedicated page, the UN Refugee agency (UNHCR) states.
Everyone can make a difference and Every Action Counts. This is at the heart of UNHCR’s World Refugee Day campaign this year. The United Nations aims to remind the world that everyone, including refugees, can contribute to society, and Every Action Counts in the effort to create a more just, inclusive, and equal world.
From camps in Bangladesh to hospitals in Europe, refugees are working as nurses, doctors, scientists, teachers and in other essential roles, protecting themselves and giving back to the communities that host them.
As stated by UN Secretary-General “Nearly 80 million women, children, and men around the world have been forced from their homes as refugees or internally displaced people. Even more shocking: ten million of these people fled in the past year alone.
The COVID-19 pandemic is having a dramatic effect on the jobs, livelihoods and well-being of workers and their families, as well as on businesses – particularly Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises - worldwide. Vulnerable groups are particularly affected including: informal workers, young people, women, persons with disabilities, refugees and migrants. Refugees and migrant workers (including many domestic workers) tend to be in temporary, informal or unprotected work, often associated with low wages and poor social protection and discrimination. The global pandemic poses an additional threat to refugees and displaced people, who are among the most vulnerable. The recent UNSG Policy Brief on COVID-19 and People on the Move called on governments to ensure that they are included in all response and recovery efforts.
Moreover, as per IOM cross border Human mobility brief amid the COVID-19 pandemic context, if international travel restrictions remain in place beyond the most critical needs of the current pandemic, there will be severe impacts on communities reliant on travel and mobility linked livelihoods including migrant labour, refugees, asylum seekers, internally displaced persons, stateless persons and returnees. This is particularly the case for remote and countries in conflict and those where reliance on external aid is further exacerbating impact. As resettlement remains a life-saving tool for many refugees, UNHCR and IOM are appealing to States, and working in close coordination with them, to ensure that movements can continue for the most critical emergency cases wherever possible.
The United Nations express their deepest appreciation to the State of Kuwait and H.H the Amir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah the Humanitarian Leader. Kuwait has contributed generously in aid of millions of Refugees and Internally Displaced Individuals around the world in support of UNHCR’s activities in countries including Syria, Yemen, Iraq, Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and Iran since 2013 until our present day with an estimate of USD 430 million. Additionally, Kuwait is an effective and key member of UNHCR’s 20 million club donors. The State of Kuwait is a strategic partner to UNHCR and is an International exemplary.
Kuwait, being an International Humanitarian Center, has developed strategies and mechanisms to provide aid and support through hosting International pledging conferences to Syria and Iraq situations, in addition to hosting Yemen Peace Talks. Dr. Samer Haddadin Head of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees at the State of Kuwait stresses on the urgent need of UNHCR for Government’s and partner’s support in lights of the unprecedented increase of the number of Refugees and Internally Displaced persons reaching 79.5 million displaced at the end of last year. Forced displacement is now affecting more than one percent of humanity – 1 in every 97 people – and with fewer and fewer of those who flee being able to return home. And more than eight of every 10 refugees (85 percent) are in developing countries, generally a country neighboring the one they fled.
While the longer-term impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is yet to be seen, it will fundamentally reshape the future. the pandemic exposed tremendous shortcomings, fragilities and fault lines.
It is time for a coordinated global, regional and national effort. With smart and timely action at all levels, and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development as our guide, States will need to make quick decisions with health, safety and security for all at the forefront of their priorities, and ensuring establishing common understanding, generating relevant and accurate data, identifying gaps and finding inclusive solutions to leaving no one behind, will be key.
Last but not least, we shouldn’t forget to pay tribute and recognize the generosity, courage and humanity of host countries despite their own challenges and struggle with their own economic, pressure on their health systems and security concerns. We owe these countries our gratitude, commitment and support.
On World Refugee Day, the United Nations in the State of Kuwait in collaboration with Intisar Foundation is organising a joint UN75Talk webinar and discussion entitled “Women, War, Mental Health and The Quest For Peace” in order to present how drama therapy, as one of the most effective psychological support programmes, can help in healing and empowering women impacted by war across the Arab world. The start of the United Nations was to grow dialogue and mediation between countries in order to keep the Peace and stop future Wars. The start of Intisar Foundation is also to emotionally empower Women to become agents of Peace in the Arab World and stop future Wars. This webinar is a Collaboration of Peace at its core and purpose. So exhilarated, excited and honoured. The webinar will be open to public for all interested participants to register through an online platform.
Kuwait remains one of the biggest supporters to this cause. As a humanitarian center led by a humanitarian leader, Kuwait continue to Make a Difference with Every Action that Counts.


URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/100071-op-ed-world-refugee-day




Date: 05 June 2020
Title: World Environment Day
Content: 05 June 2020
The biggest, most celebrated day for positive environmental action
World Environment Day is celebrated every year on 5 June to focus the world’s attention on a pressing environmental issue. The Day strives to raise awareness and encourage action for the environment. It offers an opportunity to reflect on accomplishments and renew our resolve in overcoming the environmental challenges facing the world today. Held annually since 1974, World Environment Day is a vital platform for promoting progress on the environmental dimensions of the Sustainable Development Goals.
Countries all over the world including the State of Kuwait participate each year in national and international celebrations to champion environmental causes—governments, major corporations, non-governmental organization, local communities, celebrities and citizens across the world. This year the focus is in support of biodiversity #ForNature.
Biodiversity is the foundation that supports all life on land and below water (SDGs)
Biodiversity—the variety of life forms in any given habitat, from large animals to plants to fungi to the smallest of organisms—is threatened like never before. As stressed by UNEP, we are at a verge of a mass extinction: within the next 10 years, around 1 million species may be wiped out of the surface of the planet. That’s one out of every four known species. Wildlife has declined on average by over 60 per cent in last 50 years. At this rate, species are disappearing tens to hundreds of times faster than the average speed of the past 10 million years. The biosphere, which is the collection of all life on Earth, is being altered at an unprecedented scale. We have significantly changed 75% of the land surface. Two thirds of the ocean area are impacted by human activity. Just 15% of wetlands still exists today. Between 2010 and 2015 alone, 32 million hectares of forest have disappeared. To date, we have lost one third of all forest area compared to pre-industrial levels, and live coral cover on reefs has nearly halved in the past 150 years. If we continue on this path unabated, the loss in biodiversity will have severe implications for humanity, from the collapse of food and health systems to the disruption of entire supply chains. Our unsustainable use of nature is largely to blame for this dramatic situation.
On this World Environment Day, the United Nations in Kuwait and respected partners supports global campaign on nature. The campaign highlights how we as humans are inextricably linked to and depend on nature for our existence and quality of life. UNEP is calling on governments, businesses and civil society to join hands in building global understanding of biodiversity and nature’s key contribution to our survival. Nature shapes human cultures, inspiration and learning, physical and psychological experiences, and identities.
The campaign was launched last week in the State of Kuwait to draw attention to the need for restoring nature and reversing biodiversity loss. It is featuring a distinct visual identity and is still running using the hashtag #ForNature. The key objective of the campaign is be to build understanding on how all living things in Kuwait are connected in the web of life. The campaign includes many assets, including interactive visual stories on Instalive and other platforms to showcase the interdependence of all life on Earth, tied together through biodiversity chains. We have seen great interest from Kuwait public; families, friends, peers, neighbourhoods, government and non-governmental organizations, and small and large businesses— who are showing their commitment to protecting nature and to the sustainable use of nature’s resources. We are calling on partners and individuals to share this powerful visual advocacy message with the wider community. Our goal is to underscore our resolve #ForNature and to amplify the plea of the 1 million species facing extinction by 2030.
The first Waste Management Outlook for the West Asia region, was launched on June 1st 2020, shows that key targets and waste-related 2030 Sustainable Development Goals can be achieved by most West Asian countries by developing sound governance, planning and implementation measures, as well as by securing the necessary resources to ensure their achievement. As per UNEP, while the COVID-19 pandemic worsens the already growing waste management challenges in various countries in West Asia, the waste management outlook will help the countries in reviewing their current waste management systems and developing resilient and sustainable waste management initiatives, which have a critical role to play in post COVID-19  West Asia.
Focusing on waste management systems, finance and governance, the Regional Outlook articulates a means of future progress toward sustainable waste management to enable a transition from a region historically dependent on the low cost of dumping waste to one utilizing waste as a resource. To visualize this process, the Regional Outlook highlights the potential of the circular economy, in which waste serves as a resource and as a driver of regional economic growth through multistakeholder involvement, creating a range of funding and investment opportunities.
#ForNature human chains are a way to demonstrate our resolve to protect diversity of life on Earth and demand from world leaders’ bold decisions and concrete actions as part of the UN75 dialogue.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/102761-world-environment-day




Date: 27 May 2020
Title: International Day for Living Together in Peace & International Day of UN Peacekeepers
Content: 27 May 2020
The month of May marks two remarkable days. The world celebrates the International Day of Living Together in Peace on the 16th of May, and the International Day for UN Peacekeepers on the 29th of May. Both days promote living together in peace and appreciating the invaluable contributions of personnel to the UN Peacekeeping Organization. In its charter under Article1, the first purpose of the establishment of the United Nations is to maintain international peace and security.

This year, the challenges and threats faced by our peacekeepers are even greater than ever. Like people around the globe, they are not only coping with the COVID-19 pandemic, but also supporting and protecting the people in countries they are based in. They are continuing their operations to the best of their abilities and supporting the governments and the local populations, despite the risk of COVID-19. The theme for this year’s Day is “Women in Peacekeeping: A Key to Peace” to help mark the 20th anniversary of the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. Commemorating both days at such times is a call for international solidarity, to unite all efforts in countering the spread of COVID-19 primarily, and ending all forms of violence and war around the world generally.

The United Nations Secretary General H.E Mr. António Guterres highlighted the key role of Women as part of the UN Peacekeepers  “This is especially important today, as female peacekeepers are on the frontlines in supporting the response to COVID-19 in already fragile contexts – using local radio to spread public health messaging, delivering necessary supplies to communities for prevention, and supporting efforts of local peacebuilders. Yet, women continue to represent only 6% of uniformed military, police, justice and corrections personnel in field missions.” In his statement to honor more than one million men and women who have served as United Nations peacekeepers and more than 3,900 who have lost their lives in the line of duty.

Since its admission to the United Nations on 14 May 1963, the State of Kuwait has been pursuing a peaceful and balanced policy based on the principles and objectives of the United Nations Charter. Kuwait firmly believes in the importance of not resorting to the use or threat of force to settle disputes, but rather resorting to dialogue to foster the values of tolerance, peace and co-existence between the different civilizations, cultures and religions. And under the able leadership of H.H the Amir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, as a Humanitarian Leader, Kuwait adopts the notion of promoting peace in its external and internal policies. The State of Kuwait have been, and continues to be, a broker for peace in the region and worldwide, through its affirmed efforts on reaching political solutions through peace talks in Syria, Sudan, Yemen, Libya, Afghanistan and others, as well as its mediation effort aimed to bring an end to the GCC crisis. In addition to its efforts to promote peace during its membership in the United Nations Security Council (2018-2019), which was widely commended by fellow members in the Security Council and resulted in the adoption of several resolutions aiming to promote peace and cohesion.

Internally, the State of Kuwait also promotes living together in peace and cohesion through the various humanitarian initiatives taken by NGOs and other entities to support the most vulnerable during this pandemic, and beyond.

These days provides an opportunity for all humanity to unite all efforts in promoting peace, which will reflect on the creation and fostering of an inclusive peaceful and sustainable environment for the entire international community.

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/102851-international-day-living-together-peace-international-day-un-peacekeepers




Date: 21 May 2020
Title: World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development
Content: 21 May 2020
Today is the World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development. It is a day dedicated to broadening our understanding and values of what different cultures bring to our society.  A day which was declared in 2002 by the UN General Assembly in its resolution 57/249.
This year is a test of humanity. Since the beginning of the year, the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the whole world, effecting all people from different cultural backgrounds, ethnicities and religions, where no one is immune to contracting the virus. At this exceedingly difficult time, it has become vital to stand together in solidarity and overcome discriminatory barriers.
In the year of 1973, an Amiri Decree was issued, establishing the National Council for Culture, Arts and Letters (NCCAL), as part of the State of Kuwait’s efforts to promote local and international applications of culture, arts and intellectual development. The State of Kuwait works diligently in promoting cultural diversity through organizing cultural events throughout the year in collaboration with the diplomatic community, and publishing cultural productions, supporting cultural exchange programs and empowering diverse cultural expression.
For the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), protecting and promoting the diversity of cultural expressions is more important than ever. Cultural diversity is the common heritage of humanity. It is a source of renewal of ideas and societies, through which we open up to others and craft new ways of thinking.
The World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development is an occasion to promote culture and highlight the significance of its diversity as an agent of inclusion and positive change. It represents an opportunity to celebrate culture’s manifold forms, from the tangible and intangible, to creative industries, to the diversity of cultural expressions, and to reflect on how these contribute to dialogue, mutual understanding, and the social, environmental and economic vectors of sustainable development.
Based on human rights and fundamental freedoms, the UNESCO 2005 Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions[1], already ratified by 149 State Parties[2], provides a new framework for informed, transparent and participatory systems of governance for culture. As a strategic instrumentt, the Convention contributes to at least 11 Sustainable Development Goals[3]. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals can best be achieved by drawing upon the creative potential of the world’s diverse cultures, and engaging in continuous dialogue to ensure that all members of society benefit from sustainable development.
UNESCO commends the State of Kuwait on having acceded to the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions on 3 August 2007 and their efforts in its effective implementation and to protect and promote cultural diversity for dialogue and development.
The COVID-19 pandemic has revealed and magnified the creative industries’ pre-existing volatility. Due to the complex nature of their work, cultural professionals are particularly affected and lockdown measures around the world directly impact the entire creative value chain.
On this occasion, on behalf of the United Nations and its agencies, I avail this opportunity to encourage everyone to respect the cultural diversities of communities, ensuring inclusion and leaving no one behind - especially during these trying times for all.


[1] https://en.unesco.org/creativity/convention
[2] https://en.unesco.org/creativity/convention/parties
[3] https://en.unesco.org/creativity/ifcd/what-is/sdgs

URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/102859-world-day-cultural-diversity-dialogue-and-development




Date: 14 May 2020
Title: The United Nations in Kuwait and Kuwait Foreign Ministry host virtual UN Talk on “COVID-19 Impact on Humanitarian Systems”
Content: 14 May 2020
14 May 2020, Kuwait City – The United Nations in Kuwait and the Kuwait Foreign Ministry hosted a UN talk to further highlight the ongoing impact of COVID-19 and global humanitarian response efforts.
“Today’s virtual event was a unique opportunity for experts in their fields to speak collaboratively on what has fast become one of the greatest challenges of our time,” said Dr Tarek El-Sheikh, the United Nations Resident Coordinator to Kuwait. “This virus knows no borders. We are only as strong as the weakest health system and countries need to look beyond their own borders in tackling this.”
“Extraordinary measures are needed. It can’t be business as usual,” said Ambassador Naser Alhayen, Kuwait’s Assistant Foreign Minister for International Organizations Affairs. “We must come together in both solidarity and self-interest to respond to this crisis.”
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), over 4 million cases of COVID-19 have been confirmed worldwide and nearly 300,000 deaths. Experts believe the most devastating and destabilizing effects will be felt in the world’s poorest countries, where there is already evidence of incomes plummeting, jobs disappearing, food supplies falling and prices soaring, and children missing vaccinations and meals.  Unless urgent action is taken now, the plight of those most vulnerable will likely worsen.
“The pandemic has been particularly harsh on refugees and those who fled war and persecution,” Dr Hilal Al-Sayer, Chairman of the Kuwait Red Crescent Society (KRCS) and one of the speakers at today’s event said. “Further support is critically needed.”
On 7 May, the UN launched its updated COVID-19 Global Humanitarian Response Plan (GHRP), a $6.7 billion appeal to protect millions of lives and stem the spread of coronavirus in fragile countries. The COVID-19 GHRP is the international community’s primary fundraising vehicle to respond to the humanitarian impacts of the virus in low- and middle-income countries and support their efforts to fight it.
It is worth mentioning that today coincides with the 57th anniversary since the State of Kuwait joined the United Nations. We take this opportunity to congratulate Kuwait Leadership for solid and lifelong partnership in peacebuilding, humanitarian support, development, and friendship for the United Nations who celebrates its 75th Anniversary since its creation, this year.
Today’s event was organized by the Office for the Coordination for Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) within the UN Resident Coordinator Office UN75-57 Kuwait series, in collaboration with the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) and the WHO, and in partnership with KRCS and the European Union Delegation in Kuwait.
URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/100074-united-nations-kuwait-and-kuwait-foreign-ministry-host-virtual-un-talk-%E2%80%9Ccovid-19-impact




Date: 07 April 2020
Title: World Health DAY: THE COVID-19 Pandemic – Kuwait at the front line
Content: 07 April 2020
This year, the World Health Day , is approaching during an exceedingly  difficult time for the whole world, in which  humanity is striving to win the war against the global health crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic.
Firstly, would like to thank the State of Kuwait and the leadership of HH the Amir Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al-Jaber Al Sabah, HH the Prime Minister Sheikh Sabah AlKhaled Al-Hamad Al-Sabah, for the generous contribution of a total of US$60 million to the World Health Organizations’ COVID-19 response fund ,. This makes Kuwait the largest contributor worldwide, to WHO for their efforts to combat the global pandemic.
As the Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Resident Coordinator to the State of Kuwait, and on behalf of the United Nations and its agencies, I  highly commend the Government of Kuwait for its quick and decisive actions taken to minimize the spread of the COVID-19 virus, to the benefit of all Kuwaiti citizens and residents in Kuwait.
Prompt decisions have been made by the government to provide quarantine and containment measures to stop the spread of the disease. The government has also announced an amnesty period for the whole month of April, whereby they will sponsor flight tickets to residency violators who want to return home, with the exemption of paying any fines. We acknowledge these measures and want to ensure that those workers’ have full access to their rights for any unpaid wages and indemnity following international Human rights standards and decent work declarations that Kuwait has ratified and endorsed.
We look with great hope to more positive and constructive measures to support the needs of vulnerable people with challenging living conditions.

2020 is indeed an exceptional year, it’s the 75th anniversary of the United Nations and the ‘International Year of the Nurse and the Midwife’, and we the peoples of the United Nations want to pay tribute to their specific expertise and commitment particularly as nurses are in the frontline together with doctors fighting COVID19 together with doctors.
My message today is to extend my utmost appreciation, and wholehearted gratitude to all health care workers -- nurses, midwives, technicians, paramedics, pharmacists, doctors, drivers, cleaners, administrators and many others -- who work, day and night to keep us all safe. The Diplomatic Community in Kuwait and Ambassadors (please insert countries) who have joined the World Health Organisation safe hands Challenge and all doctors and UN Agencies Representatives who have contributed to raising awareness about how we collectively protect our community from this pandemic.
Additionally, I want to shed light on the courageous efforts and immediate professional response of the employees of the Ministry of Health in Kuwait, as they face daily challenges to ensure that all citizens and residents are provided with support and the adequate medical care...A great thanks and word of appreciation to Kuwait Ministry of Foreign affairs for their day and night work efforts.
Our world is in distress, and working together as governments, organizations and individuals, side by side will help our world get through this adversity this is the time to hold tight to multilateralism. We. should look at this as an opportunity to grow, prosper and continue our work together towards sustainable development for all and leaving no one behind.





URL: https://kuwait.un.org/en/102763-world-health-day-covid-19-pandemic-%E2%80%93-kuwait-front-line




